Among the mystery folders on my Windows XP machine is one called afa38d28 (etc). It contains msxml4-KB92798-enu.log, which comprises 284KB of impenetrable (to me) code. Do I need it? Colin BoatmanYou can delete both file and folder. However, the msxml indicates a Microsoft core file and KB92798 tells you where to look in the Microsoft Knowledge Base. Checkingsupport.microsoft.com/kb/927978says it concerns MS06-071: Security update for Microsoft XML Core Services 4.0, sent out in November. This had (ahem) "known issues" so you should follow the instructions or try to make sure the patch has been installed.Footnote: More than one person asked this question. Is it really a common problem?
When I download a program with Windows, I have to choose between Run and Save. Which should I use? I hope this query is not too elementary! L R GriffinYou should save programs, not run them. If you choose to run a program, it usually has the power to do anything you can do, such as delete files and install spyware. This makes web-based installations a higher risk. If you save the file, you can check the download to make sure it isn't malware in disguise. However, it helps if you always save files to the same place. I have a folder called My Downloads for the purpose. This also keeps the desktop clean and saves a lot of hunting around.
I have three new year's resolutions for 2007. First, to submit my PhD thesis by Christmas. Second, to make a short stop-motion animation film. Third, to look more closely at the world of Alternate Reality Games. Thanks to documents like the IGDA'sARG White Paper, I think I'll be OK with the last one, but am open to suggestions if anyone can offer advice on the first two.Only two weeks ago Imentionedthat I thought a large corporation would utilise ARG mechanics for the purposes of advertising, to integrate the consumer experience with one of their brands, by the end of 2007. Does Microsoft'sVanishing Point Gamecount? I know the first clues were peppering the web (starting with the Internet Exporer blog) on 21st December, but don't the last few weeks of Decemberreallycount as 2007? No? Sigh, ok.For those utterly lost, let me back up a second. Vista is Microsoft's new operating system. It's coming out very soon. They've got to promote it to the millions of people around the world who already have a Microsoft OS on their computers. In order to build intrigue and expectation in this media saturated landscape (to a population who arguably doesn't need it), they've pulled a bow from their marketing quiver which has proved hugely successful at driving word-of-mouth for one of their products in the past. Microsoft have (once again) commissioned the company42 Entertainmentto create the Alternate Reality Game (heretoforth referred to as an ARG) Vanishing Point to drive sustained and active interest in their new OS.I can't even begin to describe what happened in 2006 for the ARG community. I can only humbly direct you toARGNet, which lists some of the incredible places where ARGs cropped up, including The Lost Experience (promoting the ABC drama between series),edoc laundry(onthis blog, on fashonistas' backs and in an episode ofCSI:NY), lonelygirl_15 (challenging the content of YouTube), Perplex City (here, and in cities across the globe). Hell, we could all be involved in an ARG right now, caught up in the ludic spray which surrounds properties. We just don't know it yet. In the meantime, Microsoft wants us to play around Vista.According tocnet,Vanishing Point is a hybrid game--part alternate-reality game, or ARG, part traditional sweepstakes--that's actually a marketing vehicle for Microsoft's Windows Vista. As a lure, Microsoft is giving away a $220,000 suborbital flight on a four-seat plane that can reach altitudes of up to 330,000 feet and that provides several minutes of weightlessness.Previous ARGs created by 42 Entertainment integrated the ARG storyline into the final product (e.g., I Love Bees into Halo 2), but there's no main character in Vista. Instead, Vanishing Point centres around a character called Loki, an "employee" of Microsoft. But that's really all there is. Not much story, just puzzles.There are plenty of Vanishing Point resources available, from aYouTube seedto countlessblogsand (of course) aWikipediapage, but interested parties will have to act fast, as the game is expected to reach its conclusion by 30th January when Vista launches.If you're lucky, you could be in one of the cities for a live event. There's one in London on 20th January at 7pm in Trafalgar Square.So while this ARG kicked off before 2007 began, I anticipate that there will be quite a few more tickling our consumer appetites (and company's wallets) by the end of the year.
Thereviewsare in today's Technology supplement, with Phantasy Star Universe, Lost Planet and Warhammer: Mark of Chaos getting the treatment. I reviewed PSU and very nearly gave it three stars before deciding that nostalgia wasn't enough. Lost Planet though should have got 3 rather than 4 stars - it's an average shooter at best. ElsewhereAleksresurrects the old games as art form debate - and has a friendly pop at Keith too.
As illegal file-sharing eats into its battered revenues, the music industry is taking its anti-piracy fight to the world's major internet service providers.Big names such as BT, Tiscali and NTL will be in the sights of global lobby group IFPI as it urges them to disconnect customers who share music illegally or else face government rules.Armed with the recent Gowers Review, an intellectual property report commissioned by the government, IFPI is hoping Britain can lead the way in cutting off music pirates in 2007.Andrew Gowers recommended ISPs should either come to a voluntary deal with the industry or face government intervention. Noises from the music side suggest record labels are on a collision course with the broadband providers and no easy solution will be found.IFPI chairman, John Kennedy, claimed initial words of support were not followed by any action. "Some are now prepared to cooperate and some are being stubborn," he said yesterday.ISPs, meanwhile, stress they will need reasonable proof before taking up time to disconnect paying customers.Illegal file-sharing has spawned a generation of young music consumers who expect to get most tracks for free. Powered largely by people who see themselves in a fight against an overcharging music industry, the online sources of free music have so far been tackled with litigation from groups such as IFPI. It admits piracy can never be eradicated but that it is being contained. In 2006, 14% of internet users were regularly file-sharing, down from 18% in 2002, according to research group Jupiter.Now the industry wants a more efficient system in partnership with the ISPs, who would send warning letters to uploaders before cutting them off. Campaigners would not set any targets for results via the ISP route, but said they expected better results than through the courts.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..The hands-on revolutionThe mouse and keyboard are getting old - but new touch-sensitive screens could give us a whole new way to work with computers. Charles Arthur reports.Electrosmog in the clear with scientistsStudies show that it's not mobile phones and electric fields making people ill - so what is the cause of 'electrosensitivity'?Statistics are free - now let's work on the rest of the dataGovernment proposals to clean up the reputation of official figures on crime and hospital waiting lists have been criticised this week by watchdogs and data users.Games aren't just for geeks - they're an art form, tooAleks Krotoski: I'm gearing up for a slap. No, I've not been boasting about my unbeatable record in multiplayer Advance Wars DS again. I'm going to make a controversial claim that my fellow gamesblogger Keith adamantly - and violently, according to last week's column - believes is false.GamesPhantasy Star Universe | Lost Planet | Warhammer: Mark of ChaosNewly Asked QuestionsWill Apple's new gizmo really go on sale as the 'iPhone'?If it reaches a court, even a judge might have to flip a coin on this one.What is this new service called Joost all about?It's the out-of-alpha-into-beta form of the Venice Project. Still bemused? The Venice Project was a cool codename for an online television system, and in reality came from a hotel conference room: not one Cornetto required.Read me firstWe are too busy with computers to be organised by computers, says Andrew Brown.The iPhone is not as clever as Steve thinksVictor Keegan: In terms of free publicity for a product that won't be available for six months - and then only in America - Steve Jobs's unveiling of the iPhone last week was almost without precedent.TechnobileWendy M Grossman: When something breaks the internet, there's no way of telling anybody. Mostly you just have to wait it out.How CDs are remastering the art of noiseAlbums are getting louder and the sound quality is suffering. Audiophiles and engineers despair of the trend, but who is driving it?Joined-up government is not inevitable or desirableMichael Cross: Sometimes you have to feel sorry for the government. As one set of civil servants, the Home Office, is fed into the mincer for failing to join up its databases, another, the Cabinet Office, gets a roasting for proposing too much synchronicity.Celluloid dreams set to disappear in a digital puffBefore long film will be but a memory at your local cinema as reel projectors are replaced with newer, sharper digital systems.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesHow green is my Apple? | Wikiseek live | Elvis sighting | Educating Saatchi | Alternate reality west | Do you U-doo? | Support bands | IBM patently topLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Did you know that, right now, artificial electromagnetic (EM) waves could be tearing your skin cells apart and causing your face to age prematurely? Waves from televisions, mobile phones and radios are all around us. They pass through metres of concrete, so imagine what they're doing to your skin.Clarins reckon they have something to help. It's Expertise 3P, "an ultra-sheer screen mist containing a pioneering combination of plant extracts capable of protecting the skin from the accelerated-ageing effects of all indoor and outdoor air pollution but, most significantly, the effects of Artificial Electromagnetic Waves." It's a bargain at &pound;30 a bottle.This is such an important discovery that it is the subject of a new scientific research paper. Sadly, the Clarins press office couldn't tell us where or when the paper would be published. But it could offer an interview with the excitable Lionel de Benetti, head of research and development.One of the ingredients, thermos thermophilus, comes from 2,000m deep in the ocean. The other, rhodiola rosea, lives in the extreme cold of Siberia. De Benetti can barely contain his glee at the discovery: "We exposed our cell cultures to a frequency of 900 MHz in the presence of these two plant extracts and found that their structures hardly changed!"Michael Bluck, an engineer at Imperial College, sounds distinctly unconvinced. We have been bathed in EM waves since the dawn of time. So-called "artificial" waves are used by electronic devices because they do not interact with our bodies. If you were intent on stopping the waves, Bluck explains that you could scatter them with a fine mesh of metal or absorb them - although the energy would be converted to heat, which would cook your skin.But what about the ocean ingredients that prevented ageing in lab tests? "Presumably there's not a lot in the way of electromagnetic waves, particularly artificial ones, down in the bottom of the ocean, so why the organisms should have evolved this capability is beyond me," says Bluck.His advice for anyone worried about EM radiation? "Live as far away from the producers of EM waves as possible and live with the consequences of having no friends and no life," he says.
Usability guru Jakob Nielsen has updated hisAlertbox column for September 17, 2000to point out that what he said finally came true seven years later. It was:The prototype Microsoft telephone had the best quality screen I have seen yet on a telephone, but still wasted more than a third of its physical surface on a numeric keypad. Let's just get rid of the keys and spend every available square millimeter on pixels.Jakob has also linked to his colleague's column,The iPhone User Experience: A First Look, written by Bruce Tognazzini. Tog spent 14 years at Apple, where he founded the Apple Human Interface Group.One interesting section is about the multi-touch interface, which Tog thinks he might have invented in 1992.While the iPhone as a whole may be revolutionary, the individual elements forming the interface are not so new. William Buxton was pushing multi-hand input back in the 1980s when the world was just waking up to the mouse, already 20 years old at the time. Several researchers were experimenting with gestural interfaces in 1990s, myself included. I was reminded of this only minutes after Steve's speech when my partner, Jakob Nielsen, called me to say, "Jobs just announced your pinch interface!"I hadn't thought about my pinch interface in years. It had been part of my Starfire Project at Sun Microsystems, a look at the future, but, when we turned the project into a film, the scene showing it was cut to keep the film within reasonable bounds. That kept it out of the 1993 film, but not out of my 1996 book, Tog on Software Design, where, on page 78, my two-fingered shrink-objects-via-pinching gesture, working exactly as Jobs described, indeed appears...It's nice to see Bill Buxton get a mention, too. For those with very long memories, I ran a piece about him in Computer Guardian, written by Tony Durham (The human touch -- Professor Bill Buxton's hopes for improvements in the man-machine interface, The Guardian, August 4, 1988). Yes, the Internet was around then, but we accessed it via a command prompt.
You may havereadearlier this week about the woman who died while competing in a radio contest to win a Wii. During KDND 107.9's "Hold Your Wee for a Wii" challenge, participants were required to drink bottles of water without urinating - the woman later died of suspected water intoxication. The coroner is yet to return a definitive cause of death.The latest development,according to Reuters, has seen ten staff members, including several DJs, sacked over the incident.From the Reuters report:"In an online recording of the show, the DJs can be heard making comments joking about people dying from water intoxication, even discussing a case in Northern California two years ago in which student Matthew Carrington, 21, died after drinking too much water during a fraternity pledge.One of the DJs even admitted they maybe should have done some research before the contest."
I know I've posted a lot on PS3 recently, but I've just finished a fun stint working on the Official PlayStation Magazine so I've been thinking of little else recently. Plus, there are always so many juicy and intriguingly contradictory stories...So, a quick round-up. 'Semi-official' PS3 blog Three Speech is sticking with itstheorythat Sony will announce the European launch on January 23 and that the magic date will be March 23. The previously touted price of GBP425 for the 60gig model appears to be holding - forget 20gig units, they'll be non-existent for months.Three Speech has also been on-hand to deal with a scurrilous piece of gossip emanating from Rumor Reporter. The sitehintedthat a high-profile PS3 title had been canned due to in-fighting among the dev team.It didn't take visitors long to figure out the game in question was War Hawk. The piece goes on to suggest - via that old tabloid favourite 'an anonymous source' - that the important launch shooter may now only appear as a mini-download, a la GT HD.Joystiqtoys with the rumour, pushing readers towardtwodenialsfrom, of all people, God of War creator David Jaffe. Three Speech, meanwhile, goes for astraight denial.Finally, IGN has confounded expectation and named PS3 itsBest New Console of 2006. by way of justification:"...from a hardware perspective, the PS3 is by far the more interesting console. Though the launch software hasn't blown anyone away, the 360's launch titles were equally unimpressive, and the system will certainly mature. Sony's embrace of the PS3 as a computer rather than just a console, and the availability of supported Linux distributions for the console will also develop and will likely bear entirely unexpected fruit in future."Hmm, while the Linux support could indeed lead to great things in the future, the future categoricallyisn't2006. In that year, Wii clearly ruled. It ruled in terms of innovation, in terms of success, in terms of re-defining the hardware war and the very meaning of technological progress. PS3 did not have a good 2006. But this is what awards should be about - messing with people's expectations (unless it involves awarding Dances With Wolves a best picture Oscar over Goodfellas).So, in making this decision, has IGN marked itself out as a mainstream reactionary or a brave deviant, backing the underdog in sea of Wii apologists?
Microsoft Office 2008 for the Mac is more interesting than usual because we've been waiting to see what theMac Business Unitwould do with the ribbon user interface in the Windows 2007 version.The Unofficial Apple Webloghas posted screen shots that show its approach. As you can see, it has stuck with the Mac style of putting a menu bar at the top of the screen. A pity, in some respects, but inevitable, really....TUAW also has a video:Macworld 2007 Show Floor Showoff: Microsoft Office 2008 for Mac. The site says:Microsoft's Sheridan Jones was nice enough to sit down with me in the Microsoft Blogger Lounge at Macworld to discuss Office 2008 for Mac. WE cover what's new, when it'll be shipping, and break the news that there will be a Universal version of Remote Desktop for the Mac (sweet!).
Browser market shares fromNet ApplicationsI've been recommendng people to try Firefox since before it got that name. More recently, of course, I've been suggesting they upgrade from Internet Explorer 6 to IE7,whether they use IE or not, partly for the same reason: to increase their level of security in Windows XP. Has that sort of response hurt Firefox? Happily, it seems not. According to a round-up of numbers atInformation Week, Firefox use has continued to grow.Microsoft is pushing out IE7 as a security upgrade, and now has more than 100 million installations, so IE7 is on the way to replacing IE6. In terms of US usage, IE7 is now above 25%. However, as IW says:Net Applications' data put IE 7's market share during December at 18.3%, up dramatically from November's 8.8%. But IE 6 lost more than IE 7 gained, dropping from 70.9% in November to 60.7% the next month.The Firefox "dip" in the above graph is real, but it represents a shift from Firefox 1.5 to Firefox 2.0, and Firefox 2 isn't shown on Net Applications' graph. Mozilla is also expected to try an auto-update to Firefox 2, though with less justification.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
As part of its strategy of being helpful and giving users the best possible information, Google used to add map links that would take you to three major mapping services: Google, Yahoo and Map Quest. Sadly, things have changed. Google no longer cares about giving users the best information. What it cares about is promoting its own services to the exclusion of rival services. So now you only get one link: Google Maps. (SeeGoogle Blogoscopedfor an illustration.)Of course, there's really nothing to complain about here. Google is a hugely rich multinational corporation and needs to keep its founders in private jets etc. It's just doing what almost any other capitalist corporation would do in serving its own ends. The only thing it needs to do to normalise things is to drop the arrogant pretence that it occupies some kind of moral high ground against "evil" rivals. In sum, Don't Be Hypocritical.Search Engine Landcovered the maps storyand Danny Sullivan has followed up withNew Google Checkout Promo; New Google Trust Worries. He says:Outcry over the tips issue got Google to drop them. Clearly it heard the concerns over trust and reacted. But clearly it also didn't learn anything from that. Google failed to have an official discussion or mention of the concerns via its blog. Now we've got Google Checkout shoved at us and map links dropped, both moves that someone should have realized would raise new concerns about Google's self interest.In technology terms, Google is rapidly becoming Big Brother, capturing more and more information about people's lives. It knows what you search for, which sites you visit (if they have Adwords), what's in your mail (at Gmail) and so on. Will you still use Google's services if it loses your trust? Or doesn't anybody care any more?
Via our very ownBen Hammersleycomes notice ofPacket Garden, a program which will map your online behaviour into a virtual planet which you can then roam around.To do this, Packet Garden takes note of all the servers you visit, their geographical location and the kinds of data you access. Uploads make hills and downloads valleys, their location determined by numbers taken from internet address itself. The size of each hill or valley is based on how much data is sent or received. Plants are also grown for each protocol detected by the software; if you visit a website, an 'HTTP plant' is grown. If you share some files via eMule, a 'Peer to Peer plant' is grown, and so on.Made at the request of Bristol arts centreArnolfini, PG is keen to point out that none of the information is shared - it's just your own private world. And although it's essentially just data visualisation, there's something magical about the creations. I'll be downloading it when I get the chance and having a play.
Hot off the presses (well, with a 2 week cooling off grace period) and from a well-established camp of educational scientists, is a new tome which argues the case for computer gaming as an educational tool. While I've not yet had the chance to read through it, David Williamson Shaffer's new book,How Computer Games Help Children Learn, has more accolades from more luminaries in this arena than I've seen any other book on this subject carry. From the publisher's website:How can we make sure that our kids are learning to be creative thinkers in a world of global competition--and what does that mean for the future of education in the digital age? David Williamson Shaffer offers a fresh and powerful perspective on computer games and learning. How Computer Games Help Children Learn shows how video and computer games can help teach kids to build successful futures--but only if we think in new ways about education itself. Shaffer shows how computer and video games can help students learn to think like engineers, urban planners, journalists, lawyers, and other innovative professionals, giving them the tools they need to survive in a changing world. Based on more than a decade of research in technology, game science, and education, How Computer Games Help Children Learn revolutionizes the ongoing debate about the pros and cons of digital learning.Looks like another one to add to the shelf. Wish I'd had it when I was Managing Editing theUnlimited Learningresearch report.
I know what you are thinking because I made the same mistake: no, this isnot Jimbo Wales's putative Wikiasearch engine.Wikiseekcomes fromSearchme, an entirely different company, and it does something entirely different. What it does is search Wikipediaandany pages that Wikipedia links to. Pages, not sites. This might be useful, if you use Wikipedia a lot. It costs nothing to try.If you want more info, Search Engine Land hasa huge article about Wikiseek, which includes comparison searches. It's generally pretty negative, but Randy Adams, CEO of Searchme, responds: "As a small start-up facing the daunting task of writing a large scale search engine from scratch, we don't expect to get it right the first time!"The major limitation is that Wikiseek can be no better than Wikipedia in providing a comprehensive to guide to everything of interest on the web. The advantage is that, unlike Google, it doesn't contain hundreds of millions of pages of spam, though some does slip through....
John Draper, aged 63, was famous as a phone phreak and for writing the EasyWriter program for the Apple ][ during one of his jail terms. But he failed to become rich and famous. In a free article,The Wall Street Journaldescribes how he's getting on.
The Washington Post hastracked a day in the life of Kitty Bernardto find out how closely she is being watched. It says "Welcome to the 21st century" but it's actually the same as the end of the 20th century.
Capcom's snowy action adventure, Lost Planet, has knocked FIFA off the top spot inthis week's ChartTrack all-formats full-price chart. The Xbox 360 exclusive (unless you include the mobile version, and bear in mind a PS3 translation is likely), has beaten WarioWare: Smooth Moves to the number one position. It's interesting that, at a time in which we're being told family fun games are the future (see previous post), Xbox 360 owners seem to be taking a reactionary stance - embracing balls-out, unreconstructed shoot-'em-up romps like this one and Gears of War.Of course, they don't have much choice - as I have pointed out countless times before, it's not as though the 360 release list is awash with social sims and light-hearted music romps (yes, I know about Guitar Hero). But maybe this is to be Microsoft's role this year - providing an enclave for gamers who remember the old days of kiddie-unfriendly twitch-core violence. A Fight Club for the online gaming generation.
Namco Bandai has released a few screenshots of forthcoming Wii title Tamagotchi Party On and it's so sweet it may actually represent a palpable threat to our teeth, and to the lives of incautious diabetics. Due out this Spring in the US (summer in the UK?) it's a Mario party-style board game with hard-hitting political undertones:"Swing your Wii controllers and turn the whole planet into your playing board. Tamagotchi Party On! allows players to choose their favorite virtual pet and engage in a hilarious campaign to become the next president of Tamagotchi Planet. Earn your popularity by going up against three friends or solo in over 15 unique and totally addictive mini-games including shaking hands, finding lost children, and testing your public speaking skills! In order to succeed at each of these mini games, players will have to swing, shake, point, turn and twist their Wii controllers in order to increase their popularity."I wonder if there's a bit where you have to waggle the controller in excatly the right way in order to lead Tamagotchi Planet into a doomed protracted war?You do realise that if Wii wins - and by that I mean so totally dominates the videogame industry that Xbox 360 and PS3 shrivel up and drop from the shelves like wizened husks - this stuff will form part of our daily diet from now on: calorie-rich cuteness with great dollops of syrupy family fun.In preparation, what is the sweetest, most winsome videogame moment you've ever had? For me - glimpses of Nozomi's romantic interest in Ryo from Shenmue. Not sick-inducing, but just cute enough to bring a lump to your throat.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Over at the O'Reilly Radar blog, there's aninteresting post on spam and economicswhich makes a point I hadn't known about before:And the spam messages that aren't advertisements, scams, or virus attacks, but just random strings of text?Ken Simpson comments, "Those messages are sent by spammers to poison the spam filters. When someone receives a message full of gibberish and reports it as spam, the spam filters tune themselves to recognize gibberish as spam--which reduces their overall accuracy."It also ranks the success rates of different kinds of spam - porn is highest, followed by pharmaceuticals and penny stocks.
Around 2000 WoW fansdescended on Londonlast night for the officialBurning Crusadelaunch - far more than expected. I spoke to Euro boss Itzik Ben Bassat and designer Jon LeCraft in the afternoon - interview up soon - and they really had no idea how many people would turn up. But they did hint at a new Starcraft game and also assured me that BC will appeal to new players and not just the die-hards. I'll be checking it out tonight - like millions of others probably - so we'll see. Anyone else managed to skip work/school and try it out yet?
Golden touch: Eno / Photograph: Eamonn McCabeOne of the most anticipated games for years, at least in these parts, isSpore, the mega-god game from Will Wright. We interviewed himlast yearto find out more - but the best news I've heard for a while is that glam-prog-techno-geniusBrian Enowill be making the music.And not just any music. We Make Music Not Art hasthis, which I hadn't heard before:He was asked to do it, because the designers wanted sound that is just a procedural as the game itself, instead of the loops which are tied to certain stages or areas which we are used to experience in games.He went on to demonstrate a simple software called "The Shuffler" which he uses to create fragments for the soundtrack of Spore and which even with a simple combination of samples possibly would never create the same composition twice within a lifetime.Eno, of course, has a track record with the tech industry. He was the author of the startup sound for Windows 95 (here's a great series on"tiny music makers"from a year or two back) and has long been associated with cutting edge ideas. What's glam rockese for "Woot"?(viaKotaku)
We've all had our eyes on the new project from Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis for a while, but until now their peer-to-peer internet TV offering has simply been codenamed "The Venice Project".That changed this morning. Here's the press release spin:Today, the company formerly known under the code name The Venice Project has revealed its official brand, "Joost™." Currently available in private beta testing, Joost combines the best of TV and the best of the Internet by offering viewers a unique, TV-like experience enhanced with the choice, control and flexibility of Web 2.0.Co-founded by Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis, Joost fills a critical gap in the online video entertainment arena. Joost is powered by a secure, efficient, piracy-proof Internet platform that enables premium interactive video experiences while guaranteeing copyright protection for content owners and creators.Joost is still in the beta test phase, so it's a bit early to judge whether the finished product will have the same effect on the video industry as Kazaa did with music, or Skype on telephony. But Zennstrom and Friis have now reached the critical mass as disruptors where anything they do is well publicised because of their track record, and therefore more likely to succeed ahead of competitors. And they automatically have the ear of media companies who have seen what went before.
MCVreports thatELSPAhas supported statements made by anti-game conservative Labour MP Keith Vaz, who argues that politicians don't need to play the games in order to "be informed about the video game agenda". Mr. Vaz, who successfully campaigned to remove last year's Canis Canem Edit from selected store shelves without having seen the game, claimed that MPs can discuss policy associated with publishers, distributors and retailers because "most will have families and children who enjoying playing".ELSPA retorted:"Clearly you do not have to be a gamer to suggest policies on the games industry any more than you need to be a doctor to do so with the NHS...However, games are rated on their content and senior politicians need to make sure they are properly informed of the content before making a public statement that could possibly be damaging to an important British industry."While few of us can claim to be doctors, however, most of uswillbe treated by the NHS at some point in our lives. We therefore have a more situated experience and can base our suggestions on personal experience rather than observation.I do accept that the computer game medium does present a steep barrier to entry, and politicians or others who speak openly about interactive entertainment cannot hope to be as entrenched as, say, we are. Yet it is always distressing that they make no attempts to understand them before making public statements damning them. Perhaps there should be a special governmental committee -s separate to ELSPA orTIGA- comprised of the spectrum of gamers whose sole purpose is to explain firsthand the context and the content of these products to distressed politicos? Gaming whips, as it were?
Seems you can't visit a videogame news site or aggregator these days without having to wade through a dozen downbeat PS3 posts. On the menu tonight, Gamesindustry.biz hasa series of quotes fromIDCanalyst Billy Pidgeon, who contrasts the lasting allure of PS2 with its seemingly unattractive next-gen replacement:"The PlayStation brand doesn't appear to be helping the PS3. IfNPD's numbersare correct, there are over 300K PS3s on retail shelves. That is not good for a console launch of only a million and it's not good for publishers with PS3 software... Sony needs more must-have first party titles to sell consoles. Gamers know Halo 3 is coming on the Xbox 360, and they can expect Mario on the Wii, but there are no established first party franchises coming to the PS3 except Gran Turismo - and that is delayed."Interestingly, Pidgeon goes on to mention the promising Heavenly Sword and Motorstorm but points out that "They are new and less anticipated." Poor Sony - oft berated for relying too heavily on the same old franchises, now finds that offering new brands may be its downfall. And really, it's not an accurate assessment: Sony hasneverrelied on first-party development - PSone launched with no in-house titles, just the Namco exclusive, Ridge Racer, and later, Tekken. Wipeout was the company's first huge 'homegrown' hit, but even that was from a well-established third-party - Psygnosis - bought into the Sony stable rather than nurtured from the outset.The despondence certainly doesn't end there...Gamasutrareportson findings from Japanese analyst groupNomura Securities, suggesting that Sony will miss its PS3 sales targets by 25 percent:"Sony's estimated PlayStation 3 sales up to the end of March 2007 were cut from 6 million to 4.5 million by the group, with what it called "poor sales" in North America through December as the leading factor cited for the drop.Beyond this year, the group lowered its sales for the next fiscal year (ending March 2008) from 16 million to 10 million, and from 18 million to 11 million the year following (ending March 2009), likely reflecting a lack of confidence by Nomura in the product as a whole, rather than any shorter-term supply issues."Of course, it's far too early to be drawing anything conclusive from these stats and forecasts - Sonyisstill having trouble manufacturing the machines. When there are hundreds of thousands of units available, a fully functioning multiplayer service and several Triple A titles, that's when execs should start getting jittery if the numbers aren't adding up. Yet still, this isn't the sort of thing that Kaz Hirai will want to be reading.Finally, Valve head honcho, Gabe Newell, would seem to have attacked PS3 in US magazine, Game Informer. The developerapparentlystates:"The PS3 is a total disaster on so many levels, I think It's really clear that Sony lost track of what customers and what developers wanted. I'd say, even at this late date, they should just cancel it and do a "do over". Just say, "This was a horrible disaster and we're sorry and we're going to stop selling this and stop trying to convince people to develop for it""Newell - who later backs Wii for success - has never really been a big fan of PS3. In a2005 video interview for 1up.comhe referred to the machine - negatively, I fear - as 'the Next Sega Saturn'. There's some truth here. Like Saturn, PS3 is conceived as being difficult to code for and yet - as with Saturn - games programmers like it (Or at least the ones I've talked to) because the hardware dictates to them less than platforms stuffed with high-level libraries and APIs. Games programmers love a challenge - it's their bosses who aren't so sure.So the critical mass of anti-PS3 feeling, analysis and comment is growing. And mystifyingly, I'm hearing commentators placing Nintendo as some kind of underdog. Hmmm. One thing's for sure, there are a lot of people with extremely short memories talking about games at the moment. It's as though Nintendo never ruled the industry. It's as though statistics and forecasts never let us down.
The UK Wii launch figures are in, with Nintendo shifting 200,000 units in December and 700,000 across Europe as a whole. Perhaps even more impressive were the figures for the DS, with 500,000 sold in the UK alone in December. The DS was the 2006's highest selling console across Europe, with over 1.7million sold. Continuing the stat-fest, Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was sold to over 70% of Wii owners, though my guess is that the bowling in Wii Sports is probably the most played Wii game. Forgetting the longer term concerns over the Wii - post Christmas, and Zelda aside, how often do you play solo on the Wii? - these are impressive figures.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
One of my pet hates is mobile roaming charges, those exhorbitant fees levied on you for using your phone abroad.While there are minimal termination charges for foreign calls, the mobile networks make a packet by charging you forandreceiving calls - a situation which leaves many people trembling in fear when they go overseas. Last year, for example, I spent three weeks away in the US and Russia for work, and my phone bill came in at around eight times the normal level - despite my attempts to reduce call volume.However, 3 has kicked off what is likely to be a new round of slashing charges by announcing today that customers in a number of countries will be able to route their foreign calls directly over companion 3G networks. The press release says:Customers will be able to make voice calls, send text, picture and video messages and even surf the internet or watch TV on their handset at UK rates. So for example, if they are on a tariff that includes voice calls and text message bundles in the UK they will be able to use these free voice minutes and text messages when abroadGood news if you're in the UK, Ireland, Australia, Italy, Austria, Hong Kong, Sweden and Denmark.Not great if you're elsewhere - but it could start another wave of change across the industry. And it's not entirely selfless; at the end of last year EU media commissioner Viviane Reding said that the pressure was on continental phone networks to cut the prohibitive costs of roaming. From anexclusive interview with the Guardian:"I hope this will be the last time before a holiday season that an EU commissioner will have to recommend consumers to switch off while holidaying abroad."It could be another good move for 3, who seem to be riding a surf of positive announcements recently. But will it make much difference to you?
It started with a long puzzle-filled video projected onto the mist from the Bellagio hotel's fountains in Las Vegas, and it's leading up to the consumer launch of Microsoft Vista. Yes, Microsoft is using an alternate reality game (ARG), again. CNet has the details inBuilding Vista buzz with a puzzle.The game isVanishing Pointfrom 42 Entertainment, run by Elan Lee, who used to work for Microsoft (see my earlier post). The CNet story says:"This is a puzzle challenge embedded in the planet," Lee said. "There are clues written in water, and clues etched in the skies above cities. To me a very exciting part of this is that this is the first game ever to use the actual Earth as a resource for delivering content."Lee said one key difference between an ARG and Vanishing Point is the fact that Vista has no inherent story line to link to. By comparison, the narrative of I Love Bees was woven into the larger story line of Microsoft's Halo 2, and Last Call Poker was loosely tied to the story behind Activision's Gun.And the first prize is the Ultimate Vista: a trip onRocketplane. Thecompany says:"The Vanishing Point winner will get a glimpse at the ultimate vista: the view of space my fellow astronauts and I have been privileged to see before," said Commander Herrington. "One lucky player will feel several G's of acceleration on the way up, experience weightlessness for several minutes, before the 'ultimate roller coaster' brings them back to Earth."
The rumours that have been floating around the Second Life grid became truth last week, when Linden Lab, the company behind the virtual world, announced rather quietly that their product isnow Open Source. For many who have suffered the crippling interface and have attempted to find things to do without a comprehensive integrated search engine, this is a day to celebrate. The source code is now freely available, so some clever person out there can use these tools to fabricate a system which will make the online world easier to negotiate. Oddly, this comes the same week that Linden officially dropped their Researcher's Agreement and Code of Ethics for Researchers, but I'm struggling to find any link between the two.The inimitableWagner James Aumanaged to nab a few quotes from CTO Cory Ondrejka about the shift, and offers up his interpretation of the proceedings. For more on the subject,another Cory(Doctorow, from boing boing), blogs that this is a "HUGE" move for the company, and for the Residents:... by opening up the source code for Second Life, Linden is inviting a competitive marketplace for Second Life hosters. Indeed, they describe a "Second Life grid" of multiple Second Life hosters who interconnect -- the way that today's Web consists of a single Web with millions of servers that are all linked together by their users.This turns Linden wealth into real-world wealth. And it also takes an enormous stride towards turning Second Life residents into real citizens instead of mere customers. Citizens get to petition for redress of their grievances from a state that represents them; customers can only take their business elsewhere. Customers only ever get to love it or leave it. Citizens get to change it.Brilliant. I'll continue to hoard my Linden dollars until Mr. Trump comes knocking at my door. Yes, I'm a real-worldanda virtual miser (giving it up to theFreecycleposse).And while this news has taken precedence, there's another very exciting development in virtual worlds news. Raph Koster, designer of MMOGs since Ultima, officially announced his much anticipated project,Areae, late last year. I've been struggling to find the best place to put this information, and unfortunately it's landed at the bottom of this post.Jameshas an interview with Raph. The development appears to converge multiple universes into one game-centred Web 2.0 bucket. The list ofadvisorsis seriously kick-ass. More from Raph (and others) ishere.Oops - forgot another crucial piece of VW information: Disney have announced that they will be creating even more Massively Multiplayer Online Games based upon their home-grown properties, starting with its forthcoming Pirates of the Caribbean world. Announced at last week's Consumer Electronics Show, the megacorpsuggestedthat its popular brands (including Toy Story) could be slated for MMO development. Cynics may see this as a blatant attempt to sell more stuff, but their branders will couch this as an important way to extend the longevity of a franchise. They've already hosted a hugely successful kid's virtual world,Virtual Magic Kingdom, which made leaps in security facilities for under-18 online spaces.Disney have been refreshing their fairground attractions with big screen adaptations for a few years now (remember 2002'sThe Country Bears, based on Country Bear Jamboree? Or Eddie Murphy's outing in 2003's adaptation ofThe Haunted Mansion? Thought not.), and now it seems they're set to do it again in the cyber-sphere. So will Disney Virtual World Inc breathe new life into my favourite Disney attractions: Peter Pan, Space Mountain and Mr. Toad's Wild Ride? Will they even try a dab hand at bringingVideopolisback to life? What about a crazy future-set environment hosted by Michael Jackson's pervasiveCaptain EO? (What can I say, I spent my formative years 30 minutes away from The Happiest Place on Earth.)
Todd Bishop, blogging at Seattlepi.com, a local newspaper, checked the Bill Gates and Stve Jobs keynote speeches "with the language-assessment tools atUsingEnglish.com".Result? Bill's sentences are twice as long and he uses 5.11% hard words against Steve Jobs's 2.9%. So Steve Jobs's language is significantly easier to understand.
At the end of last week Napster, the resurrected subscription music service that's been on sale for some time now, made a deal to buy its way into AOL Music.For $15m Napster gets to replace AOL Music Now with its own service, meaning that it has just taken on some 350,000 paying subscribers (here's theReuters report. Profits are bleak at the company and it has been up for sale for some time, although it's supposedly got a large investment war chest in the bank. But is paying for greater exposure a route to success?Over at Techcrunch, Michael Arringtonsayshe's not sure:It's unusual to see a company make acquisitions when it is itself on the market. Maybe this is Napster's signal that the sales process isn't going well. Or perhaps they just took this opportunity to further consolidate the market.Personally, I think Napster's business should be healthier than it is; the problem is that music providers like this have a lot of paymasters and very little profit. And the last time I used it to download anything, the weight of DRM on the tracks was so heavy that it more or less crippled them. But what is Napster up to?Maybe things will become clear later this week, when I'll be talking toNapster boss Brad Duea. If you've got any questions you'd like to ask him, leave them in the comments below.
"Less than a month after BackupHDDVD was officially released the first confrimed (working) HD DVD rip has been seeded to a torrent site. Its a 19.6GB file in native EVO format that should play on PowerDVD and WinDVD with HD DVD playback," claimsHDTV Blogger. The screen grab says it's Serenity, a 1080p movie in VC-1 (ie Microsoft wmv) format.For background, seeMuslix64's exploit on Wikipedia.
Over atThe New York Times, Randall Stross has given the old DRM arguments a re-tread and applied them to the new iPhone. It begins:STEVE JOBS, Apple's showman nonpareil, provided the first public glimpse of the iPhone last week -- gorgeous, feature-laden and pricey. While following the master magician's gestures, it was easy to overlook a most disappointing aspect: like its slimmer iPod siblings, the iPhone's music-playing function will be limited by factory-installed "crippleware."The article does make a useful point: buy tracks from eMusic and they are DRM free. However, if you buy the same tracks from Apple instead, Apple still applies its DRM to them. The artists don't require it, so in these cases, says eMusic, "copy protection serves only Apple's interests" [Slighly rephrased for clarity.]David Pakman, the CEO of eMusic, said the major labels have watched their revenues decline about $10 billion since a 2001 peak; meanwhile, revenue earned by the independents has held steady. He said his service offers music from 9,800 labels, each of which has embraced downloads in MP3 format. Only four labels still cling to copy protection, even though piracy has not declined, and those are the four major labels.Er, yes, no doubt.....Stross also seems to think Microsoft has dropped its PlaysForSure scheme, which isn't true. It is true that it uses a variant in the Zune to create a closed proprietary system like Apple's. However, numerous download libraries, music players and other devices continue to use licensed PlaysForSure platform, which comes from a different part of Microsoft. While the end of any DRM system would a happy event, at the moment, PlaysForSure has no more ended than FairPlay.TheBoing Boing blog also has a plug, which says: "Randall Stross has a great op-ed in today's New York Times about how Apple's iPhone comes chock-full of DRM that will restrict your freedom and your consumer choice."It's ironic that a company whose name is synonymous with "Switch" has built its entire product strategy around lock-in. The iTunes/iPhone/iPod combo is a roach-motel: customers check in, but they can't check out.It's not clear why this is ironic since it has been a standard part of Apple's Orwellian strategy since at least the 1984 Superbowl advert. But Boing Boing's Cory Doctorow hasonly recently seen the light....
We get far more letters and blog pickups than we can include in print. So here's those from which we chose for this week's printed letters and blog extracts. Remember, it really helps us if you can include a full name and post town; we don't print email addresses.WHAT STEVE TOLD ME ON THE IPHONE[These letters were all written before Apple's announcements on Tuesday - Technology Ed] I'd bet Steve Jobs announced the addition of the Beatles songs to its iTunes offerings, and perhaps also, as an environmental gesture, the offering of free downloads of Al Gore's documentary, An Inconvenient Truth. Those would get lots and lots of attention, I suspect. Dr. Al Feldzamen, Ithaca, NYAs a 56 year old who first operated a mainframe in 1970 (ICL 1901, 16k, processor the size of a wardrobe), I guess IT has dominated my (working) life and IT Guardian is my favourite read of the week. Your article on Steve Jobs (What Jobs told me on the iPhone) particularly enjoyable. I only wish IT could be bigger with perhaps one or two more "historical" articles and Jack getting a full page for his queries. Alan Gent, CheadleTablet PCs are dead. A regular laptop still prevails as the best tool for the portable user. Until they can perfect handwriting recognition it will only be a toy to play with but not very useful when you need to write something quickly and the thing can't perfectly translate your handwriting. So I doubt unless some newer technology comes along that Steve will push a tablet PC because so far they have proven to be not be very good so far. John Horvatic (no post town given)Todays article titled "What Jobs told me on the iPhone" was fantastic! Apple has this iron clad mystique around it so any time you get some insight like that into the company its just a really good read! I am now really hoping for an iPhone to come out whereas before I was somewhat apathetic. Paul (no full name or post town given)Great article..you mention all Apple needs is a major carrier for the Apple phone to be a hit..how about this scenario.. the Disney Magic - Apple Pone all over the nation. What else will the TV network division do with the extra bandwidth it will have once they converting to digital from analog....I know use the bandwidth for a high speed data and phone network we only dream of..that happens to only work with the new DMA Phone! Thanks for the great Article. Dean Fuschetti (no post town given)&gt;&gt; Of the concerns [Sobotta] raises, the WiFi and screen issues have pretty-much been sorted in the intervening years (this is said to have happened way back in 2002). This just leaves the liability issue, which I don't see as being insurmountable. After all, PC/Windows tablets are sold into this market. Any Mac Tablets would be based on similar (hell, who am I trying to kid: identical) technology and hardware, so things like interference with other equipment shouldn't be an issue. And it's not like an Apple Tablet is going to be directly running any of the really important equipment, it's just going to be used for taking notes and accessing patient records and other housekeeping tasks. And as I'm sure we're all tired of repeating, if anything OS X is more reliable than the Windows alternative.http://mactab.blogspot.com/2007/01/whee-here-we-go-again.html&gt;&gt; Think about that. Doctors and scientists wanted this thing because they thought it could help them do their job better, which in turn could help save lives. But a significant reason why Apple dared not develop a product was because of litigation issues. Think about that next time John Edwards tells you he's just looking out for America's families.http://togetrichisglorious.blogspot.com/2007/01/apple-and-tablet.html&gt;&gt; From someone who is inarguably a visionary, that is an amazing amount of negativity presented in a single discussion. The whole "Nope. Can't do it. Here's why we can't do it." persona seems weird compared to the stereotypical image of entrepreneurs, inventors and visionaries of being achievers who never take no for an answer: if there is a problem, they labour away until they create a solution. I suppose even Winston Churchill had moments of doubt and defeatism.http://businessopinions.blogspot.com/2007/01/next-step-towards-iworld.html&gt;&gt; it is hard to get very excited about the possible Apple "iPhone", because it would likely be so limited by the carriers that Apple would have to partner with. The carriers themselves can't innovate. And they refuse to open their walled gardens to those that can innovate, like Apple (surprisingly, the Wikipedia definition didn't include the mobile network operators as examples; I quickly added it to the definition, but you may be able to elaborate on it, or cite good sources). The reason you can't do everything you do at your PC on your mobile phone is because your mobile carrier (at least in the US) still controls both the pipe and the applications. Just like fixed line carriers always have. The result in the fixed line world: the most innovation in the past 100 years has been call waiting. Compare that to the amount of Internet innovation in the past 1 year. Why the difference? Because your ISP doesn't control Internet applications; they just provide your pipe.http://blog.nextblitz.com/blog/2007/01/iphone_steve_jo.html&gt;&gt; I can see why people would find [Jobs] intimidating, but, I suspect he just doesn't suffer fools gladly. I know someone that's a family friend of Steve Jobs (yes, contrary to popular opinion, he has friends ;-) ). From what she has said about him, he seems like a nice guy. Hell, he even used to push her on her swing when she was a child. Sounds like he's bit of a pussycat to me…http://www.psynixis.com/blog/2007/01/04/face-to-face-meetings-with-steve-jobs/&gt;&gt; Sobotta gives some excellent reasons as to why he feels we'll see the Apple Phone at the Keynote next week, and why we'll probably never see an Apple Computer in the form of a Tablet. This comes as somewhat of a downer for me, as I've written here a couple of times that I feel an Apple Tablet is inevitable. The points made by Sabotta are pretty strong, and lead me to believe that I may actually have been wrong (but only this one time).http://theappleblog.com/2007/01/04/apple-tablet-doubtful-ever/&gt;&gt; What I find most interesting about Apple/Steve is this one simple thing: He tells everyone else what they want and pulls it off. He's not afraid to tell a customer (one as big as Disney/Pixar) that they are wrong. Defining your market and projecting yourself as a market leader, whether real or fake, gives you the ability to do exactly what Apple/Steve does. It's a completely different approach to business, and for the time being, is quite successful.http://titaniumhalo.com/blog/?p=331SINKING VIRTUAL LONDON&gt;&gt; As a Londoner, and proud of it, I demand my virtual birthright. If the Ordnance Survey isn't up to providing it, I suggest we place an ordnance under 'em and be done with the wretches.http://opendotdotdot.blogspot.com/2007/01/i-want-my-virtual-london.html&gt;&gt; Come on Ordnance Survey sort your out of date crown copyright. Reduce your prices to commercial vendors and you will gain more consumers and increase your incomes 10 fold.http://mapperz.blogspot.com/2007/01/crown-copyright-crushing-uk-mapping.html&gt;&gt; One can imagine any number of other uses where public bodies and not-for-profits are trying to engage with public. It's interesting to note that the recent surge in geographical computing (Google Maps, Yahoo Maps, geotagging, geocaching, satellite navigation, etc) is built on two types of largely government funded activity: GPS and satellite photography. In both cases, it wasn't until the public had free access to acceptable-quality data that industries grew up around them. Maybe the Ordnance Survey need to come up with a plan to boost sales of their very-high quality data by giving away their acceptable-quality data to build an industry. An alternative might be to devise a system by which various classes of end-users can contribute data back into the database, since many end-user now have survey-quality location devices.http://involve.jisc.ac.uk/wpmu/oss-watch/2007/01/04/copyright-and-ordnance-surveys-mastermap/&gt;&gt; I fear that the UK Government may take a long time to change and adapt to new opportunities that the web is bringing us. But maybe if enough people back this campaign - with a new leader about to take over from tony Blair and an opposition hungry to prove its modern credentials perhaps there is a window for one of them to move quickly to demonstrate their understanding of the web.http://open.typepad.com/open/2007/01/uk_government_n.htmlPREDICTING THE FUTUREAnother nice example of mispredicting the future is in the work of Octave Uzanne who in 1894 predicted the "The End of Books" (and anticipated the invention of the Walkman). There's a version online athttp://lucy.kent.ac.uk/csac/lucy/Uzanne/index.htmlDr David Zeitlyn, Reader in Social Anthropology, Centre for Social Anthropology and Computing, Department of Anthropology, University of Kent, Canterbury,Since the population enjoyed living in fixed houses, most living has required the solving of transport problems for increasing comfort. It's still food, water, power, IN. Sewerage and heat out. Yes we now have gas,electricity, communication, but istead of hunting deer and rabbits, we hunt at the supermarkets, few grow there own vegetables. Will this change much in the next 100 years? I predict the biggest changes will be in home working and home shopping. We can get any amount of low quality TV, will it be 3D, and carry smells too? If so I predict a decline in the close up "nature" programmes showing "a million penguins". Maybe we could have a happy pipeline to our houses! David Vinter, LouthTECHNOBILE (CHANGING PASSWORDS)Passwords are an increasing headache for many people (Technobile, January 4), with companies enforcing password changes every other week. Not only is it time consuming, but it's a nightmare for users who have to consistently remember what the new password is each time. Understandably many people are sticking with the same password or have taken to writing the new one down in the back of the diaries they keep right next to their PC. I t is this proliferation of passwords which is now contributing to more identity management problems than ever. It's time companies look towards more sophisticated technologies, like biometrics and fingerprint authentication, which is a lot more secure and highly convenient. George Skaff, DigitalPersonaJim Cromwell doesn't know how lucky he is! He was only plagued by being pressed to change his password My password got changed for me, without my knowing it. This put me in e-purdah for months, and when I discovered what it had been changed to – the same letter-string as before, but reversed – I was told I had faxed my request for the change. I hadn't. This ought not to be possible. How did it happen? Who? Why? The only explanation I can conceive of combines crazy paranoia with demented delusions-of-grandeur. It goes that a) Bush has set up an analogue to Nixon's crooked Committee for the Reelection of the President; b) The CIA intercepts even all e-mails – even down to my trifling chit-chat, and c) that my transAtlantic messaging had incurred CREEP'S displeasure by including the word "impeach". Can you offer an, on the contrary, sane explanation ? Daniel Lowy (no post town given)LAST WEEK'S LETTERSJonathan Larson (Technology, 4 Jan) asks "What is it with you Brits and your love of the primitive and the partly developed?" but oddly enough, it wasn't us who voted for George Bush. (Yeah, I know it's a lame joke, but lazy national stereotyping cuts both ways!) Adrian Clark, SuttonTEXTING 999I quote your [October 19] article:- "Why would you want to text 999 when you can call it instead?" one spokesman for a large force told Technology Guardian. My new Eten X500 smartphone with built in gps receiver, has a feature which enables one to send a text containing exact gps position, along with own message, or one can select from a list of standard messages eg. "I need help! This is my location". Sending a text often works when reception is too weak for voice (eg. hill walking or at sea) or battery is low. Other smartphones with built in gps receivers are 02 XDA Orbit &amp; MDA Compact 3, &amp; I am sure more will follow. Surely, if the emergency services worked with the telephone service providers, 999 text calls could be prioritised, so that they were received straight away? John Cady (no post town given)STEVE JOBS'S OPTIONS HASSLESYour article is concise and correct. Jobs faces an SEC wells notice for either or both companies. He also potentially faces criminal issues regarding the options granted to him by Apple that may have involved a small conspiracy to get him options above the water line… If the SEC serves him, he will likely settle with them for a few hundred million….and move on. He will be banned for life from public companies in regard to executive position etc. If he gets into trouble criminally, then he will not be consulting. If he just has a problem with the SEC, he will be free to consult, however, he more likely will start a private company of some sort to dally in, one that will not go public while he runs it. Cecil Koupal (no post town given)SECOND LIFE: FULL OR NOT?I thought the following might interest you and/or your readers and would appreciate any link back of comments: Running the Numbers on Second Lifehttp://tnl.net/blog/2007/01/05/running-the-numbers-on-second-life/...So, it looks that, under the most conservative growth rate, we will see 3.5 million users registered and over 600,000 using the service by the end of April 2007. Under a liberal interpretation of the data, those numbers would shift to 9.6 million and just under 7 million. However, in the most likely case, it is probable that there will be 7.2 million users registered with 1.6 million logging in over the previous sixty days. Not too shabby. For the sake of planning, I would advise my readers to go with the most conservative estimate because my data set is still relatively small. Even then, this type of growth mirrors some of the growth patterns we've seen in the early days of the commercial web and seem to support the contention that LindenLab is going to be a very strong player in the future. Tristan Louis (tnl.net)
A while back I interviewed Steve Haswell, a researcher from Hull who is developinga DNA analysis chip.Now, according to piece on theFuture of Thingsblog, scientists in California are working on a similar blood analysis model:The chip-based device will perform a simple blood test in about two minutes. Apart from counting red and white blood cells (RBCs and WBCs), the team believes the new technology has great potential as a tool for analyzing fluids such as blood plasma and urine and even as a tool for cancer detection and DNA analysis.The size of the labs used to process this sort of material is massive at the moment, and plays a large part in the slow detection and investigation of health and crime. Progress here could have a huge impact on that.
Windows Mobile image fromTechCrunchApple is notoriously litigious, but its lawyers must be working overtime at the moment, as they try to stop people seeing the iPhone's icons misused.After the Stevenote demonstrating the iPhone, a few users thought it would be cool to "borrow" the icons for use on their Treo, Windows Mobile or other smart phone, most of which already have the same features as the iPhone. For example, Paul O'Brien postedGet the iPhone style for your Pocket PCwhile hanmin did something atxda-developers. mbennouf postedNEW: iPhony 0.2 released (FREE!)for Palm OS, and so on.Of course, it is absolutely wrong to steal Apple's copyright icons. However, a more generous company might take the view that this kind of use is both flattering and free advertising. Whenever someone installs one of these backdrops, they are going to show it to their friends and basically that's going to constitute free promotion for Apple's product. But as we know from 25 years' experience, Apple will always defend its intellectual property to the death.Paul O'Brien has posted the letter from Apple's lawyers -- amusing marked "Not for posting" -- which says: "While we appreciate your interest in the iPhone, the icons and screenshot displayed on your website are copyrighted by Apple, and copyright law explicitly prohibits unauthorized display and distribution of copyrighted works."The problem is that Apple's lawyers are not just using their legal jackboots against people posting iPhone-style skins, they're using them against peoplereportingthe case. This led Michael Arrington at TechCrunch -- a noted Mac-lover -- to postApple Bullies Bloggers, Againwith the image above. He writes:I think this is all complete nonsense. If Apple wants to go after the guy that made the Windows Mobile skin that looks like the iPhone, fine. But to bully bloggers who are simply reporting on this is another matter.Well, it could have been an innocent mistake. (Lawyers do make mistakes, don't they?) Either way, we're now waiting to see if Apple will attempt to silence TechCrunch, which is (relatively) rich and influential, or if it only picks on the weak and powerless.Also, does Apple's stance mean that no pictures of its products will ever be allowed to appear on the Web or in, say, The New York Times or The Guardian, without its express permission?Some people think that Applepretty much pwnstheUS mainstream media, and while that aspect is often wildly overstated, it certainly gets a vast amount of fawning free publicity whenever it brings out a new product. Even Apple would find it hard to give that up.iPhony -- not the iPhone
Ed Burnette's Dev Connection blog at ZD Net has a good story on theiPhone trademark issue. The gist of it is that Cisco had to file a Declaration of Use by November 16, 2005, and failed to do so. It then had six month's grace, and finally did file a Declaration of Use on May 4, 2006. This filing included a picture of the "Linksys CIT200 Cordless Internet Telephony Kit, with a sticker showing the word "iPhone™" affixed to the back, outside the shrink wrap. The front of the box is not shown, but it doesn't appear that the word iPhone appears anywhere else on the box," says Burnette. He also links to CIT200 reviews that don't mention iPhone,nor does Amazon.com, so the sticker appears to be a last-minute addition.It looks as though Apple's lawyers could argue that the main use Cisco made of the iPhone name was in the attempt to get money out of Apple.....Cisco's official response to Burnette says: "We maintain that Cisco has taken all actions necessary to satisfy all elements to prove the validity of our trademark under trademark law in the United States and elsewhere where we hold the trademark."But you still have to wonder whether this whole dispute makes sense for a company like Cisco, with sales worth around $30 billion a year. What's the PR cost when something like that blows up in your face?
Last week saw two events in the annual calendar of the computing industry. The first was the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, a gargantuan technofest that attracts thousands of companies, and tens of thousands of visitors every day. The second was Macworld Expo, the annual gathering of a small, semi-religious cult in San Francisco.One was the annual gathering of an enormous industry with a turnover of trillions of dollars a year. The other was a celebration of a single computer company with a market cap of around $80bn which earns $8bn a year in gross profits - not exactly small potatoes, but a minnow compared with, say, Microsoft (market cap $300bn, gross profit $37bn). Microsoft boss Bill Gates gave the keynote address at CES; Apple CEO Steve Jobs did likewise at Macworld.Guess which event garnered the overwhelming bulk of media coverage? Do I need to ask? Jobs's launch of the iPhone even made the BBC 10 O'Clock News. Business correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones was filmed reverently handling the precious object with the awestruck deference of a medieval peasant confronted with a relic of the true Cross. The following day the device was on the front page of countless newspapers worldwide. Bloggers were experimenting with cardboard models (just to get a feel for the thing, you understand). And even as I write, some Chinese factory is churning out squeezable replicas to relieve the frustration of technophiles unable to get their hands on the actual device until next June.This surge of technoporn was just an especially vivid illustration of the 'Reality Distortion Field' that surrounds Jobs. And it turns out that the field distorts the judgment not just of journalists but also of 'analysts' who are paid to give detached advice to professional investors. The wonderful Good Morning Silicon Valley blog sampled the vapourings of these high-priced oracles and came up with some gems.'This goes beyond smart phones and should be given its own category called "brilliant phones",' burbled Tim Bajarin principal analyst with of Creative Strategies. 'The iPhone is the most beautiful and functional phone I have ever seen.' First time I held it, I was speechless for more than a few seconds,' wrote Jupiter analyst Michael Gartenberg.And even those who struggled for objectivity wilted in the end. Bank of America Equity Research's analyst Keith Bachman said: 'We believe [the iPhone] is a major evolutionary step, given that it has effectively eliminated keyboard keys and ... plastic input keys and is using a touch interface with software as its strength. Apple indicated that they expect to sell 10 million units in calendar year 2008 ... Given the nature of the device as well as the "wow factor", we believe that the number sounds low.'Let us now brandish a clove of garlic and dispel the Reality Distortion Field for a moment. The iPhone looks like a cute gadget, but it does raise awkward questions.Will its screen scratch as easily as the iPod Nano's does? Will it be as unreliable as the iPod range appears to be? (I speak from bitter experience.) Why does it have a built-in battery, just like the iPods? Will users have to send their phones back to Apple when the batteries give up the ghost? How robust is the mobile version of OS X - the phone's operating system? Why is the mobile connectivity not 3G? And how did Apple come to overlook the awkward fact that the 'iPhone' name belongs to Cisco?Answers, please - engraved on the back of a dead iPod - to Steven P Jobs, Apple Inc, 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, CA 95014, USA.Unavailable optionsOne organisation unlikely to be affected by the Jobs distortion field is the Securities and Exchange Commission, a humourless body currently investigating the stock options scandal enveloping Apple and many other technology companies. As far as we know, this stock options business doesn't affect Mr Jobs- despite the fact that his salary is just $1 a year. The media frenzy generated by his performance last Tuesday will have led Apple shareholders to pray that the SEC doesn't conclude otherwise.His remarkable iPhone demo highlighted the extent to which Steve Jobs is Apple. There's no obvious successor in sight - which means that, sooner or later, the company's board will have to address the issue of who follows him. And if you thought that BP's problems in that regard were horrendous, stay tuned ...
Presentation by Steve Jobs of new iPhone in front of 10,000 screaming technology experts.Lights go down, roof retracts to lower Mr Jobs, seen reclining on a large, green velvet Victorian chaise longue suspended on wires. Audience whoops and hollers. Chaise longue touches the stage floor. Mr Jobs gets off, stands up and shouts: 'Compress chaise longue!' At this point, the chaise longue flips in on itself many times to fold into a small, sleek, oblong, hand-held device, which Mr Jobs picks up.Jobs'Hellooooo technology experts!'Crowd'Hellooo King of Glory!'Jobs'Tonight, we make history as I present to you the new Apple iPhone. [Audience cheers.] The iPhone, as you have just seen, can fold out into a chaise longue. [Audience screams.] Yes, my friends, the days of not being able to recline on your cellphone are over! [Audience stands up and sings 'Thank you, Lord God, for your gracious gifts' to the tune of 'She'll be Coming Round the Mountain When She Comes'.]'So now let me take you through the superb array of functions the iPhone can bring into your life. First, enhanced picture quality. I simply point my little finger at this icon here and a screen appears on the phone. Now, what's this? [Grainy, green video footage appears on the phone and is projected on to a large screen at the front of the hall.] Why, it's the notorious video-phoned footage of Saddam Hussein's hanging. This footage sent shockwaves throughout the world. Many people were appalled by what they saw. I was appalled. [Meaningful pause]. I was appalled at the poor picture quality of the images! [Audience laughter, which lasts for three minutes.]'Surely, in this day and age, it must be possible to come up with a cellphone that can film the execution of vicious heads of state in a resolution greater than 1,200 x 800 pixels! A death-cell phone, if you will! [The laughter causes cracks in the roof.]'See here, I simply wink at this icon at the bottom and the Saddam footage is now 10 times clearer. [On the large screen, the mushy footage has now been transformed into high-resolution images of a man with spit in his beard having his neck snapped.] You can see the angle! [Audience yelps like ruptured wolves.]'Now, of course, it would be wrong to film anything and everything. We are all entitled to our privacy. And the iPhone knows when to stop. For example, here is a photograph of Prince William of England's girlfriend, Kate Middleton.'Now, here's what happened earlier this week when I tried to film her coming out of her house. [The screen shows footage, beamed from the iPhone, of a front door of a house.] The door starts to open and, just as a young woman is about to emerge, the screen freezes, and a caption saying STOP! THIS IS WRONG! flashes over it. The audience gasps for air, applauds loudly and then kisses each other.'Yes, the iPhone knows when to stop. But it also knows not to spoil your fun. Of course, it's wrong to film Kate Middleton of England, but it's not wrong to speculate on what it would look like if we had filmed her. So the iPhone has an inbuilt bank of 14,000 images showing what Kate Middleton would look like if you had carried on taking photos of her for years to come. [Waves his nose at the phone and a series of images come on to the screen.]Here she is looking as if she's running away; here she is looking like she's crying; here she is looking like she's been filmed though a window shouting at William of England and William of England's father who's trying not to look at her, and here she is as if she were taking tranquillisers. [General silence from audience, as if in simple adoration.]'The iPhone has many more functions there simply isn't time to talk about today, though if you click this icon here, you actually get extra time. The iPhone can work out a solution to the Middle East crisis, prove to all doubters that there was a Holocaust and plant a hedge in the Amazon jungle [Polite applause] but what I will finally reveal now is its best function, the ability to unblock drains! [Applause that only a sun god gets.]'Apple has done a deal with the makers of Mister Muscle to ensure that wherever you go, whether at home or in the office or on board a train with ridiculous plumbing, if you happen to have a blocked drain in your vicinity you can deal with the menace with one squirt of the iPhone. [Jobs squirts his iPhone and a jet of Mister Muscle shoots out, unblocking a large, clogged plughole.] The audience screams: 'Mister Muscle! Mister Muscle! You Don't Tussle With Mister Muscle!''As the powerful liquid dissolves clogged hair and food grease, my iPhone can film the obliteration of mess and beam the pictures back to my children I am the Lord of all Things, the Master of the Universe and Tomorrow is my winged Steed.'Jobs disappears into his iPhone, which ascends into the roof. The people fling off their clothes in rapture. A voice is heard saying 'The iPhone is on sale for $499' and the audience shouts: 'That's too much' and hurriedly leaves.
Gadgets lined up as if at a beauty parade at last week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, each hoping to be crowned 'the new iPod'. One came in four colours: black pearl, titanium silver, electric blue and metallic pink. The effect of the sleekly designed device is stunning. Literally.The Taser C2 is no digital music player, rather a 'personal protection system' based on the Taser stun guns used by police to deliver an incapacitating jolt of electricity. Current models cost about &pound;500, but the C2 will go on sale in April for little more than &pound;150 and, no bigger than a TV remote control, is aimed at mainstream buyers.Taser International says the device delivers an energy burst of 30 seconds and can stop a threatening individual from up to 15ft away. When fired, it sprays 30 tiny pieces of confetti encoded with a serial number so that the owner can be traced. Buyers must have completed a background check to ensure they are suitable.Amnesty International USA condemned the product, claiming there have been 200 Taser-related deaths. Larry Cox, its executive director, said: 'It's a terrible idea, it's a dangerous idea. I can't think of any reason you would want these out in public.' The police have also expressed concerns.Tasers are banned in several American states, and a spokesman for Taser International said there is no prospect of the C2 coming to Britain. Which is probably a relief.
Call Of Duty 3Nintendo WiiActivision, &pound;40Just when you thought the Wii would only ever be used for sports titles and games involving friendly cartoon animals, Call Of Duty 3 arrives in a screaming hail of Teutonic shrapnel and high explosives to suggest otherwise. Following able but not terribly distinguished outings on other consoles, the Wii version's control method is what marks it out: you use the smaller "nunchuk" controller to move and the Wii remote to aim, fire and hurl grenades. It sounds simple and intuitive, but the resulting nightmarish mess will see you spinning out of control every time you aim at an enemy even slightly away from the centre of the screen, and makes grenade throwing a source of regular and highly irritating bouts of involuntary self-immolation. No multiplayer option, and graphics that would mildly embarrass even the old Xbox, let alone a 360, help make this one to ignore.Wario Ware: Smooth MovesNintendo WiiNintendo, &pound;40The Wario Ware series eschews mini-games in favour of micro-games, a new one of which arrives every three to four seconds, giving you just enough time to do one very small thing before the next one appears. Using the Wii-mote in a dizzying array of stances, grips and poses, Wario Ware's trademark nuttiness is as unrestrained as ever. Games include plucking the remote control from a child's hands so they'll go to bed; flying a paper aeroplane around an obstacle; slicing barrels with a samurai sword and a whole carousel of nostalgic chunks of old Nintendo games, introduced by cut scenes that stubbornly defy interpretation but are short enough to remain amusing. Anarchic, silly and wonderfully good fun, Wario Ware is perfect fodder for Wii and has such appeal that even those normally fundamentally opposed to games will enjoy it. Now where's that Boris Johnson?
Attack of the angry politicianAs a relatively new medium, videogames are in the growing pains stage of their emergence (think VHS in the "video nasty" years), in which they regularly become a target for the unfocused do-gooding instinct of politicians and certain sectors of the press.The latest outburst from the Tories' Boris Johnson is as nonsensical as most, but worded so idiosyncratically it's hard not to at least enjoy listening to it. "I refuse to believe that these hypnotic little machines are innocent," fulminates Boris. "The nippers are bleeping and zapping in speechless rapture, their passive faces washed in explosions and gore. They sit for so long that their souls seem to have been sucked down the cathode ray tube."Never mind that cathode rays went out with the Spinning Jenny or that developmentally speaking games help build co-ordination, problem solving ability and self-esteem.
Cartoon posted on Wednesday by Hugh Macleod ofhttp://www.gapingvoid.com/With the effects of Steve Jobs's "reality distortion field" fading fast, people are starting to wonder how many users really want to pay maybe $3,000 (including contract) for a locked-down phone where you can't even change the battery. (In fact, can you even change the SIM? Anyone know?)Over atThe New York Times, John Markoff has compared the iPhone to the original Mac, launched in 1984:Despite its high price of $2,495, the Macintosh initially sold briskly. But Mr. Jobs's early predictions of huge sales (on Tuesday, in a similar fashion, he set a goal for the iPhone 1 percent of the world's cellular phone market, or 10 million phones a year, by the end of 2008) failed to materialize.The Mac's stumble was in part because of pricing and in part because Mr. Jobs had intentionally restricted its expandability. Despite his assertion that a slow data connection would be sufficient, the gamble failed when Apple's business stalled and Mr. Jobs was forced out of the company by the chief executive he had brought in, John Sculley.The Mac was overhyped like the iPhone so it immediately sold to the True Believers who didn't much care about the fact that it was both underpowered and crippled -- no graphics slot, no hard drive, no way to expand the memory etc. But after that initial splash, Mac sales collapsed, and Apple ended up closing factories and laying off staff. Jobs got the boot and eventually Apple came out with the redesigned three-piece "open" Mac II, with expansion slots.Jobs had designed his locked-down proprietary computer as an appliance, on the same principle as (to use Jobs's own example) a Maytag washing machine. The iPhone appears to be even more locked down and the thinking seems to be the same: it's an appliance designed for the bubblehead market. (It "just works" -- now open your wallet and say "help yourself".)But that doesn't mean the iPhone will fail. There weren't many bubbleheads buying high-priced personal computers in the early 1980s, but today, the majority of the mobile market is for phones that are appliances. I'd guess there's only a small minority who actually want a phone they can control....
The European Union's Competition Commission has no remit to do anything that benefits users*, and in pursuing what it denies is a "vendetta" against Microsoft, the EC has generally managed to be harmful. However, it may by accident have done something that many users will applaud: it has crippled HTML email in Microsoft Office.Back in the mists of time, Microsoft built the browser into the operating system so that anything that wanted HTML rendered could use a component of Internet Explorer. Netscape went squealing to the US Justice Department which launched an anti-trust case against Microsoft, which the EC followed up with a case against Windows Media Player (prompted by squealing from Real Networks), so now there's no guarantee that any particular Windows user will have a particular component needed to render anything.Microsoft has therefore done the logical thing with Microsoft Office.As it says here: "Microsoft Office Outlook 2007 uses the HTML parsing and rendering engine from Microsoft Office Word 2007 to display HTML message bodies. The same HTML and cascading style sheets (CSS) support available in Word 2007 is available in Outlook 2007."Someone who has Office probably uses Word to create an HTML mail, and someone who has Office 2007 will now find that exactly the same Word HTML rendering engine is used to display that email. That's sensible, isn't it?But it's a huge problem for email spammers -- sorry, marketeers -- who are currently agonising over the change. Word's HTML capabilities are extremely limited, compared to the full HTML rendering provided by the browser engine.The Campaign Monitor blogsays:This really is a game changer. Previously you could send a HTML email in the comfort that the majority of your recipients would have very good CSS support. Other email clients were also catching up. Thunderbird uses the Firefox rendering engine, the new Yahoo! Mail beta has great CSS support. Things were looking good for us CSS based email designers.Unfortunately, that all goes down the toilet now. If your email breaks in Notes or Eudora, it was often an acceptable casualty, but if it breaks in Outlook, you're more than likely ostracizing too many recipients to justify your design approach. This certainly doesn't spell the end for HTML email, it just takes us back 5 years where tables and nasty inline CSS was the norm.A flood of Digg users has done a lot of rejoicing to the effect that we don't want all this crappy HTML spam: good riddance. Well, Word HTML is still HTML, so HTML email (a piece of stupidity introduced by Netscape, wasn't it?) is not going to go away. Still, anything that makes HTML email less powerful is probably a good thing in the long run.* The EC's remit is to ensure competition across borders. It's a problem if you have one bastard company abusing and exploiting users, but if you have two or more bastard companies abusing and exploiting users, that's fine.
MondayVirtual research ethicsXbox, Vista and IPTVGears of War: maps and salesSixaxis wins EMMY? (No it doesn't)Xbox 360 and PS3 salesTuesdayRadio 4 puts videogame panic in perspectivePong creator turns paddle on gender divideamBX launchNano gamingWednesdaySuper Columbine removed from game eventBuzz goes to schoolTen hidden treats from CESThursday2006 - best year for game salesWii out sells PS3 in JapanDevelopers Choice AwardsCrazy Taxi and Mega DriveSuper Columbine controversyFridayQuestions for mizuguchiWoW hits eight million
Microsoft's corporate campusin Redmond, outside Seattle, is pretty bland, though as workplaces go its scenery trumps the view from the Guardian's windows in Farringdon any day.However, it does have one extremely cool facility among the offices and conference rooms: its home of the future. In brief, this mocks up how technology might marry digital input, social networking and simply living. The mocked-up house only uses technology that the enthusiastic geeks who run it think will be not only commercially available but also within a respectable price range within six years.In fact much of the technology on display there is already available and deployed in the real world. RFID tags are already in use by big shops to manage inventory. It's not a huge leap to see how that could be deployed by, say, a scanner in your fridge which checks what you've got and beams that to your mobile when you're at Waitrose. OLED screens are just starting to be mainstream: they're deployed all over the Microsoft mock-up. It's all very nifty but what I think is clever is that the people who run this facility have made some leaps of imagination that once you see them in action seem very obvious - but hey, I didn't think of them and neither did you.Also fun at the campus is the smallmuseumin the visitors' centre. There are plenty of youthful pictures of Bill Gates and Paul Allen in their early geek days. But it's also a bit of personal nostalgia, too - I remember my dad having an earlyIBM PC, one of which sits behind glass as befits its status as a museum piece. And I first laid out newspaper pages in the late 1980s on anearly Mac, one of which is also in the museum.Still, the most enlightening facility, though, is the company store, where employees and their friends (and visiting press, it seems) get amazing discounts on software. One colleague bought Office for Mac for $70 - about £35. It's a shade under £368 on Amazon. Pity they didn't have Vista and the new version of Office on the shelves - I suspect those would have gone like hot cakes.
