Although SMS, the mobile's Short Message Service, lets you to send up to 160 characters at once, most people seem to run out of puff after poking their way through the first dozen or so. The result is often txtspk: R U OK 4 2NITE and C U AT 8. Send that sort of stuff to me, however, and within seconds you could well receive a full if not positively flowery response.The secret is not my high-speed two-thumbed texting technique but 10-fingered touch typing. Given access to a desktop or notebook computer with a keyboard, tapping out 160 characters takes less than a minute.Over the past couple of years, lots of websites offered to send text messages to mobiles free of charge. Not all have lasted, but more than a    dozen UK sites are operating:Text Me Freeprovides a quick guide and ratings.I often useLycos. You type the SMS message into a graphic that represents a phone screen, which reminds you to keep it short and sweet.Alternatives includeBT's GenieandOrange Internet, which limits you to 30 messages a month.However, with the right software running on your personal computer, you don't need a web-based service. You can send SMS messages straight to an SMS server, which will store and forward it to the target mobile phone. There is a good selection at the Download Free SMS Software page atwww.cellular.co.za/download_free_sms_software.htmwhich includes software for PCs, Macs and Windows CE devices among others.The drawback is that sending SMS messages this way is not always free. You can pipe your message to a mobile phone, which sends off the message, or let the software use your PC's dial-up modem to call an SMS server, but   either route may involve the cost of a call.There are also commercial Windows programs aimed at business users. Examples includeDesoft's SMS Centre and SMS E-Mail, andRedRock's TextNow. Desoft's software is cheaper for individuals, with prices starting at &#163;25, while RedRock aims for a more corporate market, with prices starting at &#163;395.I've been using a new version (2.0) of RedRock's TextNow, released last week. It does have some advantages. You can set it up to send messages via a dial-up modem, a mobile phone, or an internet connection using RedRock's server, which connects to 240 mobile networks in more than 90 countries. Also, one PC can be used as an SMS server by other machines on a local area   network (Lan), and users can send one message to a list of numbers.However, if you use RedRock's SMS server via the net, there is a charge per message, which depends on the number you send. The 24-day trial version, which can be downloaded fromwww.redrock.co.uk/ukshop, only provides three free SMS messages, though you can buy another 100 for &#163;10.Using TextNow on a PC is almost exactly the same as using instant messenger programs such as ICQ, Yahoo Messenger or MSN Messenger. The main differences are that, because SMS messages are limited, TextNow provides a character count, and you can also check on your message's progress.There are also some things TextNow does not do, and the most annoying is that it won't   work with Microsoft Outlook. RedRock says it works with Act 2000 and Goldmine, and Outlook support is on its way.However, the similarity between SMS and computer-based instant messaging is so strong, it is hard to imagine that the two systems will not become one in the future. That is already starting to happen with the market leader, AOL's ICQ, where the latest 2000b Beta v4.65 for Windows, a time-limited trial version, lets you send and receive SMS messages from mobile phones onGSM networks. And it is free.Although SMS has enjoyed a lot of press hype, ICQ has more than 100musers and is registering new ones at a rate of more than one per second. Including AOL, Yahoo, Microsoft and other instant messaging systems, I'd guess that well over a billion instant messages are sent per day, dwarfing SMS traffic. But when the various instant messaging systems start to interoperate - which they will do soon - and when more mobiles have the power to run IM software, it is hard to see SMS hanging on to much more than a niche market.
The GrouchPC £24.99 Akaei *Sudden Strike ForeverPC £19.99 CDV ***Traditionally the summer months provide
   meagre pickings from the gaming industry. The majority of software is sold around Christmas with publishers making the
   assumption that people would rather fry steaks on a barbeque rather than roast bad guys. Thankfully this has changed
   recently with big titles such as Gran Turismo 3 selling millions although others, like The Grouch, show that the trend for
   poor summer releases still exists.Ostensibly a cute version of the sword-slashing Severance, The Grouch lets you hack your
   way around a bland landscape while jumping on platforms and attempting to rescue the girl. But rather than axe-wielding
   maniacs, your adversaries include bears and walking trees, obviously skewing the game to a younger audience. Or so you'd
   think. In fact, Grouch is hair-pullingly difficult, with annoying collision problems - including "deadly" water and invisible
   platform sections - and lacklustre combat moves. The latter becomes crucially relevant when battling some of the tougher
   foes. Bland graphics don't help either, although the lack of detail and on-screen action at least allows the use of less
   powerful PCs. Perhaps the best that can be said for The Grouch is that it isn't an FPS (first person shooter) or an RTS (real
   time strategy) game, which on the PC, is a welcome change.Sudden Strike Forever, on the other hand, is an RTS, but one
   that achieves what all add-on packs should - to make you dig out the original game again. Forever, which requires the original
   Sudden Strike to run, breathes new life into the world war two strategy title by introducing new units, more multiplayer
   options and tweaks to the interface. Patriotic types will be pleased with the inclusion of specific British units and, despite a
   steep learning curve, Sudden Strike remains the essential world war two sim. (GH)
I'm not much of a betting man. Supporting the permanently relegation-haunted Swindon Town has seen to that.But if someone asked me to wager one of my closely-guarded Scottish tenners on the result of the Code Red worm versus The World (online, exclusively, tonight) I'd opt for a comfortable win for the internet. That would be despite the advice of many pundits, and the FBI, who fear the worm will pull off a hefty rout of the internet this evening.I remain confident we  can sleep soundly. Things might slow down a bit, some websites will be knocked out, but the online world will not end in the way some are saying it will.Why the confidence? Well, as any gambler will tell you, you've got to study the form guide before having a flutter. And a little-repeated fact is that we've already had the first leg of Worm versus the World.As the IT website the Register has reported in credible coverage of the worm, the internet met Code Red for the first time in the middle of this month.The result? There was increased traffic on the internet and on their networks, and if you'd been sharp you would have seen the net slow down just a little. But the predicted Network Armageddon due for Friday July 20 did not happen.Indeed, there was greater havoc created by fear of the worm than by the worm itself. The US air force's network administrators showed rather less bravery than their airborne colleagues when they whipped all their internet servers offline in a precautionary move, according to Vmyths, a long-standing virus myth-busting site.By way of contrast, the site is according kudos to Navcirt, the US navy computer incident response team, for simply keeping its webmasters informed, and issuing simple instructions on how to deal with this easily controlled outbreak.And that brings us on to another important pre-bet factor: studying the conditions for the race. The going would be rated fair to good for the first Code Red attack earlier this month, when fewer people were aware of it, and so had not taken precautions.In fact, Microsoft had already issued a software "patch" a couple of weeks earlier, to cover the vulnerabilities in its systems that the worm exploited.But the weaknesses in the voluntary patch system were exposed when one of Microsoft's own websites was beaten by the worm - the company had clearly not even installed the patch on all its own servers.This time round, the media furore should ensure that many more sites are protected against Code Red. The going, this time, for Code Red will be much, much harder - not least because the worm can be purged by turning the affected server off and on again.This does not mean that we should not learn important lessons from the current outbreak.First, the practical dangers of Microsoft's monopoly in the operating system business are exposed: servers run on Linux or MacOS systems are not vulnerable to this worm. Code Red's a good reason why the Redmond giant, or any single company, must not be the sole custodians of the internet's security.Second, we see the importance of patches. To be fair to Microsoft, its quickly issued patch means Code Red is easily killed - yet there is no surefire system for getting vital security patches out to users.Third, there needs to be greater awareness of what worms and viruses do, and how they can be fought. We cannot rely on an outcry every time a new worm exposes a security flaw - the next time it happens it might not be the silly season, and TV networks wary of geeks crying wolf might not bother with the blanket coverage.Of course, I could be completely wrong. We could wake up tomorrow and find Guardian Unlimited, and the rest of the web, unavailable, the wired world in a virtual darkness.In which case I can only hope the worm's damage is both
complete and irrevocable, lest these foolish, complacent words live on in cyberspace forever.Although at least I won't have actually lost a tenner.&#149; Neil McIntosh is the (slightly nervous) deputy editor of Guardian Online.Emailneil.mcintosh@guardian.co.ukRelated article31.07.2001: Businesses warned against Code Red wormThe issue explainedThe Code Red wormUseful linksMicrosoft's Code Red alert/patch pageVmyths on Code RedThe Register: Code Red Tribulation is nighThe Register: Internet survives code red
The apes are taking over the planet. Well not quite, but they are certainly shattering box office records across the US.A $100m remake of the film Planet of the Apes, directed by Tim Burton and starring Mark Wahlberg, Tim Roth and Helena Bonham Carter, pulled in $69.6m in its first three days, a record for a film that was launched at a weekend other than a holiday.The success of the 20th Century Fox film, however, has highlighted a growing problem: internet piracy of films. Opening-night viewers can use digital video cameras to record movies then broadcast them free on the internet.Fox lawyers have asked internet service providers to close the accounts of people who offer pirated films, an indication that the studios are finding better ways of tackling piracy. The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) is compiling lists of sites that offer pirated films.
The FBI yesterday warned of imminent worldwide internet disruptions caused by a particularly virulent computer worm known as Code Red which caused disruptions in the White House and Pentagon web sites earlier this month.US government experts said the worm, which works its way into a target computer and then uses it as a base to mount attacks on official websites, had already infected hundreds of thousands of computers and represented a worldwide danger.The worm is now poised to emerge from its dormant phase and begin to spread rapidly by colonising more machines and sites to extend its grip.Ron Dick, head of the FBI's national infrastructure protection centre, appealed to computer users to take precautionary measures by downloading "patches" to protect their software.At a press conference in Washington yesterday, he said Code Red would spread exponentially and could slow down the internet."There is reason for concern that mass traffic associated with the worm's propagation could degrade the overall functioning of the internet and impact ordinary users," Mr Dick said.Over the first 20 days of each month, the worm spreads to all the vulnerable computers it can find through the web, downloading itself when unwitting users try to access any web page it has hijacked.On the twentieth day of every month, the worm is pro grammed to mount a mass "denial of service" attack on the White House and other government websites. The first documented attack took place this month, but the White House ducked the attack by changing its numerical internet address. The Pentagon also suspended public access to its site to remove the worm.However Code Red is expected to start spreading again at 1am BST tonight (midnight GMT), marking the beginning of August."What makes this one different from any other is how dramatically ... it has been able to propagate itself and the viciousness associated with that," Mr Dick said.The worm targets Microsoft's internet information services (IIS) software versions 4.0 and 5.0 as well as NT and 2000 systems .So far, Windows 95 and 98 platforms have been immune. Microsoft has made a software patch on its website, designed to immunise computers against attack.The worm defaces web sites by putting the phrase "Hacked by Chinese" up on the screen. However, the origin of the worm attack remains unclear.The initial strain of Code Red did not destroy files on the computer it infected but a joint statement issued yesterday by the FBI, Microsoft and university computer experts said the bug "has mutated so that it may be even more dangerous."The statement warned: "This spread has the potential to disrupt business and personal use of the internet for applications such as electronic commerce, email and entertainment."
Despite the collapse of many high profile dot.com businesses, the internet is flourishing in Britain, according to telecoms regulatorOftel, which yesterday said 40% of UK households were now using dial-up internet access.An Oftel survey found that 10m British homes are wired up to the internet, up from 6m a year ago. Although many users still believe that they are paying over the odds for their service, the industry watchdog said British consumers were paying prices similar to those paid by households in France, Germany, Sweden and the US.Oftel now intends to launch a wide-ranging consultation excercise with firms operating in the internet sector, looking at whether action should be taken to promote competition - especially in the provision of wholesale services which allow firms to connect dial-up services to BT's local network.However, Elaine Axby of Oftel, who is one of the authors of the report, said yesterday that the watchdog has no plans to call for regulation of the internet access market for residential customers.Ms Axby said that despite sector consolidation, such as France's Wanadoo buying Freeserve and Tiscali of Italy buying World Online, there were still about 400 internet service providers offering access to British users. "Despite all the consolidation, it still seems to us that there are a large number of possible operators out there."However, Oftel did voice concerns about the level of service experienced by British users. The regulator has received complaints from customers about the amount of information provided by ISPs about their services. Last year many internet users in the UK found themselves kicked off services they had thought were unmetered because they were spending too much time on the net.At the time, the Consumers Association called on the industry to be more open about its terms and conditions and accused some ISPs of publishing misleading information. Yesterday the consumer lobby group said it will study Oftel's report closely before deciding whether to make similar representations.According to the 70-page document publishing the survey's findings, about 35% of British households use some form of unmetered access product such as those provided by AOL and BT's Openworld business.But it also showed that British consumers are unwilling to stay with ISPs they think are providing a poor service. About 30% have changed their ISP at least once.The boom in unmetered access has created a demand for wholesale products from BT, which ISPs use to provide access to residential and business users. Oftel intends to investigate whether it should demand a change in the way the wholesale market is run; its final report is due to be published by the end of the year.
Online travel agencyEBookersyesterday offered a glimmer of hope to embattled e-commerce companies by posting results that exceded expectations for the seventh consecutive quarter.Shares in the pan-European group climbed 22.5p to 168.5p after it reiterated its forecast of turning "cashflow-positive" in the first quarter of next year and released figures that beat analysts' forecasts by 7%.EBookers' shares are a rarity, in that they are trading above their issue price. High profile players such as Lastminute have seen the value of their shares plummet, and many are now valued at less than the cash they have in the bank.However, EBookers' stock is up 50% since its listing on the London Stock Exchange in March. It is also one of the few online travel firms to have come close to meeting analysts' expectations that travel will be one of the big money-spinners on the internet.Chief executive Dinesh Dhamija said that the shake-  out in the sector had already begun. "The competition is falling away," he said."A lot of guys spent a lot of money to brand themselves, but we're not being as pushed as much as we were. "We're in 11 countries, and that reach is proving important".In the three months to June 30, pretax losses climbed from &#163;8.56m to &#163;8.61m on a turnover of &#163;57m. Monthly cash burn has been cut back to &#163;1.1m, leaving &#163;28.9m in the bank at the end of the period.EBookers, which started out as a simple flight bookings service, has started offering package holidays, late deals, hotel bookings and car rental deals. "They're higher margin activities," Mr Dhamija said.Cost control remains a priority at the company, which plans to move many of its middle and back office requirements to India to take advantage of cheap labour costs.Marketing spend has been cut back, and will focus on "off-line" campaigns such as billboards, TV and newspapers, after online "banners" proved ineffective, he added.
From the outside, Benham Valence is certainly impressive: a gleaming, honey coloured, porticoed mansion designed by Henry Holland and set in manicured gardens by Capability Brown. Across the gravel drive, a lawn gently slopes down to a section of the river Kennet famous for its brown trout.But what makes Benham truly remarkable lies inside. A year ago the house, famous in 18th century high society, was almost derelict; now it has been rescued and transformed into the most technologically advanced stately pile in the country.Using cutting-edge wireless computer networks, a technology still in its infancy, Benham's new tenant, the computer company Prime Business Solutions, has spent over &#163;1m turning it into a state of the art headquarters complex, and heritage organisations are hoping the Benham model will offer a lifeline to other endangered historic buildings too.Casual visitors to the house, just outside Newbury, would find no difference between the huge ground floor public rooms now and how they looked almost 230 years ago.The gilded coving and cornicing on the walls and ceilings have been reconstructed. The original marble fireplaces are still there and the tall windows look on to an immaculate sunken garden, complete with Italian stairway and sculpted hedges.The clever stuff, however, is invisible. Most of the house's 18,000 square feet are "live". From almost any spot, it is possible to get instant access to the computer systems, the internet or email via a network of small radio base stations tucked away in cupboards.The system is so powerful that users can stand in the middle of the enormous ballroom with a laptop and get high speed live video streamed on to their screen without using a single cable.Even the telephone system is wireless. Instead of using conventional handsets wired through the walls, Benham boasts internet protocol phones, which operate through software on the computer network.The result is that any member of Prime's staff can work anywhere in the building and still have access to their telephone, email and everything they would have had at their desk. They can also take and make calls from their work telephone anywhere in the country with access to the internet.The system is the latest example of convergence technology, voice and data traffic in a single network, which is likely to be at the centre of the next phase of the communications revolution.The trigger for Benham's hi-tech rebirth was its Grade 1 listed status, which severely restricted what alterations residents could make and was one of the reasons the house lay empty for so long. The stone floors could not be dug up nor the ceilings be lowered to install the miles of cabling needed to bring such a large building into the 21st century.Built in the 1770s for Lord Craven, Benham was once one of the most fashionable houses in southern England. The future George IV was a visitor, and Samuel Johnson.But the last family to own it, the Suttons, moved out just before the second world war and for 60 years it lay empty for long spells. By the time Prime's directors first saw the house last summer, it was in a sorry state. The gardens were overgrown and the stonework was crumbling. The interior was worse.Prime realised, however, that it could design the technology it needed without undermining the integrity of the building. When a 15 year lease was agreed, the owner, a big pension fund, was able to plough in the investment to restore the place.The network, which has just won a prestigious industry award, is designed to keep communications completely secure, overcoming one of the flaws of wireless.The base stations and antennae are positioned so that radio signals do not leave the building, preventing anyone outside tapping into voice or data traffic. Communications are also encrypted, and the code is automatically changed every few hours.These advances have raised the hopes of preservation experts that other historic buildings left to rot can be saved too.Jason Turner, of the National Trust, said: "If people can use new technology to breathe new life into an historic property without damaging its integrity, then that has to be a good thing."State of the art&#149; Wireless computer network: terminals and internet connected via discreet radio base stations, no intrusive cabling.&#149; Convergence technology: voice and data carried on the same network, removes need for separate exchanges.&#149; Internet protocol telephones: run through software on computers, not handsets. Users dial using virtual keypad on screen, and talk and listen through headset. Allows users access to their own phone anywhere.&#149; Security: radio base stations and antennae prevent radio signals escaping beyond the house. All voice and data traffic encrypted.
Online utility firmServista.comhas been chosen by World Online, the Tiscali-owned internet service provider, to take over its phone service which has 58,000 UK customers.Tiscali announced earlier this year it would stop offering phone services through World Online and concentrate instead on providing internet access.In a deal to be announced later this week World Online plans to recommend its UK customers switch to the Servista.Call service.Servista, which offers customers a single online bill for gas, electricity and telecoms, is now looking for further deals to increase its customer base.
Does the name Dmitry Sklyarov ring any bells? Unless you're a dedicated hacker the answer is probably no. But stay tuned, for a curious alliance between the FBI and Adobe, a leading computer software company, is rapidly transforming young Dmitry into a martyr and a libertarian icon  de nos jours.The 26-year-old Sklyarov is the lead programmer at a Russian software company called ElcomSoft, which produces a range of ingenious (and reasonably priced) products, including a program that scans incoming emails to make quasi-intelligent judgments about how they should be categorised and filed. ElcomSoft has also taken an interest in the technology behind 'electronic books', and in particular in the claims that e-book encryption software protects the rights of copyright holders.Enter Adobe, creator of industry-standard graphics and publishing software such   as PhotoShop, PageMaker, Illustrator and Acrobat. This last is basically a tool for creating e-books, because it can render any file into a special 'portable document format' (pdf) file which can be viewed on any machine with the (freely downloadable) Acrobat Reader program. Publishers wishing to 'protect' their content can configure Acrobat to restrict the ability of users to reproduce or pass on their copies of e-books.So far, so good. But what happens if, having paid to download protected e-books on to your hard disk, you want to make back-up copies, or transfer them to the hard disk of a new computer? The protection system makes this impossible.Spotting a market niche,   ElcomSoft devised a $99 program that cracks the protection system and enables you to do what you please with your e-books.This did not amuse Adobe, which issued cease and desist letters to ElcomSoft. But, sceptical of the capacity of Russian jurisprudence to bring ElcomSoft to heel, it also told the FBI, which duly noted that Sklyarov had been invited to address the Defcon computer security conference last week in Las Vegas on the weaknesses of Adobe's copy-protection systems.Shortly after the Russian had arrived there, he was arrested for contravening the Digital Millennium Copyright Act - a ludicrous 1998 statute that punishes anyone who distributes 'any technology, product, service, device, component or part' that bypasses such mechanisms. Sklyarov is facing a five-year prison term and a fine of $500,000 and, as I write, is languishing in a Californian jail.I don't know whether he was able to make his presentation to the conference, but   I've seen a text of it (see my links page) and it seems an intelligent, clear-headed analysis of the holes in Adobe's supposedly secure document format.It suggests, in essence, that the Adobe system is trivially easy to circumvent. (This, by the way, seems to be true of all digital copy-protection schemes to date.) Given that Adobe is staking a lot on its format's 'security', one would have thought the company would have been sufficiently disturbed to address the substantive problem (by improving the software) rather than try to muzzle the messenger bringing unwelcome tidings.Instead Adobe reacted like a brain-dead record label and reached for the lawyers. The resulting furore in the net community has, however, caused panic among the company's top management, which is now saying it does not support the FBI's action.What's terrifying it, of course, is the 'boycott Adobe' movement spreading like wildfire over the net, and the realisation that the company's easy ride with the internet community has ended abruptly. Moral of the story: always put brain in gear before engaging lawyers.John.Naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Teenagers going online to find the latest pop hit by Britney Spears may be downloading more than just a new tune. File-swapping programs popularised by Napster and other youth-oriented music services are increasingly being used to exchange pornography, bypassing filters set up by parents to block children's access to such images, according to a US congressional report released last week.Children can be unwittingly subjected to pornographic videos and photos when they are looking for music, the report found. When searching for Britney Spears videos on the file-swapping service Aimster, investigators discovered that more than 70% of the resulting files contained pornography, including images of underage sex and incest.Often, however, the search for pornography is intentional. A survey of file-swapping services using the popular Gnutella technology found six of the 10 most commonly used search terms were related to pornography, including 'sex', 'preteen' and 'lolita'. The word 'porn' ranked second after 'divx', a term usually used to locate pirated movies.'A new technology is widely available that lets children download an entire library of X-rated videos into their home computer,' said Democrat Representative Henry A. Waxman who, along with Republican Representative Steve Largent, had requested that the House Committee on Government Reform review the technology. 'No credit card is required because it's all free.'Waxman said he couldn't read the titles of the available pornographic files because they were so graphic. He noted that the file-sharing services, which are believed to be most heavily used by under-18s, do not screen users by age.'It's a monster let loose on the internet,' Largent said. He said he had forwarded the study to Attorney-General John Ashcroft and urged the Justice Department to step up prosecution of the pornography industry, which he said was the source of the problem.But besides alerting parents to the danger both lawmakers said there was little Congress could do to regulate the practice, and neither offered legislation. In addition to concerns about violating the First Amendment, the new file-sharing technologies do not rely on centralised computer servers, so it is more difficult to trace users or restrict access.'We're dealing with a technology that doesn't lend itself to any sort of intervention that we can think of,' said Waxman, who was alerted to the issue by a father who discovered his son had been downloading pornographic material without his knowledge. 'We don't know how to stop it. That's why we need to educate parents.'
The struggling online directories website, Scoot.com, has offloaded its 50% stake in Scoot Europe to French media group Vivendi Universal to stave off bankruptcy proceedings.Vivendi Universal has paid the nominal sum of one Euro, equivalent to 62p, to take full ownership of Scoot's European holdings in France, Belgium and Holland."Had the sale not taken place, Scoot Europe would have run out of funds on Friday 27 July as a result of Scoot Belgium (a subsidiary of Scoot Europe) not having sufficient funds to meet its salary obligations," the company said in a statement.The company said it was in talks to save the UK side of the business, but warned it would run out of cash within a month if it didn't find new funding.Scoot is hoping to find a rescue deal that would guarantee it the £15m it needs to take it forward.The sale of Scoot Europe comes three months after Scoot rejected an offer from Vivendi for the whole of the company at 15 pence a share. The offer valued Scoot at about £108m, but the value of the company has since plummeted to £14m.Scoot's fortunes have declined dramatically from its heyday as rising costs led to excessive cash burn and a fall from grace, transforming one of Britain's biggest dot.coms to a small-cap stock.The chief executive of Scoot, Robert Bonnier, and the chief financial officer, Ronald Dorjee, quit last month amid massive staff culls and office consolidation.Vivendi is seen as a likely buyer for the rest of the group, given its 19.2% stake in the UK side of the business.Scoot has been struggling to fund its ongoing operations and set up a strategic review earlier this year to consider ways of securing its future.The company is also considering the sale of its Loot classified advertising business, which it bought for £180m in July 2000 but is now worth only about half that.Related story07.06.2001: Vivendi rejects chance of buying Scoot
Singapore is planning a clampdown on political campaigning and debate on the internet, the one medium still relatively free in the tightly controlled city state.Legislation before parliament will allow the prime minister, Goh Chok Tong, to regulate political parties, candidates and groups with websites that discuss local politics by forcing them to register with the Singapore Broadcasting Authority (SBA).The rules cover material that is thought to promote any candidate or party even if it does not mention them by name.All election advertising, in print or on the internet, will also be obliged to identify the printer, publisher and person for whom the advertising is being done. Violators could be jailed for up to a year.Opposition activists say that websites are the one medium that the government does not already at least partially own.Chee Soon Juan, the leader of the opposition Singapore Democratic party, said the legislation was inevitable."With the media in Singapore so tightly controlled, the internet has become a very important medium for us to spread our ideas," he said, adding that the vague rules gave ministers complete discretion to interpret events.The People's Action party controls all but three seats in the Singaporean parliament.The government denies the legislation constitutes censorship. In a statement, the SBA said that it was not pre- censoring the contents of political websites and that the registration process aimed to ensure sites were accountable for their content.The SBA's internet code of conduct bans material "that is objectionable on the grounds of public interest, public morality, public order, public security, national harmony, or is otherwise prohibited by applicable Singapore laws".Banned subjects include homosexuality, pornography, extreme violence, and incitement of racial or religious hatred; but not politics."Limits are necessary because, while the internet has great potential and utility, it also has its dangers," said the deputy prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong, adding that "information and disinformation" are disseminated equally quickly on the net and are not always easy to distinguish.
One of the frustrations and bafflements of using modern computers is the knack they have of offering you a lot then throwing you back to more plodding technology. For example, how many people out there have a copy of Microsoft Word (or any other word processing program) but still go out to buy their letterheads?There can be good reasons to buy letterheads, of course. You might have a cheap printer that will smudge anything complicated you try to print out, although if that's the case there's every chance you actually have grotty paper rather than equipment. You might want to have all of your stationery - letterheads, business cards and business forms - looking the same, and you might consider the simplest way to achieve this would be to get a design agency in.But there are templates and help wizards in all of the popular office suites that can automate all of the above. For the purposes of this article I'll use Microsoft Office as a working example because it's the most common; however, most of the techniques can apply just as easily to Smartsuite, or WordPerfect Office, or the free download StarOffice (www.sun.co.uk and follow the links).The key command to remember throughout all of this is the "save as" instead of "save"', and to alter the "document type" to "template" rather than "word document".Whenever you open up Word, a new document opens up by default, so not everyone hits the "new" button when they want to start doing something else. It's worth having a go, though, and hitting the items other than the "blank document" icon - there are readymade templates for legal pleadings, faxes and, of course, a selection of letterheads.The best piece of advice about these readymade bits is not to use them quite as they are if you're at all image conscious; they're easily recognisable and you might want to look as though you've spent a little thought on your corporate image. A useful idea can be to change the fonts so that they match your own preference, and add a little colour. This can be a simple matter of highlighting the lettering you want to change and selecting the font colouring tool. In Microsoft this is a capital "A" with a black line underneath it; click it and you get a selection of colours from which you can choose.Better still, you can design something yourself. This can run from the most basic, in which you'd enter an address and a space for the date with a little text along the bottom - maybe a company registration and/or VAT number - and then hit the "save as" instead of "save" button, and save as a template. After this, every time you open up that template you'd have your basic letterhead in front of you instead of a blank sheet.You can liven things up further, however, by using the WordArt tool in current versions of Word. This you'll find on the "drawing" toolbar; if you haven't got that opening by default, then right click on any toolbar you do have and select "drawing" from the extras that appear. The WordArt tool is the one that looks like a sideways "A"; click it, type in the text you want and have a play with the effects on offer.None of this actually matters if you already have a logo you can scan in and import (click "insert" and put it in as a picture), or, better still, which you already hold electronically. Simply put it in, decide where it should go, add address details just by entering text and, once again, save as a template.
Once you have your logo electronically, you should find there are a number of areas in which you can use it. In the same way that Word has templates, Excel has them for invoices, expense statements and some fairly sophisticated financial analyses. Each has prompts as to where to put the logo so that they come out looking like your own company document - as long as you remember to change the font to match the rest of your company's documentation.There are other aids in the Office suite to get your documents looking more corporate: Microsoft Publisher has entire suites of identikit websites, business cards, brochures and other materials that will all look pretty unified (albeit they'll be spotted as templates by a lot of people), and you can get pre-cut cards on which your business cards can be printed.None of this is a complete substitute for a professional design company's makeover of a corporate image, and if that's what you're after, it'll cost. But if "good enough" is good enough for you, there is time to be saved (no more waiting for your print firm to deliver the letterheads) and money to be saved by using software you've probably already paid for.
Martin Sullivan had been making and restoring carriage wheels in Somerset and Dorset for 20 years, before what can only be described as his own personal winter of discontent in 1999, when the orders began to dry up.While the object of his profession didn't need reinventing - the basic design of the carriage wheel remains the same today as it was before the rise of the Roman Empire - his business did. The wheels and carriages he made himself generally lasted 20 years, which is a long time in any profession to wait for maintenance orders.As a qualified wheelwright, Martin was in a trade that is highly skilled yet not necessarily well paid. Consequently, as debts began to pile up, he almost became ill with the burden of both his business and livelihood dying before his very eyes. But, encouraged by a constant stream of local radio adverts by dot.coms, Sullivan came up with an idea for one of his own."By now I realised a total change of direction was required, but I wasn't qualified to do anything else. I was beginning to understand where the internet was going and what it could allow you to do," recalls Sullivan.This led to the birth of a series of online directories for local businesses, touchofabutton.net. Single-handedly, he builds and hosts mini-websites for businesses with no online presence of their own and which require no more than brochureware to market their goods and services. It also has directories for businesses further afield, covering Somerset and Dorset, with plans to expand to Bristol, Brighton, Croydon, Salisbury, Surrey, Coventry and Birmingham."The idea for the website was perhaps born through my own hardship," Sullivan says. "An internet site that helped small business to get a foothold on the net would be of tremendous use. It would offer a few web pages dedicated to that business which would work out far more cost-effective than everyone having their own website and paying huge amounts for web space they are never going to use."  Touchofabutton.net also directly submits the listed web pages to all the major search engines including Alta Vista, Lycos and Ask Jeeves, to increase their retrieval ratings.And for those businesses still without email, touchofabutton.net collates any emails submitted to their mini-websites, converts them into faxes and sends them on to the client. Touchofabutton.net provides all this for a £100 annual subscription.The site, hosted by a London-based ISP, Freezone, is also a cybershop window for the Martin J Sullivan Wheelwright workshop, in the village of Kington Magna in Dorset. In one move, Sullivan has used the most modern of technologies to ensure the survival of the most ancient of trades, well into the 21st century.Sullivan was virtually penniless when he set up the business. So he bought himself a Pentium III desktop computer, scanner, printer and digital camera package from Tiny Computers on a buy-now-pay-later basis for £1,600.He found an office chair in a skip and fashioned a desk from leftover bits of wood in his workshop. However, one major problem prevailed: Sullivan had never switched on a computer before November 1999. And being dyslexic, the manuals were not about to be much use either.But good fortune literally came out of a random act of kindness, when he picked up a hitchhiker who just so happened to be a professional web designer. He taught the wheelwright all he needed to know about computers and website building using Microsoft FrontPage, taking only what Sullivan could afford as payment. Eight months later, touchofabutton.net was set up at a total cost nudging £2,000.Touchofabutton.net has managed to dispel two myths about internet businesses, by proving that neither a massive outlay nor a Flash-riddled site is necessarily required to succeed on the web, and that a good business idea will still essentially sell itself. Touchofabutton.net's rudimentary and quaintly amateur design couldn't be any simpler and yet does the job Sullivan set it up to do - to give small local businesses some form of internet presence.Since last July, Sullivan has built 1,000 one-page websites, featuring information, product pictures, contact details and a map. Customers range from arts and crafts shops to a double-glazing firm. He is about to purchase 2Gb of web space to accommodate the rising demand.The site generated much interest at the height of the foot and mouth crisis, as marketing budgets shrank while companies tried to stay afloat. "Farmers, organic producers, tourists and B&amp;Bs all called me with their horror stories. So I offered a six-month trial of the service. Now over 80% of my client base has renewed to a full subscription," he claims. "Revenue from the site so far runs into tens of thousands of pounds and I am aiming to get 1,000 renewals by the end of the year."In a move uncharacteristic of latter-day internet start-ups, Sullivan has turned down three offers of investment. "Only if the business was failing would that be attractive to me," he says. Instead, having just sold his house, he believes some of the proceeds will be enough to develop the business. He valued the site at £125,000 but says he would now not sell it "for less than three quarters of a million".So far, business is brisk enough to pay off most of his debts and buy back the wheelwright tools he was forced to sell. Sullivan will tentatively return to his original profession this month after an 18-month absence, as orders are starting to filter through from the internet.He has won £10,000 of business in the last two months, including a commission to restore a carriage once owned by Queen Victoria's friend Lord Lonsdale.  He intends to split the site eventually in order to concentrate on being a wheelwright again with some help from the internet. His wife Cathy, currently embarked on a number of computer courses, will take over the running oftouchofabutton.net.In the end, his experience of hardship before the epiphany of his dot.com idea, very much informs his treatment of fellow small business operators."I want to turn touchofabutton.net into a major help service - a small business saver. I'd like to make money but I am equally motivated to help businesses."
Many e-words are bandied about with great e-ecstasy - one of the most common at present is e-procurement. What does it mean?Let's start by stripping off the "e" and taking a good definition for procurement as "the whole process of acquiring the right goods and services at the right quality and price". It is fundamentally about someone, or some organisation, purchasing something from some other organisation or person, the supplier (visit the Chartered Institute of Purchasing &amp; Supply website atCips.org.Procurement includes identifying suppliers, negotiating prices, placing orders, arranging delivery and making payment. E-procurement is "the electronic management of all the procurement activities. It is the use of web communications to e-enable your purchasing processes and strategy, and is part of the wider e-commerce revolution" (quote from "e-procurement guidelines", produced by BuyIT, with support from the DTI and the e-envoy; visitBuyItNet.orgto read this very clear document).So why is there so much interest in e-procurement?  Firstly, many large private sector organisations have realised that they can save money by adopting e-procurement. It cuts costs for both buyers and sellers by automating purchase and sales processes and by reducing "maverick" buying outside preferred supplier agreements.Access to central purchasing data helps to make better buying decisions based on building strategic relationships with suppliers. All this is supported by electronic communications that can embrace the whole length of the supply chain and, with suitable software, can allow information to flow seamlessly through an organisation's front and back office systems.This all looks very good for large organisations. So they are buying expensive e-purchasing software systems from the likes of CommerceOne, SAP and Ariba; or joining netmarkets (visit globalcommerce initiative.com as an example, where some 40 large retailers and their suppliers are running an online purchasing and supply market). Alternatively, they are joining electronic marketplaces that are managed for them (visitFreemarkets.com).Large suppliers are also setting up online catalogues to attract their customers (visit RS Components atrswww.comand also read their "RS Guide to e-purchasing" online).There are many good case studies for large organisations using e-procurement, ranging from Volvo and Rolls-Royce, to Reuters and IBM.Secondly, governments have realised that they can also make great savings by using e-procurement. Seeking to be an efficient user of e-business, the UK government is developing a large array of projects. Its e-procurement activities are being spearheaded through the Office of Government Commerce (visitogc.gov.uk). where you will find that they have set a strategy to "to realise a step change in efficiency by catalysing the use of e-procurement for government's interactions with its supply base". Their target is to reduce procurement costs by £1bn.A number of online buying communities are being set up (visitogcbuyingsolutions.gov.uk) and a number of e-pilots (!) are already in progress. Government procurement cards are in use. Many items can be purchased as call off items from the government catalogue (G-Cat online with preferred suppliers listed) and the aim is for "90% of routine procurement to be done online by the end of this year". Clearly this means that any business that has the government (both central and local) as a customer needs to be gearing up to trade online. This is not just about efficiency and reductions in business costs, it is about survival.So what does all this do for the managing director of an SME, feeling worried and bemused by the implications of all this activity? It is true that the scale of savings is likely to be significantly less than for a large company and, as yet, few software providers are considering e-procurement systems for their SME markets. However, online communities of SMEs are growing and some buying clubs are appearing (for example visit  ezoka.com which is figured in the DTI's UK OnLine for Business initiative).If we look at the e-procurement opportunities for an SME, we should first look at its impact on purchasing of supplies. At the simplest level there are opportunities to use the web for e-sourcing, to reduce the costs for comparable quality goods. This requires no great technical investment to look at catalogues for purchasing those routine business supplies. Initially you may just monitor a number of suppliers online and then move on to setting up a relationship with particular ones, either directly, or through joining a buying club or getting someone to run an auction for you.Depending on whose statistics you read, a paper-based purchase order is said to cost an average of £65, and in the range from £10- £100.  Significant savings will only come when you can make the whole order to payment process flow as an electronic stream within your business.Rather more important to an SME is the need to be ready and able to communicate electronically with your customers. This may mean creating your own catalogue for selling your products. Innovative SMEs have been able to significantly increase their turnover in this way ( for example, visit tool suppliercooksons.comorfreesia.co.uk, the Gosberton Bank Nursery site, both of which have featured in the DTI's annual e-commerce Awards).Equally important, it may mean being ready to trade electronically with your major suppliers, both from the private and public sector. There are many online marketplaces across many industry sectors and countries (visitemarketservices.com, a global catalogue of marketplaces) that may be relevant to your business. Also, you should look carefully at what local and central government are doing. The Office of Government Commerce is very concerned to ensure that its e-procurement procedures do not preclude SMEs from doing business with government.They have just produced an excellent document "Tendering for Government Contracts: a guide for small businesses on selling to government departments, agencies and the wider public sector". As well as explaining the tendering process, it gives direct contact details for the major public sector departments.  Additionally, it recommends SMEs to get registered on a number of public sector "potential supplier" lists. These include OGCbuying. solutions (mentioned already) and for public sector construction work visitconstructionline.co.uk.
Nobody's accusing anybody of wasting money, but when a recent survey says that fewer than four out of 10 SMEs (small to medium enterprises) use technology for procurement of business items, there's got to be something skewed. Basically, if you're not looking on the web for the best prices then there's a possibility - not a certainty by any means - that you're paying too much for things.The survey, conducted by is4profit.com, suggests that only 37% of companies with 200 or fewer employees use the internet to buy according to their business needs (companies with 50-60 employees used the internet the most). The things that those bother to buy include IT hardware, software and travel.The authors of the report thought the figures surprisingly high, which, given the conservatism of the small business sector is probably reasonable enough, but it does mean that just over six out of 10 companies are missing the chance to save a few pennies. Sometimes this is because they don't know where to start. All of which is a bit of a shame, because starting is as simple as firing up a web browser and entering a search for whatever it is you need to buy.If you prefer to take a less random approach then it's worth investing a small amount of money in one of the many internet guide books around; we're bound to say that the Guardian's guide is about the best, although other listings publications are around. These should guide you to some of the websites of suppliers who specialise in your area.But e-procurement needn't stop there. As well as people who have formalised, professionally set-up e-commerce sites, there will be those who sell items by watching the newsgroups for people with needs that match the goods they supply. (Newsgroups are discussion areas for numerous interest groups; your email program will almost certainly be able to get at them through the internet.)It's advisable to exercise caution at first when seeking goods in this way; you might find a superb and reliable supplier first time around, but let's be honest, someone approaching you on the strength of a posting in a newsgroup could be anybody. Some of the closed conferencing systems run by ISPs, for example Compuserve's UKProfessionals forum or Nextra's own.business conference, have slightly more regulated environments.Where possible it's always best to monitor the messages being exchanged between existing members first; if there are any bad suppliers around someone will mention it.The effect should be that you'll find the best price on a given product whenever you need it.   Hundreds and indeed thousands of pounds can be saved on major purchases, and as long as the time spent finding them doesn't cost more than the saving then every business should consider the net as a marketplace.There are concerns, of course, and you'll want to be sure that your details and credit card information is secure; always make sure that the page on which you eventually enter your details is secure: that it has https as the first letters of its address rather than plain http, and a picture of a padlock in the bottom right hand corner if you're using Internet Explorer.Remember, though, that whatever information you send is as secure as the diligence of the person receiving it; feel free to ask the supplier about its internal security policies just as you would any other.Buying from the internet can be great, but remember you're doing the online equivalent of walking into a pub and shouting "anyone got any &#91;goods of your choice here&#93;" - it's only sensible if you've worked out who's who first.  Security aside, there can be good reasons for not buying on the internet.If your company is starting up and has yet to get a credit or debit card, then buying from some websites is about as much fun as having your teeth pulled, through your nose, with no anaesthetic. You might want local suppliers only, either on principle or because you want the flexibility to visit them in person if they can't deliver and you have an urgent need. But for a number of commodity products it remains a serious option to save time and money.
In theory, networking computers is simple: you stick a cable in one system, then into another, and wallop - you're networked. If life were always so straightforward we'd be laughing.Unfortunately, of course, it isn't. But there's still no need to be put off by networking. A little application for a small group of computers will pay dividends in productivity in a very short time.The business case for networking is simple. First, it eliminates the need for traipsing around the office with disks - permanently. Second, there is scope for sharing applications: comparing diaries becomes far simpler when they're networked as you can just look at someone else's schedule on your own machine; sending messages around the office is easier, and if you're spread around a building this can start to save serious amounts of time; you no longer need to look at buying a new printer for every computer as you can share them; you can collaborate on files more easily than before; and you should be able to share an internet connection rather than installing more lines for every individual computer, or queueing for the one that's actually attached to the net.The good news is that the mechanics, at least for the most basic sort of network, are not complicated. If you work in a company with two computers, then the theory of attaching cables to them and just running with it should work OK. You will need a network interface card for each system; this slots into an available slot at the back of each computer and they're linked with cable. Check first, though: some modern computers (and some older Apple computers) have these built in so you only need to buy the cable. If you have to add a card, slot it in and run the software: Windows, certainly, has a wizard that will take you through the steps you need to follow once the card is in there.If you find your computers are talking to each other already after doing that, then fine, but it's fluke. Otherwise, the next step is to check the network settings. In Windows 98 this is simple: right click on the "network neighbourhood" icon, then click on "properties": you should get a list of network adapters (including the card you've put in), the sort of network system you have - which will almost certainly be "client for Microsoft Networks", unless you're attaching to an older system. In this case click "add" and add whichever network, and there's a tab for "identification", in which you specify the name of your computer and the name of the workgroup it's in. Importantly, you must ensure that your workgroup name is the same for each of the computers you use.Windows NT and Windows 2000 work in much the same way but the route in is slightly different, starting through "my network places" instead of "network neighbourhood".The next thing to check is the computer's address: it's fine to give it a name you'll remember, but PCs like to talk in numbers.This is where things get a little more technical; you need to go back into the "configuration" tab on the networking properties box we just opened, and click on TCP/IP. This is the protocol of your network: basically the language it speaks. Click on "properties" and you can assign an address in numbers. Usually the first two three-figure numbers are assigned automatically and should be left alone; it's the last one that's important and you need to make sure this is different on each of your computers. The subnet - the next set of numbers down - should be the same for each computer. The third tab allows you to decide which users should have what kind of access to your computer: whether they can share files and printers, and so on.You should by now be ready to start exchanging files, and by installing a networked version of your email program you'll be able to send messages. This small network will be fine for a couple of computers, but experts will point to instability (justified only up to a point in that a system crash will take both computers out) and the lack of scope for growth without more equipment.As the system grows you might want to consider buying a hub: this is a glorified junction box that will help manage network traffic once you have more than three or four computers attached. Hubs with built-in intelligence are available, as are switches; these detect who needs the most network space at any given time and assigns it as required. If you find this intimidating you might want to look at the "networking in a box" solutions: any computer dealer or superstore will have readymade networking kits for a few hundred pounds that will have everything you need for a slightly more stable network than you'd get from connecting by direct cabling.All of this is called "peer-to-peer networking"; larger companies will require client/server technology, in which several services including network administration and possibly internet access and fax are resident on a single computer that manages all of the others on the network. This is more complex and needs a degree of management and networking skills; for the smaller company, peer-to-peer should be a good start.
'The government has to help the farmers first. We've applied for a rate reduction, but it's a long-winded process. It will be at least a year until we get anything," says Martin Baucutt, owner of the Shepherds Inn in the village of Melmerby, eight miles from Penrith.Long after the foot and mouth epidemic has left the headlines, and after almost 5m animals have been slaughtered, the disease's impact is being felt by small businesses in rural communities from Cornwall to Cumbria. The Shepherds Inn, an award-winning pub, has felt the effect. "There have been very few tourists about. The initial effect was at Easter, when trade was 30% or 40% down. It has been slow since then," says Baucutt. "If business is 40% down, then we are losing income of £25,000 to £30,000 every month."Baucutt's pub is just one of many small businesses using community website UKVillages.co.uk to try to rebuild trade in the months after foot and mouth. The site lets visitors from 27,528 communities across the UK to post their own information and advertising - rather like a local newsletter crossed with yellow pages. If you look up information on the nearby area, a signpost directs you to the Shepherds Inn; its owner is hoping that it directs enough users in real life to help make up some of the £70,000 in trade he has lost.Launched in April 2000, UKVillages predates the epidemic, but as a way for communities to help themselves, it was tailor-made for it. "If you talk to rural communities, they feel that, not surprisingly, there's a squeeze on spending from government at the moment," says founder Rupert Dick, a former IT consultant who designed the site so that his local amateur dramatic society would not arrange performances that clashed with events in nearby villages. "Businesses such as farm shops, bed-and-breakfasts and pubs have been posting on our site to let people know they are still open for business. US bookings are starting again, and many are coming to our site."The site isn't just about advertising though: many rural communities have posted information for locals, whose movement may be restricted due to foot and mouth. They're hoping that the information will reassure also reluctant tourists from overseas. Currently, one in eight visitors to the site, which logged 2.25m page impressions in June, is from the US or Canada. The majority, though, are from Brits who may be looking for a plumber in the nearest town, or a holiday cottage at the other end of the country.Thanks to a deal with Consignia, each local post office has its own page to post local information, and you can search within a set radius of the nearest town to find destinations and businesses that you didn't know existed. "No one who is not from the area would log on and look for Melmerby unless they were specifically coming here. But if they look for Penrith, that includes the villages nearby," explains Baucutt.UKVillages isn't just a noticeboard: Dick wants to use the site to help under-threat rural communities rebuild themselves as well. For example, it has been giving its users the official response to foot and mouth in each area: "We include tailored links from Maff and the county councils on the site too, which we spend a lot of time finding - because sometimes on the council web pages the information is buried," he says.For organisations that need money, rather than words, Dick has created a fund that he calls the "community kitty", which any visitor to the website can apply for. "We have always said that we're not a big, money-grabbing website. So of all the sponsorship we get, we give a percentage of that to a pot - that's the kitty. We'll dish out the pot twice a year," he says.With a typical grant of £100, the donations are designed to be small but efficient. "It's easy to think that the donations are insignificant. But for the people getting them, they certainly are not," Dick says, showing applications that he's had already: a ramp for a 130-year-old village post office in Norfolk, new shelves for a playgroup in Cornwall that has been attacked by woodworm, and a television for a community group in Llandysul, on a local council estate that has neither a public telephone nor a shop.The site's sponsors aren't only filling the kitty, but giving UKVillagesa source of income (it aims to be making an operating profit at the end of the year).   "It fits our philosophy perfectly, because we're a mutual building society and we want to keep strong links to the community in the north-west," says John Barbour, a spokesman for the 51-branch Cheshire Building Society. "Our sponsorship is all about supporting local organisations. There's a lot to be said for the spirit of mutual self-help."Because businesses can choose the areas they want to sponsor, the site's revenues come from sources both global (Tesco, Shell Direct) and local (the Heath Sports and Social Club, Royston).Ukvillages has a long road ahead if it is to achieve its aims. Local part-time staff supplement the five staff in central office (Dick's converted stable at the back of his house), to help build momentum across thousands of communities: 80,000 regular visitors still only means three per community.   Baucutt, for example, worries that the volume of traffic isn't enough to support the smallest rural communities. "It's an excellent idea, but it's not prolifically used yet - our village has only four businesses on the site, which I've encouraged them to put up."According to marketing director Ellie Stonely, UKVillageswill succeed because it combines an understanding of its users with the self-sufficiency it is encouraging in rural communities. "At our offices there are chickens wandering in and out and the puppy falls in the pond every now and then," she says. "But we're a lean and mean organisation."
Many people use the internet to communicate and to advertise their business, which is fine. Others use it for research, whether market research or for other sorts of background. Another area in which the net has much to recommend itself is in recruitment.The net has a number of advantages, not least of which is the immediacy of it: you can have an advert up there within minutes of someone handing in their notice and if you're very lucky indeed, applicants can start coming in by the end of the same day. And finding the right person to fit a vacancy can become a great deal cheaper once the internet is deployed.There are a few caveats to bear in mind before you go ahead, though. First, the web is another medium through which you can advertise, but it should never be your sole means of getting to candidates. Anyone with any ambitions of an equal opportunities policy will want to reach beyond the PC-owning, internet-surfing and (by extension) affluent type who'll see an online ad. Second, if you do place an advert online the onus can be on you to get the right people to look at it: it's a bit like walking into a pub and saying: "Anyone want a job?" The trick is to filter out the time wasters early on.There are two basic methods of putting your vacancies online. The first, and certainly the cheapest if you have the requisite skills, is to put an "Employment with &#91;company name&#93;" page on your regular website. Ideally you'll update this regularly with details of any vacancies you might have coming up, plus an overview of the company and benefits available to employees.Cheap though this might appear, however, it's not infallible. To begin with, you need to be sure people will see it if it's to be any use at all, and unless you have a well-viewed website attracting the right demographic already, this will mean a lot of advertising. That's not to say it can't be done, and there might well be long-term savings for recruiting and many other benefits from publicising your website to the world in general.But if your aim is to recruit only occasionally you'll probably be better off looking at the places people already go to look for jobs. At this stage you're back with the ordinary media and the recruitment agencies, but it can be worth examining their online strategies as well as their more traditional offerings. Of course, the Guardian's dedicated recruitment sections are now online (seemedia.guardian.co.uk,education.guardian.co.uk,society.guardian.co.uk).Some - student job placement specialisthotrecruit.comis one - have charges tailored to the internet: you buy a number of days' exposure on the website and if you recruit someone on day one, you can remove the ad and "bank" your remaining days for when you need them. Others offer support services for their job candidates: the Guardian Media Group's own Workthing.com includes not only jobs but training opportunities, and bits and pieces on lifestyle.And, of course, it would be a huge mistake to neglect the traditional agencies who themselves are using the web to extend their reach. If you're recruiting through a large agency likeAdecco, always ask whether your vacancy will be going online as well, and what the company is doing to get people to its site. The bigger names will attract job seekers simply by being there, the smaller ones will have to work somewhat harder at it. But if your chosen agency avowedly ignores the new medium then it might be an idea to look elsewhere.
The magazine for nerds, Computer Weekly, has hit back at its readers' image as hopeless geeks who spend their free time writing shareware and surfing the internet.The magazine surveyed 2,000 IT workers and found that their lives involve very little by way of popping round to friends' houses after work to fix computers.Instead a profile emerged of professionals who control the £40bn spent by UK businesses last year on IT equipment and services.One third of those surveyed cited their families as their primary interest outside of work, with only 7% listing computers or the internet.Less than one in 10 were excited about cutting edge technology, a traditional hallmark of nerdiness.Karl Schneider, the editor of Computer Weekly, said:"The image of the young, pallid, pizza-eating propeller-head returning to a scruffy room every night to surf the internet is totally removed from reality."Nearly all of those surveyed said they were proud to tell friends that they work in IT, but 58% admitted that the profession still had a geeky image.Maybe someone should tell that to the popular programmers' website, Slashdot, whose its proud tagline "news for nerds" cannot be helping the situation.Useful linksComputer WeeklySlashdot
What computer do you use?The first computer I had in the office was an Amstrad. I didn't have a clue how to use it and couldn't get it to work for days. I vaguely recall contacting the engineers to ask if the "valves" might be broken! Nowadays I'm a bit more up to speed and have aToshiba Satellite laptopas well as aCompaq Deskpro. I also can't imagine life without my mobile phone andPsion 5mx.Will we be able to vote online by the next general election?I do hope so. Experiments with different ways of voting have proved successful. As long as we can guarantee that it's secure there's no reason why these tests should not be extended to internet voting.Should government be conducted or available online?The net offers great opportunities for people everywhere to ask questions, debate issues and even vote - but instead all we get is a virtual tour ofDowning Street. It's more common for TV soap stars to go online than politicians. Research suggests that nearly half of the population will prefer to deal with the government and councils electronically by being able to download 'interactive forms', for example tax forms and explanatory tax leaflets. The government will have to extend the range of services it provides electronically to keep up with public demand.How should governments best approach security and regulation of the net?The Internet Watch Foundationis an excellent example of how successful self-regulation can be in removing 'net-nasties' and blocking access to controversial sites. Extending similar schemes would be more effective than heavy-handed government intervention. The UK internet industry is by and large very responsible. Government has to work in partnership with the industry otherwise we run the risk of driving those that need to be controlled overseas.Are most MPs still somewhat Luddite regarding new technologies?Most of us are technophiles but many Lib Dem MPs have their own websites. As the working life of an MP is split between Westminster and the constituencies, new technologies such as video conferencing and email, have certainly made it a lot easier to manage the workload. I definitely think that the electronic voting system in the Scottish parliament is the envy of Westminster.Any favourite websites?www.epolitix.comis a bit of favourite.www.politicalcompass.orgis a fun quiz which tests where you sit on the political spectrum and tries to challenge the old right and left wing labels as a measure of political ideology. And of coursewww.charleskennedy.org.ukis always worth a visit!Visit:www.libdems.org.uk
The internet may be the most powerful advance in technology of recent years, but the past has never been more easily revisited. Nostalgia has never been so much fun. Witness the toys of your childhood for example,  such as Mr Potato Head.In production since 1952, Mr Potato Head had a resurgence of his early popularity after the release of Disney's Toy Story. Hasbro's site atwww.mrpotatohead.comhas a Flash-driven online Potato Head construction kit, but higher-grade nostalgia is available atwww.fun1st.com/collectors.html.The toy that you may remember from the 1960s and 1970s is Clackers - plastic balls on a string which could occasionally be made to    bounce off one another with a satisfying "clack". More often, though, they hit children's fingers and faces, or exploded in a hail of sharp plastic. They were soon banned. But a certainMr Beersbought big into the craze and still has hundreds of Clackers stockpiled for sale.One of the great toy inventors of the Clacker era was Marvin Glass. He was the man behind Ants in the Pants, Evel Knievel, Operation, and the Mouse Trap Game. A former member of his staff has set up a tribute page athttp://westwood.fortunecity.com/mugler/419/glass/glass.htm.Hundreds of sites exist for people whose interest in the real classics, such as Lego, has blossomed with age. You    might think there is only a certain amount that can be done with Lego, but the tiniest niches in the market are catered for.Frank Filz's Lego links page, for example, helps those interested in creating medieval castle scenes, with a particularly handy tip on how to make a joint of meat look convincing.Meccano fans on the other hand may be distressed to find that theFrench official homepage is up, while theUK oneis still under construction, if you    excuse the pun. While the building work continues, there are dozens of sites to see on theMeccano webring, along with box illustrations from the toy's golden era (featuring dads smoking enormous pipes). The webring even admits sites that concentrate on what are (slightly sniffily) termed "Meccano-like" toys (seewww.metallbaukasten.de).If you are a Thatcher's child, however, revisit the 80s at nostalgia sites such asYesterdaylandand In The 80sInThe80s.com/toys. The pictures and slogans alone will regress all but the most forgetful. There's enough about Burnin' Key Cars, Care Bears and Magic Sand for several nights of slightly embarrassing reminisences down the pub.Devotees of electronic toys may recall the MB Big Trak robot truck. You may well have pestered your parents for one, claiming that you'd play with it for years and years to come. You were lying, of course. But Eric Jones of Boston is still making the most of his 20 years later; his Big Trak is still crashing into the sofa and scaring the dog. Find his geeky but charming site athttp://scv.bu.edu/~ejones/BigTrak.Few sites are so good that they make you miss what you never had, butGobler Toysis one that can. It's the brainchild of two Americans who have created a fake company history and a collection of retro toys, including model cars powered by whipped cream ("you can eat the exhaust!") and the Super Snoot smell amplifier ("smells objects up to 100 yards away").It's just one of the thousands of delights which prove that the web is one of the best toys ever invented.
Advance view of future potentialHot PotatoGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99 Bam Entertainment 	***Rayman AdvanceGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99 Ubi Soft 	**The Game Boy Advance may offer unprecedented visuals for a handheld - as long as you have a decent light source - but the early days of the new handheld have exhibited precious little innovation when it comes to style of game.Those hardy Game Boy perennials - platform and puzzle games - have been transferred to the Advance with unseemly haste. First up is a puzzler, Hot Potato, an amusing mix of Tetris and Bust-A-Move. Controlling a "bus", you need to clear a path by firing spuds at the potatoes in the way. Match up colours and they disappear, but misfire   and a fatal roadblock occurs.Later levels get increasingly frantic, but the ultimately repetitive action soon takes its toll on your fingers. For a while at least, Hot Potato is an amusing diversion, even if its graphics hardly stretch the GBA.Rayman Advance, on the other hand, could never have been made for the original Game Boy. This is a beautiful looking platform adventure, with one of the biggest (and best) character animations ever seen on a handheld. As in previous Rayman titles, you jump, climb and fly, aided by your detachable hand and spinning ears.Unfortunately this is all made infuriatingly difficult by the size of the graphics relative to the screen. After your 100th fatal leap of faith - caused by in an inability to see more of the landscape - you will be throwing your console across the room. Still, those with the patience will enjoy the gorgeous locales that Rayman Advance offers.Both Hot Potato and Rayman show glimpses of a bright future for GBA owners. (GH)Jurassic Park 3: Danger ZonePC 	&#163;19.99 Knowledge Adventure/ Vivendi 		**When a game based on a big movie appears with the box-office release, there are usually two explanations: it's a very poor game rushed out to catch a window of easy sales; or it's a piece of classic opportunism. Danger Zone (and its companion title, Dino Defenders) falls into the latter.What we have is a series of mini-games strung together within a simple boardgame   format. Such compendia clearly have a following and Mario Party 1 &amp; 2 proved they can be genuinely enjoyable if packed with enough games of a high enough quality.Sadly, Danger Zone is not    in the same league. For a start there are only half a dozen mini-games (compared to over 50 in Mario Party) and none lasts longer than 10 seconds. For example, you have to shoot a T-Rex as it   races across the screen to capture its DNA (one of the overall objectives of the game). Anyway, while you were reading that, I shot it and progressed to the next game. Sorry.Other games are simple memory tests or hand-eye co-ordination. None would tax a 7-year old, leaving much needed in the shape of Spielberg eye-candy to keep them hooked. Sadly, this is not to be. Danger Zone features no familiar movie clips, sounds or images and even worse, a gruesome narrator sounds as if he ought to be recording an US version of Banzai!Even with its excellent graphics and animation, kids will be bored quickly and movie fans gutted by teatime. You have been warned.  (MA)
Doesn't Ivan Vasilii Guba, the communist general in the chart-toppingOperation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis, look remarkably like Jim Darling, Codemasters'   Chairman? That is because the programmers used their boss's picture for Guba, saying "his likeness was the perfect match for the character". Several other real people appear in the game, including industry veteran Bruce Everiss and Codemasters' local MP, James Plaskitt.Square has finally releasedFinal Fantasy Xin Japan. The series of role-playing games has already sold 31 million copies, but the new version will not create the mass hysteria that surrounded earlier episodes. FFX only runs on the Sony   PlayStation 2 and there are not enough users yet.TheSudden Strike UK Championships(seewww.suddenstrike.co.ukwill be the UK's biggest ever real-time strategy tournament. More than 700 players have already signed up for the event on August 1.Meanwhile, programmer/superstar John Romero has leftIon Storm, and the company is closing the Dallas studio where he was based. Romero co-founded Id (Doom, Quake) before starting Ion (Deus Ex, Thief). The company, owned by Eidos   Interactive, will continue to develop games in Austin, Texas.BBC Multimedia and Climax are developing a new version ofRobot Warsfor the PC and PlayStation 2. It should be out in November.Finally, Olympus has launched a version of its face-mounted display, theEye-Trek FMD-20P, for &#163;299.99 for the PlayStation 2. The goggles are said to be equivalent of watching a 52 inch screen from 2 metres but "feel like wearing a pair of sunglasses".
Worm watchKeep an eye open for suspicious looking email attachments: a worm known as Sircam (W32.Sircam.Worm@mm) could be heading your way. The problem with Sircam is that it is not as easy to spot as predecessors such as Melissa and the Love Letter virus. It sends itself to   your mailbox along with a file selected at random from the source's My Documents folder, so it will not always have the same subject line, name or file extension.Sircam comes with a message asking about a file. The first line of the message will be: "Hi! How are you?" and the last line: "See you later. Thanks". There is also a Spanish version which starts "Hola como estas ?" and ends "Nos vemos pronto, gracias."For further details and help with removing the virus, check software sites such aswww.symantec.com/avcenter/venc/data/w32.sircam.worm@mm.htmlwww.europe.f-secure.com/v-descs/sircam.shtmlwww.antivirus.com/vinfo/virusencyclo/default5.asp?VName="TROJ_SIRCAM.A"In the meantime, Windows users should go to the Windows Update site ( http:// windowsupdate.microsoft.com ) by selecting Start|Windows Update. This will check your system and provide a long list of the downloads available. Almost all are optional and some are pointless but the Critical Updates Package is recommended.Thousands of people are still falling victim to the Bubbleboy and Kakworm viruses even though Microsoft published a fix in 1999: seewww.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/fq99-032.aspCookiesI carried out the spring clean directions successfully. I noted afterwards that I have a Windows folder named Cookies. Is it in order to delete the contents of this too?Mary Mooremtmoore@waitrose.comJack Schofield replies:Cookies are like calling cards. Many websites leave them on your hard drive so they know who you are when you return. They may record things such as which pages you read and what your preferences are, if you have set any.You can easily delete the cookies in the folder, but you also need to delete a hidden file called index.dat, which is protected by Windows. To do this, go to Start|Shut Down, select Restart in MS-DOS mode, and click OK.You should now have a black screen with a prompt that says C:\WINDOWS. Type CD COOKIES to change to the Cookies directory, and the prompt should change to C:\WINDOWS\COOKIES\ (you can type DIR to list the file directory to make sure that is really where you are). Next, type DEL *.* to delete all the files in that directory, and Y to confirm. If you are in the wrong directory, of course, you will delete all those files with perhaps catastrophic results. In that case you will be glad you have a   good back-up of your drive.When the prompt returns, turn your PC off and then on again to restart. Windows will automatically create a new index.dat file.I frequently delete all my cookies. I don't think they are dangerous, however, I don't like the idea of being tracked by cookies from advertisers.NumberedIn Microsoft Word, when I type a number at the start of a paragraph, the program goes wild, inserting new numbers whenever I press the Return key, and introducing indentations that I do not want. Can this feature be disabled?David Hamblinpigleystair@yahoo.co.ukJS:Microsoft Word has many such useful features. To disable it, go to the Insert menu, select AutoText and then AutoText. The AutoCorrect tabbed dialogue box will appear. Click the tab marked AutoFormat As You Type. Untick the check box that says: Automatic numbered lists and click OK. You may want to disable other annoying "smarts" at the same time.OrphansI have deleted several programs but they still appear in the Add/Remove Programs list. I know this doesn't do any harm,   but it is irritating.Niall Walshniallwalsh5@eircom.netJS:You can remove these with a free Power Toys tool called Tweak UI. Seehttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q190/6/43.ASPNot fullIs there a maximum number of files you can have on a floppy? I thought I had a hardware problem when I could not save files to a disk, but when I copied the files to another disk I got the same problem, and also when I tried another PC.Seamus O'Connellseamus.oconnell@sevimara.demon.co.ukJS:A lot of files will fit on a floppy, but they cannot all be in the same directory. There is only limited space for the file index, so the number varies according to how you name them. If all the file names are in DOS format (8 capitals and a three letter extension) then I think you can get 224 on. If they are Windows long filenames, the number falls to about 74. The solution is to move files into subdirectories.BackchatYet more email on the gripping saga known as Disabling the PC's Caps Lock key, which seems to be exercising more minds than global warming.    William Allenmail@mayfly13.fsnet.co.ukpoints out that "Microsoft provides a free utility to disable the Caps Lock key in Windows 95/8/me. It's in the Kernel Toys package, the lesser known cousin of Power Toys" downloadable fromwww.microsoft.com/windows95/downloads/contents/WUToys/W95KernelToyPut the file in a new folder such as C:\Program files\ Kernel Toys and double-click to unpack it. Further instructions are in the Readme.txt file that will appear.Find the Keyremap.inf file, right-click it, and select Install from the pop-up menu. Windows may ask for a Keyremap disk that you do not have. However, it only wants the file keyremap.dll which is already in the Kernel Toys directory, so you can use Browse to select it.Now if you go to Start| Settings|Control Panel and double-click Keyboard, you should have a new tab called Remap. Click on Remap. Under "When this key is pressed...", click Caps Lock, and under "Act as if this key is pressed...", click Left Shift. Then press OK. This will make the Caps Lock key work like an extra left shift key.
We rode over the hill caked in dust like a couple of wanted men in a Western. After an eight-hour jeep ordeal, I creaked out of the jeep coughing and blinking; glad to be alive (I'm getting used to that sensation now).I gazed in wonder at the mountain desert and azure sky that surrounded me. The town below sat in the middle of an explosion of mountains that erupted into the sky like serrated fingers. Screaming children were playing in the crystal clear waters and chasing their goats around the pools in the oasis below it. I was looking forward to a cool glass of water and enough sunshine to charge up my laptop and satellite phone. On entering the town we found the reality was quite different.Skardu is a one chapatti town on the edge of the Karakorum mountain range, the last bastion of "civilisation" before the nine-day trek over the Baltoro glacier to K2 base camp. Its main commodity seems to be dust and you can set your watch by the power cuts and sand storms.I had thought myself lucky to have survived the notoriously dangerous Karakoram highway that took us from Islamabad to Nanga Parbat. The words "road" and "hotel" are used loosely in Pakistan. Our driver had attended the Ivanhoe school of motoring and attempted to joust his opponents off the road. This strategy seemed to work for him until he tried it with a truck. As we teetered on the edge of the 500m drop it looked like we were going to go over until Mark, the expedition leader, and I dragged the guide into the back seat by the scruff of his neck. This allowed the driver to get enough traction on the back wheels and reverse to "safety".Last night I spoke to Michael Green, my business partner, in Inverness completely unaware that a sand storm was about to engulf me. He was in good spirits as sales are continuing to rise and we discussed a deal involving the reallocation of share holdings within WildDay.com that our lawyer, John Salmon of Out-law.com, is handling for us. Because WildDay.com is a limited company the simplest processes can be so frustrat ingly time-consuming (and expensive!) due to company law, capital gains and tax implications, etc.John was integral in this expedition and I actually had the idea in his office. Rather than advising me not to go he actively encouraged me. He won't admit it, but I know he is excited at the idea of working with me while I am at K2 base camp.Anyway, I was about to call Ring of Roses, the company which is doing a viral marketing campaign for WildDay.com when the wind began to pick up. Within five minutes, Mark and I were screaming over its howls, trying to stop ourselves from being blown off the roof of the hotel. We had to leave quickly as we were going to get seriously injured by the flying debris, and the sand would have destroyed our telecoms equipment.Sand storms are a pretty dramatic example of how much we have found ourselves totally at the mercy of the forces of nature. We are using solar power to charge our equipment. Most days the sun is so powerful it melts the solar panels (I already have scar tissue on my shoulders from sun burn) but then you can have three days of full cloud cover. That is our equivalent of a power cut out here and we are helpless until the sun reappears.So far we have been shot at, caught in an avalanche, nearly plunged down a ravine and blown away in a sand storm, and we haven't even started climbing yet. I am longing to write a column that does not involve an incident in which I nearly die.We leave for K2 and Broad Peak tomorrow. God knows what adventures await us, but at least business is good.&#149; Michael Jackson will be writing further updates from the Himalayas. Find out more atwww.wildday.co.uk. His company WildDay.com, is an e-tailer of outdoor clothing.
Lily Donald is not your average techie. Sitting in her conservatory on the banks of Loch Ness, she admits that before this year, she used computers for writing letters and solving crossword puzzles. "I wasn't really into the net," she says. She is using a CD - as a drinks coaster.But Lily manages a piece of technology that can help the smallest communities. She is subpostmistress of Dores, a tiny village eight miles south-west of Inverness, and runs   the country's smallest post office - tourists sometimes ignore the beauty and monster-potential of the loch in favour of taking pictures of her house. Lily opens the metre square converted broom cupboard for six hours a week, although customers often call out of hours. "In practice, it's as long as your ear," she says of her working week.As from February this year, this work goes through a Horizon terminal, her end of a &#163;1bn ICL-built network installed in   virtually all the UK's 17,800 post offices. Able to provide existing services, and add new ones with ease, Horizon already handles &#163;120bn of business annually. The remaining 60 branches requiring specialist kit will be polished off by November.Dores was one such special case: most Horizon terminals look like personal computers, with a bulky monitor, but due to the dimensions of Lily's office, hers looks more like a large laptop, with a flat screen.At least Dores has phone lines and mains electricity. One of the last remaining connections to be installed is on Fair Isle, a few square miles of land in the seas between Orkney and Shetland. The erratic power supply and lack of telecoms infrastructure means ICL must install an uninterruptible power supply and a satellite link.Horizon was born almost six years ago, at a party conference. The then social security minister Peter Lilley brandished a smartcard, a fraud-busting replacement for the benefit book. With the Benefits Agency and ICL, the Post Office would install smartcard reading terminals at every branch, through a private finance initiative (PFI) called Pathway.Four years and &#163;700m of taxpayers' money later, the new Labour government stopped Pathway in its tracks. ICL has since criticised the PFI payment criteria: the Fujitsu-owned firm would have been paid partly on how many customers post offices attracted. "Looking back, I think it was over-ambitious," says Stuart Sweetman, group managing director of customer and banking services for Consignia, the new name for the Post Office. "You can't export all the risk to a supplier."Instead, the post office network and ICL negotiated much simpler terms, and began installing terminals to automate all sales. This non-PFI contract has been completed within schedule (except for the handful of difficult-to-implement branches) and within budget.Now, everything you buy from a post office goes through Horizon. This makes life easier for staff: the system calculates prices, does the accounts and tells Lily how many Hydro-Electric tokens (the Highland's electricity meter tokens) she should have left. "It cuts out all the paperwork," she says. It takes her 20 minutes to do her weekly accounting, compared with two hours before.The system can be oper ated by touch-screen or keyboard, and offers a choice of large icons. The Serve Customer menu features the most popular 15 services such as the 1st class stamp: the operator enters the number of stamps, and the system works out the rest. "You really can't go wrong on it,"Lily says.Although benefits are still paid by stamping books, Pathway also tackles fraud. "For pensions and child benefits, it takes very slightly longer," says Lily. "Previously you just took the book and stamped it, now you've also got to scan its barcode."The system automatically checks for books reported stolen or otherwise disallowed, and if someone hasn't claimed for a few weeks, it adds up the total benefit due, saving staff from doing the sums. "You have more of a chance of making mistakes in a rural post office, because it's all talk, talk, talk while you're trying to count out the money," says Lily.More vitally, with direct benefit transfers, along with less shopping in rural areas, resulting in a record 547 post   office closures in the last financial year, Horizon provides the foundation to build replacement business.The situation will be exacerbated by the loss of commission on benefits payments, which accounts for a third or more of a small post office's income. From 2003, the government will send benefits to the 16m claimants through their bank accounts. Although saving money for taxpayers, it will cost post offices &#163;400m a year."Now we've got the infrastructure everywhere, we're working on new opportunities," says Consignia's Sweetman.Many post offices already provide services for account-holders of high street banks; Barclays adding a post office service following its unpopular decision to close 171 branches last year. The post office also acts as a virtual branch network for online bank Smile, a subsidiary of Co-operative, and the Abbey National-owned Cahoot. But this is just a start.In April, the government and 11 financial organisations agreed, after much haggling, to establish universal banking services. These are aimed at millions of UK citizens without bank accounts, who do not have the opportunity to save money paying bills by direct debit. The 10 banks and one building society will pay post offices to operate no-overdraft basic accounts for   those with poor financial histories.As a replacement for benefit books, Post Office Card Accounts (which will not allow direct debits), will allow withdrawals only at post office counters, meaning minimal change for pensioners and others who prefer regular visits to a branch - and continuing custom for sub- postmistresses such as Lily.Horizon is already expanding post offices' range in other areas. Branches have started offering Standard Life pensions, and will soon sell local transport smartcards, if a trial in Manchester early next year goes to plan.The UK has more post offices per square mile than any other industrialised country, bar a few small island states, according to government research. This advantage of number and spread could also provide a boost for e-commerce and long-distance shopping with the launch this month of Local Collect.If you miss a parcel delivery, it usually winds up with the courier company, meaning you have to rearrange delivery or trek to a depot. However, following a trial in rural Somerset, customers can direct deliveries to any of 16,000 post offices (a couple of thousand have opted out, pleading lack of storage space), or any Royal Mail or Parcelforce depot.Items can be sent straight to participating offices, or   used as the alternative if customers are out.French firm Redcats, operator of online retailers including Figleaves.com, and Parcelforce's online mall Worldofshopping.com already offer the service.After paying an annual &#163;300 licence fee to join Consignia's parcel tracking system, the service doesn't cost the retailer any extra, as Royal Mail and Parcelforce save having to make repeated attempts at delivery.But where a retailer does not provide the service, anyone receiving a Royal Mail or Parcelforce "while you were out" card can get parcels redirected to a post office for 50p.The government also plans to use the network to provide better information on state-provided services. Construction started earlier this month on touch-screen kiosks at 267 post offices in Leicestershire and Rutland, to test a system called Your Guide.From September, this new information system will provide information on benefits, local government services,   community information and job-seeking.For jobs, it will consolidate information from state organisations such as local job centres and the armed forces, as well as voluntary organisations.If successful, the scheme could go national next year, using Horizon as its data network. To supplement the kiosks, post offices will provide free phone lines, leaflets, and sometimes experts, with counter staff trained to help.In Dores, Lily has been asked if she wants to offer parcel-holding and government advice services. But there's no need to ask about offering advice: she reckons a good postmistress or postmaster does that already.Lily took over the post office operation in 1994 because mothers and pensioners found it time-consuming and expensive to take one of the three daily buses to Inverness to claim their benefit. By way of illustration of this community role, Lily tells a story about Dores' first postmistress, Lily Fraser."The old lady who used to run the post office here during the war comes in and she had to see a chiropodist," says Lily. In an echo of her predecessor's role six decades ago, possessing the village's only telephone, Lily automatically made an appointment for the 82-year-old. Her predecessor thanked her warmly, but she replied: "Is that not what we're here for?"
PDAs: selling short or selling outI read your article on the personal digital assistants (PDA) market with great interest (Online 19 July).The question posed in the article "Has the 'electronic Filofax' gone out of fashion...?" is an interesting one, for it has two answers. The first is yes, the reason being that anybody today expects functionality of their PC with whatever portable electronic device they choose to have with them. A mere electronic version of a Filofax is never going to be up to the job.The "no" is because you can now have virtualy the same functionality as a PC in your hand, capable of being continuously backed up with your PC, which means on the move computing has never been easier.This is the reason the Compaq iPaq is such a valuable tool. Not only do I have all the key Microsoft programmes in use on my office-based PC, but I have a mobile MP3 player, a digital dictaphone, an ebook reader, a games console and a communications device capable of internet/email access. In short it is a shirt-pocket sized office. Not only that but it is massively expandable.And I don't have to relearn how to write to input data as the character recogniser is very forgiving.I look forward to the day when I can have all of this with a phone built in, perhaps the one other thing I would want it to do.Andy Bradshawandy.bradshaw@granadamedia.comIt is no suprise to me that the market for PDAs is stagnant or worse.For most people these devices cannot replace the functionality and ease of use of a pocket diary.When the manufacturers actually make a product that people want - a fully converged device - and sell it for &#163;200 or less , the story will be radically different.Until then, forget it. I for one will stick to a paper notebook.Christian Evanschrise@addisonlee.co.ukThe real reason why the palmtop market has collapsed is the lack of user customisation. When the first machines such as Casio and Sharp came out in the 1980s   they came with programming manuals with many applications in bio-technology rather than accounting.Until the market is worked out the corporations need to be able to use the ideas of its customers. The internet and Linux have grown in this fashion but the CEOs of many of the convenience devices have thrown money into a bonfire by consulting their accountants rather than potential world-wide users.In its current form the "design to consumer product" means we are getting the technology that only an elite want, and much of the political and legal elite is totally devoid of knowledge of mathematics, science, or engineering.Naturally the world elite would sooner sell dumbed down products because they think they can make the decisions for everyone. In fact the technology would advance more if some smart products were made available at a cheap price.The whole sorry saga of the dot.com and the telecoms bubble is based on the same level of cynical exploitation which lead to the demise of the British South Sea Bubble and the burning of plantations in the Far East to combat recession at home.With a greater use of genetic programming algorithms and market research it should be possible to bring out a far broader range of consumer products than at present, but the technology must be made more accessible to the average user. Most of the applications of the technology are dictated by the small elite who wish to control us.When you think of hand held devices and palmtops you might think of early miltary scramblers and suchlike. It started as the technology of control. When the objects become cheap and mass market then everyone who is in business or government want to control the market and get people to buy useless products.Convenience computers were user programmeable in the 1970s and 80s but the world has moved backwards. This is because marketers get 99.5% of the money involved in the popularisation of a technology.The only skills required nowadays are those to abuse   and manipulate other people. Dumb Britain is no place for smart machines.Tony Goddardcat@animal.u-net.comOrganisers are ending up as landfill because the population at large just does not know what to do with them.Whereas desktop computers are in the press at large, (so people get an idea of what they can use them for), hand held computer users think that their machines can only do what they can do straight out of the box - in a similar way to a &#163;20 organiser that you might buy from Argos.The sales people in the shops are not helping either, in-store advertising shows the Handspring Visor's features as things like "can store 65000 addresses, 5000 notes' and 'built-in microphone'. This is perpeptuating the myth of the organiser not as a notebook replacement - which is what I use mine for.Companies should start promoting the cool stuff that handhelds do. Even the basic Palm III can connect to the internet via an IR link to a mobile phone, print to an IR printer or standard printer via a cable available from Maplins, the Visor's Presenter to Go Springboard expansion allows the user to install a Powerpoint presentation and display it through a composite videooutput. How's that for a killer app?But when you visit the shops, you are lucky if they sell a keyboard.Nobody I meet with a handheld has software installed (including the 8MB Dram fix). And I have to hold their hands while showing them what cool stuff they can do, if they make the effort. (Overclocking to 33MHz and running the Liberty Gameboy Emulator is a good example, or viewing AVI films and pictures with FireViewer)My message is "get the sales staff up to date!" or preinstall more software. You can never underestimate a person's ability to underuse a great product.Adrian Heskethadrianhesketh@yahoo.comSurely the Palm handheld machines will not end up as landfill. What a wicked waste. Why can't they be distributed to schools?Irene Marshallalanirene@waitrose.com
The crowds that descended on Las Vegas's casinos, strip clubs and all-you-can-eat restaurants last weekend were a little different from the norm. They were a little more troublesome, too.For these thrill-seekers were computer hackers and security experts from all over the world - distinguishable from the general public thanks to vivid red and yellow entry passes, and occasional outlandish haircut and dress sense.They had gathered for the annual hacker conference known as Defcon. Now in its ninth year, it is claimed by the organisers to be the largest and most important computer "underground" meeting in the world. The estimated number of registered visitors ran to 4,500 this year.Members of both security and hacking communities announced new tools and lectured on techniques for breaking into and reinforcing computer systems. In previous years, tools such as the powerful and dangerous Windows Trojan known as Back Orifice were released by sensationalist hacker group, the Cult of the Dead Cow.This year, though, the bad news was for Macintosh   users. Agent OJ of the underground programming group Team 2600 announced that a project to transfer the infamous PC-based Trojan SubSeven (which allows a hacker to take complete control of an infected computer) to run on Macs is 80% complete with a final version expected to be ready within two months. Beta software for test purposes is already available for download by anyone with an internet connection.But not everyone at Defcon saw viruses as being necessarily harmful. Medical doctor Cyrus Peikari spoke of a future containing good viruses that in the long term, as with diseases in the real world, increase the host's immune system. An audience member had another, conflicting analogy. Would taking a bomb to an airport and blowing it up be a reasonable measure to increase security?Discussing and learning hacking techniques is justified by legitimate security professionals as necessary to protect computer systems against irresponsible or criminal people. But despite the high profile of Defcon, and its emphasis on defence, there were plenty of people who came to behave badly.By the end of the first night   a payphone at the conference centre had been prised off the wall and abandoned in a toilet, and on the last day a speaker spent an hour instructing an audience on how to buy goods using stolen credit card numbers without being caught. He admitted to having used the techniques himself.Throughout the three days, and nights, some were content to stay glued to their computers and shun the talks. The Defcon Capture The Flag competition took teams of hackers and pitted them against each other in an electronic war. Some teams would set up working computers while others attempted to break in, gaining points for using extra ingenuity and imagination.Getting full access wasn't enough - you had to do it in style. One individual man aged to crack the conference's network (which was not part of the competition) by conning security guards into allowing him access to the Network Operations Centre. He won special recognition at an awards ceremony on the last day.In truth, Defcon is not an underground event. It would be fair to say that a great many people who packed into the conference halls on Friday 13th were law-abiding professionals and enthusiasts. And some were so young that they came with their parents.This mixture of types was, at times, uncomfortable. In one room a programmer would talk about a new technique he had found for securing Windows 2000, while in another a team demonstrated how to hack into wireless networks without being caught, potentially gaining access to personal and business files.Hackers often describe each other as belonging to one of three groups - black hat (bad), white hat (good) and grey hat (white with an edge). But, as the spokesperson known as Shatter said in the conference's introductory speech, "hackers don't wear hats".
For the faithful, the twice yearly Macworld Conference &amp; Expo is a place of wonder: new computers, new software, new
   directions. And so it was last week in New York where company co-founder Steve Jobs came to inspire his flock. Did he?Judging by the rapturous applause he received at every pause the answer would seem to be yes. But these are strange times
   in computing, not least for Apple. Faced with a small (5%) but devoted marketshare, Jobs' mission is twofold: to entice
   existing users to upgrade, and entice PC users over to Apple in a depressed computer market. But Apple will be pressed to
   repeat the success that came with the iMac which restored the company to profitability. If anything, Jobs' two hour speech
   last week showed that Apple is simply positioning itself to take advantage of an upturn in the economy whenever that may
   come."Apple's challenge is now to make sure that when the market takes off again it's ready to make sure buyers know
   that a Mac is a simpler and more efficient way to go," said Leon Ablon, a Mac consultant at the show."People no longer want
   to just buy a computer. They want to know what they can do with them."Bounding across the stage, Jobs echoed a version
   of this sentiment more than once. "We are in a really interesting time," he said. "In the very tough economic conditions out
   there, most of our industry is retrenching. We've decided to take a different path. Our path is innovation."That was
   perhaps a signal - or an excuse. Jobs did not introduce what many in the audience were hoping for: a new-look iMac sporting
   a flat-panel display. Instead, the new iMacs come in muted blues and white. There were plenty of theories as to why the new
   machine did not appear - the best being that the price of flat panel displays has yet to fall enough to be fitted as standard.But the disappointment among Mac aficionados was there, despite the arrival of a new high-end range of G4 Macs. They come
   in three configurations, 733MHz, 867MHz and a high-end version with dual 800MHz processors, and will be priced well below
   previous models &#91;US$1,700 and US $3,500&#93;.A new iMac may yet arrive later this year but, despite the disappointment last
   week, market analysts say the pace of the improvement in the performance of Apple's machines is impressive. Some lines
   have nearly doubled processing speed and memory, and tripled storage capacity, all within 12 months."Apple is now moving
   faster than the PC crowd," said Richard Doherty, director of research for Envisioneering, a consulting firm. Jobs also
   promised a new version of the company's iDVD software for September and the first major upgrade of Apple's new operating
   system, OS X, to X 10.1, will arrive in September. Still, when it came to the presentation of software to make the transfer
   of images from a digital camera easier, Jobs couldn't switch it on and threw it off the stage towards some Apple employees.   "It's technical," he explained.Apple may be fighting the good fight against the vast Windows empire, but it's one it can never
   win. Nevertheless, "You have to watch Apple," said Tim Bajarin of Creative Strategies, a consulting firm in California. "The
   generic PC has lost its lustre. But Steve Jobs believes that the personal computer is still a platform for innovation, both in
   product design and in technology."
WebbiesThe 5th Annual Webby Awards ceremony has come and gone, but the video is still online. You can watch a webcast of     the event atwww.webbyawards.com, and follow links to the two sets of winners: the ones chosen by a panel of judges, and     the ones decided by popular vote (seewww.webbyawards.com/main/webby_awards/nominees.html). Curiously, both went for     the same site in the Weird category - Pan's home page - even though it seems perfectly normal by web standards. For a     table of all the winners going back to 1997, seewww.webbyawards.com/main/webby_awards/winner_list.htmlSin spotNormal Bob Smith is letting his many critics extract their revenge. A new feature at his wonderfully tasteless home page     lets you dress him in a dress, slap sores on his torso, plant a bloody axe in his head, and even brainwash him with Bible     readings. Apparently lots of people want to do even worse things to Normal Bob because of his earlier offering, which     allowed you to dress-up Jesus. He remains unrepentant, and paying guests can play with a special Hollywood Jesus dress-up.Seewww.normalbobsmith.comandwww.jesusdressup.comSearch hereAlltheweb, the net's biggest search engine, has never     attracted the number of users its size and speed deserved. But that could change with the new version, which provides more     functionality while retaining ease of use. You can now limit searches to a particular language, and click to search web pages,     pictures, videos, MP3s and FTP (file transfer protocol). But the "offensive content filter" is set to on by default. The     results are still not as good as Google or the meta-search engine,SurfWax. Incidentally,Googlehas added a date feature to     its advanced search page. You can now search for pages updated in the past three months, six months or year.Go globalThe Economist magazine has produced a     handy guide to many of the world's nations. The"briefing books"marry useful and detailed country profiles with articles     from the weekly magazine, though not all of these are available free. Nonetheless, the site is a valuable addition to sites     such as theCIA World Factbookand theWorldSkip portal.AnnoteaThe "smart tags" feature planned for Microsoft's Windows XP operating system     attracted an astonishing amount of ignorant invective from people who presumably had not seen similar things before. In     fact, this approach started with hypertext, long before the web, and tags are so useful, their adoption is virtually certain.     The World Wide Web Consortium is also developing an open "smart tags" system called Annotea as part of its research into     the Semantic Web. Anyone can join in the fun atwww.w3.org/2001/AnnoteaCool mailHotmailhas a     cooler look and now integrates better with the MSN portal and MSN Explorer browser. The downside is that the opening page     no longer shows your email. On the plus side, Microsoft has strengthened its junk mail filter, and you can dispose of all mail     from people not in your address book. To dealwith spam in other mailboxes, seehttp://office.microsoft.com/assistance/2002/articles/OlManageJunkAndAdultMail.aspxJurassic 3Jurassic Park 3 has brought dinosaurs back from extinction again     with a bang, topping the US charts last weekend. The official site is athttp://jp3.jurassicpark.combut some fan sites are     more useful. Trywww.jp3hq.comandwww.dreamworksfansite.com/amblin/jurassicpark3. Also take a look the round-up of     reviews atwww.rottentomatoes.com/movie-1108705.Free wheelingThe American Solar Challenge race down Route 66,     across the Great Plains and through the Rockies to California, was due to end yesterday. Find out who won atwww.formulasun.orgNew &amp; noted&#149;  Final Fantasy movie clips athttp://movies.yahoo.com/hv/movies/feature/finalfantasy.html&#149; The Bubbleworld saga continues:www.thebubbleworld.com&#149;www.stickdeath.com: Not     weird enough for aWebby?&#149; Yes, but is it art?www.gloriousninth.com&#149; What's hot:www.speedle.com&#149; Five second of mild     amusement:http://theyrule.orgo.orgSix of the bestWordsA Word A Daywww.wordsmith.org/awadNeologismswww.logophilia.com/WordSpySlangwww.notam.uio.no/~hcholm/altlangStylewww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/styleguideResourceswww.internetwriter.co.uk/chaptersWord gameswww.m-w.com/game
Bertelsmann, the privately owned German media group, yesterday tightened its grip on Napster by installing one of its executives to run the controversial internet song-swapping service.Konrad Hilbers, previously vice-president of the music business, BMG, will replace Hank Barry as Napster's chief executive.The appointment strengthens ties between the two companies. Bertelsmann was the first of the five industry dominating music groups to break ranks from alawsuit over copyright infringement and attempt to broker a peace with Napster.In October last year Bertelsmann took a stake in Napster and agreed to work alongside its 20-year-old founder and college dropout, Shawn Fanning, to develop a fee-paying membership service.Mr Hilbers' first task will be to oversee the launch of the subscription service later this summer. Napster, mired in legal action, has been offline since the start of the month and there are fears that users will have switched to other song-swapping sites in its absence.Napster enables fans to swap songs by trading MP3 files, a compression technology which turns music on compact disc into computer files. It had over 40m users before an American judge forced it to close until it could remove all copyrighted material.Long negotiations have led to licencing agreements with MusicNet, a joint venture between BMG, EMI and Warner Music and organisations representing 150 independent labels.Mr Barry was interim chief executive and always made clear his intention to step back. He will remain on the Napster board."Napster brought together through file sharing the largest group of music fans ever assembled," Mr Hilbers said. "The next step is to complete the task of transforming this phenomenon into a business that respects copyrights and rewards creators."
Motorola, the world's second largest maker of mobile phones, yesterday announced plans to supply other manufacturers with all the basic technology they need to make the next generation of handsets.The company is looking to capitalise on the wealth of intellectual property built up by its team of researchers dotted across Europe and the US.Like many hi-tech companies in the recent technology downturn the Chicago-based group has realised it can make more money by licensing basic technology to other manufacturers and concentrating on producing its own cutting- edge products.Motorola will sell all the basics needed for a handset that can work with 3G networks and the interim technology known as GPRS. That will allow manufacturers to concentrate on their own designs for the exterior of the handset and its screen. Motorola is drawing comparisons with the situation in the PC market where the winners were the manufacturers of microchips rather than the companies whose names were emblazoned on the front of the box.A spokesman for Motorola's semiconductor unit, which will provide the service, explained: "We are providing the guts of the phone. This deal allows smaller companies to produce their own handsets."However he denied that Mo torola intends to pull out of producing handsets, explaining that the company intends to continue producing its own more advanced phones.Analysts said the deal throws down the gauntlet to other handset companies. But a spokesman for Ericsson was unimpressed, saying the Swedish company already allows customers to use its patented technology in handsets - for a fee.Motorola's technology will be made available to equipment manufacturers such as Birmingham-based Sendo, which yesterday announced it has attracted investment from Microsoft. The US software group is spending about $12m on a stake of under 5% in the   company, which produces custom-made phones for customers such as Virgin Mobile.Sendo is one of several manufacturers around the world producing Microsoft's Stinger smartphone, which uses an operating system developed by Microsoft in direct competition with a system produced by Symbian, a consortium that includes Psion and Ericsson.Another Symbian member, Finland's Nokia, yesterday announced a tie-up with Spanish mobile operator Telefonica Moviles to develop a new range of mobile services for the next generation of mobile phones.
BT's wireless business is in talks with potential partners in the Netherlands about sharing the cost of rolling out the next generation of mobile services in the country.Having spent upwards of &euro;120bn (&#163;72bn) buying up licences to operate 3G networks, Europe's wireless companies are hoping to reduce the investment needed before they can start offering customers services such as fast internet access and video streaming on mobile phones.Last month BT Wireless, which is due to be spun out of the telecom company in November, announced a deal with Deutsche Telekom to share investment in masts and base stations. BT Wireless's Cellnet will cooperate with Deutsche Telekom's One2One   in Britain, while in Germany, BT's Viag Interkom unit and Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobil will work together.Now BT is understood to have approached other operators in the Netherlands about a similar deal with its Telfort operation, which could result in there being just two networks built in the region.BT Wireless chief executive Peter Erskine would not comment directly on the talks but admitted that the group is seeking partners throughout its European operations. "Everyone is talking to everyone at the moment," he said. "But I would not anticipate a deal before the autumn."Network sharing has become increasingly important as Europe's leading wireless companies struggle with mounting debts and a slowdown in subscriber growth.   Such deals present a headache to the manufacturers of telecom equipment, such as Ericsson of Sweden, however, who were looking for lucrative deals from all the operators rather than shared spending on networks.Europe's governments have also been reticent about allowing operators to share their networks because of concerns about competition.The German government was initially against allowing operators to share their networks, but grudgingly conceded the point to ensure widespread availability of 3G   services in the country. The Dutch government dismissed an initial suggestion that one network be built in the country but is understood to be willing to accept that a minimum of two be constructed.Analysts expect further deals to be forged in mainland Europe as operators ready themselves to launch 3G services next year.ABN Amro analyst Jamie Mariani said sharing in the German market has been the focus until now, largely because of the size of the country and because it is so highly competitive. But talks are now being held across Europe."I anticipate network sharing will be a factor in the Italian and Spanish markets," he said. "Operators in all markets are now considering ways to reduce their network capital spend."
Chip maker Infineon yesterday added to the pall of gloom hanging over the technology sector, forecasting that it will slide into the red this year and warning that it could see little sign of recovery.The German group, which has already announced plans to slash capital spending and a freeze on new recruitment, said that it was now looking at further ways to cut costs and could not rule out job losses. "Visibility for the market development in the second half of calendar year 2001 remains low, and there are no clear signs of a market recovery in the coming months," the group said.Infineon, Europe's second largest semiconductor maker, said it has been hit by plummeting prices and had been forced to take a &euro;209m (&#163;128m) write-off against stock. That left it with an operating loss of &euro;598m in its third quarter, in line with an earlier profits warning.Infineon makes both memory chips - used in PCs, servers and laptops - and logic chips for both wired and wireless applications in the telecommunications industry. Losses at the mobile communications business rose to &euro;176m while the memory business fell &euro;340m into the red.One of the few bright spots was the performance of the automotive and industrial sector, where demand from German car makers meant earnings were ahead of the same period last year and only fractionally below the previous quarter.Until the third quarter Infineon's spread of operations had enabled it to ride out the downturn in the memory sector. But yesterday, president and chief executive Ulrich Schumacher acknowledged that in the last three months the downturn in the market "finally had a negative impact on Infineon's overall business"."Our balanced product portfolio did not help to ease the current weakness in the memory market any longer. This dynamic development and the magnitude of the current   downturn, especially in communications, was not expected," Mr Schumacher said."Due to the current negative market conditions, Infineon expects to incur a net loss in the fourth quarter as well as a loss for its fiscal 2001," the group warned.Infineon is not putting a figure on the expected loss in the final three months but chief financial officer Peter Fischl indicated that it would be less than the third quarter deficit.Karsten Iltgen, an analyst at WestLB Panmure, said there   was little surprising in the Infineon figures. "The outlook was very vague, but it would not have made sense to do it any other way. Visibility is simply very limited."Infineon believes it is well positioned to take advantage of an upturn. It is building a new facility at its Dresden plant to produce 300mm wafers, capable of being turned into 2.5 times as many chips as conventional 200mm wafers. "That would give us a 30% cost advantage," said a spokeswoman.Earlier this month Infineon, in which Siemens has a 51% stake, raised &euro;1.5bn through a capital increase. Yesterday the group said it planned to use the cash to fund future capital expenditure, make acquisitions and to provide working capital. It is also expected to raise &euro;500m to &euro;600m from the sale of its stake in Osram Opto, a lighting company.Shares in Infineon yesterday rose slightly to just over &euro;27, still ahead of the &euro;25 at which they were offered to investors in the &euro;1.5bn capital increase.
Europe was last night braced for the onslaught of an email virus which has the power to send your most embarrassing documents and pictures to every name in your electronic address book.Hot on the heels of the Love Bug and the Anna Kournikova worm, comes SirCam, a nasty strain which first appeared last week and is spreading rapidly across the internet.Last week, virus scanners were registering only one or two copies of SirCam a day and it was assumed it would fade into obscurity. But yesterday, with the tally of infected mail rising to almost 4,000 within 24 hours - most of it originating in the US - security experts warned European users to put up the barricades.Like all previous mass mailer viruses, SirCam arrives in the form of an email attachment. If opened by the recipient, it sends itself to every name on the victim's address book. By spreading in this way, viruses such as the Love Bug quickly became global outbreaks, causing millions of pounds worth of damage to computer systems.But SirCam has an even nastier trick up its sleeve. Before forwarding itself on, it raids the infected PC's My Documents folder - where most users store their most private or sensitive material - and randomly selects a file which it sends out with the infected email.Confidential commercial files, such as client lists or new product information, could be sent around the world in seconds, as could more revealing personal documents, such as job applications or private letters."There are serious implications for security and privacy," said Alex Shipp, senior anti-virus technologist at MessageLabs, a Gloucester-based virus scanning service which has intercepted almost 8,000 infected emails since last week. "The virus could pick any file that is in there, and if it picks something questionable, the user could be seriously embarrassed."To add insult to injury, SirCam, which is believed to have originated in Latin America, also goes through the computer's web cache - the store of internet sites the user has visited - and emails itself and the document to any addresses it finds on there.Popular websites, such as news and sports services, reported yesterday that although they had avoided infection, they were being deluged by unwanted mails generated by the virus.SirCam's novel design and behaviour are disturbing evidence of the increasing technical sophistication of virus writers. In previous outbreaks, the initial explosion of the virus was usually contained within a few days. SirCam, however, has been able to thrive because it does not always put the same message in the email subject line. Instead, it puts the name of whichever file it has raided from the My Documents folder.The body of the email is also semi-random, but always contains the same lines at the beginning and end, in either English or Spanish. In the English version, the first line is "Hi! How are you?" and the last is "See you later. Thanks." The virus is not activated until the attachment to the email is opened."It certainly has a couple of new tricks", Mr Shipp said, "and that is all it takes to get a big explosion these days."
Microsoft has taken a minority stake in Sendo, a Birmingham mobile phone maker, as the American software giant tries to break into the market for mobile phone operating systems.Microsoft paid more than £7m for a stake of less than 10% in Sendo, a privately-held company and has an option to increase its stake to 20% in a company that makes handsets to mobile phone operators' specifications."Sendo has chosen to develop these devices together with the world's largest software company, whose software is used in the vast majority of personal computers," Hugh Brogan, chief executive officer of Sendo, said. "There are more than six million application developers for Microsoft's operating systems. There is no other company that offers this competitive edge and that allows us to enter the market quickly."MicrosoftÕs move steps up its presence in the market for mobile phone operating and marks the first time that it has invested in a handset manufacturer. Most leading handset makers, including Nokia and Motorola, are partners in Symbian, a London-based consortium led by Psion. It is also developing an operating system for mobile phones that competes with Microsoft's Stinger operating system.Microsoft has teamed up with smaller phone manufacturers, such as Sendo of Birmingham, Korea's Samsung Electronics and  Mitsubishi of Japan and is trying to help them gain market share at  the expense of Symbian's licensees.The investment cements an existing relationship between the two  companies. Sendo, which was founded in 1999, has already unveiled a colour-screen phone running the Stinger operating system; the Sendo Z100 Multimedia Smartphone handset is due to be launched at the end of the year.Sendo is currently shipping phones to three operators: Virgin Group's Virgin Mobile unit; Telfort, the Dutch subsidiary of  BT and Telecel Vodafone in Portugal, which is majority owned by Vodafone Group of the U.K.Before the Microsoft investment, a total of 37% of Sendo shares were owned by CCT Telecom Holdings, a Hong Kong maker of cordless  phones, and Bowman Capital Management of San Mateo, California. Sendo executives own the rest.Related special reportsMicrosoftUseful linksSendoMicrosoft
The images may look like a few squiggles on a mobile phone handset, but they mark the entrance of the communications revolution into one of the most enduring debates: what makes something a work of art?Vodafone has commissioned some of the biggest British names in modern art to design works in the form of screen logos which can be downloaded from the internet to turn its customers' handsets into portable galleries.The restrictions imposed by the medium mean that the resulting eight works, by names such as George Barber and Tracey Newman, differ little from the thousands of crude logos which can already be downloaded on to mobile screens.But Vodafone and the internet gallery Britart.com, which organised the project, believe that because the designs are by established artists and backed by an established gallery, they rise into the realm of art.Tom David, managing director of Britart.com, said: "This idea is a wholly democratic approach to exhibiting art that breaks with the conventions of traditional representation."The artists involved in the project, which goes live on   Wednesday, is pioneering, not least because users will be able to buy original pieces of art for 36p a time, compared with the thousands of pounds that the artists' work commands.George Barber, the abstract painter, produced what looks like a nighttime cityscape. He had set out to create an image free of any reference to the real world, but found that being restricted to working with lines   and no colour meant that everything he did ended up looking like a city skyline.He said: "There are many logos available for phones but none of them has their status underwritten by a gallery. Suddenly each collection of lines and spaces looks very different and at the same time says different things about its owner - exactly how the purchase of art always operates."Tracey Newman, who created a mobile image on the same killer bees theme as her paintings, agreed: "This is a really challenging medium to work with. It's exciting to see how my work is received in different media."It's not just that it's done in pixels rather than paint, but also that it will be on a phone. It gives loads of people a chance to see art on their terms."Useful linksBritart.comVodafone
'The greatest gift of any statesman,' wrote Metternich, 'rests not in knowing what concessions to make, but in recognising when to make them.'Step forward William H. Gates III, co-founder and now Chief Software Architect of the world's most aggressive company.Gates, as every schoolboy knows, has been throwing his weight around in the computer business for decades, a practice whichlanded him in the US courts on anti-trust charges.Last year Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson found that Microsoft had violated the Sherman anti-trust Act by unlawfully tying its internet browser to its Windows operating system.The appropriate legal remedy would be for Microsoft to be broken up - as AT&amp;T was, decades earlier. Microsoft appealed and in June the appeals court overturned the break-up ruling.This was widely reported in the media as 'Microsoft Wins Court Battle'. But the truth is more complicated. The Appeals Justices agreed in part with Judge Jackson's finding that Microsoft had engaged in anti-competitive behaviour and on one key point concluded that the company still stands guilty of using illegal practices to maintain its monopoly position.The court also ruled that Jackson's 'findings of fact' and 'conclusions of law' should stand. The case was referred back to the lower court - but with a different judge.Cue Metternich.Sensing that the Bush administration had no appetite for a prolonged legal siege, Gates &amp; Co decided that a few tactical concessions were in order. First they announced that the controversial 'Smart Tags' feature in their new Windows XP operating system would not ship.     Then Microsoft announced that it would cease prohibiting computer manufacturers from putting   logos for non-Microsoft products on the desktops of pre- installed Windows XP machines. The subtext of this diversionary PR campaign was this: Microsoft may be the 800lb gorilla of the computing business, but from now on it would be a kinder, gentler gorilla.Ho, ho. The truth is more interesting. Microsoft has long realised that its PC monopoly is a declining asset in an internet-centred world in which people access the network via a range of devices other than PCs.The reason Gates stepped down as chief executive to lead Microsoft's software development was because he wanted to prepare the company to dominate this emerging net-centric world as comprehensively as it ruled the PC-centred one.Because the courts and the media are preoccupied with the latter, why not throw them some meaningless concessions to distract them while Gates &amp; Co get on with the serious stuff?If you want to know what they're really up to, take a look at their 'passport' service. To the uninitiated, it may look like a common-sense convenience - instead of having to remember dozens of passwords for various facilities in a networked world, why not have one place which securely (!) keeps your personal details and makes them available automatically to other services for which sign up? What could be simpler?To a more discriminating nose, however, the passport idea stinks. One expert describes it as a 'blatant attempt to build the world's largest, richest consumer database, and then make fabulous profits mining it.It's a terrifying threat to everyone's personal privacy and it will make today's "cookies" seem positively tame by comparison. The scariest thing is that Microsoft is advertising passport as if it were a benefit to consumers - and people seem to be falling for it!'Another describes it succinctly thus: 'Microsoft wants to own your identity and rent it back to you for a few bucks per month.'Meanwhile Gates's plans for the technology were summed up at a recent press conference. 'It's our goal', he said, 'to have virtually everybody who uses the internet to have one of these passport connections.' Concessions - what concessions?john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Granada, the struggling ITV company, yesterday said it plans to cut up to 80 jobs from Wellbeing, the health TV channel and website.The operation, a joint venture with Boots, launched only four months ago but has not been a success with viewers. Reports suggest it has attracted an average of just 12,000.Fellow ITV company Carlton also confirmed plans to close its two remaining non-programme related websites Popcorn and Jamba. Carlton is merging its internet resource into a central ITV operation, and is cutting 40 jobs.Both moves will further depress sentiment surrounding the sustainability of the "new economy". Wellbeing was conceived as a broadband operation which would combine a TV channel and interactive services. Currently programmes on specific areas of health such as asthma redirect to the internet site where Boots products can be bought.Granada had hoped it would be a blueprint for future joint ventures and the two sides promised an investment of &#163;18m this year. A spokeswoman said the cuts, which will leave Wellbeing with 30 staff, were not related to the wider malaise at ITV. "We reviewed the content on the station and will be reformatting to focus on certain areas and less live programming. This was a new venture and has nothing to do with the rest of ITV."There is growing expectation that there will be a shake out among the hundreds of digital TV channels that have launched. Smaller channels are coming under increasing pressure from terrestrial broadcasters' digital channels including E4 and the planned ITV Sport.There is speculation that Granada is also planning to pare back its Breeze entertainment channel.
Microsoft is preparing to return to court in the US to challenge an earlier decision that it has hampered competition by weaving its internet browser and Windows operating system together.In a move which legal experts suspect is a delaying tactic, the software company has asked a US appeals court to re-examine the ruling that it has illegally "co-mingled" the computer code to Explorer with Windows.The challenge risks reopening one of America's most high-profile lawsuits but, if successful, could allow the company free rein to launch its next generation Windows this autumn.Last month the US court of appeals for the District of Columbia overturned an earlier ruling that Microsoft must be split into two separate companies.However, the court, which condemned the original trial judge Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson for his handling of the case, did rule that Microsoft has engaged in "exclusionary conduct" by bundling its browser together with Windows.Microsoft is requesting a rehearing, saying that "a full review of the record establishes that there is no foundation to sustain the conclusion, and that further review of this issue is in the best interest of the law, of the technology industry and of consumers".The news came as Microsoft's web portal MSN announced a link-up with online banking business Egg. The deal will give the UK-based financial services company a springboard into western Europe. MSN's European websites receive about 42m unique visitors each month.Egg's chief executive Paul Gratton said the company is planning a pilot scheme in the UK which will be launched towards the end of the year. A full service for UK visitors to MSN will be launched next spring. Beyond that, Mr Gratton said Egg, which was floated by Prudential in June last year, would start to offer financial services across mainland Europe.
Winners of the Webbys, the annual awards for the best and brightest in the dot.com world, are limited to five words in their acceptance speeches.One, the online magazine Plastic.com, had already gone bust when the awards were presented on Wednesday night, and duly summed up the bitter-sweet mood of this year's event with the words: "Bankruptcy never felt so good."Many other nominees and previous winners were either no longer in existence or in deep financial trouble, but the atmosphere in the War Memorial opera house in San Francisco was determinedly upbeat and jolly.The spirit of the start-up world was perhaps best reflected by a Judy Garland impersonator who sang Somewhere over the Rainbow.Outside the opera house Thomas Muscante stood beside the red carpet holding outa sign saying: "Will swap options for food".He said he had worked for three companies which failed, and was left with little more than a company baseball cap and T-shirt. But he was hoping that his own new website (devminds.com) might yet take off.More than 500 dot.coms have become dot.gones in the past 18 months, and if anyone had created a perfume for the night it might have been called Schadenfreude.Tiffany Shlain, listed in the programme as "Founder, Director, Survivor" of the awards, told the cheering audience of 3,000-plus, who had been told to "dress gutsy". "We've all had a painful year".She added: "Whether a great creation stays in business or not does not diminish its value."Her point was underlined by the night's theme: Darwinian natural selection.Among the nominees that were gone or going were Feed magazine, Plastic.com, Popular Power and ChickClick. Previous winners which have hit hard times or folded are Napster, Gamers Central, BeZerk, Family Planet and AudioNet.Of the 71 previous winners, more than a third have run into financial problem. Four of the five nominated in the news category this year - CNN, Salon, Inside and CNet - have been laying off staff.The Webbys were launched in 1997 as the awards of the then new International Academy of Digital Arts and Science, which now has about 350 members, chosen for their excellence in the field of online content.Its members and judges have included David Bowie, Matt Groening, Tina Brown, Larry Ellison, Francis Coppola and Bjork.This year's event, with 30 categories of awards, was the biggest yet. Some of the winners were familiar names in the business: Microsoft Windows Update was the only recipient to be booed, when it won the technical achievement Webby.Yahoo won the finance award. The Onion was a popular choice in the humour category, as was Peter Pan in the weird category.Julia Butterfly Hill, who stayed up a tree for more than a year in a successful campaign against timber felling, handed the activist Webby to VolunteerMatch who told the audience: "Just volunteer - it's that easy.""Spy on Washington - it's fun," said OpenSecrets.org when it won the politics award."Thanks, now please go away," said Travelocity on winning the commerce award.BBC World Service won best radio Webby. Other winners included: Swell.com (sport), Sputnik7 (music) and Requiem for a Dream (film). Google.com won the best-practices award.The Scottish actor Alan Cumming brought all his skills from his old Broadway role as the MC in Cabaret to the event and relished reading out the name of one nominee, fuckedcompany.com (it can never be mentioned in American newspapers), nominated in the humour category.The night's only standing ovation went to three grand old men of the internet world. Vint Cerf, one of its inventors, gave the annual achievement award to Douglas Engelbart, who helped to create the first non-network e-mail system, in the 60s, and also developed the computer mouse, and Ray Tomlinson, who is credited with inventing e-mail in 1971.
Napster has been permitted to temporarily resume its online song-swapping service following a federal appeals court ruling yesterday.The district court in San Francisco had ruled a week ago that Napster had to stop its service unless it could guarantee 100% blocking of the songs that record labels identified as copyrighted.Napster appealed, arguing that it could block more than 99% of unauthorised songs on its service with new audio technology that it is testing, but could not guarantee total success.The federal appeals court responded by releasing a terse note yesterday saying that last week's ruling, made by Judge Marilyn Hall Patel, would be "stayed pending a further order of this court".It then granted a temporary stay and said it would review Napster's appeal further before issuing a final order, meaning it could still uphold Patel's ruling.The ruling from the federal appeals court does not mean that Napster can return to its old free-swapping ways. The company still has to comply with the terms of an original court order that requires it to block copyrighted songs.The latest version of the software, which everyone subscribing to the service now must use, blocks far more songs than the ones identified by the record companies.Napster would not comment on whether it immediately planned to restart its currently closed service. The company had taken the service down on July 1 to upgrade technology used to filter files of copyrighted music.A spokesman said: "We're studying the implications of the decision. We continue to push ahead with the launch of our new membership service later this summer."The Recording Industry Association of America said it expected the injunction to be back in place as soon as the appeals court had reviewed all the facts."The evidence in this case clearly shows that Napster has not done all it can do to police its system," Cary Sherman, the RIAA's general counsel, said in a statement.Related articles12.07.2001: Napster to stay offline05.07.2001: Slaves to the rhythmUseful linkaNapsterNapster news - Recording Industry Association of America
Mitsubishi's Trium Mondo - launched this week - claims to be the first GPRS "always on" phone with integrated facilities for Word and Excel, not to mention downloading MP3 and video clips.   In a (shortish) demo the Mondo, which uses Microsoft's PocketPC platform, gave speedy access to my Yahoo email in a way that no small screen Wap phone has been able to. That is a big plus. The downside is that it weighs 200g, more than twice as much as conventional mobiles. It costs &#163;400 to &#163;500 on contract plus telephone costs plus monthly charges ranging from &#163;3.99 to &#163;7.99, so it will appeal initially to business people    who want to sync with their office while on the move.It also synchronises with your PC so you can instantly update Excel and Word files.BT Cellnet, on whose network it runs, claims it will be cheaper than ordinary mobiles because you only pay for the data you upload or download, instead of being charged all the time you are on, as with current Wap models.It accessed Wap sites such as Google within seconds rather than the minutes associated with GSM. You can receive a telephone call then continue from where you left off on your Wap site. MP3 worked reasonably well, as did the video clips (in 16 greyscale monochrome).It is an impressive device in a world that is almost satiated with impressive devices. It works the way we thought Wap phones would 18 months ago but didn't - at about three times Wap speed. But it won't be easy for manufacturers to overcome the wapathy factor, especially as consumers know they will soon be bombarded with rival products.One example is the Sagem WA 3050 which, like the Mondo, uses Microsoft's PocketPC software. It is available now as a GSM phone for Orange or Vodafone, and is software upgradable to GPRS (but not yet).The WA 3050 uses a faster 206MHz Arm chip than the Mondo, weighs 198g, and also has an expansion port on the back. As well as the standard Microsoft Pocket Office software, features include a data/fax modem, Wap, and the ability to send a text file as a series of SMS messages.It is expensive at &#163;699, says Sagem's Jean-Paul Thierry, "but not compared with a phone plus an MP3 player plus a PDA, and here you have everything in one."
Soon, criminals will be as keen to steal their victims' identities to penetrate bank accounts, bypass corporate security systems or obtain loans as they are to nick physical possessions, according to the Department of Trade and Industry.In the US, it is already so pervasive that this year, an estimated 700,000 Americans will fall victim. If identity management is such a hot issue, why have solutions been so slow to get in to the mass market? We know the technology exists to solve the problem: digital signatures, deployed in the context of a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI). Yet PKI remains virtually unused in today's business environment. Why? PKI is too complicated for end-users, administrators and managers. A technical person can download and install a certificate (a kind of digital identity) in their browser, but a lay person will never make it through the process, especially since they don't understand what a certificate is anyway. It is too expensive. Not just the cost of buying and installing the software from Baltimore or whoever, but the cost of support as well.As an infrastructural investment, PKI needs a strategic approach. Using it to solve a username/password problem is like using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. Yet another reason could be that many people still do not understand what digital signatures can and can't do. PKI isn't a single technology: it is more like a complex grouping of technologies.In essence, a digital signature allows me to do two things: I can send a message to my bank, for example, confident that only the bank will be able to read it. That's called encryption. In turn, the bank will be confident that my message came from me and was not altered in transit. That's called authentication. These two key functions are being developed by digital signature legislation in various jurisdictions.PKI has become the de facto standard, particularly in Europe, and most legislation is based on PKI, even though there are other ways to implement digital signatures. A certain amount of digital signature legislation has been passed in Europe and the US, meaning that digital signatures have legal status. But a digital signature isn't really the same thing as a written signature on a piece of paper. In fact, even calling it a "signature" can be misleading for a number of reasons. First, there are verification problems. When I use a pen to sign a physical piece of paper, I can see the paper I'm signing. But when I'm presented with a document on a computer screen and sign it by, for example, inserting my smart card encoded with my private key into a reader attached to the computer, I could be signing absolutely anything.Second, there are identity problems. Unless the use of my private key is unmistakably linked to me - say, through a biometric identifier such as my fingerprint - then even if a document does carry my digital signature there is no proof I actually signed it. Third, I could always be able to claim that someone else used a copy of my key. If, for example, a bank generates a private key for me and gives me a copy, I might claim I did not actually sign a document, and that someone in the bank must have given my key to a third party. So is it possible to imagine a time when the problems of identity, trust and reputation will be solved? Yes, absolutely. But not yet.One day, digital identities and digital signatures will be central to life online. But to imagine that PKI will instantly solve all the problems of e-commerce and e-crime is not just premature, but plain wrong.
Last Thursday's Step By Step feature on spring cleaning a PC's disk drive - technically not part of Ask Jack - dominated the week's email. Not everyone was able to complete every step, but the only common problems are described here under Scan &amp; defrag.Deryck Johnsonproposed a different solution: let a program do the work. He recommends Webroot's Window Washer (www.webroot.com/washer.htm). "This little package will perform all you have described and more every time you either open or close Windows or at the click of an icon. A great timesaver for those who appreciate good housekeeping," he says. (There is also a MacWasher for Mac users.) However, Window Washer is not free. It is shareware and costs $29.95 to register.Scan &amp; defragWhen I run ScanDisk, I eventually get a message that says: "ScanDisk has restarted 10 times because Windows or another program has been writing to this drive. Quitting some running programs may enable ScanDisk to finish sooner." But, as far as I can tell, no programs are actually running.Michael Bealesbealesm@onetel.net.uk&#183;When cleaning my C: drive, it all seemed to work perfectly until I came to the defragmenting. After an hour, the progress bar was fluctuating between 0 and 4%. What I should do?Andrew Campbellandrewjcampbell@talk21.comJack Schofield replies:Both ScanDisk and Disk Defragmenter are fussy: they don't like other programs using the drive at the same time. Often they are interrupted by background programs that you may not be able to see, such as virus scanners. The simple solution is to give your PC the "three fingered salute", Ctrl-Alt-Del. This pops up a task list of the programs that Windows is running. Select the one you think may be causing the problem and click End Task. You can close down everything except Explorer and Systray, the System Tray.Alternatively run ScanDisk from MS-DOS. Go to Start| Shut Down, select Restart in MS-DOS Mode, and type scandisk at the prompt.Microsoft has an article about tackling thisScanDisk problem.If that does not help, there are another18 articlesabout ScanDisk problems on Microsoft.Disk Defragmenter problems can be tackled in the same way. In this case, Microsoft has anadvice note, and there are another20 articlesto look through on the site.The best approach is often to restart your PC in Safe Mode and run Disk Defragmenter from there.Virus checkI tried to download F-Prot, which you recommended as a free virus checker. However, it seems it is no longer free.Haroldkelowna@glbanks.fsnet.co.ukJS :Frisk Software International's F-Prot is still available free for home (non-commercial) use. It is only available to run under MS-DOS, but this does not stop it from finding Windows viruses and macro viruses. A helpful place to download it isDon Schneider's Unofficial Aptiva Support Site.Once you have the program, you only have to download new virus definition files, Sing.def and Macro.def.The paid-for version, FP-WIN, includes F-Prot for Windows 95/98/NT, F-Prot for DOS, F-StopW and F-Macrow for $25. You can download a trial copy fromwww.complex.is/f-prot/Caps lockedOn June 14 you gave an address to download a program to disable the PC's caps lock key. The URL now says it is no longer available.C P Youngpyoung@vipintersoft.comJS:Sorry, I can no longer find a source for the free version of this program, AntiCapsLock Lite. However, you can still get the more versatile version fromwww.orionsoft.cz. It is shareware and costs $10 to register.Desk to laptopCan I transfer my Favorites from my desktop PC (Windows 98) to my laptop (Windows ME) by floppy disk? If so, how?Roy Blandroy@bellives.demon.co.ukJS:Each Favorite - a link to a website - is stored as a separate file in special directory at C:\Windows\Favorites. You can simply copy these files and folders from one PC to the Favorites folder on another. Internet Explorer also lets you import and export Favorites, to move them or to make a handy back-up. Go to the File menu and select Import and Export. A wizard will take you through the process.Back chat&#183;Chris Dunnwanted a quiet PC. I did not know of any, but several readers suggested Carillon Audio Systems, whichRichard Kitchsays "has just started selling PCs designed to eliminate noise for use by musicians." Seewww.carillondirect.com.Stuart Patersonalso mentioned Red Submarine (www.sub.co.uk), another company that sells to musicians. Both have been featured in Sound on Sound magazine.&#183;Ronnie Hopewanted a TV-out card for his PC, so that he could watch DVD movies on his TV set.Phil Kempsays that as long as you don't want to use the TV as a second monitor, a Realmagic Hollywood Plus MPEG-2 decoder card does the job. Seewww.imagomicro.co.uk/Sigma/hollywood.htm. Phil bought the same device from a different supplier, packaged as a Lilith DVD card.&#183;John Marshallwanted a free mailing list server to replace Microsoft's ListBot, and I suggested Topica (www.topica.com/services/listbot.html).William Hudsonpoints out that you can run your own lists from Yahoo Groups, formerly eGroups, and he does. Go tohttp://groups.yahoo.com.
Psion has lost its grip on the handheld computer market. Palm is in trouble, and may have to use millions of unsold machines as landfill. Handspring is only expecting to sell half as many of its Palm-compatibles as it was in May. But only three months ago, this was a booming market. What went wrong?Psion, the small British company that invented the electronic organiser, shocked supporters last week when it announced it was bowing out of the consumer market for personal digital assistants (PDAs).However, the company had been heading for trouble for some time. It had failed to keep up with the rapid pace of the market, and failed to become a global player, its machines being almost unknown in the US and Japan. It had also failed to secure a substantial backer for its next-generation device, codenamed Odin. It did have a deal with Motorola, the US telephone and chip giant, but Motorola had its own problems and pulled out.Another factor helped trigger the decision. David Potter, Psion's founder and chairman, said the PDA market was "grossly oversupplied". Peter Bancroft, Psion's spokesman, put it more bluntly: "We reckon there are between 5m and 6m unsold Palms out there."Palm, the market leader, has evidently bungled a product transition in a big way. The company recently admitted it had 10 weeks' worth of unsold stock. Falling prices meant its revenues slumped by 52% to $165m in its last financial quarter, and after write-offs, it made a loss of $392m.Psion's figures reveal a similar downturn. Things do not look bad on the surface: Psion Group revenues for the first half of the year grew 5% to &#163;99m. However, revenues from Psion Digital, which includes the PDA products, slumped from &#163;77m to&#163;36m, while revenues from Psion's Teklogix division - based on a Canadian company Psion bought in September - increased from &#163;17m to &#163;63m.Has the "electronic Filofax" gone out of fashion, just like its paper-based forebear? Has the whole product category failed to cross the chasm between being a niche item for yuppies, hobbyist PC users and programmers to a genuine mass consumer market?Brian Gammage, principal analyst with Gartner Group in the UK, thinks not. He says there is still an enormous market as business applications are developed to exploit wireless handheld devices."We may have had a blip in the second quarter, but there have been short-term conditions affecting the retail market. We're talking about postponed purchasing decisions rather than abandoned decisions."Blip or not, Gammage believes Compaq could have sold between four and 10 times as many iPaq PocketPC palmtops as it was able to deliver.Part of Psion's problem is that when Microsoft raised the bar with its PocketPC software, the third version of Windows CE, it failed to respond. It is still selling machines that do not provide very good synchronisation with Microsoft's Outlook information manager, that don't let users synchronise and back up their data to web-based services, that don't communicate with PCs via high-speed USB cables, and so on. "We didn't acquit ourselves as well as we might have," concedes Bancroft.The expectation was that Psion would have new products on offer, with Bluetooth wireless for short-range communications (personal area networking), and the ability to exploit broader wireless communications networks. That is what Symbian, the software house spun out of Psion in June 1998, has been working on. But Psion has decided not to replace its ageing Series 5 and Revo lines.David Lewin, Psion's chief executive, says that with the commoditisation of the market, "at some time we were going to have to call time on new developments. We're calling time now."Psion's view is that standalone PDAs are going to be replaced by converged devices that are also mobile phones. "We could have leapfrogged into that market with Odin," says Bancroft, "but we'd have been launching a new product in an unproven market with a channel that's relatively unknown, and where our brand is relatively unknown."Palm has a different view. Martin Worth, who handles Palm's accounts with retailers such as Dixon's, says: "We don't believe this story of oversupply worldwide, and in the UK, we are not sitting on a lot of stock." As for the convergence of mobile phones and PDAs, it hasn't happened yet."I still see a great deal of life in the two-piece solution," says Worth, "especially with Bluetooth. If a phone has all the functionality of a Palm, it is not going to be small: we're back to housebrick-style products. The two-piece solution gives users the flexibility to take whichever device they need, and lets them choose the coolest devices!"The consumer is going to decide, but it is the desirability factor that drives the market," Worth says.People want "the latest and greatest" devices, but this year it has been Compaq's iPaq, a PocketPC design, rather than a Palm. Worth does not agree: "When Compaq launched, our sales went up as well. It attracted attention to the whole category. It's a great product, but the 500 series has put the attention back on us."Perhaps. But market researchers say iPaq sales have boomed. Canalys, a specialist IT research company based in Reading, says sales of Compaq palmtops in western Europe grew by 1,018% in the year's first quarter, compared with a 61% growth for Palm and a 5% decline for Psion. Canalys puts market shares at 51% for Palm, 21% PocketPC and 13.5% Symbian/Psion in a segment that also includes smart phones from Nokia and Ericsson (www.canalys.com/pr/r2001051.htm).Last month, Tod Kort, a principal analyst with the Gartner Group in the US, even predicted that Compaq would overtake Palm by the value of its palmtop sales, if not by volume. Kort expected the average price of Palm machines to fall to $209, earning about $135m, while iPaqs selling at about $500 would earn Compaq around $200-$250m.The US retail market is still dominated by Palm-compatibles including Handspring Visors and Sony Cliees. However, the iPaq has become the system of choice for corporations, who need the extra power to run applications, and who value its ability to synchronise data with Microsoft Outlook and other Office software.Palm's position could well get worse before it gets better. Motorola, which supplies the antique Dragonball processor used in Palm handhelds, is adding the UK-developed ARM core chip used in the iPaq, but Gartner analysts do not expect Palm handhelds to use it until late next year. By that time, the PocketPC will have gone through another revision, which Microsoft plans to preview on August 22.To save cash, Palm has also cancelled a deal to take over Extended Systems, which supplies server and comms software needed to integrate handhelds into business systems. Chris Le Tocq, principal analyst with Guernsey Research in Los Altos, California, says this leaves Palm dangerously exposed. He thinks it will get squeezed in the consumer market, by Sony and other consumer electronics manufacturers, and squeezed out of the business market by the arrival of Microsoft's .Net.At Microsoft, "they see CE devices such as PocketPCs as full .Net clients," says Le Tocq. Web-based services are coming, you will expect all your devices to work with them, "and devices that don't work with &#91;.Net&#93; are going to be off your list."Microsoft would be very happy to have .Net applications run on Palm, but Palm is not a participant," Le Tocq adds. "They could be if they wanted to be, but I'm not sure that they have the will. There are echoes of Apple, and some of the arrogance thereof. My advice is: 'You may not like it, but you've got to get with it.' "Microsoft .Net is aimed at mobile phones as well as PCs and PDAs, so Symbian faces the same problem, says Le Tocq. Symbian thought it had a huge market lead but it will not be long before PocketPC software appears in mobile phones such as the Sendo 100 and Siemens SX-45.PocketPC palmtops with built-in telephony are now appearing. Sagem, a French manufacturer, has just launched the WA 3050 monochrome device that works with standard GSM mobile networks including Orange and Vodafone (&#163;699 in PC World) and BT Cellnet has unveiled the similar Trium Mondo system using GPRS.Gammage, from Gartner's UK office, says: "This is a phoney market right now because it's a gadget market. We are still waiting for the infrastructure to roll out, and the devices themselves are not yet standardised."That is what Microsoft wants to do. It has yet to win the battle but it is defining the war.&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The poisoned chalice of the internet world is surely the chairmanship of Icann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. First it tainted the well-known "netrepreneur" Esther Dyson, who filled the position from Icann's founding in 1998 until November 2000. Now, the position threatens to damage one of the technology world's more admired figures, the vice president of WorldCom, Vint Cerf.Cerf is widely viewed as the father of the internet for having co-developed the language that lets one computer talk to another over the networks that became the internet. Icann's job is to administer the internet's most basic function - the names and numbers that identify computers to each other. The numbers are the IP (internet protocol) addresses, the "real" net addresses you see flash up in a corner of your web browser's window when you type in a website name. The names are the domain names - such as guardian.co.uk, or yahoo.com - that are associated with the numbers but are easier for people to remember.Much of this work was done by two entities until 1998. One is viewed as a techie saint - the late Jon Postel, the computing guru at the University of Southern California. Postel developed many of the basic protocols of net administration and ran the Internet Assigned Names Authority (Iana), which dealt with matters involving addresses. The other was a US company called Network Solutions, which managed domain names in a heavy-handed way.Both were acting through agreements with the US government, which originally funded the development of the internet. As the web began to take off in 1996, the US government decided the administration of the net should lie elsewhere: there was simultaneously a push to internationalise the net's governance. Icann was born, and Dyson was asked to chair it.The consensus is that Icann has done an appalling job. Created to bring more openness to the net's administration, it held board meetings behind closed doors. Handed crucial tasks such as creating top level domain names - .com, .org and .net have just about been depleted - they did more closed-door debating and created controversy by letting large corporates win the right to administer six new domains. Needing to secure contracts for managing the highest level of domain administration, they engaged in further secretive discussions and, to much alarm, gave the lucrative job to VeriSign - which now owns Network Solutions, the organisation Icann was created to disembowel.When Icann finally decided to hold elections for five board positions last year, many could not vote because of technical problems. And now, Icann is considering requiring all domain name owners to reveal their full identity and mailing addresses in the net's Whois directory, the online phonebook of domain names. Unsurprisingly, Icann has seen nothing but bickering and a bitter gnawing on various bones of contention by lawyers, corporations, consumer advocates and so on.This often-noxious crew was never going to find ground for consensus because, by and large, it represents extremes of opinion. Have you ever heard of Icann? Have you contributed to the debates concerning the organisation?. The majority would surely say no: a measly 11,309 cast online ballots in Europe for the one elected European member at large. Yes, the system was flawed, but this is still an appallingly low turnout. Did I vote? No. Almost none of us, except a few vested or passionate interests, are bothering with Icann. Yet Icann is making vital decisions about our net.Despite the ideals with which it was created, Icann can't seem to get anything right. They consistently alienate. One could argue - and Dyson does, in an interview on theOpendemocracy.net website, that Icann highlights a basic, irreconcilable struggle - the one between the business world, which thinks the net is its marketing tool; some governments, which would like to control content and access; and everyone else, a grab bag of what one might call netizens. Yet Jon Postel managed to balance many of these squabbling interests for years.The most powerful group in the mix is the Icann board, mostly unelected and mostly from the corporate or government worlds. Dyson is candid in her criticisms of the narrowmindedness of the board. Yet where were these insights when she was in charge? Now Cerf is trying to build trust in Icann. But the VeriSign shenanigans occurred under his watch, and one wonders if he will be able to cast away the chalice.
Chat up lines are to become a thing of the past thanks to location-based mobile services.  Pollen Mobile (www.pollen-mobile.com), is offering a text messaging service called Mamjam (www.mamjam.com).   The service is simple to operate, since it has been designed for use in bars and clubs, where, presumably fuelled by drink and lust, users can send messages to each other in the knowledge that the recipients are in the vicinity. Mamjam doesn't use the cellular networks to locate its users. It relies on users "texting" the service with their location, and pairs them up with other users in the same vicinity. The "location" can be almost anywhere - London, or even The Ritz, if you fancy texting a toff or two.Magnus Wood of Pollen says that trials of the free service in London and Manchester have been an overwhelming success. "People who've never met are sending each other up to 50 messages in a session, knowing that the other person is in the same location," he says. And with the most expensive texting network, Vodafone (www.vodafone.co.uk) is now offering 50 text messages at half price (&#163;3 a month) to its monthly billing subscribers, on top of myriad cheap texting deals on other cellular networks, Mamjam could be a summer sensation.Those over clubbing age might not take to Mamjam's approach. But texting can still be useful, as witnessed by Maporama's (www.maporama.com) Brand Search Around service. Maporama has been offering zoomable and interactive online maps to web and mobile internet users for some time, but the new service allows advertisers to offer highly customised maps to their customers. When users have viewed the map online, they can also download it to their mobile phone using graphics-enabled text messages, which most of the latest generation of handsets support. The service has been beta tested by two companies - Thompson Multimedia and Europcar (www.europcar.com).The facility allows users to tap in a location and pull up a map of Europcar rental outlets. This map information can then be "drilled down" to just a few streets and transferred to a mobile. The success of text messaging has caught the mobile industry with its pants down, as most SIM cards - which contain the intelligence of a mobile phone - are limited to 10 or even five text messages in their memory.Perhaps with this in mind, Norway's Telenor (www.telenor.com) has started issuing its subscribers with two SIM cards - one for regular use and the other specifically for text messaging. The second SIM has a larger memory than normal for 200 names and numbers, as well as room for up to 30 SMS text messages. Vodafone is watching Telenor's progress with interest: the network has just launched its MultiSIM facility, which allows up to 10 SIMs to be registered to one phone number.
