How much does technology play a part in your illusions? Or would that be cheating?There's a whole area in the magic world of clever, electronic props, but if you are a professional performer, doing it every night, six months on tour, there's just no way you can work with things like that. Sometimes they won't work; they'll break and then you're stuck in front of 3,000 people. Also the reason I do what I do is because is because I love the process of having to make it work, so it takes the fun out of it to have some gadget that does it for you.How have other magicians  incorporated it?There's always been technology that is just ahead of what the public are aware of. Way back when, one of the performers I really like was an early mind-reader called Alexander; that exotic image of the turbaned mind-reader comes from him. But the reason he had a big turban was that he had a massive electronic headpiece underneath it that would allow somebody to feed him information.In what ways has your life been improved by technology?I love technology but I don't know if my life's been improved. Like everybody I spend a lot of time browsing my phone but equally I'm aware that's kind of disgusting. I'll go off on holiday with my partner and we are sitting on some amazing beach and he's looking through Twitter. I always feel a bit sad, but I'm equally aware that I do that same thing.Is it annoying to be always contactable?All those things are neutral: it's what you do with it that will make it worse or better. But I do find that we judge everything – a conversation, a dinner – on whether it's less or more interesting than browsing your phone. That's now the default level of whether something is going to engage your attention or not.What's the most ridiculous gadget you've bought and never used?A hot-towel dispenser! I'm stubbly now, but for a long time with the goatee I used to really love shaving. So I got myself this hot-towel dispenser and it was just rubbish. It was a huge thing and it churned out these really horrible, thin, wet, rolled-up towels – not lovely fluffy flannels. I couldn't bring myself to throw it away – my other half was telling me I was an idiot – so out of defiance I kept it for a year. I probably took four towels out of it in the course of the year.What is your greatest tech extravagance?I've got through quite a few animatronic chimp heads. I love animatronic stuff. I really like things that look real and aren't. This was just an electronic chimp head that reacts and would scream at everything. I put it in a dome – I've got quite a lot of taxidermy so I used to have it among the taxidermy and people would and look at them and this thing would start screaming, which would freak them out. But they'd always break, so I've got through a lot of those.What would you make on a 3D printer?I haven't got one but I definitely will. For Christmas, my other half and I did these3D modelsfor each other – you go and stand in a big room and they take a picture and then they make an Action Man version of yourself.Time travel – when would you go to?Very boring but I'd go forward, get the lottery numbers and do that all again. But actually win it this time for myself. Pathetic, isn't it?You're on the road a lot – how has technology changed that experience?My Kindle has been revolutionary, as I don't do much on tour apart from read.  I was waiting for ages for Bose to bring out noise-cancelling in-ear headphones, rather than the great big things. They are amazing.What gadget would you like to see invented?A proper domestic robot. I'm very aware I should think of something noble and worthwhile that could serve society,  but that would excite me hugely. I wouldn't want something that looked like Apple had made it; it would be a bit more likeMetal Mickey. And the moment it looks like it could become sentient, kill it.Derren Brown: Infamous runs from  9 February-27 July (derrenbrown.co.uk)
Q Why does pastis (Pernod, Ricard etc) go cloudy when you add water?asks Geoff CragoA Adding water to pastis tips a delicate chemical balance resulting in a rapid change in the appearance of the tipple, known as the "ouzo effect". Anise-flavoured liquors such as pastis and ouzo contain an oil, primarily composed of trans-anethol, which gives them their telltale taste. In neat pastis, the alcohol content is high enough to dissolve the oil, so the drink appears transparent. However, the oil is not soluble in water. Hence as water is added, and the ethanol diluted, the oil cannot stay dissolved. Instead it forms very tiny droplets dispersed in the water – an emulsion. Since these droplets are typically around one micrometre in diameter, they are just the right size to interact with visible light, scattering the light waves and so making the drink appear opaque.Q Why can't all plastics be recycled?asks Timothy AA Pretty much all plastics can be recycled in some way. But just what this entails depends upon the type of plastic. "There are two classes of plastics – thermosets and thermoplastics," revealsDr Vannessa Goodshipfrom the University of Warwick. "Many of the consumer items we use and recycle are thermoplastics," she explains. These include PET, PP, HDPE and PVC which can be re-melted and turned into something new. But for thermosets, a different approach is used. "Thermosets do not remelt but degrade," says Goodship. "These cannot be recycled like a milk bottle can, but are often sent for some kind of energy recovery instead." While such incineration processes destroy the material, they allow the energy such plastics contain to be harnessed. There are, however, practical and economic reasons that can create obstacles to recycling. "The families of plastics PET, PP, HDPE and PVC do not mix with each other and have to be separated. Here there are lots of added costs of cleaning, separating and reprocessing to consider," says Goodship. "It is easier to recycle if there is a large volume of the same type of waste which is why the cycling of HDPE (plastic milk bottles) and PET (clear carbonated drinks bottles) are examples of two successfully recycled plastics."Q Why is ancient genetic material usually mitochondrial DNA, not chromosomal DNA?asks Luke RA Scientists have recently extracted and sequencedmitochondrial DNAfrom a bone belonging to an early hominin, dating back 400,000 years – an astonishing feat. After such a long period, many biological molecules will have been damaged or have broken down, DNA included. But asProfessor Michael Hofreiterfrom the University of York explains, mitochondrial DNA has an advantage."Mitochondrial DNA occurs in about 1,000 copies in each cell with a lot of variation, from about 500-5,000 copies," he says. Conversely, for cells within bone, which is the source of most ancient genetic material, there is far less chromosomal DNA. "Nuclear DNA occurs in just two copies per cell," Hofreiter points out. "So chances that some intact copies are left are higher for mitochondrial DNA – it's simply a number's game," he says.Q What would happen if the world stopped spinning?asks AliA Besides disrupting the weather and ocean circulation, this would also stick a spanner in the works when it comes to navigation. AsDr Phil Livermore from the University of Leedstold me, the geographic poles would cease to be a logical point of reference since they would no longer be the only places on Earth that remain fixed in space. What's more, while the poles of the Earth's magnetic field are close to the geographical north and south poles, this might not be the case if the Earth were to stand still. "The Earth's magnetic field is generated in the liquid core of our planet, and is approximately aligned with the rotation axis of the Earth," explains Livermore."The reason why the magnetic field is so aligned is not straightforward, but it is linked to the "weather patterns" of the motion of liquid iron in the core that sustain the field," he says. "If rotation were to cease then these patterns would be destroyed and the magnetic field, if it were still generated, would likely be much more complicated than a dipole (a single north and south pole)."The ramifications on the magnetic field could put the Earth at risk. "This field structure would be much weaker at the Earth's surface and would not protect us as well as the present dipole against harmful solar radiation," Livermore explains. But, while this could damage our satellites and wreak havoc with our communication systems, it may not mean curtains for life. "Such a scenario might be similar as that expected during a global magnetic reversal – there have been many of these in the past and life has survived, but the last was about 800,000 years ago," Livermore adds.Q Why is the blood of a horseshoe crab not red like human blood?asks Lucinda McKayA Humans and other mammals have red blood as a result of the metal-containing protein, or metalloprotein, haemoglobin. The colour arises because the "haem" part of the molecule, which is made up of a ring-shaped structure called a porphyrin, absorbs visible light. Oxygen in the blood latches on to the iron in the centre of this ring, and hence can be delivered to tissues around the body. Blood that contains oxygen is a brighter shade of red than the colour of deoxygenated blood because, as oxygen attaches to the iron, it changes the shape and electronic properties of the haem group and shifts the wavelengths of light absorbed.However, other creatures use different molecules to transport oxygen around their body. Animals such as some snails and horseshoe crabs use metalloproteins called haemocyanins. The colour of haemocyanins is not due to a porphyrin, but arises from a very different structure which contains copper rather than iron. When there is no oxygen about, haemocyanins are colourless, however when oxygen is present they turn blue, resulting in creatures like the horseshoe crab having blue blood. This colour change occurs because each oxygen molecule acts like a bridge between pairs of copper atoms in the haemocyanin, thereby creating a structure that absorbs light in the visible region.Keep the questions coming by emailing science.questions@observer.co.uk. Please include your full name and where you live
Q I read that Facebook employees use a device called a YubiKey to make password authentication more secure. Would you recommend individuals use one?Kris, via emailA TheYubiKeyis a USB device that offers two-factor authentication with single-use passwords. This adds a second layer of security to your computer or online account (for supported services), by generating a unique string that can be verified for authentication, alongside a normal password. You can also program a static password into its second memory space and use it to access1Passwordother or services, which can be made more secure by remembering the first part of a password, then putting the rest into the YubiKey.However, YubiKeys can be quite complicated to use. Adopting good password protection measures such as using1Passwordor similar, keeping your system clear of key loggers and other malware, and keeping your passwords secret, are likely to be much more useful.Q What are the drawbacks of using a Chromebook as your only computer? My seventysomething parents need something to email, web and store photographs on – but upgrading their Macbook would cost three to four times the cost of a Chromebook.Joanna, via emailAA Chromebook makes a good second computer if you dislike touch screens and wish to browse from the sofa. They are quite a limiting primary computer. They have a very limited storage capacity (most have less than 32GB), and limited file-system management. This makes it difficult to manage a large photo library, as you will have to use external hard drives or similar. Editing photos will also be an issue, because web-based photo editors  are still far behind  home tools such as iPhoto.They are great machines for web browsing and other internet-related tasks – but, this is only useful if you have a web connection. Without one, you have a £300+ paperweight.Q I have a Mac and wish to record some gameplay from various consoles. However most of the options seem geared towards PC users. What options do I have?Tyler, via emailA To record gameplay footage on older consoles and the Xbox One you need to use a device called a "capture card" and until recently many of the gaming specific devices did not support the Mac, or had worse Mac applications than the PC counterparts. Fortunately the increased popularity of the Mac has led a few companies to build good Mac solutions. The two that come most highly recommended are theElgato Game Capture HDand theHauppauge HD PVR Gaming Edition Plus. Software-wise, the Elgato is superior, offering in-software basic editing of video, FlashBack (a feature that stores the last 30 mins of video for later recording to avoid missing parts of gameplay), and good usability. Hauppauge is quite basic.It does have an advantage in some cases as it has a lower system specification requirement than the Elgato, which is useful if you intend to repurpose an older computer. The Elgato is more portable than the Hauppauge. It is powered over USB, which may be useful if you do not have a spare socket around your television but may be limiting if your computer does not provide enough power over USB. The Hauppauge is powered by a standard mains adapter.Q I've seen adverts for the Samsung Galaxy Gear, but apparently it  only works with certain devices.  Are there any alternatives?Nicholas, via emailA TheSamsung Galaxy Gearis a smart watch, built by Samsung, which at the time of writing only supports theGalaxy Note&nbsp;3,Galaxy S4, andGalaxy S4 Mini. The Galaxy Gear offers a few unique features, such as the wrist-mounted camera and full colour touchscreen display – but this comes at the cost of battery life. It will need to be charged every day. Another downside of the Gear is that it will only support a limited number of applications.There are alternatives, the most popular of which is thePebble. The Pebble iscompatiblewith all iPhones since the 3GS, and most Android devices that are running OS 2.3 and newer. The Pebble allows you to quickly glance at text messages directly on your wrist and get apps for a variety of different things, such as aRunkeepermonitor. It also maintains a five-to-seven day battery life. There are also some other competitors being developed, or that have been released, such as theSony SmartWatch 2, which only supports Android devices.Daniel is a freelance programmer for iOS and the web. He is a student and has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador for Young Rewired State and can be found on Twitter @DanToml. If you have a tech problem for Daniel, email tech.questions@observer.co.uk with your full name and where you live
No Man's Sky(Hello Games; release and platform TBC)No Man's Skycomes from Guildford and promises us the universe. This intriguing science fiction explorer, made by a small team at indie developer Hello Games, stole the show from a gang of much bigger boys at last year's glitzyVGXawards with a glimpse of untouched oceans, continents and star systems waiting to be found, familiarised and fought over. Players will begin at the edge of a shared galaxy and work inwards, sometimes in co-operation, sometimes in competition, in an environment that is – as a sign of the game's ludicrous ambition – entirely procedurally generated. Whatever platform it's finally confirmed for,No Man's Skywill be essential.DayZ(Bohemia Interactive; PC; Out now [alpha testing version])It speaks to the shifting landscape of PC gaming, in particular, that one of the most awaited games of 2014 has been with us since 2009.DayZstarted life as a mod for military shooterArma IIthat conjured a desolate, dangerous post-civilisation scenario in a post-Soviet state, with swarms of lethal zombies second only to ruthless fellow survivors on the list of things to avoid. Interaction is fraught, supplies are rare and death is permanent, leading to an experience that will wring you emotionally dry in a different way with each respawn. Currently available through early access on Steam,DayZwill be updated throughout 2014.Mario Kart 8(Nintendo; WiiU; spring)Mario's racing circusreturnsboasting the kind of features you'd expect from a sequel with a number that high in the title – not just hang-gliders and underwater vehicles, but all-new anti-gravity sections that bring ceilings and walls into play. Of course the real excitement comes from the fact thatMario Karthas been a reliably excellent family-friendly party stalwart for decades, and Nintendo has shown itself to be a master of artfully sustaining and rejuvenating its key games with a mixture of reverence and creativity. In other words, this is likely to play not just as well as you hope, but as well as you remember.Dark Souls II(Namco Bandai; PS3, Xbox 360, PC; 14 March)Not so much the outgoing generation's last hurrah as its strangled, agonised death cry, one echoing repeatedly off cold stone walls, thanks toDark Souls II's shadowed traps and abrupt ends. The firstDark Soulsestablished itself as something unique; a complex, dungeon-exploring role-player with a cliff-like difficulty curve that was fiendishly hardcore but rewarding enough to cross into the mainstream. With updated visuals and – whisper it – nods to accessibility,Dark Souls IIcould become the last essential game of the outgoing generation.Titanfall(Electronic Arts; Xbox One, PC; 14 March)All you really need to know aboutTitanfallis that it comes from the people – the designers and creators, rather than the company men – who madeCall of Dutyinto the ubiquitous force it is today.Titanfallis their blank cheque project, a gloriously frantic first-person arena of mech suits and multiplayer battles that has wowed critics in early play tests. It's the most awaited blockbuster of the year and could prove an influential exclusive for Xbox One.
What's the story?Despite loading itself up on typicalJapanese role-playing game tropes – four young heroes set out to save a steampunk-esque fantasy world by re-igniting elemental crystals –Bravely Defaultimpresses by dealing with far deeper themes. Faith, obligation, the conflict between tradition and progress, even grief; all are explored with tenderness over the course of this epic adventure.GameplayGameplayBravely Defaultis defined by itsbattle system. It offers a refreshing risk/reward factor that keeps each encounter unpredictable. To "Brave" takes an early extra turn but leaves you defenceless next round, while "Default" banks a turn, letting you unleash hell down the line. Outside of battle, rebuilding a ruined village adds an unexpectedly compulsive Farmville-style background game.Highs and lowsLike many JRPGs, progresscan be grind-heavy – meaning spending time levelling up characters before the team is powerful enough to tackle the next dungeon. The frequency of random battles can be controlled by the player, even turned off entirely, eliminating the frustration of game-ending encounters right before save points.The verdictInBravely Default, developerSquare Enix has recaptured what made its earlierFinal Fantasygames so wonderfully absorbing, while addressing many of the flaws inherent in the genre. It's quite the technical masterpiece, packing in fully voiced cutscenes in English and original Japanese, plus clever uses of the 3DS' online and StreetPass functions. Practically perfect, and thoroughly entertaining.
Saturday marked one year since the death of the internet activist Aaron Swartz. The 26-year-old, who was one of the builders of Reddit,killed himself in New York City on Friday 11 January 2013.At the time of his death, Swartz was facing trial over charges of hacking arising from the downloading of millions of documents from the online research group JSTOR. He faced up to 50 years in prison.On Saturday, the home page of the Massachusetts Institute of Technologywas hacked, reportedly by the Anonymous group. Last year Swartz&apos;s familyaccused MIT and government prosecutors of being complicit in his death.The hackers left a message on the site which read: “The day we fight back.” The website was later unavailable. MIT&apos;s website wasattacked by Anonymous last year.The author and blogger Cory Doctorow,who a year ago published a lengthy tribute to Swartz, was one of a number of writers to mark Saturday&apos;s anniversary.Writing on his boingboing.net website, Doctorow said: “I&apos;ve been feeling pretty hopeless about the future lately, and I think a lot of it has been driven by the impending anniversary of Aaron&apos;s death. The last couple years were hard ones.“Aaron had a gift for identifying the problems that mattered, mapping a theory of change, and then taking it on, step by step. That approach allowed him to undertake challenges that many people, most people, would dismiss as impossible.”The academic and author Lawrence Lessig is leadinga protest march in memory of Swartz. The marchers set off on Saturday, aiming to walk across New Hampshire, the state which will host the first primary of the 2016 presidential election, to promote acampaign against “the system of corruption in Washington”.In an article for the Atlantic, Lessig wrote: “A year ago tomorrow, Aaron Swartz left. He had wound us all up, pointed us in a million directions, we were all working as hard as we could, moving things forward. And then he was gone.”Swartz died five months before Edward Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor,released details of the agency&apos;s domestic and foreign surveillance activities to the Guardian and other media outlets. On Saturday,the Huffington Post published a clip from a forthcoming documentary about Swartz,The Internet&apos;s Own Boy, in which he discusses his view of the NSA and its practices.The Huffington Post quoted Swartz as saying: &quot;It is shocking to think that the accountability is so lax that they don&apos;t even have sort of basic statistics about how big the spying programme is. If the answer is, &apos;Oh, we&apos;re spying on so many people we can&apos;t possibly even count them,&apos; then that&apos;s an awful lot of people.&quot;Documents leaked by Snowden disclosedthe NSA&apos;s collection of the telephone records of millions of Americans.On boingboing.net, Doctorow added: “It takes a tremendous human spirit to look at the failures of the institutions around us – from the breakdown of governmental checks and balances to its war on whistleblowers to the tremendous corporate influence on crafting anti-user policies – and not despair. Aaron taught us that we must not.“He&apos;s inspired people to take up big challenges not out of reckless optimism, but because he believed that if we can see the change we want in the world, we are powerful enough to make it happen. From Lawrence Lessig marching across New Hampshire to address corruption in politics, to public interest groups banding together for a day of action against NSA spying, that legacy lives on.”
BILL GATES, 58Microsoft, co-founder and chairmanWorth:$76.8bnDropped out of:Harvard,&nbsp;MassachusettsInstead:Founded Microsoft. After supplying the operating system for IBM&rsquo;s new PC, he refused to transfer the copyright, so he dominated the market when other businesses copied IBM&rsquo;s hardware.Bill Gates photographed in 1983 in Washington. Photograph: Doug Wilson/CorbisLARRY ELLISON, 69Oracle Corporation, co-founder and CEOWorth: $41bnDropped out of:University of Illinois and University of ChicagoInstead:Set up Oracle Systems Communications. By 1986, it was valued at $55m.Ellison in 1996. Photograph: Andy Watts/Rex FeaturesMARK ZUCKERBERG, 29Facebook Inc, co-founder, chairman and CEOWorth:$19bnDropped out of:Harvard,&nbsp;MassachusettsInstead:Created Facebook in one month, launching it in February 2004. Facebook was floated in 2012 at a value of $104bn and announced it had a billion users.Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APPAUL ALLEN, 60Microsoft, co-founderWorth:$15bnDropped out of:State Washington UniversityInstead:Started Microsoft with Bill Gates in 1975. After their operating system was used for the IBM network, it became standard for all PCs.Allen, pictured in 2003. Photograph: Karen RobinsonMICHAEL DELL, 48Dell Inc, founder, chairman and CEOWorth:$15.3bnDropped out of:University of TexasInstead:Set up "PCs Limited". He employed three people to make the computers. By 1996, Dell Inc was reporting $1m in sales per day.Dell, pictured in his old dorm at the University of Texas in 1999. Photograph: Harry Cabluck/APSTEVE JOBSApple Inc, co-founder and CEOWorth:$8.3bn at his death aged 56 in 2011Dropped out of:Reed College, OregonInstead:Spent 18 months sleeping on friends&rsquo; floors and getting free meals from the Hare Krishnas. Four years after dropping out, Jobs set up Apple Computer. After resigning from Apple in 1985, Jobs went on to set up NeXT Inc. (later bought by Apple for $427m) and Pixar (worth $7.4bn). Returned to Apple in 1996 to eventually become CEO. Jobs applied &ndash; unsuccessfully &ndash; to become a civilian astronaut and fly on the space shuttle.Jobs pictured with an Apple Lisa computer in 1983. Photograph: Ted Thai/Time Life/Getty ImagesELON MUSK, 42PayPal, co-founderWorth:$8.8bnDropped out of:Stanford, CaliforniaInstead:Started an email payment system that became PayPal. Went on to found SpaceX, winning a Nasa contract.Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianSEAN PARKER, 34Napster, co-founderWorth:$2.1bnDropped out of:Nope, he never attended universityInstead:Recruited by the CIA, by the end of high school Parker was making $80,000 a year and so never attended university.Pictured, right, with Snoop Dogg and Alexandra Lenas. Photograph: Kevin Mazur/WireImageEVAN WILLIAMS, 41Twitter, co-founderWorth:$1.5bnDropped out of:University of NebraskaInstead:Started selling tutorial videos to help people get onto the internet. Credited with inventing the term &ldquo;blogger&rdquo;. In 2006 he teamed up with Jack Dorsey and Biz Stone to create Twitter.Photograph: Rick Wilking/ReutersJACK DORSEY, 37Twitter, executive chairmanWorth:$1.2bnDropped out of:New York UniversityInstead:Moved to California in 1999, came up with the idea for Twitter, built the site and posted the first tweet. Over 10bn messages have followed. Also founder of mobile-based payment system Square.Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty ImagesARASH FERDOWSI, 28DropBox, co-founderWorth:$400mDropped out of:Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyInstead:Left MIT to found DropBox with fellow student Drew Houston in 2007. Starting as just a few lines of code written in a bus station, it has now drawn in over 200 million users.Photograph: Peter Dasilva/New York Times/EyevineDANIEL EK, 30Spotify, founder and CEOWorth:$310mDropped out of:&nbsp;Royal Institute of Technology, StockholmInstead:Founded his first company at 14; a millionaire by 23. He set up Spotify with Martin Lorentzon in 2008. He was CEO for &micro;Torrent, the most popular BitTorrent client.Ek pictured in his London office. Photograph: Andrew Testa/Rex FeaturesDAVID KARP, 27Tumblr, founder and CEOWorth:$300mDropped out of:Bronx Science high schoolInstead:Started a software consulting company. Karp started work on a microblogging platform, and launched Tumblr in 2007.Photograph: Don Emmert/AFP/Getty ImagesEVAN SPIEGEL, 23Snapchat, co-founderWorth:$210mDropped out of:Stanford, CaliforniaInstead:Started a PhD in physics in 2012, but dropped out after two days to work on Snapchat, which he started a year earlier with Robert Murphy. A year later, an estimated one in 10 Americans have downloaded the Snapchat app.Picture courtesy of SnapchatPETE CASHMORE, 28Mashable, founder and CEOWorth:$95mDropped out of:Never attended universityInstead:At 19 he founded Mashable, a news and social media website. By 2012 Time listed him as one of the 100 most influential people.Cashmore with Richard Branson on a Virgin flight. Photograph: Handout/Getty ImagesALEXA VON TOBEL, 29LearnVest, founderWorth:Has raised $25m fundingDropped out of:Harvard Business School,&nbsp;MassachusettsInstead:Using experience gained from her time at Morgan Stanley von Tobel set up a personal finance website for women. Told CBS that when she dropped out: &ldquo;My family thought I was crazy pants.&rdquo;Photograph: Vivien Killilea/Getty ImagesSHAWN FANNING, 33Napster, co-founderWorth:$7.5mDropped out of:Northeastern University,&nbsp;MassachusettsInstead:Created Napster in 1999 at the age of 19, with the help of Sean Parker who managed to secure the funding. Changed the worldwide sharing of files and within a year had 20 million users.Fanning at a press conference in 2001. Photograph: Sipa Press/Rex Features
They said the kitchen was the last bastion of the book; that water-phobic, grease-shy computers would never penetrate its steamy walls. Well, they were wrong; last year a survey by the recipe websiteallrecipes.comfound that 44% of respondents claimed digital media was their cooking resource of choice – and I have to admit, I'm among them.I do still love my enormous cookbook collection; tablets don't tend to take so kindly to being splattered with tomato sauce, but they do have certain advantages. For a start, the cleverest apps take on the boring bits of cooking: doing the maths to scale up that lasagne for four to feed a party of six, for example, and then making a shopping list.Many of them will even sync across devices, so the list on your tablet will also pop up on your smartphone in the supermarket.Best of all is the interactivity; puzzled by exactly how fine finely diced carrots are, or indeed the quickest way to produce them?Click on the related knife-skills video for a tutorial from an expert. Just remember to wash your hands first.1) Saveur magazineIOSAndroidfreeOr, in fact food magazines in general: our very own British – and delicious –Olive,JamieandBBC Good Foodall have their own apps, but the real treat for me is flicking through my favourite glossy American food titles without having to pay for transatlantic postage. Sweet potato pie, here I come.2) How to Cook Everything EssentialsIOSfreeMark Bittman, aJames Beardaward-winning formerNew York Timesfood columnist, provides 2,000 recipes for everything from a basic tomato sauce to octopus with tomatoes and red wine, plus cross-referenced advice on equipment and techniques. Unlike some American apps, this is happily fully metric.3) Great British chefsIOSWindows freeOne of my favourite websites comes in a variety of stylish mobile forms (including a great cooking with kids version) and includes recipes from some of the country's finest chefs, beautifully photographed. It also includes a handy shopping list function so you don't forget the fleur de sel or the tonka beans.4) PaprikaIOS£2.99Android£3.05Replace that sheaf of recipes fluttering forlornly from the fridge magnet with this clever electronic manager, which collates all that inspiration in one place. Features include built-in timers, a screen lock so it doesn't switch off in the middle of something and seamless cloud sync across devices.5) myfitnesspalIOSAndroidfreeAn invaluable free resource for anyone who overdid it at Christmas; with over three million foods in their database (some entries are more reliable than others), it's a handy way to keep track of the calories. Though I wish I didn't know that 1tsp olive oil contains 40 of the damn things.Jamie's RecipesIOSfreeJamie's embraced the digital revolution with characteristic enthusiasm; his free app gives you 10 recipes and six videos every month, while subscribers can download collections like money-saving meals. Great interactive photos and tips – though slightly unnerving to have Jamie piping up from nowhere.7) The perfect egg timerIOS69pAndroid£1.29Even food writers aren't always on the ball at breakfast time. This unashamedly simple app, which also comes in a steak version, takes into account temperature, altitude and egg diameter to guarantee you your perfect egg, every time. Genius.8) Modernist cuisine at homeIOS£54.99OK, so this gorgeous paean to cutting-edge cuisine doesn't come cheap, but bear in mind the book's a cool £100, and this has 260 more fiendishly precise recipes and 359 more stunning photos, plus videos, recipe scaling and a shopping list function, and suddenly it seems like quite good value really.9) The Good Fish GuideIOSAndroidfreeIf you can never remember whether eating sea bream will see you eternally damned to environmental hell, then this Marine Conservation Society app should salve your conscience considerably. Almost every fish you're likely to come across in this country is classified as either an eat, or an avoid. No excuses.10) Riverford veg recipesIOSfreeThose who started the year vowing to eat more greens will find this excellent app from the organic vegbox scheme a godsend. It includes nearly 800 recipes, plus storage and preparation tips and a surprisingly fun fruit (veg?) machine-style search tool children will love.
When you get into a car on a&nbsp;cold winter morning, what do you do? Easy. You reach out with your left hand and turn a knob clockwise to make it warmer, and another knob clockwise to make the warm air come out faster. But there is no knob on this. Embarrassingly, I'm doing clockwise air&nbsp;twiddles.So how the hell am I supposed to&nbsp;fend off the filthy British winter? Oh, I see, there is an icon on the touchscreen iPad thing that might have something to do with heating. Yes, that seems to work. Now if I hold my finger on the positive sign, the temperature numbers do increase, slowly, half a degree at a time. But that's only for my side of the car; I've got to do it all again for the passenger side. There's probably a way of linking them, but that would involve looking at the manual, and manuals are for losers, obviously. Now the fan&nbsp;speed: here's another icon that needs to be touched or tapped, for it&nbsp;to increase, slowly.Frankly, it's a pain in the arse. What takes about a second in our ancient Polo is, in this lovely state-of-the-art, knobless, touchscreen new Peugeot 308, eating rudely into my day. And if I had been attempting it while under way, I would almost certainly have crashed. All the good work – of having the main instruments high up, and a small steering wheel I look over, not through, enabling me to concentrate on the road – undone. It's an example of a common problem in automotive design: technology for the sake of it, that wastes time instead of saving it. Electric parking brakes are another one; don't get me started on them.Otherwise, the new 308 is a&nbsp;very decent car. Thanks to clever use of materials (such as an aluminium bonnet), it's lighter than the outgoing model. Lighter and more efficient: fuel economy and&nbsp;emissions are impressive.To drive it won't set your pants on fire. Perfect around town, a bit disconnected on a twisty A-road; a&nbsp;VW Golf or a Ford Focus are more like drivers' cars. But inside it's very pleasant, classy even, and comfortable. There's not a massive amount of legroom in the back, but luggage space is good.The touchscreen-for-everything is annoying enough, though, that it&nbsp;would prevent me from getting one of these. Well, I'd get one in entry-level touchscreen-free Access trim (from £14,495), but then I wouldn't have the panoramic sunroof of which I thoroughly approve. As does my son, who's turning into a bit of a&nbsp;stargazer. That's probably why he's so quiet. Unless he's frozen. Hang on, mate, I'm getting there: 17.5, 18, 18.5…Peugeot 308 Feline e-HDi 115Price£21,745Top speed118mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption74mpgCO2 emissions100g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating9/10
Games out this week include the stupidly namedMetal Gear Rising: Revengeance, the PC version of the hack'n'slash set in the crime-regretting world of Metal Gear, which comes with all the game's DLC;Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) is a reworking of the solid yet somehow underwhelming PS Vita game, with 15 new missions and prettier graphics;Nidhogg(PC) is the commercial release of the beautifully orchestrated minimalist indie fencing game;Sleeping Dogs, (Xbox 360), the accomplished Hong Kong-based Grand Theft Auto-alike is available free for Xbox Live Gold subscribers until 15 Jan, at which point the freebie changes to middling Tomb Raider spin-offLara Croft And The Guardian Of Light, a twin-stick shooter with a scattering of puzzles; and motorbike racing stalwartMotoGP 2013(PS3) is now available on the PlayStation Network.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIn Doki-Doki Universe you explore the galaxy, meeting its unlikely inhabitants, talking to them and helping them through often bizarre interpersonal problems. Make them happy and they'll give you a present, which adds itself to a growing inventory of gifts you can conjure into existence to assist others you meet. You can't die, there's no points system and you've got unlimited time to undertake your offbeat pan-galactic counselling sessions, giving you time to pop back to your home planet to redecorate and visit your friend, Balloon, who is indeed a red balloon.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAdéwalé, your ship's quartermaster in Assassin's Creed IV,  takes the starring role in Freedom Cry, the first extension to the single-player story. Taking place 15 years later, it's set in Port-au-Prince and deals with Adéwalé's battle against the slave trade. If you've already finished Black Flag, this hero will feel underpowered until you've earned decent weapons, and its missions err on the side of tedious stealth, making the brief sea missions very welcome indeed.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewPlaying this heavily Christmas-themed downloadable content for Saints Row IV in the new year is like watching TV recorded in December, the gaudy pre-Christmas euphoria jarring with the unremittingly bleak cold grey tunnel of January. How the Saints Save Christmas adds an hour-and-a-half of mundane gunfights and risible seasonal jollity, but the madcap invention that kept the game's main campaign so entertaining is absent. But if, for some reason, you crave ex post facto festive frivolity, this insubstantial download may be for you.
Google is integrating its Gmail service and Google+ social tracking network so that people without your Gmail address can send you emails by a name search.The move has raised questions about its privacy implications, after similar moves with Gmail and its then-newGoogle Buzzsocial network in 2010 led to a row over alleged privacy invasion. Those in turn led to Google being bound to a20-year privacy oversight by the US Federal Trade Commission.Google has also made the change opt-out, so that users will have to change their settings to prevent unknown people emailing them. The senders will not see the email address of the person they are sending the message to unless the recipient replies.Announcing the move in a blogpost, Google product manager David Nachumwrote:Have you ever started typing an email to someone only to realize halfway through the draft that you haven&apos;t actually exchanged email addresses? If you are nodding your head &apos;yes&apos; and already have a Google+ profile, then you’re in luck, because now it&apos;s easier for people using Gmail and Google+ to connect over email.Marc Rotenberg, the executive director of non-profit Electronic Privacy Information Center, told Reuters that the new feature was &quot;troubling&quot; and added: &quot;There is a strong echo of the Google Buzz snafu&quot;.Buzz created an uproar because it tried to create a social network built out from the email contacts that people had. One woman who had separated from her abusive ex-husbandsaid that it revealed the identity of her new boyfriend to him, potentially endangering her and him. Google&apos;s executive chairman Eric Schmidt latersaid &quot;nobody was harmed&quot;by the moves.Google says that Google+, set up in June 2011, has 540m &quot;active&quot; users, but has been vague about how it counts activity. Analysts have suggested that Google+ is not a social network aiming to compete with Facebook, but instead a system for collecting more information about people&apos;s web use. The number of &quot;active&quot; users will have increased since Googlemade it obligatory in November 2013 to use Google+ to leave a comment on YouTube.Google hasrecently faced criticism for over-tight integration of Google+ into productsafter one transgender user of an early version of its newest version of Android discovered that Google+ had been integrated into its chat system, and sent a message to somone under the woman&apos;s name they were adopting rather than the man&apos;s name the intended recipient was used to. The woman had not expected the system to search Google+ for a contact name - but it did.Facebook also allows people to send messages through a name search, but does not reveal any information such as emails if the person replies.Google says it will be rolling out the system over the next few weeks and will automatically email all Gmail users telling them of the changes. It is not possible to create a Gmail account without having a Google+ account.*How to turn off Gmail messages from people who don&apos;t know you
If you have a Gmail address - and more than 500 million people do - then you also have a Google+ account. Google will soon make it possible for people to email you just by searching for a name - even if they don&apos;t have your email or know you. Here&apos;s how to turn it off or change it to the setting you want.Google+: you'll be findable via a name search. Photograph: Google• In Gmail, go to &quot;Settings&quot;: it&apos;s in the right-hand menu under the gear icon.First step: go to Settings, under the gear icon in Gmail Photograph: /public domainNow, in the &quot;General&quot; tab of settings, scroll down. Under &quot;Conversation view&quot; there should be a new setting:Email via Google+. If you don&apos;t see this, the change might not have been rolled out to you yet.Gmail: Google+ settings. Here's where you decide who can contact you. Photograph: /public domainChange it to the setting you want. It defaults to &quot;Anyone&quot;, but you can choose from &quot;Extended circles&quot; (those who follow people who follow you), &quot;Circles&quot; (those who follow you) or &quot;No one&quot;.In your Gmail settings, choose the setting you want for people to contact you. By default, it is set to "Anyone on Google+". "Extended circles" includes people who have you in a "Circle", but who you don't have in your own. Photograph: GoogleFinal but essential step: scroll down to the bottom of the settings page andsave your changes.Gmail: save your changes or all your good work is lost. Photograph: /public domainThat&apos;s it: you&apos;ve now (if you wanted to) determined who can email you without knowing your Gmail address. You can change this setting at any time.
At the end of 2013, there were more than one million apps apiece in the respective stores of Apple and Google, with both stores well over the 50bn downloads mark.Apps have made their presence felt across a swathe of industries: from entertainment, publishing and games through to the enterprise and education sectors.Apps have attracted big investments, generated lucrative acquisitions and made billions of dollars in revenues, yet they’ve also sparked debate around privacy, regulation and the question of whether they are fuelling another dotcom-style bubble that’s destined to pop.And so to 2014. What will be the big trends around apps and the developers, startups and brands that are making and releasing them? Here are a few thoughts.1. An apps crash is coming (but that’s a good thing)Apple’s recently-released figures for 2013 sounded good:$8bn paid out to iOS developersover the year. But with a million apps, that’s an average of around $8k per app. A relatively small number of apps are making big money, and a lot of apps are making diddly-squat. Which isn’t necessarily a problem: many of them are a.) rubbish and b.) spare time or hobbyist projects.In the middle, though, that’s where a crash is coming: for example startups that raised seed and/or venture financing but didn’t catch on, or which managed to find some users but are struggling to make money from them. Photo-sharing apps, health-tracking tools, freemium games, messaging apps… wherever there’s an overstuffed category, there’s going to be a cull in 2014.This, all things considered, is a good thing. This year feels like a survival-of-the-fittest moment, although that hopefully means some of the people who failed will come back with new ideas, wiser for the lessons learned first time round.But if 2012 and 2013 saw lots of app startups “pivot” in search of an audience and business model, 2014 will see many run out of money with no more turning to be done. On the bright side, those with good technology will find willing “acquihirers” in the likes of Facebook, Google, Apple and others.Android will get more apps day-and-date with iOS in 2014.2. iOS and Android still front-of-mind for developersCrashing bores can vent for hours online why iOS is better than Android, or vice versa. The truth is that most serious app developers now come to market with a strategy encompassing both. iOS is still generating more revenues for developers, but Android has massive reach – depending on the specifics of your business and the parts of the world you’re targeting, they deserve equal priority.Does that mean releasing new apps on both platforms simultaneously? Not always. Over 2013, a lot more apps did debut day-and-date across iOS and Android, but smaller app startups in particular still regularly launch, iterate and polish on iOS before porting to Android. The difference is they’ll have firm plans for that porting process from the start, which didn’t used to be the case.Expect to see even the most iOS-focused app categories putting more emphasis on Android. Children’s apps are a good example: until recently, developers of kids’ apps didn’t see a viable market on Android, but strong sales of Android tablets (I’d say four in five parents I know who bought a tablet for their children this Christmas opted for a Kindle Fire or a Tesco Hudl, for example) are helping to change that.Beyond iOS and Android? Microsoft has done a pretty good job of identifying the most popular apps that are still lacking on Windows Phone, then chasing them down. The gap between apps breaking big on rivals and appearing on Windows Phone can still be frustrating for owners – no Clash of Clans, QuizUp or Candy Crush Saga yet, to name but three of 2013’s biggest games. Microsoft (including Nokia, soon) will need to keep up its efforts.3. Privacy as a priorityTherecent Snapchat hack– and the subsequent arguments over whether the company did enough to apologise to users for it – has sharpened the debate around apps and privacy. As have the ongoing revelations about intelligence agencies’ electronic surveillance, and a growing realisation beyond the technology community that free online services (whether mobile or not) are ultimately selling something to somebody – and if you’re not paying, it’s probably your data.This already feels a bit old to geeks like me, but the point is that this realisation is crossing over to the hundreds of millions of normal people who now own smartphones and use apps like Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, Instagram, Skype, MyFitnessPal and any number of Google services. When apps play fast and loose with privacy, and/or get hacked, the collective freakout will travel faster and further than ever.This should have some beneficial effects. First, it puts more pressure on developers of a whizzy new app to make privacy a priority right from the start. Second, it should spur us journalists to ask more searching questions about this from the very first time we encounter these companies. Yes yes, amazeballs user interface and disruptotastic business model, but what’s your privacy policy, who are you sharing data with, what are your plans when a hack attack comes (as it will), and so on.Hardcore gamers don't like Candy Crush Saga, but their mums do.4. A more constructive debate around free-to-play gamingPeople who comment on online articles about mobile free-to-play gaming hate it. F2P is evil, it’s killing gaming, and the developers who make freemium games are intent on producing soulless, cynical, cash-grabbing software that relies on players being too stupid to realise they’re being milked.Meanwhile, these commenters’ mums, their dads, their aunts, uncles, cousins and “non-gamer” friends are playing F2P games by the bucketload – and loving the experience. They don’t tend to comment on online articles about these games: they’re too busy nailing level 172 of Candy Crush Saga.I don’t expect the angry comments to abate any time soon, but I think the debate could be more constructive in 2014. Why are some freemium games soulless and cynical, and others not? Let’s call out the former, and celebrate the latter, so that developers can learn the lessons of both and make better games. Less“Freemium is evil”, and more “Here’s how freemium can be not evil”.That will require some evolution in accepted ways to make money from free games. Timers, for example. If your game’s business model even partially relies on stopping me playing it, rather than from making me love it, you’ve failed creatively. 2013 provided masses of data on how different “monetisation” (ugh!) methods work, but 2014 will be the year when that data informs more great games, rather than dominates mediocre ones.5. Messaging apps spread their wingsThe rapid growth of messaging apps, from WeChat, Line and KakaoTalk in the East to WhatsApp, Kik, Snapchat (again) and the deBlackBerryfied BBM was one of the big mobile stories of 2013, providing the background for much of the speculation about whether teenagers were set to flee Facebook, just as their parents had fled Myspace before them.2014 should give us a firm answer on the latter trend – my instinct is that teens aren’t quitting Facebook, it’s just that they’re making a clear division between that social network for communication with their families, and others to communicate with their friends – but it will also emphasise that most messaging apps are about much more than messaging.Games, shopping, music and video and broader social networking features are the obvious first directions that these apps are already heading in. Working more with brands is going to be a key trend in 2014 though: brands and agencies will come flocking in an attempt to reach people who are no longer as engaged with Facebook, but it’s not yet obvious how they can best fit in without seeming intrusive.Google Glass, huh? What apps is it good for? Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images6. New platforms, new gimmicks. But then what?Smart watches! Google Glass! Connected cars! Fridges! The rise of wearables, in-car app platforms and the Internet of Things means pretty much every whizzy startup is thinking about how to put their apps on devices other than smartphones and tablets. In many cases, it’s about the (undeniably-interesting) technological challenge of doing it, rather than a firm sense of why it should be done.“Company X launches app for Wearable Device Y” is going to be a particularly-recurring headline in 2014, and that’ll be about all they’re good for: headlines. A lot of these apps’ main function will be to shift notifications from your smartphone to your wrist or eyes. That’s not really interesting.But behind that first wave will come the good stuff: apps made for the people and their behaviour, rather than just for the hardware. What might normal people (i.e. nobody who’s got one yet) want from Glass-style augmented eyewear? What do normal people (i.e. nobody who’s got one yet) want a smart watch to do?Those answers may not come until 2015, but there are steps that can be taken in 2014. Forget the regular speculation over whether Google Glass will go on sale this year. I’d rather see Google recruit hundreds of new Glass Explorers in India, Brazil, China, Kenya, Russia… A much fuller spread of nationalities, races, professions, ages, financial situations.Thenwe’ll know more about what kind of apps to make for that kind of device.7. Education, education, education2014 feels like a big year for apps – and by extension tablets – in education. Initiatives are already well underway around the world to get tablets into classrooms, from affordable Android devices in India to iPads in California. Yes, a growing number of children have access to them at home, but schools will be key in ensuring those that don’t aren’t left on the other side of a new digital divide.So what will schools put on these tablets? It feels like a big moment for developers making educational apps and services to redouble their efforts, in the knowledge that there will be a market for their products. Which raises all kinds of interesting questions about how education authorities, schools and individual teachers decide what apps to use, and how they dovetail with the existing curriculum.Actually, though, there’s something else to think about: children making apps, not just using them. Kids are learning to code all over the world, with different schemes and tools. In 2013, there were regular novelty stories about 13 year-olds who’d made their first app. In 2014, we’ll lay off the patronising novelty aspect, and start thinking about the real, exciting implications of the Minecraft generation crafting with code as well as with blocks.Meet the new office, but what apps will help you work in it? Photograph: Lewis Whyld/PA Archive/PA Photos8. Step into my officeMany of the most innovative apps in 2014 will only be used by a few hundred or thousand people. That’s because they’ll be developed by companies for their staff to use: enterprise apps. They don’t tend to get much press – partly because they’re not publicised, but also because we journalists find it easier to get to grips with consumer apps.But in terms of resources and innovation, the B2B apps field is where a lot of the most interesting work is currently going on, including solving some of the problems (security in particular) that consumer apps are only just realising is a harder challenge than they’d realised.Apps aren’t a lone actor here: they’re part of wider trends around remote working and collaboration that really are (and sorry, it’s a cliché) changing the way people and companies do business. Watch closely for the rising numbers of tablets (Apple, Android and Windows alike) making their way into workplaces, and then think about the software that’s being developed for them that will never appear on an app store.9. Disruption versus regulationDisruptive app innovation? Yay! Regulation and stuck-in-the-mud industries? Boo! That was the tone of the debate at many a tech conference in 2013 as Uber, Airbnb and others chafed at the barriers put in their way by city authorities and regulators. Why shouldn’t people be able to rent out their spare room to strangers or use their smartphone to book a ride from a non-taxi car?The leading lights of the “sharing economy” pride themselves on their companies’ disruptive qualities, but the debate around this can often feel like an “are you with us or against us?” situation. Criticise these startups, and you&apos;repart of the entrenched interests of the old economy.We’ll see more of this in 2014. Sometimes it’ll be cities slapping silly penalties on sharing-economy startups, likeUber drivers having to wait for 15 minutes before picking up a passenger in France. But sometimes there will be legitimate debates about the way these companies manage their businesses, and the responsibilities they take – for example the recentdebate about a fatal road accident involving an Uber driver.People are evangelical about sharing-economy startups and their apps, for good reason. Even so, 2014 will be a year to tackle the outdated legislation and anti-competitive behaviour that prevents these companies getting a fair shot, while also remembering that regulation itself has an important purpose in protecting people on both sides of the transactions fuelled by the sharing economy.Look up, not down! Photograph: Alamy10. Time to think about putting down the device?In December 2012, my son was in his school nativity play. I rushed up at the end, proud as punch, and started taking photos – Facebook and Instagram in mind. Then I noticed that he was much moister-eyed than usual. Being in the play had been a bit overwhelming, and what he wanted was a cuddle, not his own personal paparazzo.I was ashamed. In December 2013, when the situation repeated itself, I rushed up and gave him a cuddle. The photos came later. But that moment a year before was a proper, much-needed slap in the face about priorities. And here’s a hunch: more people will experience some kind of personal moment of truth like this in 2014.It might be couples realising that they sit on the sofa every evening cycling through social networks on their smart devices rather than talking to one another. It might be people realising they’ve stopped reading books in bed in favour of checking smartphones. It might be realising that a forest is amazing because it’s aforest, and not rubbish because you can’t check email over GPRS.Anecdotally, I hear more friends talking about making an effort to rein in their device usage in 2014, making space for conversation, cuddles, culture… life! This may still be a middle-class problem, yes. But if it’s a wider trend, I wonder if it will also reward developers whose apps are more sensitive to these desires – or even help us fulfil them.This may be wishful thinking, but I’m an optimist. The most innovative apps in 2014 might just be the ones that help us to put our devices away a little more often.
At the Fairson&apos;s department store, managers can measure the number of people who walk past the store, the number who come through the front door – and this information includes whether or not they went in immediately or were convinced by the shopfront.Once shoppers are inside the store, managers can find out how many of them walked up to the second floor and compare with the number of people who took the journey to the second floor last week.If more people have gone up this week, they&apos;ll probably conclude that the marketing banners that they put up towards the beginning of the week are working.In this scenario, Fairson&apos;s is imaginary, but this technology is very real. One firm, the California-based analytics firmEuclid, is hoping to encourage wider take up of tracking technology by offering Euclid Express, which offers retailers a free analytics solution for brick-and-mortar shops.The announcement means that any retailer – from a local coffee shop to a large department store – will be able to implement an analytics package to receive information such as footfall outside the store, engagement (how long customers spend inside stores) and whether customers are repeat shoppers, at no cost.Retailers will also be able to compare trends over time, which, for example, could be used to monitor the efficacy of a particular marketing campaign.Why is it free?There are a number of companies competing in the retail analytics space, such asShopperTrak,Retail Next,NomiandPrism Skylabs. These companies all argue that retail analytics only balances the scales, as online retailers have been doing this for years.&quot;When you look at something on the web, you get ads that pop up and follow you around – companies like that have much better advantage over bricks-and-mortar retailers and so they&apos;re under more pressure to equalise the playing field,&quot; ShopperTrak&apos;s chief executive Kevin Kearnstold the Guardian.ShopperTrak providestwo main services to clients. The first is their &quot;managed service&quot;, which counts the number of shoppers in a store at any given time through small devices placed at the entrance and exits to stores. The aim: if managers can predict the number of shoppers at any given time, they can ensure that there are an adequate number of staff.ShopperTrak also provides clients with a more advanced &quot;interior analytics&quot; service, which involves anything from placing the counting devices in specific sections of the store tousing a customer&apos;s bluetooth to follow their movements around the store.Euclid&apos;s announcement is significant, however, because it is currently the only offline customer analytics platform available for free – and this provides it with a strong competitive advantage.Euclid wants to lower the barriers of entry so there&apos;s no longer a reason for businesses not to implement their technology. This also helps to explain the introduction ofEuclid Zero, announced in late 2012, which took away the need for companies to install sensors within their stores, instead allowing retailers to simply switch on the Euclid feature feature within their Wi-Fi management console to connect to their cloud-based analytics service.Businesses were then able to monitor customer behaviour via their smartphones that had enabled Wi-Fi. Euclid would collect media access code (MAC) addresses – each phone has a unique MAC address – and scramble the code to anonymise the data before storing it on their servers.But retailers on the Express package only receive data from within their own stores. &quot;The metrics that we collect provide some [information],&quot; said Adam Wilson, Euclid&apos;s chief marketing officer, &quot;but we understand that more context is needed to build a more detailed profile to help marketing be more detailed,&quot; Wilson said.Why would retailers pay to access the advanced edition?As part of the advanced package, Euclid integrates their own market data with that of the retailer to add more contextual information.&quot;So if a customer shows up at three different locations, it might be possible for us to infer information about gender, or about specific age range. There are ways in which we can look across the anonymous data set and even though we don’t collect any personally identifiable information, we might be able to predict their age,&quot; Wilson noted.Retailers can&apos;t access specific information about any other brands but instead receive an aggregated metric. And this explains why Euclid Express is an intelligent move. By signing up to track their customers, retailers are giving Euclid billions of data points. They currently receive 6bn &quot;measurements&quot; daily (the number of times they collect Wi-Fi pings), according to Wilson, which translates to over 250m shopping sessions per year.So once retailers sign up to the free package, they&apos;re allowing any competitors who fork out for the advanced edition ($100 per store/month) access to their data, even if it is on an aggregated level. And businesses are willing to pay to quell that kind of curiosity.What about consumer privacy?Throughout the conversation, Wilson repeated the phrases &quot;no personally identifiable information&quot; and &quot;aggregated data&quot; a number of times – and he also stressed that Euclid &quot;have gone to make sure the privacy of the individual is protected. And that’s an important part of our DNA and our entire approach to the market.&quot;Indeed, Euclid were part of the group that launched theMobile Location Analytics code of conduct, endorsed by New York Senator Chuck Schumer. The code of conduct, which calls for companies to have consent if they collect personal information and for a central opt-out site for consumers, was alsopraised by the Federal Trade Commissionfor &quot;[recognising] consumer concerns about invisible tracking in retail spaces and [taking] a positive step forward in developing a self-regulatory code of conduct.&quot;Euclid also provides their clients with guidelines suggesting that they post in-store notificationsofhow shoppers can opt-out(alternatively, they can choose to switch off their Wi-Fi).But it&apos;s worth noting that the code of conduct was signed in October and is the likely result of customer outrage when they were made aware that they were being monitored. When American department store Nordstrom put up a sign, in May 2013, announcing that they had beenpiloting the technology for months, they received a number of complaints directly to their store but also on social media.The potential for the technology also means that it could unnerve many. &quot;I would think permission would need to be granted to use something that belongs to someone else. Even if it is just a signal,&quot;one consumer posted on Facebook.The most prominent example in Britain is that of a marketing startup, Renew, thattracked passers-by in the City of London through technology in recycling bins. Renew claimed that customers could opt-out but privacy campaigners questioned the premise of opting out of something you didn&apos;t know was taking place.Renew planned on using the data they were collecting to provide personalised advertising on their digital screens. &quot;Why not Pret&quot;, is a message that might be displayed to a regular visitor of Starbucks. Over time, Renew could also tell whether you’ve altered your habits.But Renew&apos;s CEO was adamant that this was not personal information. &quot;As long as we don&apos;t add a name and home address, it&apos;s legal,&quot; he told me when it was first revealed that they were tracking customers.This adds a new dynamic to the conversation. As it stands, Euclid provide only aggregate information from across their US monthly benchmarks but there is potential for more personalised marketing. A coffee drinker visiting a store might see a message informing them of a coffee shop on the second floor, for example. Although the company would not know who they were marketing to specifically, they would still understand their shopping habits.Emma Carr, the deputy director general of Big Brother Watch, believes that the technology ignores customers&apos; privacy, and branded it &quot;disproportionate&quot;.&quot;This is a clear example of profit trumping privacy,&quot; she said. &quot;The use of surveillance technology by shops, in order to provide a better or more personalised service, seems totally disproportionate.&quot;Carr also stressed the importance of consumer awareness and said that while the technology was still developing, there is an obvious goal in mind, to identify individuals.&quot;Loyalty cards were the start of the process, but as the race for data intensifies, the surveillance of shoppers is becoming more invasive. This won&apos;t stop at generalities like how long customers spend in stores - the long game is about identifying individuals and this technology is getting very close to enabling them to do that.&quot;It is not only essential that customers are fully informed if they are being monitored,but that they also have real choice of service and on what terms it is offered.&quot;This type of personalisedMinority Report-style marketing is now bringing about a new conversation: is your MAC code your personal information?Do you think that physical analytics – or a Google Analytics for the online world – is just the next logical step for brick-and-mortar stores to survive against a competitive online environment? Continue the debate with@sirajdatooand@guardiandataor comment below the line.•What information can retailers see when they track customer movements – is it creepy?
Hackers stole personal information with details of up to 70 million people – a third of American adults – including phone numbers, email and home addresses, the US retail chain Target admitted on Friday.The management said that the extent of a 19-day pre-Christmas breakin to its computer systems was far greater than it had thought when in late December itestimated the number of credit and debit cards affected at 40m. It hadn't previously said how many people were affected.Analysts reckon it will affect more people than the card-skimming operation at TJX Cos Inc in 2007, which was reckoned to affect 90m cards over an 18-month period. "I think they still have no idea how big this is," David Kennedy, who runs the consulting firm TrustedSec told Reuters. "This is going to end up being much larger than 70 million and end up being the largest retail breach in history."The chain previously disclosed to customers that names, credit and debit card numbers, card expiration dates, PINs and the embedded code on the magnetic strip on the back of cards had been stolen. It has assured customers that they won't be liable for any fraudulent charges that result from the breach.The PIN code would have been encrypted, but it's unclear whether other information was stored in a human-readable format.After the initial announcement of the breach, some banks imposed daily spending limits on customers with affected cards – an unwelcome imposition ahead of the holiday shopping rush. Transactions at Target were down by 3% to 4% on the last weekend before Christmas, while other US retailers reported strong results.The Minneapolis-based company also forecast a 2.5% decline in fourth-quarter same-store sales. It had previously forecast flat sales. Target also expects its full-year earnings per share to include charges related to the data breach, but said it could not provide an estimate of the costs. Its stock slipped in early morning trading on Friday.The Target breach followed a huge electronic breakin at Adobe Systems in November 2013, when 152 million user names and passwords were stolen. Although the passwords were encrypted, security experts said that certain flaws in the system used to scramble them could give hackers a way tofigure out the original.The hackers who perpetrated the Target theft seem to have stolen the data during a 19-day period beginning on 27 November. It was brought to public notice by the security researcher Brian Krebs, whoreported on 18 Decemberthat he had heard of a breach – and later discovered that the details of cards stolen during the attack wereflooding into underground criminal marketsonline, where they were changing hands for between $20 and $100 per card – far above the normal price of stolen card details.The attack seems to have been timed for the US's "Black Friday" – the day after Thanksgiving when millions of people go shopping for bargains – which in 2013 fell on 29 November. It then continued through two of the busiest shopping weeks of the year.Target has previously been the object of such hacking, and paid a $9.75m settlement in 2009 for a 2005 breach.But the extent of the 2013 breach suggests that the hackers behind it were able to access its central retail systems or its interfaces with banks and credit card companies.The company told customers Friday that its ongoing investigation of the breach has shown that more personal information had been stolen than it was aware of before and more customers were affected."I know that it is frustrating for our guests to learn that this information was taken and we are truly sorry they are having to endure this," the chairman, president and CEO Gregg Steinhafel said in a statement.Target said it will try to contact customers for whom it has email addresses to providetips on how to safeguard against consumer scams. The company said it won't ask customers for any personal information during its email communications.It is also offering a year of free credit monitoring and identity theft protection to customers that shopped at its stores. Individuals will have three months to enroll in the program. Target said it will provide more details on that next week.The retailer said Friday thatthe personal information stolen is not a new breach, but was discovered during its ongoing investigation.
Events like the Consumer Electronics Show might seem almost intimidatingly futuristic, what with all the coverage focusing on self-driving cars and wearable health-tracking data-sucking devices of the future.But nestled in a quieter corner of the Las Vegas convention centre is a modest British team with a surprisingly retro product: Keith Monk&apos;s Record Cleaning Machine.The company has its roots in a business started back in 1960s Berkshire and now, headed by Keith&apos;s son Jon, is exhibiting an updated version of its vinyl record cleaning machine, which won multiple awards in the 1970s and 80s. A special edition was evenpresented to the Queenfor the silver jubilee in 1977.Jon Monks demonstrates the Discovery One, the updated version of his father's invention, on show at CES 2014.There are more than 3,200 exhibitors from more than 150 countries at CES, so it can be hard for smaller businesses and products to bubble up through the hyperbole. But amid the multinational milieu, UK companies form a respectable contingent, Keith Monk forms part of a team of established British tech brands, some eager startups and the occasional bold standard-bearer for British eccentricity and ingenuity.The Monk brand&apos;s latest incarnation, Discovery One, is a far less retrograde piece of kit than first impressions may suggest.Last year saw thehighest sales of vinyl- both second-hand and new releases - since 2001, signalling a resurgence of the medium led by independent record shops. In a sea of flexible touchscreens and head-up displays, the vinyl cleaning machine stands out. It anchors technology in a world that is simple, familiar and functional.Summly: Now integrated into the Yahoo News DigestThe official explainer video for Yahoo News Digest.Londoner Nick D&apos;Aloisio is one of the biggest British names at CES 2014, showing off his contribution to the newYahoo News Digestapp.It is billed as the first digital tool to recreate the satisfying and complete experience of reading a newspaper, and the part-algorithmic, part-curated reader is an update on D&apos;Aloisio&apos;s Summly app, which hesold to Yahoo for $30min March 2013.Duringthe launch event, a Youtubeexplainer videoappeared alongside the CES launch event, featuring someone in a hip shirt reading an oddly familiar newspaper - possibly D&apos;Aloisio himself? A starring role is certainly what Yahoo has given the 18-year-old as the corporation&apos;s new mobile and emerging products manager.Musaic, Pure and Vibe: British audioOne of the largest UK contingents consists of wireless home and personal audio companies. London startupMusaicand Hertfordshire-basedPureare both at CES to launch whole-home wireless speaker systems.The two companies have designed their products with affordability and compatibility in mind, and for a market previously dominated by high-end tech. Both devices work with a downloadable iOS or Android controller app, and then play music or radio from anywhere in the building, depending on how many wireless speakers are set up.For personal audio needs, Sutton Coldfield&apos;sVibe Audiois showcasing its growing range of wireless Bluetooth headphones. If the products are as reliable as they are affordable, this British brand could find itself plugging a gap in the audio market that has puzzled consumers ever since other forms of wireless tech went mainstream years ago.Fitbug and ithelete: the UK&apos;s fitness tracking contendersA Fitbug employee tests the device on a treadmill during a CES launch event. Photograph: Britta Pedersen/DPA/CorbisIn what may be remember as the CES of wearable technology, the UK has two strong fitness tracking products in the running. Whileithleterequires a heart rate monitor and might appeal to more experienced fitness enthusiasts,FitBugis for anyone already worried about the health of their new year&apos;s resolutions.Continuing the theme of affordability, the device claims to track daytime activity and sleep, while fastened to your belt, wrist or anywhere else you fancy. It then syncs the data with an app for your tablet or smartphone.The nuanced and continuous picture it generates of your habits is said to result in a steady stream of useful motivation and achievable targets. At less than £50, its makers are offering a bold pitch against rival products that provide a similar service for far heftier price tags.Autographer: a bit less creepy than Google GlassThe Autographer wearable camera is 3.5" tall and has five sensors that decide when to automatically take photos. It has a 136 degree lens which simulates the human field of vision. Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty ImagesAutographer&apos;s hands-free stills camera, worn around the neck, is always on, so it is quite perfect that its Oxford-based parent company, OMG Life, was founded in 1984. There are many wearable camera offerings at the show, as the concept becomes both more acceptable and more affordable.Autographer is also perhaps slightly less creepy that the literally in-your-face Google Glass for those who want to ambiently capture pictures they might otherwise miss throughout the day. One way, perhaps, to beat state surveillance at its own game.Nifty Mini Drive: SD-card memory expanderA Manchester startup, funded through Kickstarter, boasts one of the simplest yet potentially useful new products to hail from the UK.The Nifty Mini Driveis a tiny memory expander that fits into the SD-card slot found on a MacBook Pro, Air or Retina. Its size belies its power since it can increase internal memory by up to 64GB. This equates to almost 100 feature films or 84,000 8 megapixel photos.G-Hold - makes your tablet easier to holdThis clip is featured on the G-Hold Kickstarter page to explain and generate interest in the idea.Equally simple though slightly more left-field is the G-Hold, developed in Edinburgh by Alison Grieve. While it might not win any friends at Apple with a proposition based on the assumption that tablets &quot;are hard to hold&quot;, itsKickstarter campaignclaims the device could grip tablets, smartphones or even a drinks tray and make it easier to grip.Where this original concept might find a home audience might be the emerging &quot;silver smartphone&quot; wave of older tech consumers.Growth of 3,000%? Meet Britain&apos;s top tech startups.
The town is just out there in the near distance, a cluster of houses amid acres of flat scrubland. I can&apos;t see any movement, there&apos;s no sound except birdsong, but the buildings are a two minute run away. If I break cover and another player is nearby, I know they will shoot me. They will shoot me and loot my body. That is the reality of DayZ.Still only available as an early alpha build on Steam, but already immensely popular, Dean Hall&apos;s bleak, utterly unsentimental zombie survival game is unbearably tense and atmospheric. Players are pitched together into a stark landscape, and must survive for as long as possible, ransacking buildings for guns and food and avoiding the undead. But just as in all the best zombie fiction, it&apos;s not the rotting monsters you often have to worry about, it&apos;s the other survivors. Each server houses up to 40 players, all desperately scavenging for the same meagre supplies. And if you kill another participant, you can take their stuff. There is a clear benefit to adopting a &quot;shoot first&quot; policy.We see the same thing now in GTA Online, the vast multiplayer spin-off from Grand Theft Auto V. Players hit Los Santos, engaging in criminal missions and tasks, but when they&apos;re off duty they just cruise the streets in stolen cars, looking for trouble. And trouble often means being anti-social – chasing down and shooting other players, or camping out near key hotspots like custom garages and ammo stores blasting anyone who walks in. Just for kicks. Rockstar sometimes punishes such players, introducing a &quot;bad sport&quot; scheme to highlight them to others. It&apos;s gaming&apos;s equivalent of an ASBO – and we all know how effective those have been.Spawn to killThere are obvious reasons why this happens. Gamers have been conditioned by a generation of successful online shooters like Call of Duty and Quake to view other participants as targets. In Call of Duty, there is no other motivation beyond killing, that&apos;s what you&apos;re there for. And from the very beginning of video games we have the intrinsic thrill of the shoot-kill feedback loop; it is the most clear, instant and satisfying interactive sequence this medium has ever produced. Shooting doesn&apos;t require realistic visuals or complex game systems – in the great arcade shooters of the late-seventies, you had left, right and fire – those were your interactions with the game world. Even the word &apos;fire button&apos; has aggressive connotations. That&apos;s what it always was – an aggressive act committed on the game world.Games are enormously complex now – and yet we&apos;re still being channeled down this zero-sum interaction channel: shoot or die.If you consider this at a systemic level, shooting always makes sense in a moment of indecision. It&apos;s like the Prisoner&apos;s Dilemma, the famous behavioural experiment that shows altruism, trust and co-operation are often unworkable factors when you don&apos;t know what the other participant is thinking. In DayZ, you always have more to gain from shooting a stranger: not only are you safe, you also have a resource to plunder. Theoretically, a new player could be a good asset to your squad, but how do you know? In the split second you often have to decide these things, the diplomacy of the bullet makes more sense.In the past, game designers have often sought to counter the problem by brute-forcing co-operative behaviour. &quot;World of Warcraft kind of solved this issue by making missions where youhadto form a group in order to complete them,&quot; says game developer Byron Atkinson-Jones, whose shooter,Blast Emis heading to Steam soon . &quot;In this situation, the obstacles – as in things to kill – were just too much for one person to attempt alone. The reward for helping a fellow player then was completing the mission and leveling up.&quot;It looks like this will be the system employed in Bungie&apos;s forthcoming massively multiplayer space opera Destiny. Although there will be assigned player v player combat zones, if two sets of participants bump into each other during campaign missions, they&apos;ll only be able to work together to complete the task. Battlefield developer DICE has added whole layers of co-operative intricacy into its team modes, introducing squads and commanders to initiate group tactics. But once again, we&apos;re only really talking about co-operation on a mechanistic level.There can of course, be genuine humanity in that. &quot;Team games like Dota 2 and Battlefield semi-force you to cooperate with strangers by putting you on the same team,&quot; says game designer Michael Brough. &quot;It is kind of a blunt instrument, but it&apos;s still up to the players whether to actually cooperate. Quite often in Dota, if someone dies early on it gives the opposing team an advantage, then people start blaming each other and arguing, teamwork falls apart and you start falling even further behind...&quot;sometimes the team breaks down completely, someone gives up and disconnects from the game or refuses to play, but other times the team gets over their disagreement and starts pulling together and can even go on to win. When this happens it&apos;s quite beautiful.&quot;Social circlesMeanwhile, in most online games, especially MMORPGs, all the really meaty social interaction is effectively outsourced to the players themselves through the guild system. Friends have to get together in meat space, agree to form a team, use microphones and often third-party chat software to communicate, and then enter the game world as a unit. In this way, all the emotional drama is effectively happening between the members of the social group – the game just happens to be where it&apos;s taking place. In many ways, online role-playing games are venues of collaborative play not instigators. Certainly, players will meet in the world and form friendships, but the impetus and the heft of the social interaction happens on the periphery of the game experience.Is there a way for game designers to encourage and reward more advanced social relationships between strangers? Is there a way to balance out the allure of deadly violence? &quot;Generally if you want to encourage some kind of activity in a game, it&apos;s not a terrible idea to just try explicitly rewarding it in the most obvious way possible,&quot; says Brough. &quot;Like, maybe that won&apos;t work and you&apos;ll need something more subtle, but it&apos;s the first thing to try. So if you want to encourage some kind of cooperative activity, make numbers go up when people do it. When you trade items they get bigger, when you craft items they get a bonus for the number of people involved. Basically, positive-sum interactions rather than zero- or negative-sum.&quot;Read more:• DayZ to get standalone release• Should gamers be accountable for in-game war crimes?• GTA 5 Online hands-on: a weekend in Los SantosAtkinson-Jones agrees: &quot;It&apos;s strange to think about having to reward being friendly but it&apos;s certainly possible. You could provide an achievement for being around a fellow player for a certain period of time without killing them. That could actually lead to hilarious situations where you get a group of players all hugging together, trying to get that achievement – although once one of them has gotten it, they would probably start opening fire - almost a &apos;who blinks first&apos; situation from a Tarantino film.&quot;The key then would be in incentivising positive group behaviours rather than allowing violence to be at the tip of every interaction tree. A group could receive a health or XP boost by taking on newcomers. Perhaps designers could introduce certain resources that can only be shared rather than looted from dead bodies. More violently, there could be a sort of self-destruct item, which destroys a player&apos;s inventory when they&apos;re killed by another human participant.Selfish genesOf course, this is a very mechanical way of thinking about things – but perhaps that&apos;s necessary. We need to be realistic: altruism is rare in nature – animals that appear to be behaving selflessly toward each other are merely indulging in mutually beneficial, highly reciprocal relationships. Lions form prides, not because they totally love each other, but because unless your prey is old and weak, you need more than one hunter to bring down a wildebeest. Ant hives aren&apos;t social institutions, they are machines. Even in the most intelligent species such as apes and dolphins, totally altruistic acts are exceptional; protecting the group usually makes sense from a survival perspective. As for humans, we see from the logic of the Prisoner&apos;s Dilemma that although self-interest has its costs, it often carries far lower risks.But it&apos;s sort of sad to think of games – and gamers – in this way. DayZ is a thrilling evocation of zombie fiction, but what it can&apos;t capture in the same way as linear media like The Walking Dead or Day of the Dead, is the interplay between survival groups – those tense moments when one set of desperate people meets another. In the TV series The Walking Dead, much of the emotional depth comes not from the shoot-outs, but from those first meetings and negotiations – the myriad opposing forces working on every encounter. In this world, it is not always best to shoot first – and that provides the cathartic thrill. And really, if Walking Dead was simply about shooting, it would be be pretty unwatchable. It&apos;s the relationships that form between, say, Maggie and Glenn or Michonne and Andrea, that keep us engaged. Amid the slaughter and the fear, the narrative requires human interaction and emotional drama. It&apos;s how we invest.And it&apos;s not just the game systems that prevent this in titles like DayZ and GTA Online, it&apos;s the paucity of interaction depth. Visual limitations mean we can&apos;t read the body language and eye movements of our fellow players, and these are the vital unconscious clues to intent that we pick up constantly in real life. Few games expand their gesture sets beyond taunts, and even fewer provide amiable collaborative ventures. In GTA Online, there&apos;s not a whole lot you can do with another player once you&apos;ve decided not to shoot them. You can&apos;t communicate, you can&apos;t do anything except launch a mission together and work side by side. You can&apos;t take them on a date, you can&apos;t make promises and plans, you can&apos;t develop. DayZ allows microphone chat, which at least adds verbal communication, but this can be horribly jarring. Hearing a 12-year-old drawl at you through earphones while their muscular twenty-something avatar idles on screen doesn&apos;t do much for your suspension of disbelief.The heart of the matterSo really,canwe encourageemotionalinterplay between strangers in online games? Because that&apos;s obviously the key; that is what provides the complexity of human relationships in the real world. One way is to remove violence altogether. Thatgamecompany did this beautifully with Journey, distilling interaction down to the ability to follow and lead, and to make one simple sound. No names were visible and there was no vocal communication. Yet even with such limited materials, players were able to build profound relationships, even if they were fleeting and ethereal. We don&apos;t need much to get along.But DayZ isn&apos;t Journey – there&apos;s no such thing as a mystical zombie art-game (though, dammit, I sort of wish there was now). Killing is a vital part of the experience – as it is with GTA Online. So we&apos;re back to this one apparent requirement: the commodification of friendship. The introduction of systems that make the prospect of collaboration a beneficial one. The next time I&apos;m outside a small town in DayZ, I want to know I can wander in there, meet another player and have a bargaining chip or two. Already, players are using a raised arm gesture as one of friendship, or they&apos;re yelling &quot;peaceful&quot; down the microphone – but these simple digital acts are open to abuse and without visual complexity, it&apos;s all meaningless. Which is a shame because from listening to more experienced players, some of the most profound and enjoyable experiences have come out of hooking up with strangers and exploring together.This isn&apos;t going to be popular, but I wonder if some form of bio-input is the ultimate answer. Valve Software has experimented with biometric feedback in the past, looking into peripherals that read your heart rate and alter the game accordingly. We know that Kinect can trace fluctuations in skin colour to monitor your heart rate too. Perhaps one day that data will be available to other players. You&apos;re approaching a group of survivors with your arms raised, but the camera sees you sweating; a message comes up on the other player&apos;s screen: &quot;heart rate rising&quot;. What they do with that information is up to them. But they have it.And that&apos;s the underlying truth, I fear. Emotion is about information; friendship and love are governed by data – you need to collect enough to trust someone. I think the first game that really truly figures this out will be the biggest game in the world.
Ever wondered what those Matrix-style green holographic codes that flicker across computer screen in films actually mean? You know, those seemingly complex algorithms in The Fifth Estate and unbreakable cryptograms in Doctor Who? Well, programmerJohn Graham-Cumminghas the answer."I was watching the filmElysiumand some coding came up as the space station is rebooted, and I thought: 'This is really familiar', so I tracked it down," explains Graham-Cumming, who started coding at the age of 13 on his BBC Microcomputer and is now a well-known blogger and programmer. "It turns out that the code is actually taken directly from theIntel software developer'smanual, which I found amusing. So I tweeted that and got hundreds of responses." Last Friday, he launched aTumblrto compile more examples; by Monday morning it already had 11,000 followers and Graham-Cumming was inundated with suggestions for movie codes to crack.Code from Elysium. Photograph: John Graham-Cumming/TumblrThe process of identifying the sources of movie codes is actually quite simple. Graham-Cumming takes a screengrab and immediately gets a sense of whether the code is possibly legitimate or utter nonsense. If an unusual character or variable stands out, he picks it out and Googles it. In most cases, whether the codes is purporting to guide a missile or rifle through confidential databases, it's likely to be a pretty mundane cut and paste job.There are some real howlers. Graham-Cumming was tickled while watchingAntitrust, a thriller about a wannabe Bill Gates: "I cracked up watching these computer nerds looking at code, nodding and saying: 'Whoa, this is great man,' when it was really the most basicJava scriptthat is completely meaningless." InThe Terminator, we see the world through T-800's head-up display, yet the scrolling text accompanying the crosshair in his vision is the harmless assembly code for anApple-II. But the sources for fake coding just get better: in one episode ofDoctor Who, Matt Smith looks intently at some hovering code, yet oncloser inspection, it's the reference for a simple image file – a picture of a lightwave – lifted from Wikipedia.Code in The Terminator Photograph: John Graham-Cumming/TumblrComputer programmers must laugh when they see characters in films adjusting their thick-rimmed glasses, furiously typing, then gazing at a code that probably only says: "Hello world." Graham-Cumming finds it surprising, though, that these details, which might be central to a plotline, are rarely given more thought and attention by directors, particularly as plausible codes are so easy to find through open–source websites such asGitHubandSourceForge.However, there are some impressive examples of programming detail.Jurassic Parkwas clearly ahead of its time: actors worked on realistic, high-performing Silicon Graphics computer systems and in one classic classic scene, teenagerLex Murphylogs on to the computer and exclaims: "It's a Unix system, I know this," which relates to a real operating system.Code in The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. Photograph: John Graham-Cumming/TumblrMore recently,The Social Networkprovided a visually compelling, technically authentic narrative about the process of programming. When Mark Zuckerberg, played by Jesse Eisenberg,types the commands for "facemash"using PerlScript, it is woven in with his explanation of the procedure in plain text and HTML on his blog. In David Fincher'sThe Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, heroine Lisbeth Salander is depicted assearching for filesusing the same process that real developers use. With the rise of high-definition screens and screen-capture tools, and with gadgets such as Google Glass increasingly likely to be used on screen, there will only be more opportunities for smart-ass code-reading. Directors take note.
For those who think the NSA the worst invader of privacy, I invite you to share an afternoon with Aiden and Foster, two 11-year-old boys, as they wrap up a Friday at school. Aiden invites his friend home to hang out and they text their parents, who agree to the plan.As they ride on the bus Foster&apos;s phone and a sensor on a wristband alert the school and his parents of a deviation from his normal route. The school has been notified that he is heading to Aiden&apos;s house so the police are not called.As they enter the house, the integrated home network recognises Aiden and pings an advisory to his parents, both out at work, who receive the messages on phones and tablets.The system also sends Foster&apos;s data – physical description, address, relatives, health indicators, social media profile - to Aiden&apos;s parents, who note he has a laptop. Might the boys visit unsuitable sites? No, because Foster&apos;s parental rating access, according to his profile, is limited to PG13, as is Aiden&apos;s.Foster spots a cookie jar and reaches in. Beep beep! His wristband vibrates to warn him the cookies contain gluten, and he is allergic.Aiden&apos;s mother notes this and consults a menu of her fridge and pantry, all connected to the network, for non-gluten ingredients. There aren&apos;t enough so she orders a gluten-free pizza.The boys turn on the TV. Rather, it turns itself on as Aiden approaches and it lists his favourite channels. The TV notes the boys have a basketball, which has a sensor, and so suggests an NBA game. As they watch, tailored advertising invites Aiden to put a Miami Heat shirt on a personal wishlist connected to a chain store. He does so and a ping is sent to his mother, who simultaneously receives a reminder of the date of his birthday.The network notes there is only 90 minutes left of sunlight left and that Aiden has not completed his 120 minutes of daily exercise. It shuts down the TV and gives the boys three exercise options. They choose to shoot hoops in the yard. Aiden&apos;s mum receives an alert that they have left the house – leaving the lights on. She can track Aiden&apos;s pulse and blood pressure as he plays.Welcome to the future of parenting, as envisaged byCisco Systemsat the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week. Robert Barlow, a marketing executive, presented the scenario with animation, graphs and statistics to industry professionals.“The technology for all this already exists,” he beamed, holding a real basketball with a sensor. Cisco can aggregate data from multiple sources to create an “orchestration layer”, he said, which will help the Internet of Everything generate trillions of dollars in the next decade.The audience of executives and technicians from America, Europe and Asia got the message. Big data, big bucks.What of Aiden and Foster? You could say, lucky them. Protected from predators and pornography, nudged away from harmful food and obesity, the benefits are obvious.I say, God help them. What sort of childhood is it with every move tracked, scrutinised, logged, judged? Where you cannot wander, try something new, be spontaneous – be yourself – without issuing a beeping alert from wearable, connected technology? This is helicopter parenting at its most stultifying, a constant, hovering presence.A perilous environment would justify such surveillance. When I was the Guardian&apos;s correspondent in Baghdad in 2005 I considered tagging myself with the then relatively crude electronic devices (and after I was kidnapped I dearly wished I had).But Cisco, and hundreds of other companies at CES, are pitching their products - tiny cameras, wearable sensors, connectivity services - mainly at the US and other rich countries where abductions and violent crime are mercifully rare.A parent&apos;s job is to worry about his or her child so the line between responsible supervision and cloying surveillance can be blurry, especially as childhood gives way to adolescence. What chance a fumble behind the bike shed with the Stasi waiting at home?But children (and pets) are just the beginning, a wedge to introduce the technology. Adults are targets too. We are already doing it. Older people are given sensors so distant offspring can track health indicators.“Old people often resist,” Stuart Sikes, the head of Park Associates, a consulting company specialising in emerging consumer technology products and services, told me. “But younger people tend to love this technology. It&apos;s a polarised market.”Since 2009AT&amp;T&apos;s FamilyMapservice lets you track relatives through their phone.New technology is making it ever cheaper, easier, more thorough – and culturally acceptable. “Amazing things happen when you connect the previously unconnected,” gushed another evangelist at Cisco&apos;s exhibition. “Everything you do generates data. The more we build these connections, the more we build relationships.”Nonsense. A ping to your phone saying your spouse has deviated from the usual route home may or may not be useful information but does not deepen the relationship, no matter what they&apos;re up to (if cheating you can Google their location, monitor their pulse for acceleration, maybe dispatch a coitus interruptus pizza).Edward Snowden&apos;s revelations about the NSA revealed ubiquitous state snooping, something anticipated byGeorge Orwell and Ray Bradburyhalf a century ago. But the greatest danger to privacy is not the government but ourselves. Google, Facebook and Twitter have built empires on the fact we prefer convenience to privacy. In a culture of reality television and narcissism masked as social media we sleepwalked into our own Truman Shows. Cisco&apos;s vision is just another incremental step.Dave Eggers&apos; recent novelThe Circleimagines a dystopian future where an all-powerful corporation plants tiny cameras everywhere, and on individuals, so that all events and conversations are instantly, publicly available online. The naive protagonist, Mae Holland, embraces the company&apos;s mantras: secrets are lies; sharing is caring; privacy is theft.We are not there, and hopefully never will be. Much of the technology displayed in Las Vegas offers real benefits – healthier and safer lives, more fun – and should be embraced.But a needed conversation about limits is not happening. Neither the industry nor consumers are paying sufficient heed to the erosion of privacy and the dwindling possibility of opting out, of eluding the unblinking, all-seeing basilisk gaze of extraordinary technology.Thanks toSnowden the NSAis learning that just because it can do something doesn&apos;t mean it should. The rest of us need to learn that too.•CES 2014: Are curved TVs just a marketing gimmick?
The ability to track the location - and perhaps behaviour - of children - has become a reality thanks to a team from Manchester and what they claim is a &quot;first of its kind&quot; GPS tracker and mobile phone wristband.Hidden in the depths of the auxiliary halls at the CES gadget show in Las Vegas is a small British company usually based in Manchester’s MediaCityUK, showing off a prototype its pioneering wearable safety device for children and the elderly.Working in conjunction with Manchester University, KMS say its wristband is essentially a very simple small, wrist-worn mobile phone with integrated GPS that has just one button.Panic buttonIt works like a panic button that when pressed dials a series of pre-programmed phone numbers until it gets an answer from a human, automatically detecting answer machines and skipping to the next number in the list.“Simplicity was the key for our target audience of children and vulnerable adults. It had to be easy enough for anyone to use, even for those people who would not be able to operate a standard mobile phone,” said Chris Etchells, co-founder of KMS talking to the Guardian at CES.The Wristband is charged wirelessly and the battery lasts around two days of use, but will notify the manager of the device when it hits 20% battery by email, and then call the designated number at 10% battery.KMS also made the wristband automatically answer incoming calls, allowing parents, relatives and friends to call to check up on the child even if they wouldn’t necessarily answer a ringing phone from their parents.Geo-fencing and trackingCoupled to the mobile phone is an assisted GPS chip, which allows parents or carers to track the wearer on a map using a website or smartphone app.KMS has also developed a geographic ring-fencing feature, which automatically tracks the child wearing the wristband and notifies its parents when it leaves a pre-defined safe zone or route of travel, allowing them to call the band.On top of the band is a Vcode 2D barcode which encodes information about the person wearing the band including their blood type, their allergies and an emergency contact number, should the child or wearer get lost or involved in an incident.“It took eight months to develop, but I’ve been working on the idea behind it for the best part of 10 years,” said Etchells talking about how he came up with the concept while working with vulnerable adults.Etchells explains that in the testing of the device, rather than feeling like they were being watched, the child testers saw it as a gateway to allowing them to play outside without supervision, as the parents felt more comfortable letting the kids play knowing they could keep an eye on them remotely and track them if they wandered off.The wristband is in its final stage of development, and is expected to be ready for production and will then go on sale for about £200 in September 2014.• Smart wearablesflooded the halls of CES 2014, including bands from LG and Sony
Noise pollution could become a thing of the past with the introduction of directional sound technology that projects sound waves within a column of air.Headed for the home audio market, the technology developed by Parametric Sound fires sound waves within a 75cm-wide air column meaning that only those directly in its path can hear the sound.“The aim is to be able to send different audio streams to different people using a Kinect-like system recognising people sitting on a sofa, without them having to wear headphones,” explained spokesman David Lowey, demonstrating the technology to the Guardian at the CES technology conference in Las Vegas.Cuts through ambient noiseThe HyperSound System is currently being used commercially in museums and retailers to provide a spotlight of sound, where passersby can only hear the audio commentary being played when standing in the right space.The audio produced by the system cuts through ambient noise, sounding like it is coming from within the listener’s head, as demonstrated in a very noisy booth at the Las Vegas Convention Centre.Lowey explained that HyperSound is a work in progress with a couple of innovation hurdles to be overcome before consumer-focused applications become viable. However, the company is working on several applications including assisted hearing, where the vocal track on a television programme is projected at a higher volume to the ears of the hearing impaired without causing noise pollution for others in the house or room.The surface of a TV or tablet could become the speakerOne of the current challenges of the HyperSound technology is the lack of low-end bass the system is capable of projecting. The current implementation produces clear and rich high and mid tones, but requires a subwoofer to provide non-directional bass, limiting its usefulness to a general consumer.The technology is not limited to traditional speaker systems. Lowey explained that HyperSound uses a flat plate to create the sound waves and that the surface of a TV or tablet could become the speaker, projecting sound directly out of the screen without the need to additional speakers and lowering the ambient noise pollution of devices.“For gaming, we see HyperSound as a way of isolating the sound to your ears so that your wife or neighbours don’t kill for your playing games in the middle of the night,” said Lowey.Turtle Beach, the gaming company which recently bought Parametric Sound, will roll out the technology into consumer products once a certain level of sound quality is achieved, which is expected to take around three years. Assisted hearing applications are expected to come on sale during 2015.• At CES 2014,LG announced a ‘talking’ washingmashing that is able to answer your text messages
The hardest puzzle on the internet is not, perhaps, something to be attempted on whim during a quiet January afternoon.But ever since I first heard about Cicada 3301, a mysterious event somewhere at the intersection of a game, a competition and a job interview, I&apos;d wanted to test my mettle. It couldn&apos;t be that hard, right?Wrong.Cicada 3301 first appeared in January 2012, with a picture posted on 4Chan, the notorious message board which has given birth to everything from Lolcats to Anonymous.In white text on a black background, the posted message read: &quot;Hello. We are looking for highly intelligent individuals. To find them, we have devised a test.&quot;There is a message hidden in this image.&quot;Find it, and it will lead you on the road to finding us. We look forward to meeting the few that will make it all the way through.&quot;Good luck.&quot;It was signed &quot;3301&quot;.The puzzles have been going since 2011. This duck was one of the first. Photograph: Cicada 3301That message led to a series of puzzles, each harder than the last. The first few were just about solvable by a canny individual working alone, requiring little more than mild coding ability and wordplay to get past. But as participants fell deeper into the rabbit hole, the references became less obvious – one clue involved a poem from a collection of medieval Welsh manuscripts, another a quote from a William Gibson book which was only released on 3.5 inch floppies.Co-operating on chatrooms and message boards, a growing collection of puzzle solvers broke the codes, one by one. When the game moved into the real world – a series of GPS co-ordinates were posted, leading to QR codes attached to lampposts over five different nations, from Poland to Australia – it was clear that no single person could hope to solve everything.But as quickly as the co-operation was encouraged, it was snuffed out. The final puzzle directed players to an address for a website on Tor, the anonymous browser now best known for its use by the Silk Road black market. But only the fastest movers ever got to see what was on the page: it was shortly blanked, and replaced with the statement &quot;We want the best, not the followers.&quot; For those deemed &quot;followers&quot;, Cicada was over.RepetitionThen, on January 5 2013, exactly a year and a day after the first posting, a new image was uploaded onto 4chan&apos;s /b/ message board. &quot;Hello again. Our search for intelligent individuals now continues,&quot; it began. Again, the image led to a series of puzzles; again, the puzzles eventually pointed to locations in the real world; and again, the trail was abruptly closed off to all but the best players.Those who had failed two years in a row had no choice but to wait and hope the pattern would repeat itself.It did.This year&apos;s puzzle began slightly differently. Rather than an image posted on 4chan, a Twitter feed which had been involved in 2013&apos;s hunt sprang to life again,sharing yet another image of white text on a black background– albeit one with more gnomic text than ever before.&quot;Hello. Epiphany is upon you. Your pilgrimage has begun. Enlightenment awaits.&quot;This year, I tried to join in the hunt. So far, it hasn&apos;t gone well.In fact, it couldn&apos;t have started any worse. There are two messages buried in the image file. The first is easy enough to get at: the black of the image isn&apos;t actually pure black. Instead, in very dark grey, is the image of a cicada. A couple of seconds messing with the colour levels in Photoshop, and I&apos;d made it visible. Success!Change the exposure on the image, and the cicada is revealed. Photograph: Cicada 3301Unfortunately, the actually important message was harder to get.As with the previous two years, the image included text hidden with steganography, a technique which lets users bury information in seemingly innocuous files. To get the information out required me to use a program called OutGuess. To install OutGuess, I need to compile the program from source. To do that, I need to install Xcode, the Mac OS X developer tools, create a new command line project based on the source code I downloaded, reconfigure the program for Mac, deal with any dependency issues, build it, and then run it from the terminal.What I actually do is spend the better part of an hour clicking around in Xcode, desperately trying to find a magic button to click which will make everything work without requiring me to learn how to code in an afternoon. There is no such button. This may be harder than I thought.Out of desperation, I turn to the community. Apparently I&apos;m a few days behind the curve; they&apos;ve already extracted the text and solved the puzzle. As I look at the solution, my hope begins to melt. It really is mind-bogglingly obtuse.SolutionThe text which can be extracted from the image is split into three parts. The third is just a signature, proof that the image really does come from Cicada and that it hasn&apos;t been tampered with. But above it is the next step of the puzzle.The first part reads like a poem: &quot;The work of a private man/ who wished to transcend,/ He trusted himself, / to produce from within.&quot; That&apos;s followed by a series of numbers, separated by colons: &quot;1:2:3:1/3:3:13:5/45:5:2:3,&quot; and so on, capped by the word &quot;.onion&quot;. That last bit means that the solution, when found, will be the url to another website on Tor – following the pattern of the previous years.So how is it solved? The numbers give a clue: the code probably involves a book. That format is a relatively well-known way of using a book as a key to a code. The first digit is the paragraph, the second is the sentence, the third is the word, and the fourth is the letter. But which book?A message from a community co-ordinator helping to solve the Cicada puzzle. Photograph: /Cicada 3301The answer is contained in the poem. Sort of. It&apos;s like the most frustrating cryptic crossword ever, with no conventions, no help as to length, and no way of checking whether you&apos;ve got the right answer beyond seeing whether the url works.The answer, apparently, is American author Ralph Waldo Emerson&apos;s essay &quot;Self-Reliance&quot;. Here&apos;s the community&apos;s explanation as to why:• Poem references transcendentalism• Emerson is a noted transcendentalist author• &quot;he trusted himsef&quot; refers to &quot;trust thineself&quot;, which is a theme throughout Self-Reliance, as is producing from withinI do not think I would have got that on my own.CommunityThere&apos;s only been one trustworthy piece of information as to who lies behind Cicada. It comes from an email, leaked by one of the &apos;winners&apos; of the 2012 challenge. It&apos;s impossible to verify fully, because the leaker was forced to remove the signature to keep their identity secret, but others who received the same email indicated that the contents were legitimate.&quot;You have all wondered who we are,&quot; it reads in part, &quot;and so we shall now tell you. We are an international group. We have no name. We have no symbol. We have no membership rosters. We do not have a public website and we do not advertise ourselves. We are a group of individuals who have proven ourselves, much like you have, by completing this recruitment contest, and we are drawn together by common beliefs. A careful reading of the texts used in the contest would have revealed some of these beliefs: that tyranny and oppression of any kind must end, that censorship is wrong and that privacy is an inalienable right.&quot;Part of a Cicada puzzle. Photograph: /Cicada 3301It seems unbelievable, but the number of other possibilities is fast shrinking. At the end of the first Cicada, it was possible that the whole thing was a game, or publicity stunt. Before the launch of Halo 2, Microsoft did something similar, launching an &quot;alternate reality game&quot; called ILoveBees. But that game ran for just three months before it ended with an invitation to play the game; Cicada is now in its third year.Similarly, the security services have been known to recruit through puzzles and games. But when GCHQ invited people to solve a code to get a job,they did so on a site plastered with their branding. And it beggars belief that they or the NSA would seriously start a hunt for spies on 4chan.At the same time, Cicada must be the work of more than one person, with some hefty resources. So far, physical artefacts from the group have appeared in 8 nations and 11 US states; it has bought phone numbers; paid for server up time; and offered something to the winners which has earned their silence.Last chanceI decided to have one last try at solving a puzzle. To stave off the temptation to cheat, I would try and solve the most recent cypher, a 70 character code reading &quot;IDGTK UMLOO ARWOE RTHIS UTETL HUTIA TSLLO UIMNI TELNJ 7TFYV OIUAU SNOCO 5JI4M EODZZ&quot; which had been found by combining two previously discovered answers.Eavesdropping on the chat channel, I see someone point out that the Enigma code was formatted in the same way. They link to an Engima simulator, and I give it a go. The most common version of the Enigma has a key of four letters, so there are a little less than half a million combinations.After half an hour of trying ever four-letter phrase I can think of that Cicada may have picked, based on every previous clue, I give up and go to bed.In the morning, when I check again, the puzzle has been solved. It involved putting the letters into 13 columns and shuffling the order around until a legible sentence appeared. The Enigma theory does not even warrant a mention.The answer leads to another darkweb site, with another image, and more puzzles, which remain incomprehensible to me. When I leave the chatroom, they are discussing a large chunk of data found between two images on yet another darkweb site. I give up, and do the G2 crossword instead.•Just who is playing who in ARGs?
International CES was once again filled to the brim with televisions in all sorts of different sizes and shapes, but one form stood out from the rest – the curved TV.Both Korean electronics manufacturers Samsung and LG released large curved screens at CES this year, following on from their initial showing in prototype format CES 2013 last January, that bend at a subtle angle, similar to very large cinema screens.These screens, it&apos;s claimed, “wrap around you” and “provide a uniquely immersive viewing experience”. The reality is that the curved shape comes with some significant drawbacks and very little, if any, benefit to the viewer.No more &apos;pincushioning&apos; - if you worriedCinema screens are often curved due to the way the picture is projected onto the screen. At very large sizes and with very wide picture formats like the cinemascope format used in most cinemas, a curved screen provides a wider field of view than a flat screen, so viewers can see more of the picture without moving their heads.Projecting a picture from a single source onto a wide screen creates distortion unless corrected: elements at the edge will seem larger than t hose in the middle, but also distorted. The picture will seem to warp inwards - a distortion called the pincushion effect.The same cannot be said for screens the emit their own light, like any television, as there is no projection or lens effect to create the distortion. And almost all televisions, short of the now-discontinued Philips cinemascope screens with a very wide 21:9 aspect ratio, use the traditional widescreen format with a 16:9 ratio - which is not wide enough to create distortion in the majority of cases.Curved screen benefits: just spin?Samsung and LG argue that curved TVs provide a cinema-like experience, which could be the case for someone watching a very large television - around 100in on the diagonal or more, and sitting very close to the screen. At that point the screen would likely appear to wrap around the viewer, although whether that is a good thing would be down to the viewer’s personal preference.For the majority of people with a television in their living room, that scenario is highly improbable. The average television screen size is under 40in according to data from Best Buy and only around 12% of televisions sold over the past two years were larger than 42in according to Deloitte.At that kind of screen size, the benefits of a curved display are questionable, and their drawbacks are tangible.One of the biggest is that curved displays are either very difficult to mount on a wall, or simply cannot be, instead relying on a stand or table top. Mounting modern televisions on walls, due to their thin profiles and light weight is relatively common, especially within the higher price bracket, which these new curved displays fit into.The curved screen also affects one of the benefits of having a flat screen – viewing angle. Although the curve of the displays is relatively small, the edges of the display reduces the viewing angles, blocking the view of people sitting to the right and left-hand side of the screen.Bending outwards from the flat screen, the edges of the television are also distracting if you aren&apos;t sitting directly in front of the display, with the back of the television and its side edge clearly visible. This disrupts the “immersive experience” that curved television manufacturers tout as the biggest advantage of the bowed shape.Because they canThe final, large disadvantage of the new curved displays is their price - £7,000 or more. They are many times the price of their flat LCD counterparts at the same screen size which frequently cost under £800, and significantly more than even their flat OLED competition.The real reason that Samsung, LG and others have made curved displays? Because they can.Their new OLED screen technology differs from the commonly used LCD technology found in the majority of flatscreen televisions today by emitting its own light thereby forgoing a backlight to shine through the screen and illuminate the picture. The result is that the screen itself is much thinner and does not require a rigid backing, allowing the screen to be bent to the desired curvature.Only manufactures of OLED screen technology can produce curved displays, and having invested heavily in research to develop the OLED screen Samsung, LG and others like Chinese manufacturer Hisense are using it to differentiate themselves.Curved televisions, therefore, are more of a marketing gimmick than a real development benefiting buyers.Prefer it flat? There&apos;s a button for thatSamsung and LG went further than simple curved displays, however, announcing flexible screens at CES in Las Vegas this year – both claiming to be the “world’s first” – displaying the advantage of OLED screen technology over LCD.The screens can morph between being completely flat and curved at the touch of a button, with the edges of the screen bending in towards the viewer.While flexible screens in televisions are a display of technological development rather than a real product at the moment, there is great potential in flexible screen technology, especially in the mobile space.Phoning it in: where curves make senseBoth Samsung and LG released curved phones in 2013, the Samsung Galaxy Round and the LG G Flex, and while they also may be considered a marketing gimmick, display expert Dr. Raymond Soneira, president of DisplayMate Technologies, explained that there are some benefits to smaller curved displays on devices like smartphones and tablets.The first is that the curved display of the smartphone reduces reflections that detract from the screen’s brightness, contrast and colour.“The concave screen shape on the Galaxy Round cuts down on reflections from the surrounding ambient light two ways: first, by reducing the screen’s 180 degree opening angle, which eliminates reflections from some ambient light coming from the sides. Second, from specular mirror reflections off the concave screen, because the curvature directs reflected ambient light coming from behind away from the viewer’s line of sight,” explained Soneirain a blog post.It is worth noting that flat smartphone technology has become much better at reducing ambient light reflections, with the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 showing some of the lowest ever recorded and therefore offering brighter, more saturated colours in ambient light.The second is that the curvature of the screen also has a slight magnification effect on the screen, making objects appear larger than they actually are, a visual effect also seen in curved car wing mirrors.“The most interesting and important result of the slightly curved Galaxy Round screen is that it magnifies the sizes of all of the objects that it reflects, just like a concave mirror,” said Soneira.While some of the drawbacks of curved TVs apply to curved smartphone displays too, the majority of usage of a smartphone or tablet puts the viewer directly in front of the screen, meaning viewing at an angle is less of an issue.Flexible screen technology holds great potentialThe two key advantages of a curved screen do have to be weighed against the odd shaping of the device resulting from the curvature, however. A curved smartphone does not site flat on a table or desk, and therefore will rock and move around when tapped.The curved device may also not fit as well into cases, bags and pockets, despite Samsung and LG’s claims that the curvature of the new smartphones fits around your leg.The benefits of curved screens on portable devices, therefore remain to be seen, and may come down to personal preference and novelty.The flexible screen technology underpinning the curved displays holds great potential. Eventually, the fixed glass touchscreens seen today may be replaced by truly flexible displays, meaning that your compact smartphone could fold out to hold a much bigger screen for watching a video on the train home.The current hurdle to the flexible device and fold-out screen dream is that the electronics powering the flexible displays are not yet themselves flexible, But science fiction-like expanding devices could become a reality in the next 10 years.• At CES 2014driverless cars are comingand they want to be your friends
I've just found out about, and am incensed at, Microsoft's decision tostop supporting Windows XPwith security updates from April 8, 2014. What about the thousands of people who still happily use XP? I have two PCs that my family uses on a daily basis.These are:(1) Dell Dimension 4800 (circa 2002) with a 2.66GHz Pentium 4, 2.5GB of memory, 70GB hard disk. Had this since new. The original screen and video driver failed. I added RAM and an external 500GB hard drive.(2) HP Compaq Presario SR1000 (circa 2004) with a 3.4GHz Pentium 4, 2GB of memory and 250GB hard disk. I just inherited this family hand-me-down and added RAM. It refused to work with two new 1GB DIMMs alongside the two existing 512MB DIMMs so had to take them out, but I could add two more 1GB RAMs.It appears that I may be able to upgrade both PCs from Windows XP, but to what? Windows 7 or 8? Will this completely kill performance, as I assume Windows 7 and 8 are more resource hungry than XP!Andy RobertsWindows XP support is ending as part of Microsoft's standardsoftware lifecycle, and Microsoft has stepped up its warningsover the past year. But I don't think you should be incensed, because you've had a very good deal. Dell and HP probably paid Microsoft about $45 each for these copies of XP, and if they bundled crapware with the operating system, you paid somewhat less. In return, you have had 10 or 12 years' use, three major updates -- Service Pack 1 (in 2002), SP2 (2004) and SP3 (2008) -- plus new browsers and other free programs such as the Windows Live Suite. However, in the 12 years since you bought your Dell, you haven't paid Microsoft a penny, so threatening to withdraw your custom isn't going to cut much ice.I'll be amazed if any other operating system that came out around the same time as XP -- Mac OS X 10.1 (Puma), IBM OS/2 4.52, Novell NetWare 6.0 etc -- still gets free support. Apple has not only shipped eight versions of Mac OS X since then, it has dumped PowerPC for Intel chips. The Ubuntu version of Linux hadn't even been launched: it first appeared three years after XP.Of course, Microsoft has also released new operating systems since 2001, with cut-price deals to tempt people to upgrade to Windows Vista in 2006 and Windows 7 in 2009. The best deal came when Windows 8 was launched in 2012: Microsoft offered an upgrade from Windows XP to Windows 8 Pro for$39.99or £25, discounted from $199.99 or £189.99. Indeed, you can still get the Windows 8 Pro Upgrade Edition from Amazon.co.uk for£66.99, which isn't a bad deal if you can run it. The upgrade from 8.0 to 8.1 is free.Upgrades bring benefitsThe rational way to approach computer hardware purchases is to amortize the cost over its expected lifespan, which is typically from three to five years. After five years, components become outdated and increasingly prone to failure, starting with the battery on the motherboard and then the hard drive. For companies, the increased cost of maintenance is generally much higher than the cost of buying new PCs. Deferring inevitable upgrades makes even less sense if you benefit financially from using a newer operating system. When upgrading from XP, this includes much greater stability and reliability, faster and smoother operation, boot time savings and greatly increased security.Some of these benefits come from switching from 32-bit XP to 64-bit Windows 7 or Windows 8 with access to more memory. However, although it's not optimal, Windows 8 will run on 1GHz processors with only 2GB. I haven't upgraded a PC from XP to Windows 8 myself, but a PC that runs XP reasonably well should run Windows 8.1 at least as well, and possibly better.A quick search finds ablog postby Troy Hunt. He installed Windows 8 on a 7-year-old Lenovo ThinkPad T60 laptop with a 1.83GHz Intel Core Duo processor and 1GB of RAM, and as you can see from side-by-side comparisons in hisYouTube video, Windows 8 outperforms XP. The main problem is that he couldn't install 64-bit Windows 8, and had to install the 32-bit version instead.Upgrading WindowsUnfortunately, Windows 7 and Windows 8 are not guaranteed to run on old PCs, because of their hardware limitations. In particular,Windows 8 needs support for Intel's PAE/NX/SSE2 features-- Physical Address Extension (PAE) mode, No-eXecute (NX), and Streaming SIMD Extensions 2 (SSE2) -- plus Data Execution Prevention (DEP) in the BIOS, plus WDDM graphics drivers.Download the Windows 8 Upgrade Assistant, which will check both hardware and software for compatibility. For further advice, see theUpdate to Windows 8.1: FAQ.People have run Windows 8 on even slower processors, such as the 733MHz Intel Pentium III (Coppermine), which supports PAE. Sadly, I reckon Windows 8 not run on your Dell Dimension, because PAE support wasn't added to the Pentium 4 line until the start of 2004. I am almost certain it will not run on your Compaq Presario SR1000, becauseIntel's Arksays its Pentium 4-550 doesn't have "Trusted Execution Technology".To get Windows 8 running, you would need to change the motherboard and perhaps install a new graphics card. You should also change the hard drives, which are beyond the age at which I'd expect them to fail. In other words, it would be much better to get one or two new or second hand PCs either from eBay.co.uk or one of the recycling groups, or even a skip. (Sorry!) Almost any desktop from 2007/8 or later would do. As long as it runs Vista SP1 or better, it will be a big improvement on XP. (I still run a Vista SP1 machine and it's rock solid. It's far a better operating system than the ignoranti claim.)Three alternativesThat leaves you with three alternatives for your current PCs: keep using XP, install Linux, or recycle them.Windows XP won't suddenly stop working in April, but many people think it will come under attack. Malware writers will look at the security holes that get patched in supported versions of Windows and know that they are not patched in unsupported XP. That will make XP systems easy targets, but if you run Google Chrome (not IE8) and do plenty of anti-virus checking, you might survive. Whether the rest of your family will be able to maintain the requisite level of alertness is another matter. You could try making them use restricted or guest accounts.Installing Linux is an obvious solution, as long as you don't have any vital Windows programs (which you may need to read your data) or games. However, you and your family will have to do some relearning, which takes time, and you will have to cope when Linux goes wrong, which it does. Since recent versions of Linux require recent PCs, and the latest KDE and Gnome desktops consume lots of memory. I suggest installingLubuntu, the lightweight version of Ubuntu, which has a lightweightLXDEdesktop that more-or-less copies pre-XP versions Windows.New versions of Ubuntu come out every six months and rapidly become unsupported, so go for Lubuntu 14.04 LTS: the first Lubuntu with Long Term Support. This doesn't mean 10 years, but at least LTS has now been extended to five years. It should be out in April. An alternative isXubutnu14.04 LTS with the Xfce desktop.But really, you should recycle at least one of your XP machines and buy something newer. When the Pentium 4 came out, it was all about raw speed, but times have changed. Intel junked the Pentium 4 architecture and started on a new course where cool running and "performance per Watt" are more important. A modern 1.5GHz Intel processor will not only run a lot faster, it will do it without consuming so much expensive electricity.Although Lubuntu will keep your old PCs in service, they won't last forever. Perhaps you should start putting £2 a week in a jar. After four years, you'll have enough to buy a decent PC. If you'd started in 2002, you'd have £1,248 to buy two really good ones.
It's Friday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamYou don't need a curved TV, but 4K is the future &gt;&gt; The ConversationLaurence Murphy:HD needs to be viewed from an optimum distance for your eyes to adequately perceive the resolution. Three times the picture height is the ideal distance, which unfortunately that means if you have a TV of more than 40 inches you need to sit at the other end of the room to enjoy your programme. If you sit any closer, you can see the pixels that make up the picture and the effect is ruined.But, if you increase the number of pixels, you can sit comfortably closer to the screen. That's the biggest benefit of 4K TV. You won't have to buy a bigger house to enjoy it.Laurence Murphy is senior lecturer and researcher in Media Technology at the University of Salford. The Conversation is a fascinating new site which gets academics to comment on daily news events.Why Alan Mulally ended his flirtation with Microsoft &gt;&gt; WSJMulally on Tuesday ended months of speculation by saying he won't leave Ford for Microsoft. But the Ford CEO had been telling people inside Ford for weeks that he wouldn't be the next Microsoft CEO, people familiar with those discussions said.Other people familiar with Mulally's thinking said the Ford executive soured on the Microsoft job in part because of what he perceived to be leaks from Microsoft about the search process. Microsoft's board has been seeking a new leader since Steve Ballmer said in August  he planned to retire within a year……Mulally's waning recent interest in the CEO post coincided with concerns of critics who said the 68-year-old executive's age and lack of software experience made him a poor fit to lead the world's largest software company by revenue. Mulally is an aeronautical engineer, but has never worked in the computer or software industries.At Microsoft's November shareholder meeting, [Bill] Gates said the next CEO needed to "have a lot of comfort in leading a highly technical organization." Some Microsoft watchers interpreted the comments as a sign the board preferred a CEO steeped in the tech industry, rather than a proven manager like Mulally.Morgan Stanley survey sees PC demand slide easing &gt;&gt; Yahoo FinanceKeith Weiss wrote in a note to investors that a recent Morgan Stanley survey of 3,000 consumers in the U.S., United Kingdom and Japan backs up his expectations that the decline in PC demand will slow markedly this year. It predicts a 2% decline in calendar year 2014, down from 16% decline the year before.But he added that the survey shows that Mac computers will account for all of the improvement, posting a 75% year-over-year gain, while demand for Windows-based units will continue to fall, dropping another 15%."Although full realization of implied Mac growth is unlikely, Apple's growing installed base could drive better than expected Mac unit growth over the next several years," Weiss wrote in his note.75%? That's hard to believe - even with any pent-up demand for the Mac Pro. Gartner meanwhile is forecasting a 7% fall for the whole PC market in 2014.IBM struggles to turn Watson computer into big business &gt;&gt; WSJ.comIt won Jeopardy, but now what?IBM is developing versions of Watson that can match cancer patients to clinical drug trials or recommend an investment strategy after reviewing a customer's portfolio.Watson is having more trouble solving real-life problems than "Jeopardy" questions, according to a review of internal IBM documents and interviews with Watson's first customers.For example, Watson's basic learning process requires IBM engineers to master the technicalities of a customer's business—and translate those requirements into usable software. The process has been arduous.In addition, Watson doesn't work with the data-center technology offered by SoftLayer Technologies Inc., the cloud-computing provider IBM acquired for $2 billion. IBM also hasn't figured out how to generate a reliable revenue stream from Watson, according to the October conference call.It sounds exactly like the expert systems of the 1980s/90s. Those too were going to replace experts with machine-honed analyses. But the problem of having to codify knowledge meant it mainly stayed inside peoples' heads.Three in 10 in US own an array of consumer electronics &gt;&gt; GallupInteresting side note in this analysis of who owns and uses what:"Smartphone Reliants" represent 19% of Americans. Nearly all (93%) have a smartphone, 65% have a laptop, and most have wireless at home; but they are far less likely than their affluent counterparts to have electronic perks such as tablets, e-readers, and portable music devices, or to subscribe to Internet streaming services. Their relatively low ownership of iPods, tablets, and e-readers suggests they may have chosen to rely on their smartphones for these capabilities.This group's average age (40) is similar to that of Super Tech Adopters, but Smartphone Reliants are less likely to be college educated, less likely to be employed, and less affluent. At 58% female, they also have a higher proportion of women than any of the other three groups.More have smartphones than have laptops (though possibly they share with a partner?).Cash4phones files for insolvency &gt;&gt; theguardian.comA spokesman said any affected customers should lodge a claim as a creditor, but the chances of getting the cash value promised was slim. It said it has so far been handed 750 old handsets.Company director, Nearchos Chacholiades, filed for bankrupcy after setting up Yemonia Limited as the holding company for Cash4phones. The last known company address was a mail box at a newsagent's in Paddington, London."There is a meeting of creditors on 13 January where questions can be raised directly with the director, and they can also lodge their complaint so we will investigate the director's conduct more rigously," a spokesman for Capital Books said, who estimated that at least 1,000 consumers have been left owing cash. Trading Standards is also investigating the company.Hard to figure out if it went under because it was a bad idea, or hit a cash flow problem.11 injured in northern Vietnam Samsung plant riot &gt;&gt; Thanh Nien DailyEleven people were injured, five of them seriously, in a fight Thursday between security guards and workers at the construction site a multi-billion dollar Samsung complex in the northern province of Thai Nguyen.The incident occurred at around 7 a.m. at the Yen Binh Industrial Zone in Pho Yen District, where the South Korean electronics giant's US$3.2bn hi-tech complex is being built.The fight broke out after the guards refused to allow some construction workers to bring meals to the site, witnesses said.During the altercation, one of the guards reportedly hit a worker with a club, causing the latter to fall unconscious. This enraged other workers and hundreds of them attacked the guards, the Nguoi Lao Dong (Laborer) newspaper quoted some witnesses as saying.Play Quit Smoking, a free online game &gt;&gt; KongregateFor those trying to quit smoking (and quit starting smoking again) this year: a video game to make you think. Bookmark it in case you get a craving. (Via @SweMeatballs78 on Twitter.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Join Tech Monthly's new photography project and you could see your photography in print! We want you to submit your images on the theme of "construction". So whether it's a beaver constructing his watery home, the unveiling of a new skyscraper or even some ingenious Lego, we want you to send us your pictures and tell us which kit you used to take the perfect shot.You can submit your photos by clicking on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons on this article or by downloading theGuardianWitness app, if you have a smartphone.Our favourite will make it into next month's issue.Closing date: 24 January 2014.
TheConsumer Electronics Showis an annual lovefest between inventors and the gadgetry enthusiasts who love them. For the rest of us, this means we hear a lot about tech trends that sound too ridiculous to take seriously. The Internet of Things? Made up. Wearable technology? Too expensive. Brain microchips? Dystopian science fiction. Robots? Actually,robotssound awesome. Those can stay.We started#WeirdCESon Monday. Guardian reporters and readers shared pictures of some of the &quot;hottest&quot; trends in action. IRL, some of these things don&apos;t even look newfangled: people are still putting weird things on their heads and still taking photos of gadget-wearingcelebrities who look deeply confused. With the intel we gathered from #WeirdCES, here&apos;s our best guess about what these trends actually mean:The Internet of Things = household devices that scare your children but also maybe raise them?'Mother Knows Everything' Photograph: /Samuel GibbsWe&apos;re hearing a lot about the &quot;Internet of Things&quot; this year. Has anyone thought about how creepy this could get when actually put into practice?This little gadget with the very Norman Bates-style &quot;Mother Knows Everything&quot; tagline wasspottedby reporter Samuel Gibbs during his first lap of the CES floor. We asked our readers to guess what the hell this thing does –one reader guessed&quot;Electronic Parental Replacement Unit for Newborns&quot;. That might actually end up being pretty accurate. But the Sen.se Mother is actually a &quot;household management&quot; device that seeks to improve upon the flesh-and-blog analog version we&apos;re born with: it will track your movements and temperature, and works with things called &quot;Cookies&quot; to make sure your lifestyle is optimized. Apparently,24 cookies can be controlled by a single Mother. Parents, rejoice!Also hot:This gadget spotted by Rory Carroll, which looks like the IRL version ofDJ Roomba.Wearable technology = people continuing to look like idiots in publicA continuation of theGoogle Glassholetrend of 2013, in which men put strange techy things on their faces and nearby women just try to pretend it&apos;s all not happening. I don&apos;t know what this gadget is, but this photo is an excellent Exhibit A:Filing this under#WeirdCES.#MashCESpic.twitter.com/F0ok7JN0m8&mdash; Jeff Petriello (¬‿¬) (@thebeff)January 7, 2014&quot;Glasshole-ing&quot; was definitely a niche activity in 2013. It most popular amongwhite dudes, but was infamously perfected by Google Glass marketing managerAmanda Rosenberg. This year, more ladies are getting involved. Score one for equality.Wearable technology = celebrities looking uncomfortableA random smattering of celebrities –Martha Stewart, Shaq, T-Boz,Stevie Nicks– are among the luminaries descending upon the conference to either perform or promote wearable tech products. Yesterday, I received an email that 50 Cent was live-casting on a video app while using Google Glass. Who knows what that even means? In any case, special attention needs to be paid to Batman, awearable technologyhipster who rocked it before it was cool, who is also on the scene.The Internet of Things = tech devices that look vaguely like sex toysWhen I first saw this I didn&#39;t think it was a toothbrush…#CES2014#WeirdCESpic.twitter.com/OkcR7D5mqD&mdash; Brittney Gallagher (@inaquantumworld)January 8, 2014The subtle team at Gizmodo will go so far as to say this is actually a vibrator –they make a good case– but it&apos;s actually a toothbrush that will remind you if you haven&apos;t brushed in twelve hours. For travelers, the manufacturer also makes &quot;mini&quot; versions of some of their products. Purely for hygienic reasons, I&apos;m sure.The Internet of Things = even more stuff you&apos;ll lose/leave at work/leave in cabs'It's an iPhone.' Photograph: /Samuel GibbsSpottedby Samuel Gibbs, the Tao Wellshell is a motion tracker and fitness gadget that uses isometrics to build a workout. He tells us &quot;it measures compressive power and produces precise exercises using the body’s own muscle power against it. The device can even be used as a game controller for things like Jetpack Joyride, producing a fun workout.&quot;In other words, you will lose this by the time your New Year&apos;s fitness resolution is over.Robots = RobotsIt&#39;s robot therapy for anxiety and depression. Sensors respond to cuddles and voice.#WeirdCES.pic.twitter.com/J79AADUSJj&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2014Robots appear to be becoming less selfish and more service-oriented in 2014. Rory noticed the Paro robot -- more on this from commenterfolderdave-- which will soothe you if you talk to it and cuddle with it. This will no doubt pleaseMother, who will be listening for activity nearby.We&apos;re not done yet = there&apos;s still one more day to go.Rory and Samuel are continuing to scour the floor for tech delights. Follow the streamhere.
The news thatLG is considering quitting the traditional Windows PC businessisn&apos;t surprising. LG has always been a bit player in the PC market, with shipments of at best a few million PCs per year - in a market where the largest companies would expect to shift 10 times more.As one unnamed LG employee told the Korean Times, exiting the PC business makes sense: &quot;it doesn&apos;t make sense to put more resources into the money-losing business.&quot;It&apos;s not just LG that&apos;s hurting. The PC business is in a slump which has seen year-on-year shipments (and so sales) of Windows PCs fall for five (imminently, six) quarters in a row, after seven quarters where they barely grew by more than 2%.The situation is a long way from the boom times of the late 1990s, which saw 20%-plus quarterly growth.And it&apos;s not only growth that&apos;s fallen. Analysis by the Guardian suggests that as well as falling sales, the biggest PC manufacturers now have to contend with falling prices and dwindling margins on the equipment they sell.Price and profit fallsPC market global shipments, 3Q 1998 - 3Q 2013. Source: IDC. Photograph: /IDC/PRMy research took published data from the quarterly financial figures for HP, Dell, Lenovo, Acer and Asus, which together make more than 60% of the world&apos;s Windows PC shipments.By comparing revenues, operating profits (which excludes one-off windfalls from investments) and the proportion of revenues derived from business segments, it&apos;s straightforward to figure out how much each PC costs to make, and how much profit it generates for the big companies. (For Acer and Asus, which operate in Taiwan, I used the prevailing exchange rate at each quarter&apos;s end to give US dollar revenues. Lenovo reports its figures in US dollars.)This yields the &quot;weighted average selling price&quot; (ASP) of PCs from those companies. It&apos;s weighted because HP sells more PCs than Acer; and the ASP is the price at which the manufacturers sell machines to wholesalers, not the end-user price.Bitten by ASPsAverage per-PC revenues for various PC manufacturers over time, by quarter. Lines show overall price trend. Based on reported revenues and shipments figures from accounts (Apple) or IDC (others). Photograph: /IDC/PRThe data shows that the weighted average selling price (ASP) of a PC has fallen from $614.60 in the first quarter of 2010 to just $544.30 in the third quarter of 2013, the most recent date for which data is available.Even worse is the profitability. From the financial data and shipment data, it&apos;s easy enough to calculate the per-PC profitability of each company, though it creates a confusing picture. (The Microsoft figure is calculated from figures given for its Windows division; however, they vary greatly because much of that division&apos;s revenue comes from corporate sales to its existing installed base of PCs, rather than directly from shipments.)Average per-PC profit for major PC manufacturers, by quarter. Calculated from published financial data and IDC shipment figures. Photograph: /GuardianIt&apos;s hard to see what&apos;s happening immediately. But we can calculate a &quot;weighted average profit per PC&quot; by looking at the profitability of each company, and weighting that by the number of PCs shipped. This gives a far clearer picture.Average per-PC profit for the five largest PC manufacturers, with trend line. Note: doesn't include Asus data before 2Q 2010 as PC shipment data isn't available. Photograph: /GuardianIn the first quarter of 2010, the weighted average profit per PC was $15.71 - a 2.55% margin. (So the overall per-PC cost of manufacture, sales and marketing was just under $599.)But since then, the rise of smartphones (which began outselling PCs at the end of 2010) and the arrival of the iPad and other tablets have eaten into the fortunes of PC makers.So much so that by the third quarter of 2013, the weighted average profit had fallen to $14.87.That actually marks an improvement in margin, to 2.73% - but the absolute fall both in profits and numbers shipped means that companies are struggling. (The per-PC manufacturing/marketing/sales cost fell to $529. It&apos;s getting cheaper to produce PCs - but the price they&apos;re being sold for is falling too.)For the Taiwanese company Acer, it has meant a brutal boardroom shakeout that saw its chief executive forced out after two successive quarters of losses.That contrasts with the comments made in January 2010, when its founder Stan Shihremarkedthat US-based PC manufacturers would die out over the next 20 years because they couldn&apos;t make the low-priced netbook computers that consumers were demanding.&quot;The trend for low-priced computers will last for the coming years,&quot; said Shih confidently.The problem is that his prediction is coming true. PCs are getting cheaper. But they&apos;re not making much money for their makers. Welcome to the value trap.The value trapThe problem for Windows PC makers is that they are caught in the &quot;value trap&quot;. Even as prices are being forced down by commoditisation and slumping demand, they have no obvious way to capture any of the money that a consumer who buys one of their products subsequently spends with it.While HP and Dell (and to a lesser extent Lenovo) use PC sales to corporations as the Trojan horse for more profitable services contracts, any PC sale to a consumer is effectively the end of the financial relationship. The OEMs can&apos;t extract any more value from them. That&apos;s why many tried (and still try) to extract as much as possible at the point of sale. Chrystalla Labesque, PC analyst at research company IDC, points to Dell as a classic example: &quot;It was the leader in pushing costs down, and adding additional services as a way to improve their hardware margin - so when selling notebooks to consumers, they would offer antivirus and notebook accessories. Those could double their per-PC profit.&quot;When you think how thin that profit could be, you understand the purpose of &quot;crapware&quot; preinstalled on so many Windows PCs: to escape from the value trap. As Jack Schofield noted inrecommending a Dell purchase last May, &quot;Dell&apos;s Vostro range is aimed at boring business buyers rather than consumers, so they tend to be well made and they don&apos;t include a lot of bundled crapware to mess things up.&quot;For Asus and Acer, which don&apos;t have substantial sales to business, the attempted solution has been to offer &quot;cloud&quot; services, though with little result. The idea is sound - retain consumers by tying them to the brand, and so to future sales - but set against the might of Google or Microsoft, it&apos;s an uphill struggle.The value trap is deep, though. Because Windows and its apps are easily moved from one PC to another (which is a huge benefit to the consumer), it&apos;s almost impossible for hardware makers to differentiate themselves from rivals. In the past, their best hope has been to encourage repeat buying through having extra hardware features; that&apos;s what some are trying to do with touchscreen laptops and desktops now. But there&apos;s little sign that buyers are enthusiastic about those, preferring instead to buy offerings that are just a little cheaper.That means there is always downward pressure on both prices and margins, while the only way to make useful profits is to be able to build at scale.The alternative is, like HP and Dell, to use PCs as a Trojan horse to sell much more profitable services to businesses.The value trap is the reason why Léo Apotheker suggested thatHP should sell off its PC-selling Personal Systems Group(PSG) when he was head of the company in 2011. PSG is HP&apos;s biggest division in revenue terms - but its worst-performing in profit margin, at less than 5% compared to Imaging (15%), Software (20% or more), Storage/Networking (15%), and until recently Services (which have dipped from 15% to 4%).Apotheker reasoned that if PSG could be spun off without hurting the rest of HP, overall margins would lift, and so would the stock. The rest of the board decided though that that wasn&apos;t possible - and spun Apotheker off instead.Dell, similarly, has struggled ever to make money selling its PCs to consumers: its &quot;global consumer&quot; division had profit margins which averaged 1% between February 2007 and January 2013. The rest of its business was much more profitable, but it&apos;s clear that selling PCs to the average person at home just wasn&apos;t a good business for it. (Dell&apos;s per-PC profits are calculated from its total PC revenues and its consumer segment profits.)&quot;Dell isn&apos;t really present in the consumer market,&quot; says Labesque.Lenovo, which completed its acquisition of IBM&apos;s PC business in the second quarter of 2005, has also struggled with profitability - but since it increased its reach by moving beyond China in the past couple of years, it has become more and more dominant, and profitable. It&apos;s managing to do this even while competes in smartphones - something that HP, its rival for the PC crown, has signally failed to do. &quot;With Lenovo, what isn&apos;t reflected is that they have a strong position in China, which means that they have efficiencies which other vendors can&apos;t leverage,&quot; explains Labesque.Asus and Acer, meanwhile, are clearly troubled by the disappearance of netbooks, even though those pulled down the ASP of PCs, because it has forced them into the potentially unprofitable field of tablets. Acer&apos;s financial results suggest that it has made a loss on almost every PC it has sold since the second quarter of 2011. Its best performance in that space was in the second quarter of 2012 - when for every PC it sold, it made an average profit of just $1.13.Asus&apos;s plans for the future - as set out in itsQ3 2013 presentation(PDF) - focus on tablets, and particularly in trying to find extra profits there.But even with tablets, it&apos;s not easy. Asus estimates the TAM - total addressable market - as 202m, or 230m if you include &quot;white box&quot; makers in China making super-cheap devices. The competition there is ferocious, with the same downward pressure on price that is seen in PCs; and Apple always lurks at the high end with the iPad.In the personal computer market, Apple wins both ways: its ASPs are much higher than those of rival computer manufacturers, and it used to be able to sell OS upgrades, as well as upgrades to its iLife media and iWork office suites, providing a small but reliable income.This year, it has decided to stop charging for any of those upgrades - but it still takes a 30% commission on software bought through its Mac App Store (though users can still download and buy desktop apps from the web). With aclaimed installed base worldwide of 72mas of summer 2013 (up from66m in summer 2012), it&apos;s a tidy revenue stream - especially compared to the pit that PC manufacturers find themselves in.Apple: squeezed, but less soApple average PC selling price v "weighted" average PC selling price for five main manufacturers. Photograph: /GuardianApple isn&apos;t immune from the downward pressure on pricing, though they&apos;ve only been mildly eroded, as shown in the graph. Its ASPs have eroded only mildly since 1Q 2010, from $1,277.61 to $1,229.56 (a 4% drop).And how profitable are Macs on their own, even without that revenue stream? Apple doesn&apos;t break out the figure for Mac profitability. But Horace Dediu of the Asymco consultancy reckons there&apos;s a good-enough rule of thumb: assume that Macs have an 18.9% profit margin, which fits well enough with its historical operating margins.That metric gives a hardware per-PC profit which has dropped from $241 to $232 - an erosion, certainly, but a margin that Windows PC makers would kill for: it&apos;s more than 10 times greater than their per-PC profit.Labesque at IDC says: &quot;Apple&apos;s cost to produce machines might be higher, but it isn&apos;t fundamentally different from other PC manufacturers. They used to have the best hardware margin - double-digit [ie over 10%] - while Acer, for instance, has been losing money.&quot;She notes that once you go outside the top-tier manufacturers, &quot;then there&apos;s Apple, and Samsung, and Sony, which are more consumer and lifestyle brands, where they can ask for a premium price.&quot; Doing that, of course, generally points to better margins. Samsung shipped around 11m PCs in 2013, and Sony slightly fewer than 5m, according to IDC. Apple sells around 16m PCs per year.Winners - and losers?So who wins? The most obvious beneficiary of every Windows PC sale is Microsoft. It gets revenue from the sale of the Windows licence - but it then captures extra value through the high likelihood that even consumer buyers of PCs will buy its Office suite, and probably buy another version of Windows at some point in that computer&apos;s life. It&apos;s the reason why Microsoft is so fabulously profitable, while PC manufacturers are struggling.Into this, the arrival of Chromebooks - running Google&apos;s Chrome OS - could be the early signs of a disruption. Although sales are tiny compared to the overall PC market, at a few million in 2013, they have the potential to undermine many of Microsoft&apos;s most lucrative markets. Chromebooks don&apos;t run Windows; they don&apos;t run Office. But they do pretty much everything that the average user needs (apart perhaps from running Skype; Microsoft&apos;s never going to go there). Google has been pushing Chromebooks into education and enterprises,with some success - as noted by NPD(in data that was badly misunderstood by many, who thought it was referring to consumer sales).In July, Stephen Baker of NPD told Bloomberg: “While we were sceptical initially, I think Chromebooks definitely have found a niche in the marketplace… The entire computing ecosystem is undergoing some radical change, and I think Google has its part in that change.”At the research group Gartner, where research director Annette Jump agrees that &quot;the profit squeeze on PCs is very real&quot;, the expectation is that Chromebooks will make slow - but real - inroads. For 2013, it reckons that Chromebooks would have been about 0.5% of total shipments - compared to 92% for Windows, 6% for Apple and 1% for Linux.By 2017, the expectation is that the overall market will be about the same size, or slightly smaller. Windows will have fallen to just 83%; Apple will make up 11% (which, if even vaguely correct, would be its largest share in decades), while Chrome will be about 4.5%.That might not be a lot of Chromebooks, though it&apos;s likely they could be going to some key customers: the ones who used to reliably buy Windows and then subsequently Office.For Microsoft, that is a threat - and one which may be behind its curious decision to make anadvert dissing Chromebooks. Consumers probably won&apos;t care that they don&apos;t run Office; the advert&apos;s &quot;dog whistle&quot; message may have been to people in businesses considering them.Meanwhile for PC manufacturers, seeing sales slump and profits weaken, something certainly does have to change. So maybe we should take it as a portent that although LG did announcea couple of hybrid Windows 8 machinesat the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) this week, the only computer is showed off in its stage presentation was an all-in-one (AIO) desktop computer.And its software? ChromeOS.
If you were a fan ofKnight Riderand dreamed of a car that could talk, drive itself and save you from peril, hold tight: it&apos;s coming.It does not exactly resemble Kitt, the Pontiac Firebird with a silky voice, and David Hasselhoff is not behind the wheel, but the spirit of the 1980s TV series pervades this week&apos;s Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.Car makers have taken over much of the world&apos;s biggest gadget expo to offer sneak previews of vehicles connected to smartphones and mobile computing technologies.Google and chip-maker Nvidia announced an alliance with GM, Honda, Audi, Hyundai to install cutting-edge Android technology into cars, a response to Apple&apos;s vigorous promotion ofits own iOS car technology.“We&apos;re getting to the point where the car is an extension of you and really looks out for you,” said Thilo Koslowski,an automotive analyst at Gartner. “The car is ideally suited for this, more so than your phone or a tablet or another computing device.”A vehicle was a controlled environment with space for multiple sensors, creating a unique platform to satisfy and anticipate needs and desires, he said.“I can foresee that cars will become self-aware where they can really understand what is happening inside and outside. That together will create a self-aware vehicle that can look out for you, that can control the information and focus on providing the right information at the right times to protect you, inform you and entertain you.” Kitt was getting closer, said Koslowski.In Knight Rider, conceived by producer Glen Larson as “the Lone Ranger with a car&quot;, Hasselhoff&apos;s character fights crime from the seat of a sleek black machine imbued with artificial intelligence, courtesy of a do-gooder billionaire. (Kitt was an acronym for Knight Industries Two Thousand).The models being touted at CES – nine manufacturers have filled 140,000 sq ft of exhibition space, a quarter up from last year – are not designed to save you from villains with mullets so much as your environment.A broken traffic light snarling early morning traffic? Your car, connected to your phone and household devices, may wake you up early to warn you and to suggest an alternative route. Temperatures dropping below freezing? It will ping you a message suggesting you start the engine, remotely of course, before your scheduled departure.Once self-driving cars become legal – widely deemed a matter of when, not if – they will also be able to save you from yourself, your possibly texting, babbling, eating, boozing, distracted self.“Driverless cars? It&apos;s coming,” said Barry Ratzlaff, director of customer connect at Hyundai Motor Company. “This” – he indicated a dashboard glowing with an 8.5in screen – “is going to become standard. All cars will be connected.”We were seated in a Hyundai prototype with a built-in modem due for unveiling at next week&apos;s Detroit auto show. Gawkers on the expo floor peered into the tinted windows, trying in vain to see in.“The last journalist I had in here asked to go to Hooters,” grinned Ratzlaff. “How about …” his voice adjusted for voice recognition software – “1807 Harvey Court, Colby, Kansas”.The Google Places software pinpointed the location and suggested a route.Ratzlaff gave another command. “Ethiopian food.” A list of five Ethiopian restaurants within a 2.1-mile radius appeared on the screen.Hyundai will develop cars compatible with both the Android and iOS eco-systems to give consumers a choice, he said. It was unclear if it would do the same for Microsoft. “The jury&apos;s still out. We don&apos;t know if it&apos;ll grow enough.”It remains to be seen whether an industry standard for connected cars and in-vehicle apps evolves.Meantime even premium manufacturers are racing to collaborate with technology companies. Earlier this week, Audi&apos;s chairman Rupert Stadler said the company would install 4G high-speed broadband into its vehicles.He showed off a 10.2-inch Android tablet, called theMobile Audi Smart Display, which connects with wifi. Passengers can use it to control the car&apos;s infotainment system. It is designed to withstand crashes and extreme temperatures.You can control BMW&apos;s new i3 electric car with Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Gear smartwatch and Bluetooth wireless technology.Ford announced two new apps for its Sync AppLink system. One helps drivers access Parkopedia&apos;s 28m listed parking spots to search the nearest, cheapest options.The other lets registered users order a Domino&apos;s pizza using voice-recognition software for either pickup or delivery. “Save your information in your Pizza Profile and it&apos;ll be sent to your house without even the push of a button, which strikes us as awesome a use of technology as we&apos;ve ever seen,”gushed Autoblog.In the wake ofHer, a film set in the near future about a man who falls in love with the voice of his phone&apos;s operating system, it would be little surprise if Hollywood rebooted Knight Rider, this time with a female voice.“A lot of people already have personal relationships with their automobiles and with this technology … the car will become an extension, a companion,” said Koslowski.
If you've ever managed to put together a piece of Ikea flat-pack furniture without resorting to superglue or the internet, you'll understand the pleasure of The Room Two. There's a moment where it all comes together, you finally know what it wants from you and you insert tab A into slot B with quiet assurance to reveal a stylish yet affordable set of bookshelves. Or a creepy portal covered in black tentacle-root things that's activated by arcane light. One or the other.The Room Two, a sumptuously strange puzzle game on the iPad, is at its most wonderful when everything goes "crunch". You spend minutes at a time examining a series of locked boxes, hunting for keys and mechanisms, deciphering puzzles, searching for signs through your sinister revelatory eyeglass. When you find the right one and put it in the right place, the feedback is gorgeously rewarding: keys turn, doors unlock, boxes impossibly unpack themselves and become different, weirder boxes, always with the exact perfect sounds for the movements as they happen. This is a game of incredible polish, and that's never clearer than when it unlocks itself beneath your fingers.Mythos and marvelThe sound and graphical design are wonderfully suspenseful when they aren't all going "crunch" for your pleasure. Darkly lit environments shot through with splashes of light; the creaking of timbers and the whispering of ghosts unseen. I won't spoil the plot or the atmospheric devices too much by saying that it uses traditional ghost and adventure story trappings to build a sense of mystery and unease – a ship, a crypt, a Victorian seance parlour. It draws heavily on the Cthulhu mythos, with a very Lovecraftian story about a scientist driven mad by impossible forces propelling him ever onwards to uncover fascinating new things about the world – in this case, the Null element, hinted at in the first brilliant game.The story is told episodically, with hints dropped about the scientist's work and about your purpose in the form of letters that you find along the way, beckoning you deeper into his madness. The end of each chapter pulls the story together as well as going "crunch" in a particularly satisfying and strange way - it's an unsettling experience even when you come to know what to expect. It's creepy. It makes you stop wanting to touch the screen, to put your fingers near the weird, except then the game would stop going "crunch" and really, that's what you're here for.Out of the boxThere are very few frustrating moments, but they're there, and in greater numbers than the first game. I almost gave up on one puzzle before I realised the game wanted me to zoom in for a second time on a particular point that didn't look zoomable. A broader problem is that chapters in The Room 2 feel just a little too large, a little too disjointed. Instead of one beautiful box of secrets, as in its predecessor, there are several locations to visit in each chapter, and each one requires several passes to collect and reveal everything.There's a certain confusion in visiting and poring over several discrete spaces rather than one contiguous one. For one thing, you can no longer simply spin the view and let your mind unwind when faced with a trick you just can't solve. Movement feels a lot more effortful, and there's a greater sense of a body to move - hence a greater disconnect between the glass panel you're holding and the perceived viewpoint in the game. It becomes less flat-pack occult furniture simulator and more Myst, and it suffers for it. For another, there's more of the hidden-object hunt to the game when its puzzles are spread out this way; I spent more time than I'd like looking for the one thing I'd missed because I hadn't realised there was another part of the world I could interact with.But these are nitpicks. These are tiny bristling annoyances on the edges of excellence. They're noticeable because of the game's lineage, the understated elegant puzzle-box that is The Room. The sequel can't help but suffer in the comparison, because The Room is pretty much the best thing you've ever tried to put your fingers in: a compact, elegant, beautifully tactile thing that almost makes you forget you're just tapping on glass. The Room Two is more than just a worthy sequel, expanding the formula and experimenting with some new ideas - it's a fantastic, scrumptiously crunchy experience in its own right.• The Room 2 is available now on the Apple and Android app stores
Tesco&apos;s gamble in offering its own tablet has paid off, with the retailer announcing that it sold more than 400,000 of its Hudl tablet since its launch.The supermarket giant was one of a number of store chains which put out their own devices to compete with Apple, Google and Amazon, all of which also had tablets aiming to clean up at Christmas as sales boomed.Roughly 100,000 were sold during December, based on previous reports from the company that it had sold 300,000 by the start of that month. Demand was so high that some stores ran out, and they were being offered on eBay for £180 - a third more than the retail price of £119. Tesco&apos;s chief digital officer executive Michael Comish admitted that sales to the start of December had caught the company by surprise, putting it out of stock twice.Other store chains, including Aldi and Argos, also offered their own tablets, all like Tesco running Google&apos;s Android software. None has so far released any sales figures.News that Tesco was working on a tabletleaked out in August, and the &quot;Hudl&quot; name was discovered before the launch through trademark filings.At the time Jeremy Davies of the analysis company Context said that &quot;the mind boggles&quot; at Tesco offering an own-brand tablet, but suggested that &quot;they would look to sell it for about £100, and initially order a few hundred thousand devices.&quot; He was proved right.Tesco has since said that it isworking on a second-generation Hudl, to be released later this year.The 7in tabletwent on sale at the end of September 2013, priced to compete directly with Google&apos;s Nexus 7 and Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire, and substantially undercut Apple&apos;s iPad mini. It was sold through more than a thousand of the chain&apos;s supermarkets, as well as online.•Tablet sales boomed over Christmas - and low-end tablets like the Hudl chewed into Apple&apos;s share
DuckDuckGo, the privacy-focused search engine, served over 1bn searches in 2013 after a huge surge in interest following theSnowden revelations.Until Edward Snowden&apos;s files detailing theextent of state surveillance, the search engine received around 1.5m queries per day. But in the weeks and months following the Guardian&apos;s publication ofthe NSA files, the number of users more than doubled.By November, more than 4 million people were using the site every day, and on Tuesday 7 January the site had its biggest day so far, serving 4,452,957 queries in a 24-hour period.&quot;Needless to say, it was a great year for us,&quot; DuckDuckGo saidin a blogpost. &quot;We&apos;re looking forward to similar greatness in 2014. We have a lot of big things planned for this year that we hope will address a lot of the excellent feedback you have been giving us for some time. So please stay tuned.&quot;DuckDuckGo's traffic stats. Photograph: DuckDuckGoDuckDuckGo&apos;s pitch to users is a sort of anti-Google. The site doesn&apos;t store personal information such as IP addresses, preventing searches from being linked to individuals, and keeps data safe from third parties by enabling encryption by default.Google began encrypting all searches by default in September 2013, too late to prevent DuckDuckGo&apos;s post-Prism gains, but users still have to jump through hoops to stop the site storing their own searches.By default, any user signed in to their Google account has their search terms saved to the site&apos;s Web History feature, and the site also logs user searches separately, &quot;to prevent spam and abuse and to improve our services&quot;.It also touts the side benefits of that policy. Without any saved searches, it cannot present personalised search results, freeing users from the &quot;filter bubble&quot; effect. That term refers to the fact that, as search results are increasingly personalised, users are less likely to be presented with information that challenges preconceptions or introduces something entirely new and serendipitous.For instance, a passionate environmentalist searching for climate change may be offered results on climate action, while someone who has less of an interest may be shown purely informative results.While these selling points have served to boost DuckDuckGo&apos;s user base to its current level, it still has a long way to go. The last time Google was serving that many searches per day wasSeptember 1999, when it had been incorporated for only one year. As a proportion of internet users, DuckDuckGo&apos;s share of the search market is even smaller than the nascent Google&apos;s.Google currentlytouts&quot;over 1 trillion searches a year&quot; in the 146 languages the company serves.Other secure searching services have had strong years as well. StartPage, which offers Google results through a proxy that allows for anonymous searching, and Ixquick, produced by the same company but offering results from multiple search engines, boasted of 4m direct private searches a day in July this year.&quot;People are making major changes in their online habits and looking for ways to protect their private information from US government surveillance,&quot; said chief executive Robert Beens at the time. &quot;Since we don&apos;t store IP addresses or use tracking cookies, we&apos;ve offered powerful privacy protection to our users since 2006. Our fans especially appreciate the fact that we are a Dutch company, which means we are not directly subject to the US Patriot Act. And of course, we have never participated in any program like Prism.&quot;But if secure searching is now where Google was at the end of 1999, it had better keep up the momentum. By the close of the millennium, Google was handling more than 100m queries a day.•&quot;Google&apos;s dominance will lessen,&quot; says Albert Wenger of Union Square VenturesUpdated 10 January to clarify what information DuckDuckGo stores.
Treat your sweetheart to a different Valentine's Day experience: an after-hours tour of the beautiful or the beastly at London'sNatural History Museum. Two lucky winners the chance to take a guest to the museum's famous collections on this night safari. There is the Beautiful Tour around the natural world. Or take the Ugly Tour to see some gruesome creatures.For the chance to win one of two pairs of tickets, answer this question. Which animal was named the world's ugliest creature by the Ugly Animal Preservation Society last year? To enter, email your answer together with your name, contact telephone number and postal address to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk before 21 January.1. The win a pair of tickets to the Tech Monthly Valentine's Competition (the "competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM", the "promoter" or "we") and/or NHM, their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected with the competition.3. Entry into the competition is deemed as acceptance of these terms and conditions.4. To enter the competition you must send an email to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk, with "Tech Monthly Valentine's Competition Entry" in the subject line, together with (i) the correct answer to the question above; (ii) your name, (iii) telephone number; and (iv) postal address in the main body of the email. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the competition, please email us at tech.monthly@observer.co.uk with "Tech Monthly Valentine's Competition" in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted. Joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your competition entry to us.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The competition closes at 23:59 on Monday 20 January 2014. Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. Two winners will be randomly selected from all correct entries received in accordance with these terms and conditions.9. Each winner will receive a pair of tickets for the Natural History Museum Valentine's Night Safari on 14 February 2014 18:30-22:00.  More details of the event can be foundhere.  GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize including, without limitation, travel to or from the event, accommodation and/or meals.10. The winners will be notified by email by GNM by 22 January 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. Due to the time-limited nature of the prize, if a winner does not respond within 14 days of being notified, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and another winner will be selected in accordance with these terms and conditions (and that winner will have to respond within 14 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If a winner rejects their prize, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.12. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.13. The name and county of the winners can be obtained after 22 January 2014 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Observer Tech Monthly, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The winners may be required for promotional activity related to the competition and each winner shall participate in such activity on the promoter's reasonable request.14. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seenhere, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 13 above.15. No purchase necessary.16. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury as a result of its negligence.17. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the competition.18. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into. GNM reserves the right to discount votes if it suspects fraudulent bulk voting or multiple voting is taking or has taken place to inappropriately influence or manipulate the voting procedures.19. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.20. The competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.21. Promoter: Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
If we do not act on climate change there's little doubt we could see huge ramifications for ourselves and our environment – but the best way forward is a matter for debate. This is whyGlobalNet21, a leading UK platform for discussion around pressing modern conundrums, is getting to grips with the potential for solar power at an event at the House of Lords on the 20 January, and you could win tickets to be there.Kicking off proceedings will be Lord Layard, programme director of the Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics. He has recently got together with the evening's second guest speaker Sir David King, a former chief scientific adviser, to champion the promise of solar power - a field that, as the foreign secretary's new special representative for climate change, King is passionate about.Tech Monthly has three pairs of tickets to the event up for grabs, offering you the chance to weigh up the arguments for yourself. To enter, simply answer the following question: what does the UN body known as the IPCC stand for? To enter, send the correct answer to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk before 14 January, including your name, telephone number and postal address in the body of the email.
This year&apos;s International CES showed off some of the latest in robotic tech from the useful to the downright bizarre, here are some of the best.GrillbotGrillbot will scrape your grill clean without any elbow grease required.This little steel-brushed robot takes the elbow grease out of cleaning the barbecue. Stick it on the grill, hit the button, and watch Grillbot quickly clean those grill bars, automatically regulating its speed and direction, moving around the grill until the timer is up. You don’t even need to wait for the grill to cool.WinbotWinbot climbs all over your windows to keep them sparklingly clean.There are robot vacuum cleaners and robot mops so why not have a robot window cleaner? The Winbot sticks to your windows, travels 15cm per second and washes away the dirt and grime completely autonomously. Hit one button, stick it to the window and off it goes.FamibotThe Famibot is a jack of all trades.If there’s one robot that at least likes to think it does it all, it’s the Famibot. The little tub of electronics will play music, take photos, live stream video and act as a home security camera, all while purifying the air around it and acting as a smoke sensor. It travels around 20cm a second and will last five hours on a single charge.Five Elements BudgeeBudgee will carry your shopping (or your kids) so you don't have to.Budgee is the ultimate little pack mule that’ll follow you around by tracking your Bluetooth phone and carry all your shopping, laundry or gear. You can change the colour of its eyes, how far behind it lags and directly control it via a phone or tablet. Budgee will be on Kickstarter in the near future for $1,299 a pop.iRobot Ava 500iRobot's Ava is an advanced telepresence robot that'll go to meetings so you don't have to.Renowned robotics company, iRobot, which makes the Roomba and a bunch of military robots, showed off its new telepresence robot, Eva. Anyone can take charge of the bot and command it either directly, or through a pre-programmed route to anywhere with Wi-Fi, and chat at eye-level with friend, colleagues and even the boss.Topy Survey RunnerTopy built the robot to go into Fukushima after the nuclear accident.One of the robots designed for and involved in the nuclear clean-up operation in Fukushima, Japan, the Survey Runner can climb stairs at up to a 45-degree angle. Its camera can map the inside of dangerous places, aiding in rescue and other operations within dangerous places like the inside of a nuclear reactor.MantraroBot TeleMeThe MantraBot TeleMe isn't the prettiest of robots, but it'll save you having to face the boss in person.Another telepresence bot, with this one using a tablet or smartphone for a its head and costing significantly less than the iRobot. Remote users can drive the robot around the room, and chat via Skype or any other video chat app on Android or iOS. A prototype arm is in the works too, to allow users to remotely grab things, punch buttons and open doors.Future Robot FURo-SThe Future Robot lives to serve with a creepy-looking human face to boot.Possibly the creepiest robot at CES this year, the FURo-S is a service robot with a simulated human face for a head. Carrying a screen, the robot is designed with advertising or shopping in mind, and reacts to people through its facial, gesture and voice recognition all with an emoting face.TycheThe most intelligent smartphone robot out there uses an Android phone for a brain.This little robot is apparently the most intelligent smartphone robot in the world and is capable of recognising humans, hear and talk back, learn and solve problems autonomously. The child-friendly robot can be customised and programmed using an open software platform. It is even available in bulldozer, classic car and sports car frames, using an Android smartphone for a brain.Vex IQThe Vex IQ robotics kit teaches kids to build robots and programme.The robot-building kit that fits together a bit like lego, incorporating sensors, motors, programmable brain and remote control, Vex IQ is aimed at teaching kids how to programme and build robots. There’s even a global challenge that operates a bit like Robot Wars, except participants have to build a robot to complete a challenge, rather than fight to the death.MiPThe MiP robot self-balances on two wheels.A collaboration with University College San Diego, the MiP robot is a self-balancing robot that looks like it is running around on a tiny Segway. The robot can be controlled via a Bluetooth smartphone and is designed to be hacked and built upon with an open software driving the mini dancing robot.RapiroThe Rapiro is a DIY robitcs kit is powered by a Raspberry Pi.A programmable DIY robot kit, Rapiro builds a bot around either a Raspberry Pi or an Arduino board, allowing kids and adults to construct and programme their own robot. It has 12 servos throughout its body to move around and can be kitted out with a camera.• Robots make great toys too, and CES was jam-packed full oftech-infused playthingsheaded for this year&apos;s Christmas lists
Recently I wrote abouthow easily people confuse "market share" (the proportion of sales) for "installed base"(the number and proportion of devices in use) - and in particular why the global figures quoted for Android smartphone shipments don't necessarily translate into the same on the ground.For example, while smartphones running Android (with and without Google services) made up roughly 80% of shipments in the third quarter of 2013, in the US they're only around 50% of the smartphones being used.There were some comments suggesting that latter fact was because the market share - that is, the sales - of Android and iOS phones were in roughly that proportion in the US specifically, but gigantically in favour of Android worldwide. We'll have a look at that in a moment.Separately, there were cries of joy from Windows Phone backers this week when thelatest market share (= sales) figures from Kantar ComTechshowed that in the three months to the end of November 2013, Microsoft's smartphone platform had achieved more than a 10% share in a number of markets - notably the UK (10.8%), France (12.9%) and Italy (16%), to give it a 10% share for the first time in the "EU 5" countries (UK, Germany, Italy, France and Spain).But installed base? That's surely another matter. There aren't any public data for installed base of different mobile platforms in Europe, but ComScore has been publishing them for the US since September 2009. Its latest release came out on Monday, andshowed thatin terms of smartphones in peoples' hands, Android has 51.9%, Apple has 41.2%, BlackBerry has 3.5%, and Windows (Phone) 3.1%. The figures are for consumers, so don't include corporate devices. As with Kantar, ComScore's figures cover the three months to tne end of November 2013.So what happens if we compare the "market share" (sales) figures from Kantar with the installed base figures from ComScore?I've collected the Kantar sales figures going back to October 2011, and if you graph the data for the US, it's pretty dramatic:Kantar market share for US smartphone sales. Click for larger version.Look at that! Sales of iPhone are up, they're down, Windows begins bubbling - it's everything you could want in a horse race. (The reason for the lines at each January will be clear in a moment.)And now let's look at the comparison of "market share" (sales) and "smartphone installed share" - the latter being ComScore's data of how theshareof the installed base (ie therelative ratioof Android/iPhone/BlackBerrys/Windows Phone in peoples' hands).US smartphone installed base share v smartphone sales. Click for larger version. Source: ComScore, KantarThe purpose of the lines is to show you how the graphs align. When you look at the installed base share, the drama is suddenly gone. You can just about make out little changes, but they don't seem to match that well with the "market share" figures. It's not as exciting at all.But if you think that looks dull, look at it when you take into account that the entire installed base of smartphones is growing - so that a few percent share in 2013 means many more users than it did in 2012:US smartphone "market share" (of sales) v installed base. Click for larger version. Source: Kantar, ComScoreThe lines show how the timescales match again. So now? No discernible drama at all - just a couple of lines remaining roughly parallel going up, and two lines at the bottom on a collision course. For developers and everyone considering what platform to target, it's that bottom graph - not the top one - that is the important one. Android and the iPhone own the US market; BlackBerry and Windows Phone have just 6%, which makes them almost a rounding error. "Market share" stories are exciting, but they often fail to capture the reality on the ground.One other point: the Kantar figures don't give any indication of the relative size of sales from quarter to quarter; they're all scaled to 100%. So if, for example, the summer months see a dip in total sales compared to Christmas, then the drama of the "market share" story could be exaggerated even further. (I've asked Kantar if it will provided an "indexed" figure, but so far it hasn't. It probably reserves these figures to its paying clients, as is its right.)The conclusion? As before - don't put your belief in market share numbers. When Nokia had a 63% market share of smartphones (back in the third quarter of 2007), the entire smartphone market comprised just 17m handsets for the quarter. These days, you'd get that many Android handsets sold in a week. The reality is that the only people to whom market share matters is the people who sell the stuff, and they're probably more focussed on total numbers - and profitability.Ask for the hard data. And remember that the diffusion of technologies in large markets, such as entire countries, tends to happen very slowly - and certainly not in a few months.
Crowdfunding website Kickstarter says visitors pledged $480m to projects in 2013, up from $319.8m the previous year.The stats were released as part of itsend-of-year report, which also revealed that 3m people backed Kickstarter projects last year, up from 2.2m in 2012. 19,911 projects successfully reached their funding targets in 2013.The report also emphasises the community aspect of Kickstarter, noting that more than 807k people backed more than one project in 2013, while 81k backed 10 or more. Since the site launched in 2009, projects have attracted total pledges of $939m, with just over half of those pledges made in 2013 alone.The 2013 report spotlights a number of Kickstarter successes, with a notable focus on projects that were funded in 2012, but which came to market in 2013. On the technology front, they include smart watchPebble(which raised $10.3m on Kickstarter in 2012); Android games consoleOuya($8.6m); virtual reality gaming deviceOculus Rift($2.4m) and construction toyGoldieBlox($286k).The report also singles out several entertainment-related projects, including filmsBlue Ruin($37.8k) andInocente($52.5k) which were both funded in 2012, then won a prize at the Cannes International Film Festival and an Oscar for best documentary short respectively.The campaign toresurrect TV show Veronica Mars as a film, which raised $5.7m in 2013, also gets a nod, as does the $10.4k that US rappersPacman and Pesoraised to fund a trip to North Korea to shoot a music video.2013 was also a year when a number of famous names turned to Kickstarter to raise funding for new projects, includingSpike Lee,Zach BraffandMarina Abramovic, sparking alively debateabout whether their use of Kickstarter was harmful to projects from less well-known creators (by sucking dollars away from those projects) or beneficial (by bringing new backers into the Kickstarter community, who might go on to pledge for other projects).Not every celebrity found success on Kickstarter in 2013 though: actorMelissa Joan Hartand musicianBjörkboth cancelled crowdfunding campaigns that were failing to gather momentum. Elsewhere, campaigns to fundglow-in-the-dark plantsand adistinctly-unsettling seduction guidecaused controversy for the site.2014 looks set to be another bumper year for crowdfunding, particularly for technology, film and music projects. Kickstarter is the best-known service, but far from the only one. Some rivals focus on specific industries, likePledgeMusicfor musicians.Others are focusing on helping creators and companies raise money on their own websites. Indiegogo – another veteran crowdfunding service – has just launched a feature calledIndiegogo Outpostto do this. US firmCrowdtilthas been running such campaigns for some time, with successes including Bluetooth gadget Tile, food substitute Soylent and PC game Star Citizen, whichraised more than $31m last year.
It's Thursday.
Smart wearables shouldn’t be about nagging fitness trackers like the Fitbit or Nike FuelBand according to Sony, but should be about the fun - a market the company thinks it can dominate.The plethora of activity trackers, which have been battling for attention at the vast Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas this week, have become the subject of crticism for a kind of electronic harassment, guilt-tripping wearers into reaching arbitrary step or general activity goals.“It is the difference between motion - just your movements - and emotion, how you emotionally get more fun out of your life,” said Dennis van Schie, senior vice president, head of sales and marketing for Sony Mobile Communications talking to the Guardian in Las Vegas.Japanese concept of kandoSony&apos;s president and chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, said the company was drawing on the Japanese concept of kando – the ability to deliver not just functional but emotional value.“Business-wise, where we see the money and trend developing is in ‘infotainment’ – it’s the area to go for and the market space to conquer, innovate and change,” van Schie said, bullishly.To attempt to dominate the “infotainment” space, Sony launched its SmartBand, a device that displays alerts from a connected phone over Bluetooth. SmartBand is a motion-tracking sensor like many of the others, but connects to Sony’s new Lifelog app to track more than just your motion or fitness.&apos;A tremendous opportunity&apos;The paired band and app combination records what you listen to, where you were and who you were communicating with at the time - just the beginning of a data centric service that Sony will gather from users, expanding the service according to usage patterns and feedback.“Over time we have a tremendous opportunity to develop the Lifelog application in so many different ways,” he said. “For now it’s measuring the basics, physical activity, your social activity – your calls, texts and Facebook – and your entertainment, your music.”Van Schie explained that it was not about the hardware but about the experience, and about what that experience can add to your life through data as well as entertainment.Users of Facebook and social media are sharing more and more information, and Sony thinks that the Lifelog system can exploit that sharing mentality, allowing users to share with friends and family what they listen to while working out or going about their day, or other important events.Whether this kind of detailed “oversharing” is what consumers actually want remains to be seen.Five minutes of fameWarning that many of these wearables, like the SmartBand, are likely to see their features integrated into smartphones and other consumer electronic devices that make them redundant, Ben Wood, CCS Insight&apos;s chief of research said that &quot;many wearable devices will have their five minutes of fame at shows like CES before disappearing into oblivion.&quot;Sony has had its fair share of products flop over the years - acutely highlighted by Hirai during his CES opening keynote. He earned some easy laughs showing a screen of Sony products that failed in the market quipping, “don’t worry if you don’t remember any of these products, neither does the rest of the world.”• No time to visit every stand at CES? Read our list of the bestwearables and fitness trackersinstead
Google has celebrated what would have been the 106th birthday of the French feminist writer Simone de Beauvoir with a Google Doodle on the search engine's home page.Born Simone-Lucie-Ernestine-Marie Bertrand de Beauvoir on 9 January 1908 in Paris, De Beauvoir is best known for her book The Second Sex, one of the most important works of 20th-century feminism, and novels such as She Came to Stay and The Mandarins.De Beauvoir had a lifelong partnership with Jean-Paul Sartre, which did not exclude other relationships. She said the absence of marriage and children allowed her to pursue her studies and writing.The doodle features an image of the writer in front of Parisian street buildings with canopies, which suggest the Cafe de Flore in the 6th district of Paris with which Beauvoir and Sartre were associated.Beauvoir and Sartre were proponents of the philosophy of existentialism and both edited the magazine Les Temps Modernes. De Beauvoir edited it until her death in 1986.More on Simone BeauvoirDid Simone de Beauvoir's open 'marriage' make her happy?Simone de Beauvoir: Letting down the sisterhoodWhy Simone de Beauvoir's work still resonates with women
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTop Global Apps – December 2013 | Blog | DistimoIn line with our ongoing market analysis, the graph above displays the past six months, showing the development of the relative market shares between the Apple App Store and Google Play [for the 34 countries in which revenues were generated in both].While the relative market shares hardly changed in December, theChristmas spikewe reported on, was clearly visible in the revenue growth of both stores. The month of December, including the holiday business, led to a revenue growth of 18% for the combined revenue from the Apple App Store and Google Play compared to November. Relative to July 2013, the combined revenue grew by 38%. Looking at the app store level, both graphs show a clearly steeper slope. This increase translates into a growth in revenue of 17% for Google Play and an even stronger 18% for the Apple App Store from November to December 2013.The proportion remains pretty steady at roughly 2:1 in favour of Apple, despite Android's growth.When SEO fails: single channel dependency and the end of Tutorspree &gt;&gt; Aaron's BlogAaron Harris looks back at the failure of his startup Tutorspree, which had looked so promising:By December of 2012, we had virtually infinite runway and were at the edge of profitability. We still wanted to swing for the fences, and, given the radically shifted economics presented by our new model, we made the decision to retest all the marketing channels we had tried with our initial model and then some. We knew that only having a single scaling channel – SEO – would not let us become huge, so we began pushing for another scalable channel.Given the strength of where we were and the challenges we saw, we raised another round with the explicit purpose of finding the right marketing channels. While we considered raising an A, we played conservatively, deciding that we wanted to find the repeatable channels, then raise an A to push them hard rather than raise too much money too early.We finished that fundraise in January, began a much needed redesign of the site to fit with our significantly more high touch model, hired a full time growth lead and began to push rapidly into content marketing, partnerships. Then, in March of 2013, Google cut the ground out from under us and reduced our traffic by 80% overnight. Though we could not be 100% certain, the timing strongly indicated that we had been caught in the latest Panda algorithm update.Pay-per-click customers didn't convert as well as "organic search" customers. And Harris also comments in a footnote "it appears that Google is increasingly favouring itself in local transactional search". Live by Google, die by Google.Where is the wearable tech we want to wear? &gt;&gt; ElleRuthie Friedlander:My friend Allegra swears by her Nike Fuelband. She wears it every day and anytime it's featured in a fashion magazine, she snaps an iPhone pic and sends it to me as proof that it's an acceptable thing for her to wear. Like me, Allegra works in fashion. She dresses impeccably and has exquisite taste. But that damn bracelet kills me.I wouldn't be caught dead with that ugly rubber thing.And there in one sentence you have the challenge for makers of wearables.This is not the year of wearables but the year the hype dies, says Evernote CEO &gt;&gt; QuartzPeople used desktop computers for hours at a time, but often just once a day. Laptops can used in a variety of locations, so they are used more frequent and for shorter periods. Smartphones are almost always on hand, so people tend to use them multiple times a day but for even smaller bits of time. "But on wearables it's going to go from 2 minutes to 2 seconds, but from 20 times a day to 200 times a day. So the [software] design challenge is how do you make experiences that are really short, where the sessions are glance-able?" [Evernote CEO Phili Libin] says.The open office trap &gt;&gt; The New YorkerMaria Konnikova:In 2011, the organisational psychologist Matthew Davisreviewedmore than a hundred studies about office environments. He found that, though open offices often fostereda symbolic sense of organisational mission, making employees feel like part ofa more laid-back, innovative enterprise, they were damaging to the workers' attention spans, productivity, creative thinking, and satisfaction. Compared with standard offices, employees experienced more uncontrolled interactions, higher levels of stress, and lower levels of concentration and motivation.Apart from that, Mrs Lincoln, how did you enjoy the--squirrel!Microsoft Windows's big problem &gt;&gt; Windows IT ProPaul Thurrott (who is nobody's idea of a Windows-hater):It's not tablets, though I'd pinpoint this latest move to simpler personal computing to be a major contributing factor: People realize that they don't just not need the complexity of Windows, they don't even need most of the power of Windows.Windows is in trouble because people simply don't care about it anymore. It's not outright hostility; there's far less of that than the anti-Microsoft crowd would like to believe. It's ambivalence. It's ambivalence driven by the nature of "good enough" mobile and web apps. It's ambivalence driven by the allure of anytime/anywhere computing on tiny devices that are more cool to use and even cooler to be seen using.And make no mistake, this is a serious issue. With businesses keeping Windows on life support and users spacing out their PC purchases for so long that there might never in fact be another PC purchase, Windows is in trouble. This ambivalence is worse for the platform than outright defeat. In its current state, Windows can limp along for years to come. And that's just long enough for the platform to wither and effectively disappear.The last important consumer desktop app? Spotify - in October 2008. That's over five years ago.Ian Betteridgefollows up. (Thanks @avro for the link.)"That's what pisses off everybody else." &gt;&gt; Whole &amp; PartAn extract from a podcast in which Horace Dediu talks about how data collection - for profit - about everybody in the world is becoming concentrated in the hands of a few American companies:most of the debate in the United States is about whether Americans are being monitored or not. That's irrelevant. That's 4% of the world. Most of the world hasn't got that protection. And so if you ever speak to anyone outside of the United States on this subject, they're like "come on! we don't have the protections of Americans".What matters to most people outside the United States is that an American organization has complete, unfettered access to everything anybody does anywhere in the world, and that's what pisses off everybody else, if I'm honest. You know, I speak to people or I have connections in Finland and that's the primary concern.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Name:Ware.Age:At least 7,000 years.Appearance:Hairy-palmed.Some sort of town, isn't it?That's right. A pretty little place of 18,000 souls close to Hertford, said to have been named after the weirs built to foil Viking raiders in Anglo-Saxon times. Until this week, it was best known for theGreat Bed of Ware, a giant four-poster mentioned in Shakespeare's Twelfth Night.As opposed to all the other Twelfth Nights, presumably. And now?It's been dubbed the porn&nbsp;capital of Britain. According to the hugely popular site Pornhub.Which no Guardian reader will have heard of, let alone visited.That's the one. Ware's inhabitants apparentlyspend longer perusing the site than any other Britons– 10 minutes and 37 seconds per visit, versus the English average of 9.42, the Welsh of 9.38, the Scottish of 9.45 and the Northern Irish of 9.35.Does this mean that Ware is porn-obsessed, though, or just that its inhabitants take longer than most to… er… conclude their business?Good question. But I wouldn't go raising it in Billingshurst, West Sussex, where they log off almost two minutes sooner.Is this Ware's only claim to fame?Far from it. Ware is "famous" for the picturesque River Lea and for its 18th century gazebos.Er…A gazebo is a sort of summer house. The town is also home toScott's Grotto, built for the 18th-century poet John Scott. This has the glorious distinction of being the largest collection of artificial caverns in Britain.No wonder everyone's driven to their computers.&nbsp;There's more. According toWare Online, this month locals can also enjoy badminton, archery and dog training at the Drill&nbsp;Hall, jazzercise at Chauncy School, a pub quiz at the Albion, French cookery classes at Collett Lodge, a nearly-new sale at the Age Concern Centre, and Bible classes at the Christadelphian Hall.Will you say it, or will I?I have no idea what you&nbsp;mean.This lends a whole new meaning to the term "bored stiff".Sorry.Do say:"No to porn."Don't say:"Yes, yes, yes, yes, OH YESSSSSS!"
London-born teenager Nick D'Aloisio - who is now a Yahoo Product manager, having sold his Summly company to Marissa Mayer - speaks at CES. Photograph: Britta Pedersen/dpa/CorbisCES is never short on music personalities: this year it was rapper 50 Cent, showing off his new range of headphones. Photograph: Everett Collection/REXHaier was one of 3,200 exhibitors at the Las Vegas Convention Centre. Photograph: Fang Zhe/Xinhua Press/CorbisA ukelele made by 3D printer. Small - as ukeleles are - but functional. Photograph: Fang Zhe/Xinhua Press/CorbisSelf-driving cars? It's not just Google that can do them: this is the BMW M235i, its contribution to the future of cars. Photograph: Britta Pedersen/dpa/CorbisKorea's LG made much of its curved 4K (ultra-high-resolution) screens using OLED (organic light emitting diode) technology. Photograph: Fang Zhe/Xinhua Press/CorbisDrones are very much in evidence at CES: here Parrot, which was the first to market with its AR Drone in 2010, shows off its mini versions. Photograph: Fang Zhe/Xinhua Press/CorbisThe Autographer hands-free intelligent wearable camera is 3.5in (90mm) tall camera and weighs only 2oz (58g). It has five built-in sensors that intelligently decide when to automatically take photos. It can clip onto clothing or be worn on a lanyard. It has a 136 degree eye-view lens which simulates the human field of vision and 8GB built-in storage. Photograph: ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty ImagesAn attendee tries the Epson Moverio BT-200 smart glasses, which projects two identical 16:9 images onto the lens-based screens, generating a semi-transparent picture to fall within the user's field of vision. It runs on Android 4.0-based, has a portable controller, front-facing camera and motion sensors for augmented reality and gaming. Photograph: ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images
Here is a good way to tell if a critic is having a moment of madness: they will attempt to define art. The greatest philosophers in history have floundered on the question, many simply avoided it altogether preferring to grapple with more straightforward questions – like the nature of logic, or the existence of God. Art is ethereal, boundless, its meaning as transient as the seasons. When you think you have grasped it, it slips through your fingers.And yet here we are again (again!), with a respected critic claiming to know what art is or can ever be, and suggesting that video games cannot be included. That critic is the Guardian&apos;s own Jonathan Jones, who hasbeen here before, decrying Moma for including a selection of computer games in its design section. Games are not art because there is no individual ownership, he insisted at the time, a contention which appeared to strike out a whole pantheon of collaborative projects from art history.Now his affectionately expressed objection - prompted by the gift of a PlayStation 3 and a couple of mainstream releases – is thatgames aren&apos;t art and that we shouldn&apos;t care. &quot;Electronic games offer a rich and spectacular entertainment,&quot; he declares, correctly, &quot;but why do they need to be anything more than fun? Why does everything have to be art?&quot;Jones is an excellent writer, but as he admits, he knows very little about games – and doesn&apos;t really want to. When he last strayed on to this subject matter, I penneda counter-piece, in which I showed how generations of art critics have reacted against emerging artistic forms by immediately dismissing their worth. The shock of the new, and all that. But I ended with something along similar lines to Jones&apos; argument:&quot;Are games art or aren&apos;t they? Nobody need answer. Games are beautiful and important, we can leave it there and know that we are right.&quot;There is a key difference here though. For me, games transcend the question because they are so wonderfully complex: they are emergent and system-led, but also narrative and directed; they amalgamate electronics, audio and visuals, but also often rely on text; they need user input, and yet are authorial. But for Jones, they are mere toys, they are playthings. &quot;Why do they need to be anything more than fun?&quot; he asks, and though I respect my colleague, I can&apos;t help but see in this a certain amount of condescension. It is the critic&apos;s equivalent of ruffling a child&apos;s hair and sending them on their way. Why do they need to be more than fun?So here&apos;s another question: why do films need to be more than just fun? Why does art?Countering Jones&apos; argument is a basic truth: games are an expressive medium. They are a form of communication. Naturally, Jones won&apos;t see that so much in the mainstream action adventures that Santa brought him; just as a movie reviewer won&apos;t see much art or meaning in a Michael Bay flick. But deeper communication is clear in the more thoughtful games that he may not have seen. InJourney, inCart Life, inPapers Please, inDevice 6, inThe Stanley Parable– games that have more to say than blam, blam blam.That Dragon, CancerWhy can&apos;t games just be fun? Because intelligent, thoughtful designers such as Navid Khonsari want to make games about serious issueslike the 1979 Iranian revolution. Why can&apos;t games just be fun? Because Ryan Green is makingThat Dragon, Cancer, a game about how he and his wife are coping with the terminal illness of their youngest son. Green has chosen games as his medium of expression, his way of coping, because he is a game designer – it is how he thinks, and partly how he processes the world and what is happening to his family. He also sees in games an accessible way of telling people about cancer, and about hope and faith. Shall we just tell him that&apos;s not right? Perhaps you&apos;d like to do that. I certainly don&apos;t.Why aren&apos;t games just fun? Because games speak to people, especially young people, in ways that films and books and TV don&apos;t.Games speak to people.The greatest artists, you see, want to communicate in the most popular media of the time, they want to be heard. That&apos;s why Shakespeare wrote for the lice-ridden but packed theatres of London, that&apos;s why Bertolt Brecht collaborated with Fritz Lang to bring his theories to Hollywood, that&apos;s why Dickens and Dumas had their novels serialised in magazines. Why aren&apos;t games just fun? Because video games are now a language and language is a tool of expression and change. A bit like art, yes?Here is something I feel more and more these days. And this is not so much to do with Jones, a thoughtful and engaging critic – but it is in the sphere of his article. How tired I am, how utterly exhausted I have become with a certain mainstream standpoint on games. That whole nudge and grin approach you often see when games come up on television news programmes or magazine shows, or in the culture section of newspapers; the shrugged shoulders, the grimaces of affable incomprehension. I think it&apos;s time this ended because it is really not OK to dismiss what you don&apos;t understand. Yet somehow it still happens. It happens because new is shocking and games are out there, everywhere, and they make no sense to some people, and they are closing in.Defining art is madness, and dismissing a vast, vibrant and creative medium is folly. Here is a thought for all those who think of games in this way. Just a thought. Imagine the future – the future as represented by games, the $60bn a year medium, the most pervasive communication platform of the 21st century – imagine this future as a storm cloud above you. Well, the cloud has burst and your objections are being drowned out amid the tumult. Soon you will realise that you are Lear on the moors railing against the world, and the fool at your side is the only one who nods in agreement.• Video games at the Museum of Modern Art – in pictures• 10 indie games to look out for in 2014
Getting to say "I told you so" isn't actually as nice as you might expect. Back in November 2012,I predicted that the mandatory, opt-out porn-filtersunder discussion in the Lords would both underblock (letting things through that you wouldn't want your kids to see) and overblock (misclassifying non-pornographic sites as pornographic and blocking them). I thought it was a good argument, but the PM apparently doesn't read the Guardian (or doesn't care about reason when there are political points to be scored). Last summer, David Cameron and the DCMS mandated that ISPs would have to switch on their customers' content filters (to block everything from "extremism" to "esoteric content") by default, and only deactivate them if the customer rang up and demanded it.Now the filters have been switched on and we see what the Great Firewall of Cameron looks like. TalkTalk, which started running its filter in May (voluntarily, without a goose from the PM) blocks rape-crisis centres; award-winning, kid-focused sex-ed sites; and sites for helping people with their pornography addictions (a own-goal noteworthy even in the ludicrous world of censorware cockups).Predictably, the ISPs' spokespeople havesaid that it's all a matter of honest mistakes that will be addressed in due time.No algorithmBut as I wrote around this time last year, there's no way to accurately classify the internet. There aren't enough prudes to sort the good from the bad. There is no algorithm that can accomplish this. Hell, there's not even a clear definition of what "adult content" is – let alone "extremism" or "esoteric content".In the censorware world, lists of censored websites are closely guarded trade-secrets. This means that overblocking can only be addressed in the rare circumstance that a child encounters it, complains to her parents, who then get in touch with the ISP, which then convinces its supplier to unblock the site. It's possible that the people who operate inappropriately blocked sites could come forward to ask for redress, but unless those people are in the UK and using one of the censored ISPs, they may never even discover that their sites on the blacklist. After all, their would-be visitors can't even access their "contact us" page to warn them about the state of affairs.Overblocking and underblocking are the normal state of affairs in the censorware world. Tomorrow's web will have more sites to overblock and more sites to underblock than today's. An error rate of even 1% in a world with hundreds of millions of legitimate websites means millions of misclassifications – always.David Cameron's attempt to create a Made-in-Britain version of Iran's "Halal Internet" is the worst of both worlds for parents like me. Kids are prevented from seeing things that they need to access – sites about sexual health, for example – and I still have to monitor my daughter all the time when she uses the net (or teach her how to cope with seeing things no kid should see) because the filter won't stop her from accessing the bad stuff.Bubble of false securityAnd for parents who don't understand that filters are bunkum, the situation is much worse. It's one thing to know that there are risks to your kid from the internet. But parents who rely on the filter are living in bubble of false security. There's nothing more deadly than a false sense of security: If you know your car is having brake problems, you can compensate by driving with extra care, increasing your following distance, and so on. If you falsely believe your brakes to be in good running order, you're liable to find out the hard way that they aren't (if you survive, you can thank Bruce Schneier for that apt and useful analogy).For me, parenting in the internet age means sitting with my child while she's online and still small enough that I can perfectly regulate her network usage – not just to ensure that she doesn't happen on to the bad stuff, but also to instill in her the responsibility, sense and good habits that will help her to steer clear of the bad stuff when she gets a little older and I can no longer monitor all her online activity. It's hard. Parenting is hard. It's scary.False hope for frightened parentsIt's not evil to want to help parents with this hard job. But it's unforgivable to pander to their fears, offer false hope, and impose a regime of unaccountable censorship upon the nation's internet in order to score votes from frightened parents.When David Cameron told the nation's ISPs to turn on the censorware, he had the DCMS order them to "continue to refine and improve their filters to ensure they do not – even unintentionally – filter out legitimate content." This is a nonsense. If DCMS wanted to attain this goal even partway, it would mandate that the publication of the list of blocked sites, open to scrutiny and debate (just as film- and game-ratings are), and publication of the criteria by which the list was formed.That probably still wouldn't work very well, but it would at least show willing to prevent overblocking. To do any less is to tacitly admit that the whole thing is a publicity stunt from a government that is totally depraved in its indifference to the consequences of unaccountable censorship.
