A quick burst of five links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Wants To Buy Pinterest Rival, The Fancy &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSounds speculative, but nevertheless:The objective: to secure a role for Apple in the growing e-commerce market, putting the 400 million-plus users with credit cards on file with Apple's iTunes Store to work shopping--with Apple getting a cut of the action.Saving Private Research in Motion, RIM, Blackberry &gt;&gt; Monday NoteInteresting:The use of "Private" in this note's title isn't a facile pun. It points to a possible avenue for the BlackBerry maker. If it decides to license the software layer of its (formerly) proprietary platform, RIM will indisputably see hardware dollars disappear much faster than software licenses can be signed. RIM will forego a known source of revenue in order to grow a new income stream that, given enough time, might be strong enough to keep the company solventApple's Secrets Revealed at Trial &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe price to pay for a patents battle: disclosure.Y Combinator's First Batch: Where Are They Now? &gt;&gt; The Next WebAs you'd expect, really:Some of them have been acquired and made a hell of a lot of money. Some of them haven't. Some of them have seen through their initial ideas and are still going strong, while some abandoned their ideas before even finishing the program.eBay Is Launching A Same-Day Shipping Service Called eBay Now &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIn San Francisco only. For now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday morning! Did you enjoy an epic weekend of gold medals and gaming? Inform us about it!
To many, the sidecar is a byword for eccentricity – a throwback to a time of tartan travel rugs, boiled sweets and dog-eared road maps. But to  its loyal believers, to those who have never lost the faith, the sidecar is  the only way to travel.Sitting in a sidecar – part vehicle, part fairground thriller – is like pulling up an armchair, pouring a&nbsp;mug of strong tea and watching your life flash past your disbelieving eyes. There's no seatbelt, no airbags no roof, no windows, no bumpers, no handholds, no helmet… just the tarmac whipping beneath your clenched buttocks. But all this danger doesn't make you feel frightened, it does the exact opposite: it makes you feel deliriously alive. Every sidecar seems to come with lungfuls of fresh air and a sky full of sunshine.This month sees the 100th anniversary of Watsonian Squire, the country's oldest sidecar manufacturer, and I've travelled up to its factory on the outskirts of the nauseatingly perfect Gloucestershire village of Blockley. The factory occupies two redbrick shelters which were built as part of a larger D-Day hospital. "We're in what used to be the dormitory," says Ben Matthews, the firm's co-owner. "Next door they're in the old cinema and on the other side, they're in the morgue."Ben shows me round, which doesn't take long as the entire operation could happily fit on to a&nbsp;pair of tennis courts. Everywhere there are vast industrial lathes, jigs and intimidating clamps. Piles of teetering paperwork are topped off with chaotic shelves heaped with old-fangled tools. Great buckets are filled with bolts and widgets, while brackets, bending under the weight of metal rods, fight for wall space with crumpled posters of busty lovelies.At one point an elderly gent in oily overalls bustles past, Ben introduces him and says: "This is our technical director." It's not exactly Vorsprung durch Technik. But beneath the quirky bonhomie of the factory floor, it's clear that this is not just some amateurish business on the side, it's a thriving light industry. It's classic, idiosyncratic British design at its best. Ben tells me they sell up to 200 "chairs" a year; half go abroad – many to Japan where the retro café-racer scene is massive. Prices start at a&nbsp;basic £2,200 and go up to about 10 grand for a fully bespoke luxury number. But still, I reflect, there was a time, in the 1950s, when the firm produced 200 a&nbsp;week, until the arrival of the cheap family car – the Morris Minor, the Mini – killed it off.So who buys a sidecar in 2012? "All sorts," says Ben. "Old and young, many with families, many are ageing bikers with wives who are fed up with falling asleep on the pillion. And dog owners love them." It's veryWallace &amp; Gromit. And Harry Potter loves them, too. Watsonian is ending its 100th year on a bit of a&nbsp;high having made a set of seven sky-blue sidecars to pair with the matching Royal Enfield motorbikes the firm now imports from India, forHarry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. "We're about to make another one," says Ben, "for Harry Potter World in Orlando."Finally, I get to travel in one of these famous chairs. The traditional hexagonal nose, a design unchanged since the 1920s, stretches ahead  of me like a cigar tube while the classic thump of the Royal Enfield's 500cc engine pounds out a steady beat next to my right ear. I&nbsp;settle back while Ben hurtles past sun-dappled fields and through the shaded hush of an endless, tree-canopied road.I'm a&nbsp;time traveller, I&nbsp;think. Doctor Who should definitely  get one of these…Sidecar celebrationCome and help Watsonian sidecars celebrate their first centenary at a party at Stoneleigh Park near Coventry on 18-19 August 2012.Both the Warwick and Stareton exhibition halls at Stoneleigh will be packed with attractions, including historic sidecars such as Eric Oliver's world championship-winning Norton, the Brough outfit that starred in the hit 1970s sitcomsGeorge and MildredandDad's Armyand a&nbsp;prototype Watsonian 1000cc v-twin motorcycle combination from 1950.Star guests include Isle of Man TT racers Dave Molyneux and Tim Reeves, who will bring their racing outfits with them; Mick Boddice and sidecar speed record holder Norman Hyde will be there, too.Among the many other attractions are the company archives, driving skills test, sidecar trials display, prizes for best in show (whatever the make), trade stands and an opportunity to test ride Royal Enfield motorcycles, which have been distributed by Watsonian since 1999.Camping is available on site for anyone planning to stay for the weekend. On Saturday evening there will be entertainment with a live band and bar selling a special centenary ale.Tickets for the weekend cost £10 per person in advance; day tickets will only be available on the Sunday and can be purchased at the gate for £5. Children under 16 go free and parking is also free. For more information on the Centenary Rally call 01386 700907 or visitwatsonian-squire.comTwists and turns: the world's best motorcycle routesAnd if all this motorcycle talk has got you in the mood to get out there and experience the open road, the motorcycle insurance specialistsMCEhas just come up with its list of the 10 best routes to ride by bike. They are1.    Route 66 (America)2.    The Cat and Fiddle (England)3.    San Bernardino Pass (Swiss Alps)4.    Cabo de Gata to Granada (Spain)5.    The Amalfi Coast (Italy)6.    Vlora to Saranda (Albania)7.    Montenegro to Sarajevo (Bosnia)8.    Nurburgring (Germany)9.    Betws-Y-Coed Triangle (Wales)10. Ho Chi Minh Trail (Vietnam)
This month, some 20 homes in Lancashire's isolated Quernmore valley will join the internet fast lane. Thanks to a community fundraising drive and help from an army of volunteers, 2,500 homes in a series of remote villages will log on to the kind of speeds usually reserved for office blocks.Born out of fears that neither BT nor government subsidies would improve their broadband speed for years to come, the group's achievements make national targets look unambitious. The villagers will have a bandwidth of 1,000Mbps (megabits per second) each, when the UK average is only just approaching 8Mbps. That compares with the government's promise that Britain's remotest homes will have a connection offering a download speed of at least 2Mbps by 2015, while the rest of us will be on "superfast", which currently means more than 24Mbps.Disquiet about the national targets, and how over £1bn of public subsidy is being spent to achieve them, reached the House of Lords last week when a select committee on communications published a highly critical report. The country is in the middle of a major transition as old copper wires are replaced with fibre-optic cables which can carry vastly more information. The peers, however, worry we are building the wrong kind of network, with the taxpayer paying for technologies that will waste money and stifle competition. Meanwhile BT, which is likely to hoover up much of the rural funding, is quietly being allowed to rebuild its monopoly."It is far from clear that the government's policy will deliver the broadband infrastructure we need – for profound social and economic reasons – for decades to come," Lord Inglewood, chair of the committee, warned last week.There are three big concerns. First, the committee is worried that public money will be spent laying down fibre to households that already have decent copper broadband speeds by virtue of being easier to reach, rather than striving to reach remote communities cut off from the internet revolution.Second, some say BDUK (Broadband Development UK), effectively a division of Jeremy Hunt's department of culture media and sport, has done too little to help local communities. BDUK is tasked with improving communication links to the third of the population that is hardest to reach and has a £530m investment pot which can be matched by local councils.The third concern is that BT has so successfully fought off competitors, it will attract most of the BDUK money. That cash will be spent in a way that allows the company whose 1980s privatisation heralded the era of open competition in British business to rebuild in fibre the monopoly it has gradually lost in copper.In broadband, healthy competition and low prices came about when the "unbundling" of BT's network began in earnest in 2004. After some arm-twisting from the regulator, rival internet service providers were allowed to put their own electronic equipment in BT exchanges and take over customers' lines.Unbundling let companies such as TalkTalk and BSkyB make a bigger profit margin, because they rent just the copper and not the expensive electronics that convert it to broadband. But the ways in which BT is planning to build fibre do not allow complete unbundling.The company is building two parallel networks. The first takes fibre to the street cabinet, relying on copper wire to carry the signal the rest of the way. This service cannot be unbundled except by putting equipment into cabinets. Given there are many more cabinets than exchanges, this is an expensive option and few of those who currently piggyback on BT's network are likely to want to do it. It is cheap to build, but the speeds it offers may not be enough to cope with future demand.The second BT network, which uses fibre only, will be available from next year. This uses shared Passive Optical Network (PON) technology, in which groups of homes share fibre connections. According to the experts, there is currently no commercial model for unbundling PON fibre systems, because unlike copper, homes don't have their own strand of fibre running back to the exchange.The Lords don't like either of BT's options and argue that the nation should be working towards a point-to-point network, where a single fibre runs from the local internet exchange to a customer's home, as with copper. A government-commissioned study estimated such a network would cost £29bn, equivalent to £1,000 for each of the UK's 28m homes and business premises, and far in excess of what is being spent on broadband. The difference is it can be easily unbundled and offers unlimited speeds.BT has not been idle. Under Liv Garfield, its Openreach division which builds and maintains the company's network, fibre to the cabinet capable of serving 11m homes has been laid from a standing start in January 2010. In the six months it took the Lords to hold their broadband inquiry, Openreach connected 4m homes. "I don't believe anyone thinks we haven't learnt the lessons from round one of telecoms unbundling, and the lesson was to enter the market enthusiastically and at a competitive price."Government research put the cost of reaching all premises in the UK with PON at £25bn, only a little less than point-to-point fibre, but telecoms companies across the world have opted for PON because it is harder to unbundle, making it easier to put the investment case to twitchy shareholders. BT counters that there are big savings on PON, not least in the cost of connecting local exchanges to the internet's backbone."Point-to-point is a suitable approach if a major business needs massive bandwidth, but is wholly inappropriate if the aim is to get fibre broadband to as many homes as possible," Garfield says. "It would be the equivalent of asking all air travellers to hire their own private jets rather than travel together. A shared network keeps costs down and that means that customers enjoy low prices."BT telephone poles and ducts are also uniquely open to competitors to lay their own fibre along should they wish to take the risk.Labour telecoms spokeswoman Chi Onwurah, an engineer who worked at industry regulator Ofcom before becoming an MP, says: "I don't want to criticise BT, which is the only company putting its money in the ground. But the procurement process appears to be delivering the worst of all  outcomes, a fragmented monopoly."What the BDUK process has also failed to deliver is a way to make it easier for isolated communities to help themselves to broadband. At present, BT is happy for villages to lay their own fibre, so long as they are prepared to hand over ownership in exchange for being hooked up to the national network. BT says the danger of local networks is that they take public money, then go bust. "We don't want local enthusiasts going in and ruining the network for others," says Garfield.Barry Forde, chief executive of the Quernmore valley project, wants any company receiving public money to be forced to plug in locally built networks at a reasonable price. When he asked BT what it would cost to link the local network to the nearest internet exchange in Manchester, he was quoted £340,000 a year. In the end, a company called Geo did the job for the "mid tens of thousands".If a regulated price was set lower than that, Forde believes small companies could start building fibre in rural areas, bringing new money into Britain's broadband network: "The government should be creating an open market. Once you do that, the whole thing is solvable."
Adocumenthas come into my possession. It appears to emanate from the government of Ruritania or some other insignificant country. The cover is illustrated by a low-resolution smartphone photograph of an out-of-focus bedspread, but this homely imagery is offset by the brave rhetoric inside."We should have the best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015," it declares. "That's a challenging goal but it's one that we can and must achieve. It's vital for the growth of the economy – especially to small businesses that are so often the engines of innovation."Quite so. The government of Ruritania is "committed to ensuring the rapid rollout of superfast broadband across the country. Rural and remote areas of the country should benefit from this infrastructure upgrade at the same time as more populated areas, ensuring that an acceptable level of broadband is delivered to those parts of the country that are currently excluded." It is also believed something called "two-way video conferencing" may encourage Ruritarians to work from home.There is much more in this vein, together with talk of "a world-class communications network" that will help the economy grow. Consumers will have "even greater choice" and costs will be reduced. The delivery of public services will be more efficient and cost-effective. And of course "the way we access entertainment will alter, with greater options for consumers".Note the use of "superfast" and "world class", which are usually reliable indicators of either cant or cluelessness. Working on the assumption that the governors of Ruritania (who sign themselves J Hunt and E Vaizey, by the way) are honest but simple folks, we delve deeper into their vapourings in search of a definition of "superfast". On this, they are strangely evasive, but essentially they appear to mean broadband speeds ranging from 2Mbps (megabits per second) – which is marginally better than smoke signals but will be available to even the humblest yokel in the land – to as much as perhaps 100Mbps in favoured urban locations, in which frappuccinos and other delicacies are available. If such heights can be attained by 2015, the aforementioned governors assure their readers that Ruritania will lead Europe.All of which makes this columnist wonder what these guys have been smoking. Or perhaps it is just a reflection of the fact that Ruritania is a remote and backward country that has poor communications with the outside world. If the latter, then perhaps it would be helpful to tell Messrs Hunt and Vaizey something about what life is like far from their distant fastnesses. In Kansas and Missouri, for example.Both of these US states have cities called Kansas City and in both of them Google is signing up customers for what any informed person would call real broadband, namelya connection running at 1,000Mbps. It uses fibre-optic cables to give gigabit (1,000Mbps) connection speeds to subscribers. For $70 a month on a 12-month contract, Google promises them up to 1,000Mbps uploadanddownload speeds, plus a terabyte (1,000 gigabytes) of free online storage. Alternatively, for a one-off $300 connection fee, Google offers them 5Mbps download and 1Mbps upload free for seven years.Since Google is not a registered charity, you may ask why it's doing this. The first reason is simply thatit can, because ever since the collapse of the first internet boom, Google has been acquiring, at knockdown prices, the bandwidth capacity (the "dark fibre") installed by the telephone companies at the height of the bubble. (This also explains why the company can absorb the colossal bandwidth requirements of YouTube without missing a beat.)The second reason for the Kansas City projects is that, under its new chief executive, Larry Page, Google appears to have acquired a new appetite for radical strategic moves. Page knows that once consumers have access to real – as opposed to Ruritanian – broadband then their behaviour changes radically. Not only do they spend more time online (which obviously benefits Google), but they also use the net for nearly everything, which also benefits Google and is why phone companies, cable TV firms, broadcasters, publishers and their captive regulators fear the internet. If Google Fiber (as they call it in the US) catches on, then a swath of powerful industries is in for a very rocky ride.And – who knows? – one day news of these developments may reach the rulers of Ruritania. Provided that they manage to get their "superfast" connections up and running.
For anyone who may have noticed America's basketball team glued to their iPhones at the Olympics, fear not, they are not tweeting – they are probably monitoring their own performance in the game.Kitted out in Nike's new Hyperdunk trainers, which sync withNike+ Basketball(App Store, free) – which is accompanied in the store by the more wide-rangingNike+ Training(App Store, also free) – they are able to receive live match analysis.Both make use of new Nike trainers (from £100), which boast three pressure sensors in each shoe and Bluetooth accelerometers to measure movements accurately and transmit them to your phone.Connect an iPhone to the trainers, which is occasionally glitchy but usually works within seconds, and it will provide you with a pleasing heat-mapped view of the position of your feet. The training app then offers several different workout regimes, designed by famous athletes from boxer Manny Pacquiao to Team GB's 400m hurdler Perri Shakes-Drayton – monitoring exercises with remarkable accuracy. It's a pocket personal trainer – pushing you to improve performance.The basketball app measures relevant metrics - jumping, speed, energy used – while providing exercises to boost dunking prowess. However, much of this information is transferable to other sports. After a game of tennis, it's fascinating to examine your speed in the detailed graphs, and where energy and form dipped. It promises much for the future as the technology is rolled out for other disciplines.For those that don't want to upgrade to expensive new sneakers,iFit Outside(£1.49, App Store, ICON) offers more affordable encouragement. A neat combination of GPS device and calorie tracker, it gives an accurate record of your running and general fitness goals on the move, with some nice looking graphics to track progress.
When the originalPro Skaterwas launched in 1999 it had a substantial impact. Taking elements from seemingly unrelated gaming forms – a few of the controls from beat 'em-ups, some of the open-world structure ofGrand Theft Auto– it prompted a renaissance of living-room extreme sports titles.Pro Skaterspawned a whole new genre and numerous sequels but eventually lost its way.Here many levels from that initial release return, bundled up with stages from the second in the series, given an HD spit and polish and embellished with a handful of abilities absent 13 years ago. For anyone with nostalgic memories of Tony Hawk's debut, the results of this remake are likely to delight, as rediscovering old virtual haunts with new ways to manipulate the skateboard beneath your character's feet are unquestionably rewarding.Those new to the genre, however, may be less impressed. The Tony Hawk template has not aged flawlessly, and the execution of this reworking lacks a little finesse. Thus, while all the refined elements of the original games have survived the translation – including the sublime level design – some ungainly  movements have been introduced, making the release feel rather dated.
After barely a year, Nintendo is already upgrading its 3DS handheld with a supersize model. While the company is known for updating kit – it did so several times with the Game Boy and DS – the 3DS XL isn't the big leap forward from the original that many gamers were expecting.Instead of major new additions, the console features a number of tweaks – the battery life is longer, the stylus is now easier to reach, a new hinge means the screen can be locked in two places (which is a godsend for longKid Icarussessions) and it feels more comfortable to hold, despite being heavier. It also looks sophisticated – more like a gadget and less like a toy.As the name suggests, the big change is the 90% larger screen. This makes a difference during action-packed sequences in the likes ofResident Evil: Revelations. The downside to this is that graphical imperfections are more noticeable (especially in the Mario games). However, the visuals have more room to breathe. Existing fans may see little point in upgrading, but XL is the model to choose for 3DS newcomers.
When Apple unveiled its iPad in January 2010, the idea of handing over a touchscreen gadget costing at least £429 to a sticky-fingered child seemed ridiculous. Two years later, tablets – and smartphones – are now well established as pass-on devices, with an increasing number of apps available for children of all ages.In July, Disney commissioned asurveyof 2,000 British parents who owned an app-capable device and found that 75% share them with their children; 56% said they had downloaded an app at the request of their kids; and 37% considered apps to be an "integral" part of their family life.There are hundreds of developers making apps for kids, from games and story books to maths and phonics apps. This isn't just about absorbing information, though: there are apps for children to make music, draw and share digital pictures and record their own voices reading favourite stories.Pretty much every big brand in the world of children's entertainment is now involved in apps, including Disney, Nickelodeon, Penguin, Mattel and Moshi Monsters, as well as individual characters and TV shows such asBob the Builder,Peppa Pig,In the Night GardenandDr Seuss. And with new companies such asToca BocaandNosy Crowestablishing their reputations, parents are spoiled for choice, with more apps appearing every month.That said, the choice itself can be a problem, as the big app stores from Apple and Google do not have dedicated kids' categories. Instead, children's apps are scattered between categories such as entertainment, games, education and books. On the plus side, this means that children's apps tend to be spread by word of mouth among parents – genuine recommendations rather than big-budget marketing.This list is intended to help parents find new apps for their children, not just from famous brands but from the best independent developers too. Some are purely about fun; others focus on bringing an interactive twist to storytelling; and others are more weighted towards the building blocks of maths and language-learning. Most of these apps are for iPad and/or iPhone, which is a reflection of the wider market: 90% of high-quality children's apps are still released for Apple devices alone, mainly because that's where their developers think they can make money.This may change, thanks to impressive Android tablets such asGoogle's Nexus 7and Amazon'sKindle Fire,&nbsp;which is tipped to be released in the UK later this year.Meanwhile, strong sales of Android smartphones mean there is a sizable number of parents looking for kid-apps on those devices too. Expect some of the apps featured in this list that are Apple-only to make the jump to Android in the coming months.OUR CHOICE OF THE 50 BEST APPS FOR KIDSCREATIVEART MY KID MADEiPhone – Free. If you've run out of room on your fridge for your children's drawings and paintings, this app helps you capture and store photos of the real-world artworks, while sharing them with family and friends on social networks.COLOR &amp; DRAW FOR KIDSiPhone/Android – £0.69. This is part-drawing app and part-digital colouring book, as the name implies. It's based around themed packs of pictures, with some preloaded, and others –&nbsp;dinosaurs, animals, fairies, etc – available for purchase in-app.DISNEY PIXEL'DiPhone/iPad – Free. This will appeal to creative parents as much as to children, as it involves taking some of Disney's most famous characters and creating your own pixel-art drawings and animations, which can then be shared online.DOODLECAST FOR KIDSiPhone/iPad – £1.49. A drawing app with a twist for children – they can also record their voice as they draw. The results can then be turned into a video of up to three minutes in length, to be sent to friends and family.DR SEUSS'S THE CAT IN THE HAT COLOR &amp; CREATE!iPad – £1.49. Although based on a US TV show, this app is plenty of fun for British children too. It gets them colouring in scenes and characters from the iconic Dr Seuss books, with digital stickers and a virtual glitter cannon thrown in.LITTLE FOX MUSIC BOXiPhone/iPad – £1.99. Described as a "sing-along songbook", this gets your children tapping and, yes, singing along to songs including London Bridge and Old MacDonald, with animations, interactivity and a bucketful of charm.MAILYiPad – Free. Maily wants to be "your kids' first email" –&nbsp;a way for them to create digital drawings and messages, then send them to the inboxes of parents, other family and friends. Good parental tools ensure it's a safe introduction to messaging.MORTON SUBOTNICK'S PITCH PAINTERiPad – £1.99. Imagine if making music was like finger-painting. That's the idea behind this fun app for three- to five-year-olds, which uses instrument samples from around the world to paint tunes onto a digital canvas.PLAYART BY TAPOOKiPad – £2.49. Parents with a leaning towards art will love this iPad app, which encourages children to create and share their own pictures using elements from famous paintings by Van Gogh, Cézanne, Monet, Rousseau and Klee.MIKO AND COLAiPad – £1.99. This starts as a storybook app following the "silly fun adventures" of a pair of cats called Miko and Cola. The real joy comes in its music mode, where your child can tap on characters and items to make music.MAGIC PIANOiPhone/iPad/Android – Free. Magic Piano isn't just for kids, but children do gravitate towards it. The app is a virtual piano that warps into magical shapes. As kids get older, it will teach them to play an array of songs too, from pop hits to classics.EDUCATIONFARM 123 – STORYTOYS JRiPhone/iPad – £1.49. Farm 123 aims to be a digital version of pop-up books, based on a character called Farmer Jo and his animals. It's aimed at pre-school-age children, teaching them to count from one to 10 with cows, pigs and eggs.FUNIMAL PHONICSiPhone/iPad – £0.69. Children and parents are well-used to phonics alphabet-learning now, and this stylish flash-cards app gives the discipline a friendly animal face. It's also notable for its inclusion of both US and UK English accents when speaking sounds.LITTLE DIGITSiPad – £1.49. This marvellous numbers app gets your child to count by placing fingers on the iPad's touchscreen, with cute cartoon numbers appearing, depending on how many fingers are pressed. Simple maths tasks give it an educational angle too.MY A-ZiPhone/iPad – £1.49. There are lots of alphabetical flash-card apps for iPhone, but this one stands out for its personalisation. Children can add their own photos and sounds for letters –&nbsp;a picture of their dog and its bark for "D", and so on.NUMBERLYSiPhone/iPad – £3.99. Despite the name, this beautiful app is more about letters than numbers. It's a mixture of games and storytelling to explain the origins of the alphabet, with a visual style influenced by films likeMetropolisand the originalKing Kong.TIMES TABLES: SQUEEBLES MULTIPLICATIONiPhone/iPad/Android – £0.69. This UK-developed app is aimed at 5- to 11-year-olds, providing a series of multiplication questions to earn stars and rescue cutesy characters from a nefarious Maths Monster. Up to four children can save their progress on one device.THE SINGING ALPHABETiPhone/iPad – £0.69. A stylish app that does what it says on the tin: letters that sing. Specifically, they sing their own phonetic sounds, and can be combined to make harmonies and tunes. Given five minutes, your child will be singing along too.COUNTING WITH THE VERY HUNGRY CATERPILLARiPhone/iPad – £1.99. Eric Carle's famousbookabout a fruit-munching caterpillar has been turned into a fun educational game with a mathematical skew. Your child identifies, counts and adds the foods over five levels, ensuring it appeals to a range of ages.AROUND THE CLOCKiPhone/iPad – £1.49. This time-focused app wears its educational spurs lightly. It's a collection of 24 mini-games, one for each hour of the day, from toothbrushing to pancake making. The idea is to familiarise children with the clock.BAREFOOT WORLD ATLASiPad – £2.99. If you have a child who is just becoming interested in geography, this is an essential buy. It's a digital globe with music and animation, drawing kids in to the meat of its text and photographic entries on countries, people and nature.CHANGE4LIFE FUN GENERATORiPhone/iPad/Android – Free. Part of a wider Department of Health initiative to get families out and about, this app suggests more than 100 activities for children, filtering them by indoors/outdoors and the number of participants. A summer-holiday lifesaver for parents.COOPER'S PACK: LONDON CHILDREN'S TRAVEL GUIDEiPhone/iPad – £1.49. For parents taking their children to London as a tourist, what better guide than a stuffed dog named Cooper? This travel app is a story-based guide to London's history and attractions, with plenty of interactivity to keep children reading.FAMIGO SANDBOXAndroid – Free. If you're handing over an Android device to a child, Famigo Sandbox is invaluable. It filters the apps on your phone to only show those suitable for children, locks off other features, and recommends new apps they might like.MOVE THE TURTLEiPhone/iPad – £1.99. Can five-year-olds start learning to program? They can with this app, which aims to teach the basics of computer programming by planning tasks –&nbsp;all presented by a friendly turtle character to spark their imagination.THE HAPPY FACEiPhone/iPad – £0.69. Most parents have used a reward chart for their children at some point. This turns the idea into an app for use while out and about, moving children's photos onto a happy or sad face according to their behaviour.YOUR FANTASTIC ELASTIC BRAINiPad – £1.99. Aimed at five-year-olds and up, this is a book app all about brains, using illustration and animation to explain some complex science, while throwing in "brain workout" games to help children stretch their grey cells.PLAYCAUSE AND EFFECT SENSORY LIGHT BOXiPhone/iPad/Android – £1.49. A mixture of animation and sound, originally created for children with autism and other complex needs. Swiping and tapping have different effects in each of the 21 scenes. This will appeal beyond its original target audience.LEGO SUPER HEROES MOVIE MAKERiPhone/iPad – Free. This may be as much for dads to play with, to be honest. The idea: an app to help children create their own Lego movies, using stop-motion photos of characters and scenes that they've built in the real world.MAKEGOiPhone/iPad – £1.49. More real-world making here. Makego's app offers three virtual vehicles: a car, a boat and an ice-cream van. The hook is that you build a real vehicle out of Lego, cardboard or other materials, then place your iPhone and the app on top of it.MOSHI MONSTERS: MOSHLINGSiPhone/iPad – £0.69. On the web, the Moshi Monsters virtual world is enormously popular among children. Its spin-off app focuses on its Moshlings characters, with more than 60 profiled, and digital stickers to customise pictures of them.PIP AND POSY: FUN AND GAMESiPhone/iPad – £1.99. This playful app is based on a series of books byAxel Scheffler–&nbsp;best known for illustratingThe Gruffalo. Finger-painting, digital jigsaws and matching-pairs are included, as well as the chance to make faces using the device's camera.TOCA KITCHENiPhone/iPad – £1.49. Before letting children loose on a real kitchen, see what they think of this virtual one. It gets them to cook for four characters, slicing, boiling, frying and microwaving ingredients to create tasty (or not) meals.TOCA TRAINiPhone/iPad – £1.49. From the same developer as Toca Kitchen, this is a train chugging its way through a cartoon 3D landscape, picking up passengers and cargo. It's open-ended, which leaves children to provide their own stories for the characters.A DAY AT THE CIRCUSiPhone/iPad/Android – £1.99. Bringing all the fun of the circus to iOS and Android, this app offers 20 mini-games based on the Big Top. Expect clowns, elephants, lions and simple controls that won't stump children as young as three years old.STORIESCINDERELLA – NOSY CROW ANIMATED PICTURE BOOKiPhone/iPad – £3.99. Swing an ugly stepsister on the App Store and you'll hit 17 Cinderella apps, but this is the best by far. Beautiful illustrations, voice narration from children, lots of interactivity and a dash of cheeky humour.CLARA BUTTON AND THE MAGICAL HAT DAYiPad – £3.99. Produced through a partnership with London'sV&amp;A Museum, this storybook tells the tale of Clara Button's surreal day out at the museum, with an engrossing storyline and links to the real-world exhibits.COLLINS BIG CAT: THE FARMER'S LUNCH STORY CREATORiPad – £2.49. One of a series of Big Cat apps from book publisher Collins Education, this offers a story about a hungry farmer, then enables kids to create their own tales using its pictures, characters and key vocabulary.ROCKFORD'S ROCK OPERAiPhone/iPad – Free. Styling itself as a "musical audio book", this environmentally-minded story comes with a rock soundtrack, words from comedian Steve Punt, and characterful illustrations. This first part is free, with parts two, three and four available to buy.I AM A CHILD: JUST LIKE YOUiPhone/iPad – £1.99. This storybook with hand-drawn illustrations is all about a boy called Mason. Its aim is to explain the world through the eyes of a child with Asperger's syndrome, for children who have been diagnosed, and their family and friends.MAGIC TOWNiPad – Free. Also available as a website, Magic Town is a virtual world with more than 65 picture-books to read – a mixture of previously published and new stories. Some are free, but a £7.99 monthly subscription is required to access the lot.MIFFY'S GARDENiPad – £2.99.Dick Bruna's Miffy books are making their way to iOS as apps, withMiffy's Gardenthe first. The original book's storyline is complemented by some fun gardening mini-games, as well as the option for children to make and send pictures.MOO, BAA, LA LA LA!iPhone/iPad/Android – £2.49. Based on a popular book bySandra Boynton, like Farm 123 this takes the form of a digital pop-up book, with lashings of pigs, chickens and cows. Words are highlighted and animals make their noises when tapped on, too.MOOMIN, MYMBLE AND LITTLE MYiPhone/iPad – £3.99. Another well-loved children's brand here, as theMoominsmake their way to iPhone and iPad. It's an animated version of the original book byTove Jansson, with voice narration from actor Samuel West –&nbsp;apparently a big Moomins fan.PEPPA PIG ME BOOKSiPhone/iPad – £1.99. This innovative app brings Penguin's range of Peppa Pig books to Apple devices, with one included in the price and more available to buy in-app. The key feature: your children can record their own dialogue for every page.SPIDER-MAN AR BOOK HDiPad – £2.99. Disney's latest Spider-Man app uses augmented reality technology to grab kids' attention, with AR masks, glasses, badges and crawling spiders. These spice up the story of Peter Parker, based on the last Spider-Man film.THE ICKY MR FOXiPad/Android/BlackBerry PlayBook – Free. This book app is available on just about every tablet – a good showcase for its developer's illustration talents. The story sees the titular Mr Fox trying to ruin afternoon tea for Mr Rabbit and Mr Mole, but getting more than he bargained for.THE JUNGLE BOOK: DISNEY CLASSICSiPhone/iPad – £2.49. Disney has been turning a succession of its classic films into storybook apps, withThe Jungle Booka good place to start. The famous story of Mowgli, Baloo and co is beefed up with digital colouring, puzzles and musical features.THE LORAX – DR SEUSSiPhone/iPad/Android – £1.49.Dr Seuss'The Loraxis back in fashion thanks to a blockbuster movie. This app is based on the book that spawned it. Expect voice narration and animation, and features to help early readers, such as word highlighting.TIMMY TICKLE!iPhone/iPad – £0.69/£1.49. Available in separate versions for iPhone and iPad, this app introduces Timmy, an octopus with a ticklish streak and a collection of creative mini-games and activities. Music, dressing up and colouring all feature.
I should tell you that I have what the police call "previous" with Hyundai. The i30's predecessor, the Accent, wasn't my first car, but it was a significant car for me. It was the car we went on honeymoon in. It was the car that took me to the hospital when my wife went into labour, the car in which I brought her and our first daughter home and, between those two events, the car that I was forced to pull over because the radio had started playing Stevie Wonder'sI&nbsp;Just Called To Say I Love Youand, in my new-dad state, and to my eternal bafflement and horror, I had been suddenly overcome by the profundity of its lyrics.But for all my emotional attachment, the Accent was – to use&nbsp;the technical term – a load of crap. I hated its underpowered engine and rotten automatic gearbox, which gave passing anything faster than a bicycle a thrilling little hint of Russian roulette. I even hated the way it steadfastly refused to break down, as if daring us to get rid of it, even after it had clearly passed its sell-by date, when it looked incredibly sorry for itself, the build quality clearly not matching the engine's reliability. It had bits hanging off it, but the bloody thing just kept going, like the last zombie in a horror film.So I approached the i30 with a mixture of affection and trepidation. As it turned out, it did nothing to stir fond memories, nor confirm old&nbsp;prejudices: recently subject to a&nbsp;redesign, it's a different species altogether. It&nbsp;went faster, quicker than the Accent: if you're never going to get it&nbsp;confused with a Porsche 911, then at least you won't&nbsp;find yourself thinking about your will every time you overtake someone. The only thing striking about the interior of my old Accent was that – following an incident when I hit the brakes hard on the way home from a&nbsp;takeaway – it smelled of stale lamb dopiaza, which led a waggish friend to dub it&nbsp;The Star Of Bengal. The i30's is both capacious (the boot is Tardis-like) and quite well-equipped (air-con even on the standard model) without ever really fooling you into thinking you're driving something more luxurious than you are.And that, you could argue, is the i30's downfall: it's not a car that anyone's ever going to get wildly excited about. Equally, you could argue that's not the point: the i30 exists primarily to mimic what a Golf or a Focus does, but cheaper. It&nbsp;does that really well. Well enough, in fact, that it could make you think twice about buying a Golf or a Focus. Given that my old Accent could make you think twice about actually driving at all, it's hard not to be cheered by Hyundai's progress.Hyundai i30 Active 1.6 CRDi 110PS Blue DrivePrice£17,995Top speed115mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.5 secondsAverage consumption76.3mpgCO2 emissions97g/kmEco ratingVED band ABound forTesco's car parkIn a wordImproved
It seems that real friends are hard to find. There may be more than 83m fake accounts on Facebook, the social network has revealed.Facebook's disclosure came in a week that saw its shares hit new lows, dipping below $20 for the first time on Thursday. Its shares have now lost almost half their value since debuting at $38 in May in the largest initial public offering to emerge from Silicon Valley.The dip came as a quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) revealed that as many as 8.7% of Facebook's 955m user accounts may be fake and up to 5% of active ones duplicates."While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our user base for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage of our products across large online and mobile populations around the world," Facebook said in the filing.Duplicate accounts, people who have more than one profile in violation of Facebook's policy, made up 4.8% of the "fake" accounts, as of 30 June. The firm said 1.5% appeared to be spam accounts.Analysts say "bots" – automated software applications that can mimic customer behaviour such as clicking on adverts – are an issue for all internet firm. But Facebooks disclosure comes after Limited Run, a firm that sets up online stores for labels, musicians and artists, alleged its custom-built "page logger" had found 80% of the clicks on its adverts on the social networking site came from bots.Brian Wieser, analyst at Pivotal Research Group, said bots were not new news and that Facebook "clearly did a poor job of managing investor relations" at the time of its IPO. But he said investors were now ignoring good news at Facebook and over-emphasising the bad news."Expectations are completely out of whack with the fundamentals," he said."It's as if people are disappointed with the US basketball team for not getting Olympic gold in swimming." The company had made significant progress in its advertising network recently, he added, and that the fake accounts was a nonissue.Its share sale has proved a costly embarrassment for the company, investors and the banks that supported it. Launched in a blaze of publicity on 18 May, Facebook's shares fell below $30 with two weeks and have continued to slide. In morning trading yesterday they were at $20.76.On its first day of trading, Facebook was briefly valued at $104bn, more than the combined value of Nike and Goldman Sachs. Its market capitalisation has since more than halved.The collapsing share price and the stock's messy Nasdaq debut have spurred a series of law suits with investors suing the company, its bankers and the stock exchange. US authorities are also looking at the IPO and allegations some shareholders were warned ahead of others of Facebook's concerns about its mobile business.Its fall comes after disappointing share sales from social media peers including Zynga, the games company, and Groupon. Shares in Zynga, which accounts for about 12% of Facebook's revenues, are now trading at less than $3, down 71% from their $10 debut last December.
Akai Katana ...Xbox 360; £29.99; cert 12+; Rising Star GamesAkai Katana is a superb bullet-hell shooter, and a beautiful game. It's versatile, challenging and very rewarding once you hit the trance state required to dodge everything. For beginners, it's possible to have fun with the basics – dodging, shooting and occasionally turning from a ship into a flying samurai phantom to rain down furious fire on your enemies, with free play on every mode to keep you from hurling your controller into the screen. Bullet hell aficionados will find it a deep, engaging game, with a huge array of complex tactics to master – attack and defence modes, upgrading energy orbs from downed enemies, and decisions about how to employ the various orbiting weapon systems. You may occasionally feel like Akai Katana is peeling your eyeballs from the inside, but the challenge and bewilderingly complex visuals are all part of the fun.Mary HamiltonPandora's Tower ...Wii; £39.99 cert 12+; NintendoPandora's Tower, an unexpectedly elegant action RPG, is structured around its dungeons with a touching love story told between fights. The dungeons are time limited; playing as hero Aero, you have to get meat back to your bride-to-be Elena to stop her from becoming a monster forever. Elena can only cure her by feeding her flesh from 13 big bosses at the top of 13 different towers, each one with its own visual theme and puzzles to solve. The combat is dynamic and pleasingly visceral, and works perfectly for the Wii – aiming with the controller and ripping chunks out of monsters with the Oraclos chain is fun and viscerally rewarding. With boss fights that echo Shadows of the Colossus alongside beautiful, isolated dungeons and a slow, revelatory narrative, Pandora's Tower is both satisfying to play and an interesting story to be told – a rare achievement.MHThe Legend of Zelda3DS; £4.50 at Nintendo eShop; cert 7+; NintendoAs a slice of pure nostalgia or video gaming history, The Legend of Zelda is a must play. The Virtual Console version for download on the 3DS makes very few changes to the 1986 original aside from the inclusion of restore points – something of a must-have for modern gamers. Link sets out to defeat Ganon, restore the Triforce of Wisdom and rescue Princess Zelda in glorious 8-bit graphics, through an open world that was groundbreaking at release but that can feel frustratingly vague at times. By modern standards it's challenging, versatile and sometimes graphically confusing, but it's aged surprisingly well and remains playable and beautiful despite the changing times.MH
In January 2011 Biz Stone, co-founder of Twitter, together with the site's "trust and safety" arbiter Alex Macgillivray, posted a paean to freedom of expression under the portentous title:The Tweets Must Flow.They promised they would respect everyone's human right to unimpeded speech, vowing only to remove tweets that were illegal, spam or in breach of privacy.Fine words. But this week the tweets stopped flowing for one of Twitter's users. When Guy Adams, the Independent's Los Angeles correspondent, went to issue his latest gobbet of wisdom in 140 characters on Monday he found hisTwitter streamwell and truly dammed.Thesuspensionof Adams' account, and itsreinstatement on Tuesday, led to a storm of indignation culminating with anapology from Twitter. "We did mess up," admitted Macgillivray – now Twitter's general counsel – "and we will actively work to ensure this does not happen again".The most toxic aspect of the affair was the whiff of a commercial incentive. Adams was blocked after he posted a succession of tweets heavily critical of NBC for its tape-delayed broadcasts of the Olympics. When it was revealed that Twitter and NBC had entered into a business partnership for the Games, and that Twitter had tipped off the TV network to Adams's tweets, prompting the complaint that would lead to his suspension, the Twittersphere turned blue with rage.Twitter's quick and abject apology may have nipped in the bud the suspicion that it censored Adams for commercial gain, but doubts will remain. "The whole incident reveals how easily people can be silenced in social media for commercial reasons if we are not vigilant in preventing it," says Rebecca MacKinnon, author of Consent of the Networked who sits on the board of Global Network Initiative, a body that fights internet censorship.This week's fiasco has also underlined the bewildering speed of Twitter's rise. Since Jack Dorsey (@jack) sent the very first tweet on 21 March 2006 (he wrote: "inviting coworkers") the site has taken off at a rate that would make a Nasa rocket look sluggish. It now has more than 140 million active users, supports 30 different languages and has at its peak recorded 15,358 tweets per second (during Euro 2012).As a result of such exponential growth, the site is having to develop ethical systems in the blink of an eye that established media organisations refined over decades. Jonathan Zittrain, a specialist in internet law at Harvard, thinks the commercial pressures Twitter is now coming under are not dissimilar from the incentive a magazine might feel to pull articles that could upset a major advertiser. "It sounds like Twitter is trying to articulate, and enforce, the kinds of editorial separation that reputable magazines have long embraced."Jillian York of the Electronic Frontier Foundation thinks the Adams saga has revealed a lack of clarity in Twitter's privacy policy. Adams was ostensibly suspended because he published the email address of an NBC executive, yet as he pointed out it was a public NBC address easily accessible on Google.York also calls for a more robust system allowing challenges to Twitter's actions. "If Twitter decides that content should be taken down, there should be an appeals process allowing users to push back."For every Guy Adams able to generate a Twitter storm in the event of their accounts being suspended, there are countless other people around the world who are vulnerable because they lack the profile or the contacts to fight back. Last month the Twitter account of apromotion for Singaporewas taken down without explanation.The organisers of the initiative presume it was blocked because the Twitter algorithm assumed the account was spam, which it wasn't. Yet in the absence of press publicity or protests, it took several days to get the account reinstated. "There are many other cases of social media platforms kicking people off their sites that go quietly in the night, which nobody hears of," says MacKinnon.Despite the Adams furore, Twitter is still relatively highly considered by internet freedom campaigners. The Electronic Frontier Association gives Twitter 3.5 stars out of 4 forprotecting users' interestsagainst government encroachments, compared with a miserable 1.5 for Facebook.Most open web advocates see Facebook as a far worse offender. Cases of heavy-handed suspensions by Facebook are legion, such as that of the certified breastfeeding adviser Anne Smith.Time and time again she has had her accountdisabled or deleted altogetherfor the sin of having posted photographs of breastfeeding women. "I'm extremely careful not to post pictures of nipples, not even a snippet of areola," she says.And yet still she is suspended, for 30 days at a time. She appeals, using a process recently implemented by Facebook, frequently with no response. "I'm furious. They shouldn't be censoring breastfeeding pictures, and they shouldn't be stopping me giving advice to women who need it."Behind these individual cases lies a bigger problem of consumer powerlessness in the social media firmament. Platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and the rest have become the modern equivalent of the public square.People get used to the idea that this space is their space; this Twitter account is their Twitter account. Yet it's not. It's Twitter's."Our daily lives are influenced by sites that we think are in the public sphere but are in fact private companies," says York. "It's a huge concern that users don't have a say in the governance of these sites, because if they have their accounts discontinued they are in essence being excluded from the public sphere."Zittrain points out that the original building blocks of the internet – email, the web, newsgroups, relay chat – were all uncontrolled and "unowned", with no global administrator. Now they are being supplanted by controlled counterparts like Facebook messaging available only to Facebook subscribers, or Apps instead of websites."There's nothing inherently wrong with that, but it does give rise to risks of compromise and control," he says.Or as Jeff Chester, a campaigner on internet privacy, puts it: "Companies like Facebook and Twitter present themselves as engines of democracy and are hailed by the state department as engines of digital diplomacy, but their main purpose is to serve the biggest advertisers in the world. They sell themselves as empowering users, but in reality they are all about enhancing the dreams of Madison Avenue."
The idea of your smartphone as a provider of recommendations – places, media, people etc – is well established now. But the question of where those recommendations come from remains an interesting debate. Including if you swap where forwho.Two mobile apps with different approaches to personal recommendations have made me think about the subject in recent months:ThumbandLoveThis.Developed on either side of the Atlantic, they both aim to provide recommendations and opinions, but while the crowd being tapped for real-time wisdom is strangers for Thumb, it's friends for LoveThis.Thumb encourages its users to "ask questions, get and give opinions, start a conversation" with the aim of getting "fast, fun opinions from other folks just like you".That usually involves posting a question, accompanied by a photo, and waiting for responses from other Thumb users, who can give a thumbs-up, thumbs-down or neutral response, with an optional comment.The app surprises with the volume of responses – while writing this piece I posted a question about whether a stand-up desk would make me healthier, and received 40 responses within a few minutes (60% thumbs-down, if you're wondering). This at lunchtime UK-time, before most of the US had woken up.Thumb sprang from a mobile Q&amp;A app called Opinionaided, which rebranded in December 2011. When I spoke to chief executive Dan Kurani, he told me that "questions are a natural stimulant for conversation: people connect very powerfully around opinions".He also said that Thumb took a deliberate decision not to "force people to include their existing social group" when signing up to the app. "We won't just dump everybody from your contact list in there".The result, in theory, are responses that are purely based on the question and photo posted, rather than prior knowledge of the poster. Which may mean more brutal (but useful) honesty for questions like "Do these clothes look good on me?".LoveThis takes a different angle. Developed in the UK, it aims to be "the best way to swap recommendations with friends", with users encouraged to post their thoughts on books, pubs, music and a host of other products for their friends to see and comment on.Founder Alexis Dormandy told me that he's betting on people's trust in their friends when it comes to recommendations."When you're deciding whether to visit a restaurant or hotel, there's research showing you need 17 anonymous reviews [to be convinced] but only 1.2 recommendations from friends," he said. "I genuinely believe your life will be more fun if you have your 30 friends' best books, hotels, children's toys... you name it."Thumb and LoveThis isn't a straight either/or comparison: questions versus recommendations. Neither is Thumb just about strangers: in fact, Kurani said that over time, he sees people building new connections based on their opinions – strangers becoming friends.
A selection of 12 new and notable app for you today:The TimesNews International has launched an official Windows Phone app for newspapers The Times and The Sunday Times, offering a 30-day free trial before users have to sign up for a full digital subscription on the Times website. Existing subscribers can access it for no additional charge.Windows PhoneMonster StoryFreemium mobile games publisher TeamLava has a new game in its Story series. Monster Story focuses on hatching and breeding monsters, decorating their island home and completing quests, as well as interacting with Facebook friends. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadTurf Geography ClubPeople have tried the idea of location-based Monopoly-style games before – MyTown being one prominent example. Turf Geography Club is the latest example, built on top of Foursquare. The idea: own real-world businesses near you, while investing virtual coins in them. Tiny Tower-esque visuals and a bear with a hand-puppet also star.iPhoneLiving Regent StreetThere's an official app for London's Regent Street developed by the Living Map Company, which promises that the map will evolve over time, rather than remaining static. Every shop has opening times info as well as website links and phone numbers, with social media, photos and transport data pulled in too.iPhoneClash of ClansSupercell is trying to put a bit more depth into freemium social gaming on iOS, with Clash of Clans its second game. It involves raising a fantasy army, defending your own village and conquering those of other players.iPhone / iPadThe Bourne RealityPublished by Ludlum Games – presumably related to author Robert Ludlum – this game based on the Bourne series of books/films offers a mixture of trivia and spying tasks.iPhoneNational Geographic Traveller - FamilyNational Geographic's bi-annual magazine for travelling families has been turned into an iOS app, aiming to open the eyes of parents and children alike "from beach to museum, city to village, and villa to self-catering, glamping and more".iPhone / iPadAgent DashI covered Full Fat's Agent Dash earlier this week on iOS, but the game is actually out on Android too. Across both platforms, it takes the Temple Run format and applies it to a dashing secret agent.AndroidFlight!Armor Games' popular web game Flight! has made the leap onto iOS, with a casual flight-sim that involves catching shooting stars and upgrading your plane as you play.iPhone / iPadKairoboticaJapanese games publisher Kairosoft has a fervent following in the West for its simulation games, so Kairobotica is likely to make a splash on Android. Yes, robots are the focus here, along with space colonisation and plenty of battles.AndroidGhostbusters Paranormal BlastXMG Studio has put a new spin on classic film Ghostbusters, turning it into an augmented reality game for iOS challenging players to "battle ghosts in your neighbourhood".iPhone / iPadSolaRolaAnother game to launch on iOS in recent days, then quickly appear on the Google Play store for Android. SolaRola harks back to Sony's LocoRoco with its gameplay: colourful physics-based ball-rolling fun.Android
Facebook has more than 83m fake profiles, including millions created for users' pets and a large number of accounts the company deems "undesirable", it has admitted.The figure emerged in Facebook's first quarterly report to US financial regulators since the world's biggest social network made its much-criticised stock market debut in May.The company said 8.7% of its 955m global users were not real.There were 83.09m fake users in total, which Facebook classifies into three groups. The largest is made up of almost 46m duplicate profiles, accounting for 4.8% of all accounts. The company defined that category as "an account that a user maintains in addition to his or her principal account".What were deemed "user-misclassified" profiles amounted to 2.4%, almost 23m, where Facebook says "users have created personal profiles for a business, organisation or non-human entity such as a pet".Finally, "undesirable" profiles accounted for the remainder, about 14m, which are deemed to be in breach of Facebook's terms and conditions. The company said this typically means accounts that have been set up to send spam messages or content to other Facebook users.In March, when Facebook last gave an estimate of the number of fake or duplicate accounts, it said the proportion was in the region of 5% or 6%, which at the time meant between 42m and 50m.The admission comes at a difficult time for Facebook as it attempts to rally following a disastrous stock market flotation, and convince shareholders it will be able to translate its extraordinary growth and global user base of nearly 1bn into a profitable and sustainable business."We generate a substantial majority of our revenue from advertising," the company said in its filing. "The loss of advertisers, or reduction in spending by advertisers with Facebook, could seriously harm our business."This week, an online shopping platform provider, Limited Run, formerly known as Limited Pressing, published a lengthy post on its own Facebook page alleging its analytic software found that 80% of clicks on ads on the social networking site came from "bots", or fake users.Facebook shares launched on the stock market at $38, but the price has since slumped to just over half that at $20.In its quarterly announcement, the business reported revenues of $1.18bn and a loss of $157m for the three months to the end of June.The results were just ahead of Wall Street expectations, butFacebook's share price plummetednonetheless as the company failed to convince investors it can transfer its hugely successful model to an increasingly mobile world.This was despite the social network increasing its number of mobile users 67% year-on-year to 543 million in the three months to the end June.Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of the world's largest marketing services company, WPP, said last month he remained unconvinced that the social network was a good advertising medium, providing branding opportunities but little else.
At last, it's Friday. Give us the lowdown on your weekend gaming plans!
A quick burst of five links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMayer Brings in First Googler -- In PR -- To Yahoo &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAnd it's Anne Espiritu, the longtime Google communications staffer.Facebook Drops Below $20: Worth Less Than What MSFT Offered For Yahoo In 2008? &gt;&gt; TechCrunchBut... According to Blodget's calculation, we will need to wait until the stock is at $16.28 before it hits Yahoo/Microsoft territory.Exclusive: Microsoft's Metro branding to be replaced 'this week' according to internal memo &gt;&gt; The VergeMetro is the name for Microsoft's new, tiled look in Windows Phone and Windows 8. From the Verge:In it, Microsoft reveals that "discussions with an important European partner" led to the decision to "discontinue the use" of the Metro branding for Windows 8 and other Microsoft products -- one that employees must adhere to immediately.Canalys Q2: 68% Of All Smartphones Shipped Were Android; China's The Biggest Market By A Wide Margin &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFrom Canalys:China had "phenomenal" growth this year, Canalys says, and that's no understatemet. Some 42 million smartphones were shipped in China in Q2, which works out to growth of 199% over last year (and 32% over Q1). By comparison, smartphone sales worldwide grew by only 47%, says Canalys. In other words, China grew at a rate more than four times that of the rest of the world. China, it says, accounted for 27% of the world's smartphone shipments, with number-two U.S. at 16%.Facebook: 8.7 percent are fake users &gt;&gt; CNET NewsHow many is that? A whole 83,085,000 fake accounts.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Blue Peter presenterHelen Skeltondecided on Thursday that the abuse had simply become too much too take. With a final sign-off to her 40,000 followers, she said goodbye to Twitter."Turns out I don't have very thick skin after all so I am closing my twitter account. Enjoy the games. Signing off, skelts x."A day earlier, it had been the turn of Channel 4 presenterKirstie Allsoppto air her frustration with so-called trolls posting abuse to her on Twitter. She said she had called in the police over vile and unacceptable messages from two anonymous Twitter users.Allsopp refused to leave the social network over the comments, but told her 235,000 followers: "I will not accept being told to shoot my own womb or bleed to death with a spade in my vagina by anyone. Bullying is unacceptable."The presenter, who fronts Location, Location, Location for Channel 4, said there should be a way to tackle internet trolls without calling in the police.There appears to be a growing wave of abuse targeting high-profile personalities on Twitter, prompting heated debate about free expression on the internet.Skelton, 29, did not retweet the comments that she had found insulting, but they are understood to be messages sent to her relating to her work on the Olympics, where she has been interviewing members of the public around the Games venues.This week police in Dorset were criticised by libertarian groups when they arrested a 17-year-old on suspicion of malicious communications after threatening tweets to the British Olympic diverTom Daley. The move was described as over the top, quick-triggered and motivated mainly by a public outcry in defence of the sportsman on Twitter.Others have argued that the law must equally apply in cyberspace and that the internet is no different from a British high street. In May, a student whotweeted racist comments about the footballer Fabrice Muambawhen he collapsed during a match was released after serving half a 56-day sentence imposed by magistrates in Swansea.Internet trolls can face prosecution under legislation such as the Protection from Harassment Act 1997, Malicious Communications Act 1998 and Communications Act 2003.Team GB's 18-year-old weightlifting star, Zoe Smith, "stuck two fingers up" to her internet critics on Monday when she lifted a British record-breaking 121kg. She spoke out about how she and teammates faced abuse for their appearance and choice of sport.Smith said: "I love using Twitter. I am pretty much known as the athlete who sits there and pretty much tweets in between her clean and jerk. Some people just abuse it … Just because, at the moment perhaps while we are competing they think we are public figures, they think they can stay as faceless people who would say these things."She was not alone. The swimmerRebecca Adlington, who won bronze in the women's 400m freestyle final at the 2012 Games on Sunday, has been taunted on Twitter and footballers, including the England international Micah Richards and Everton's Darron Gibson, have ditched the social network after being abused.The BBC's Gary Lineker said he felt physically sick reading some of the messages sent to his son, George, who suffered from leukaemia as a child. Lineker highlighted three tweets posted by an anonymous user. One said: "Heard ya Leukaemia, pity ya didn't die."Other athletes have chosen to avoid the social network altogether. Louis Smith, Britain's bronze-winning gymnast, said: "It is just that one message. You can get 100 nice ones but there is that one message that you do not want to see – so that is why I took the decision to stop tweeting."The abuse threatens to cast a shadow over Twitter, which has become known as the social network where big-name stars mingle with non-famous users. Stephen Fry, one of the site's earliest users, has repeatedly threatened to quit over abusive messages.Twitter declined to comment about abusive behaviour on its social network. The company, which describes itself as the free speech wing of the free speech party, has said it does not monitor or intervene in messages posted by its 140 million active users. It encourages users to block people who they find insulting. The site's rules says users must not post direct, specific threats of violence against others.But the company's hands-off approach contrasts with the recent interventions by police over Twitter messages.Mark Williams-Thomas, a criminologist and child protection expert, accused Twitter of turning a blind eye to the darker corners of its site."To simply say we don't monitor content is irresponsible from a commercial operation and it's also morally completely wrong," he said.Williams-Thomas said the law must apply online but it would put added strain on the already-stretched police force."My view is if you break the law and you are threatening and abusive to people on Twitter, you deserve to have the full weight of law come down on you," he said.Stuart Hyde, the chief constable of Cumbria Constabulary and lead on e-crime for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said there police conducted inquiries into messages on Facebook on 14,000 occasions last year. That number will rise sharply if police are called in over comments on Twitter and other websites."People have a right to publish their views but when these views become indecent, threatening or offensive then the individuals they affect also have the right to report them," Hyde said."The public have a responsibility to keep their comments on social networks within the law. If they are not, then the police will assist with any prosecution."• This article was amended on 3 August 2012 because the original said Darron Gibson was a Manchester United player.
In 2012, mobile AR technology too often seems good for little more than digital agencies siphoning fat fees from the experimental budgets of brands looking for an easy PR win.That's not to say AR itself is useless and won't have an impact in the longer term. Just that many of the uses it's being put to now feel like marketing gimmicks.News, then, that IBM has developed an augmented reality shopping app is likely to make AR-sceptics roll their eyes. At a time when boarded-up stores are appearing on every high street, an AR app may be seen as more needless novelty than retail revolution.And yet… The idea at least deserves to be heard out. IBM's app, which is currently a prototype, will get shoppers to register profiles with their personal data and preferences: "from product ingredients that could trigger an allergy, to whether packaging is biodegradable".The idea is that they'll then be able to point their smartphone at products in-store to see how they match those preferences, as well as getting other information like ingredients, reviews and discount offers. And, inevitably, comments and reviews from friends on social networks too.Call me a pushover for a futuristic pitch, but reading IBM's original press release about the app, the prospect of scanning a shelf of cereal boxes with a smartphone camera to pinpoint the low-sugar highly-reviewed ones didn't seem ridiculous. So I talked to James Lovell, IBM's smarter commerce solution consultant, to find out more."We're starting to see retailers trying to take their customers' online journeys, and what they can do around that journey in the digital world, and take it into the physical world of the store," he says.Which means? "Increasingly, customers are demanding from retailers the same level of information in-store that they would expect to see in the digital channel."Which is where IBM's app begins to make much more business sense, because if retailers don't provide something to do this, then other companies will.In fact, they are already: both eBay and Amazon have barcode-scanning apps for people to use in real-world stores to find out more about individual products. And – this is the worrying part for retailers – to provide instant data on where those products can be bought online, often cheaper.We're talking more TVs, clothes, furniture and books here, rather than cereal, obviously. But the point holds true: if people are already scanning products in-store to get more information, then IBM's app is more a way for the retailers to try to get shoppers doing it with their apps, rather than their online rivals'."The retailer does have control over this," says Lovell. "It becomes an extension for their brand in-store, and they obviously control what the app can do."It's also a source of data on customers, of course: those preferences for starters, but also the ability to see what products people have looked at – well, scanned – in-store and then decided NOT to buy, as well as the products they have purchased.Lovell says interest is "very strong" from some of the retailers who are already using IBM's e-commerce technology. "We're in some quite advanced stages of discussions with some large retailers in the UK, and globally as well," he says."The retailers are acknowledging that this technology is rapidly approaching. This is quite cutting-edge at the moment, but in five years time, the younger generations are going to expect it. If they can get AR with Google, they'll expect it in-store."I still have reservations: for example, with few stores likely to provide a feature comparing prices with their rivals, won't people prefer to use independent apps for scanning products? If people get AR with Google, perhaps they'd rather use Google's AR when shopping too.Even so, there seems more to IBM's prototype than marketing gimmickry. High-street retailers may well see AR as one way to help them stay competitive against online outlets. Whether it works remains to be seen.
I'm looking for a way to post videos and photos of my child so that family members in far flung places can see her growing up. Rather than posting private videos on YouTube and then emailling the link, I would prefer to be able to set up a private network so that I can upload and others can view them at their leisure. I am keen that the photos and videos do not end up in the public domain, so I am wary of Facebook, Google Plus, etc. Are there any simple solutions that will allow me to share while maintaining my daughter's privacy – at least until she is old enough to choose what she shares with the wider world?Greg ThomasThere are dozens of simpler ways to share photos and videos online than setting up a private network. I suggested a few fairly recently (22 March) when family history enthusiast David Bogle asked aboutSharing personal files around the world.That was a data-oriented question – David had 1GB of data in 37 folders – so it didn't make the 60W bulb in my brain light up with the same response as your query:Shutterfly. Sharing family photos and videos privately is a very common problem, and some popular websites try to cater for it.Shutterfly was set up as an online photo service and it makes money by selling you prints, photo books, greetings cards and other image-bearing merchandise. This means Shutterfly is careful to keep your original full-sized, printable image rather than throwing it away after creating a web-sized version. However, it onlydisplaysweb-sized versions, so you and other members of your family cannot download the originals and print them out yourself without a paid subscription.Shutterfly's main attraction is that it offers freefamily websitesbased on its Shutterfly Share service. Your site gets its own web address, and you can upload an unlimited number of photos. Three years ago, Shutterfly addedvideo sharing: you can upload up to 10 videos using the free service, or an unlimited number of high-definiton videos if you sign up for its Premium Video service for $49.99 (£32.17) per year (currently $29.99).For extra security, Shutterfly lets you add a password to protect your family website from people who only know its internet address.A family-friendly alternative to Shutterfly isDropshots, which bills itself as "next generation photo and video sharing". Again, Dropshots lets you password-protect your page so that only people who have both the link and the password can access photos and videos.If you are willing to split videos from still photos, you could upload your videos toVimeo. Most people think of it as just an upmarket, higher-quality version of YouTube, but it does allow you to password-protect each video separately, and keep videos so private that only you can see them. You can also block downloads.The FAQ section onprivacysays: "You can share password-protected videos by clicking the 'Share' button on your video, then entering the email address or name of the person you'd like to share your video with (if they also have an account on Vimeo). An email will be sent with a link to your video and the password."If you are a paying (Vimeo Pro) user, you can set up semi-private, unlisted Video Review Pages where you can share movies and get comments from users who don't have free Vimeo accounts.Viddleralso offers advanced privacy options for sharing videos, but the cheapest subscription costs $50 per month.As mentioned in the previous reply to David Bogle, you can also use more general services. The main ones are Microsoft's SkyDrive (which now has 7GB of free space, not 25GB), Google Docs, and Dropbox. It's worth trying them to see which suits you and your family best, and I use all three. However, I find non-expert users tend to have more success with SkyDrive, if they use it in conjunction with the desktop version of Windows Live Mail. Basically, you can decide to email your family new photos or videos, but follow the prompts to upload them to SkyDrive and mail them links instead. When you want to unshare things, you can easily move them to a different, private folder.Also, as previously-mentioned, you could set up your own private server at home using aPogoplug, which is close enough to having a private network.The drawback with sharing things online is that privacy is only as good as the security awareness of your family. This is probably as close to zero as makes no difference. Once you've sent people links to albums and videos, there is nothing to stop them from forwarding the same links to friends ("Oh, isn't she cute!"), which is why password-protection is important.But once members of your family have downloaded copies of your photos and videos, there is nothing to stop them from sharing them however they like. If you produce something as viral asCharlie bit my finger – again!, your private video could ultimately end up being viewed by 500 million people.You can tilt things in your favour by only using sites that don't put any pictures on public display, that prevent search engines from indexing them, and that enable password protection. Nonetheless, digital images and videos are easily and almost infinitely reproducible, so something shared with two people can quickly millions. Unless you can live with this (admittedly unlikely) prospect, don't share things at all.However, today's children and teenagers seem to be a lot less bothered about sharing things than their parents. There is, as yet, no sign of this trend being reversed. If Facebook, Foursquare and similar sites get hooked up with Google Glasses and the whole"quantified self"movement, then what former Sun boss Scott McNealy said in1999may well turn out to be true: "You have zero privacy anyway. Get over it."
An iPhone and Android app calledSlicesis the latest attempt at developing a Twitter client that plugs some of the holes in Twitter's official apps.Launched by OneLouder, which also developed the TweetCaster app, Slices claims to be "a better way to discover Twitter" by adding a layer of filtering tools and curation features to the social network.I've been using it today, and some of the features are really welcome, albeit familiar from TweetCaster. For example, the ability to temporarily "zip" specific users, hashtags and keywords to remove them from your stream; some neat search tools; and bookmarking for faster access to individual users' tweets.It's early days, but Slices looks like a contender as an alternative to Twitter's own apps – or at least as a spur for Twitter to include some of these features in its own clients. The concern is that this kind of external innovation may not be long for this world.Twitter has been under scrutiny for the way it manages its platform for developers for some time, particularly when it comes to other people's Twitter clients."Developers ask us if they should build client apps that mimic or reproduce the mainstream Twitter consumer client experience.  The answer is no,"wrote platform lead Ryan Sarverin March 2011, putting developers on notice of Twitter's desire for a "consistent user experience" across all platforms and apps.Group product manager Michael Sippeyreturned to that theme in a blog postin June 2012, referring back to Sarver's comments. "That guidance continues to apply as much as ever today," he wrote."Related to that, we've already begun to more thoroughly enforce our Developer Rules of the Road with partners, for example with branding, and in the coming weeks, we will be introducing stricter guidelines around how the Twitter API is used."All Things Digital has agood articleabout the part of Sippey's post that has been overlooked in the discussion of the stricter guidelines: the importance to Twitter of its Cards technology, which enables developers to "build engaging experiences into Twitter… applications that run within Tweets".That's an intriguing prospect in itself, and one that's likely to appeal to the big media and entertainment brands that Twitter has been partnering with: broadcasters, record labels, newspapers and so on. The suggestion that these Cards should work in a similar way across different devices and platforms is sensible, too.But the sense that Twitter would like external developers to leave innovation around Twitter client apps to Twitter itself is a concern.The fact that two of Twitter's official apps came from acquisitions of Tweetie and TweetDeck is one sign that innovation often comes from outside. Indeed, Tweetie's pull-to-refresh feature has been used even more widely within the apps industry – yet it came from a single, independent developer figuring out how to make a better Twitter client.Arecent study by developer Benjamin Mayofound that when he broke down tweets from Twitter client apps, more than 77% came from Twitter's own apps."For people that think Twitter will never ban third-party clients because there would be too much backlash, I think this 77% figure shows that Twitter could do it with ease," wrote Mayo."A large portion of the 23% would be happily herded to a first-party client, as they don't really care what app they use — it just turned out that the client they first downloaded wasn't a Twitter-owned app."It's probably true. But would it be healthy for Twitter, not just Twitter users, if life is made even harder for the apps providing that 23% of tweets – TweetBot, Ubersocial, Echofon and now Slices among others?Fears that Twitter will be swinging its banhammer wildly at third-party clients may prove to be unfounded. They may be able to keep within the "stricter guidelines" while continuing to innovate around filters, discovery, curation and other areas.Even so, the question should serve as a reminder that when discussing the way Twitter manages its developer ecosystem, we shouldn't just be asking whether changes are bad for developers, but whether they might also be bad for users, and ultimately for Twitter itself.
If the Zynga story were a Hollywood movie, this would be the close of the second act; the point at which everything goes wrong for the protagonist.The recent second-quarter financials, labeled a disaster by Sterne Agee &amp; Leach analyst Arvind Bhatia, pointed to growing fallibilities in the Facebook gaming sector; and now several law firms in the US are reportedlyplanning to investigate the company's upper managementfor insider trading after a large amount of stock was sold months before the financial results were announced.Can Zynga survive? Of course it can. But recovery depends on the company retuning itself to the realities of free-to-play and digital gaming in the contemporary market.When I spoke to Mark Pincus in July (before the allegations of controversial share dealings), our conversation turned quickly to the future of Zynga and of social gaming in general. We also tackled another longstanding theme – the company's "difficult" reputation.So where is this whole idea of social games heading?In the next five years, I think you're going to see these games evolve on two different fronts. There are the snackable titles – the Facebook poke with a purpose; being able to share a brief moment together. And at the other end there is the deeply engaged experience where players are investing a lot and sharing a hobby or a passion.The things we do for each other in that experience might involve a fewer number of friends, but there's more depth. There are people who have formed guilds in World of Warcraft who may have played together for years before actually meeting, but because of the adventures they had together, they formed really deep-rooted friendships.You seem to be going along with the idea that social games are moving into a new "mid-core" era, where they're still intuitive but much deeper and more challenging. Is this what led to more complicated titles like Empires &amp; Allies?Yeah, I think that's it. The art of it is, the more we can bring complex game mechanics to a mass market, the more engaging the games will be. But at the same time, we have to simplify everything: the mass market has a lower attention span, they're not seeking that experience from the outset. When I think about what would appeal to my mum – I think she'd love crafting, she'd love guilds, but I think if I called it crafting or guilds, she wouldn't click on it.However, say she's playing FarmVille and she's really into strawberry farming and some cute character pops up and invites her to join the strawberry growers' association – now she gets connected to everyone else in the game who likes strawberries and she may think that's awesome. It's all to do with how we package the experience and the complexity. I think all gaming will become free and social and more accessible, and it will all grow. Currently, so many great gaming experiences are behind these large barriers.You've just announced Zynga with Friends, your own cross-platform social gaming service. Is this all about moving away from your reliance on Facebook?(Pause) I don't think we're at a particular stage where we have to move beyond Facebook. We're committed to providing consumers with the best social gaming experience and innovating on it, and we think that in addition to trying to make great games with great mechanics, there are opportunities to build network effects around our games that make them socially interesting. So, the idea is of building a single-branded interface to our network. Brands let all of us move faster – once you get to know and understand the rules of engagement, when you see that brand again, you know what to expect and how to interact. So if we can have a brand at the network level, where you get to know what a turn-based lobby is like, and all the kinds of features we want to provide, that can be powerful.It's strange though, that you talk mostly about the mass market and about family gaming, but all the while, the reputation of Zynga, in the wider gaming and development community, is of a ferocious and ruthless operator.Well, the thing we care most about is what consumers think about us. And if you talk to the people who play FarmVille or Words with Friends, their perception of us is closer to our own – it's of games that bring people together and help them have a few sweet moments. I mean, you've seen the stats about Words with Friends' players – 90% like people better after they've played with them.If you look back at what we've said and done over the last five years, we've always said and done the same thing – what's changed is how the industry talks about us and perceives us. I think we've been a disruptive presence – for a while they were saying that FarmVille wasn't a game. We've just never defined ourselves by the way we're written about or by how the industry talks about us. It's okay to be misunderstood – as long as you're not misunderstood by your consumers.But in some ways, did you consciously play that game with the industry? I mean, we've seen that famous quotation from a talk you gave at UC Berkeley where you said: "I did every horrible thing in the book, just to get revenues right away." Were you going out deliberately to be a disruptive presence?I think that … I think that people see what they want to see. People who wanted to see us in a certain light were able to build their case. But here's what's ironic: we really have helped define and build an industry – we've made it bigger for everybody. It's bigger for EA, it's bigger for other publishers … we're proud that we've helped expand the audience for gaming. We really take a blue ocean view – we don't think anyone else has to lose for us to do better.So you don't look at competitors at all then? That will be a huge surprise to some people.There are two answers to that. We spend a majority of our time talking to our players, trying to figure out what they're excited about and want next. We definitely look at the industry and at competitors to try to find more categories of gaming that there's heat around, and that we have overlooked. Everyone in the games industry looks at each other to see if there are hip categories they've missed – that's normal. But when we look at a new opportunity, it's really much more about 'is this great for our market, for social?', rather than 'is that where our competitor is?'An employee works on the Zynga game FarmVille. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APCan this be true? There has been such a disparity between the way the development community views Zynga and the way it views itself – or would at least have itself viewed. In 2010, SF Weekly rana damning feature on the company, interviewing ex-staff about its allegedly highly competitive working environment and brutal business practices. An unnamed senior staff member recalls a meeting in which Pincus is alleged to have raged: "I don't fucking want innovation. You're not smarter than your competitor. Just copy what they do and do it until you get their numbers."Zynga has also been sued for copyright violation (most notably by SocialApps, the developer of FarmVille predecessor, MyFarm, and Psycho Monkey, creator of Mob Wars, a game not entirely dissimilar to Zynga's hit Mafia Wars), and when the company bought developer OMGPop in March,one member of the team left, sacrificing a huge income boost because he was uncomfortable with being a Zynga employee.There's an interesting disconnect at the heart of this, though. Pincus, despite his overtures to the gaming community, is not a games industry player – when it comes down to it, he sees Zynga as a web services company rather than a game developer, and he plays by the rules of that more drily competitive industry.Later in the day, during an informal group interview with the European press, Pincus is challenged once again about Zynga's reputation for copying ideas. "That's a topic that goes way back in the game industry," he responds. "But it hasn't been as much of an issue in the web industry as there's less art involved. If Amazon created a better buyer flow or conversion page or shopping cart, it's generally assumed that eBay and everybody else will copy it."On the web side, it's more product management driven, it's more clicks and flows, it hasn't been an issue. When you get into games you have unique art work, it becomes an issue. We don't believe companies should appropriate other people's artwork. But we don't believe that companies have any ownership on a category or a genre just because they were first or more popular."Soon, all this may be consigned to history. The company is determined to reinvent itself as an attractive place to work (it wasnamedas one of the top employers in the Bay Area by the San Francisco Business Times – an achievement Zynga has celebrated on a vast billboard job advert that you can't miss as you drive into the city from the airport). And right now it is also entering a new phase of its business.A couple of years ago the appropriation of ideas became the appropriation of studios as the company purchased its way to dominance, snapping up cool studios like Area/Code and Wild Needle. But, as the Facebook games model has begun to strain, and as the popularity of smartphone gaming has risen, Zynga has had to re-invent itself. It is now concentrating heavily on its mobile business, porting over its Facebook brands and building an audience of 33 million monthly users.And importantly, it has announced the Zynga partners programme, in which it will work with independent developers to promote their titles across its network in a revenue share model. The idea is to expand into mobile games and new genres without having to develop everything in-house and without simply buying more studios. (Given its last set of results, it may have had little choice.) So far, reports from the developers involved in the programme, including UK outfits Crash Lab and Fat Pebble, are positive, and Zynga has brought in Rob Dyer, who ran third-party relations for Sony Computer Entertainment America, to oversee the business.Amid the conjecture surrounding Zynga's financial state, and the barely concealed pleasure with which detractors have reacted to the company's troubles, Pincus (quite naturally) is still talking about growth and ambition…There are 290 million Zynga players in the world – is there a chance you've peaked? We've seen how shares dropped after the IPO … I mean, do you have a vision of where you want to be on the company's 10th anniversary?We'd like to get to 1bn monthly active users on our network – we think the opportunity is that big and if we want to be the leader in social gaming, that's the kind of size we're going to need to get to. Then we look at the opportunity in terms of the kind of value we deliver into peoples' lives – we want to get to a certain size of audience, but we want to deliver something of substance.Looking backwards, movies and TV shows are virtual products, too – you can't wear them, you can't eat them, but if you own the disc, even if you never watch it again, you feel as though you have something of real value, because it holds a memory. I'd like that model for us in the future – I'd like people to feel that the virtual property they own in our games has real value, and I think that's going to be really important in the future.But can any sort of game really take on that sort of nostalgic cache?I don't know … I don't know if you're ever going to look back on that one awesome game of, say, Settlers of Catan – but you might. Here's what's different. This isn't a single consumer experience. When you think nostalgically about a movie, it's more about the film itself rather than the person you were sitting next to when you saw it. With what we're doing, there's more a three-way relationship – it's more about, did you enhance a relationship through playing these games?For some people these are hobbies, it's about ownership – people send us pictures of their farms. But, in general, it may be more about nostalgia. My memories of playing charades with my family have a smattering of game experiences, but they're more about the gestalt of: "Oh we used to do that together and I miss that." And I think that's the sort of place social games can be in for people.Elsewhere, Zynga has an eye not only on smartphone games, but also on the rapidly evolving concept of the second screen – this whole idea that people are always on their tablets or phones while they're watching TV, and the notion of how this can be harnessed in new entertainment formats.In June, CBS announced that it would be running a pilot of a Draw Something TV show, produced and hosted by Ryan Seacrest, in which viewers at home will be able to participate against celebrities on screen. "We're busy people, we need media that's multitask-able," says Pincus. "I want games I can play while I'm watching television. 70% of Americans are on the internet while they watch TV. We all multitask now and we need media to reflect that."At the same time, he is not content to see Zynga as a casual gaming presence, he wants the dedicated gaming audience too, and he thinks he can get it. The last couple of Ville games – CityVille and FrontierVille – have added more complex simulation elements, and May saw the release of Empires &amp; Allies, the company's first social combat game.Furthermore, one of the mobile developers in the Partners programme,Phosphor Games, is creating an action fantasy title named Horn, clearly aimed at the dedicated gaming audience. Hardcore means a more engaged user-base, which means greater income from fewer, more committed fans."I'm bullish on hardcore gaming," says Pincus. "As it gets more free and social, it's only going to grow. It's already the case in Asia that hardcore games are free and much more social than here – it's a huge growth opportunity. Our technology, our network effects, could be just as valuable to hardcore games as casual games."And in the wide net that we cast with our titles, we do have hardcore gamers already – my nephews play everything from CityVille to World of Warcraft to Halo 3. They love CityVille because they couldn't believe there was a game their mum would play – they can't get their parents to play World of Warcraft."Pincus remains a contradictory character; in person, he's perfectly pleasant, but difficult to read or decipher. This is the guy who reminisces over charades and the classic board game Settlers of Catan, but also the guy who just sold 16.5m Zynga shares in the period before those worrying Q2 financials were revealed.If this is really the man who once stood in a meeting and yelled, "fuck innovation", it's also the man who is desperate to be seen like other Silicon Valley characters, as a philanthropist and a dreamer. His script is watertight, delivered in quiet sometimes punctuated sentences. When I ask about his ambitions in this industry, the reply is earnest but also riven with the familiar soundbites of the smiling man-of-the-people Valley CEO."Oh, it's definitely not about the money," he says. "I think about the legacy, I talk to new hires about this when they come in. I say, decades from now, when you look back on the work you did, the sacrifices you made, what you'll remember most is the impact it had on people's lives – the first aeroplane journey you took when you saw someone playing one of your games, you'll remember being talked about on Conan. Hopefully, you'll be able to point to things that you either created or were there at the beginning, when they were built. That's immensely more fulfilling than what profit your company made."As Zynga faces its current storm we'll see how true these words are – and how prepared the company's huge but stalling audience is to follow on this slickly sentimental journey.•Mark Pincus interview: part one
A selection of 20 new and notable apps for you today:SlicesTwitter may be cracking down on third-party clients, but it would be a shame if that spells bad news for Slices – a slick new filter-focused app for Twitter. Developed by OneLouder, it turns your timeline into category-based "slices", while also helping you find people to follow in different areas.Android / iPhoneBritish Airways Perfect DaysBritish Airways makes an intriguing step into the social travel-apps space with this "part travel diary, part inspiration guide". It wants to get people keeping a record of where they go and what they do in cities, then share them via Facebook. Meanwhile, the app provides recommendations for cities including London, Madrid, Rome, New York and others.iPhoneDaily Mirror NewsBritish newspaper the Daily Mirror has relaunched its iPhone app, offering news, gossip and sports articles, as well as horoscopes, columns and videos. A My Mirror feature provides personalisation too.iPhoneAmazon Instant VideoUS-only for now, this is Amazon's official iPad app for its Prime Instant Video service, providing more than 120,000 films and TV shows to watch, either through streaming or downloading them to the device itself.iPadPaul Daniels Calculator for iPadNow THIS is magic. Possibly. Magician Paul Daniels is getting in on the apps game with a calculator app. Well, it looks like a calculator app: it's more of a magic trick to play on friends, as the man himself explains inthis promotional YouTube video.iPadGreen Day's Official AppWarner Music has used Mobile Roadie to make the new official app for Green Day, which offers a mixture of news, photos, videos and tour updates, as well as some photo-manipulation fun. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneBarefoot World AtlasTouch Press' excellent Barefoot World Atlas has been a big hit with children and parents alike on iPad. Now it's been squeezed down for the iPhone too, with the same features: a 3D spinning globe, and lots of animation, music, photos and text about the world and its inhabitants.iPhoneAgent DashFull Fat made games including Flick Soccer and Flick Golf, so its latest title is causing a stir. No sports here though: Agent Dash is more of a Temple Run-style game, as your agent dashes through a series of 3D environments grabbing power-ups and avoiding traps.iPhone / iPadGears &amp; GutsGlu Mobile has released a succession of freemium action games for iOS and Android, with Gears &amp; Guts the latest. If you think that title means a game involving driving fast cars into zombies... you'd be right. In-app purchases for virtual currency provide the business model.Android / iPhone / iPadSpotQueue/SpotQueue RemoteThis pair of apps works together as a way to "remotely control Spotify between iPads, iPhones and iPod touches". For example, connecting one device to your stereo and then using another to control Spotify on it.iPhoneAlien BreedBack in 1991, Alien Breed was the business on the Amiga. How will it fare in 2012 on iPhone and iPad though? Released by original developer Team17 Software, the top-down shoot 'em up includes classic and enhanced modes – the latter has beefed-up graphics and audio.iPhone / iPadMonster LifeComing on like a day-glo cross between Pokemon and FarmVille, this freemium game from Gameloft involves raising and training monsters before sending them off into battle, while also building the town that they train in.iPhone / iPadHappy StreetGodzilab's Happy Street takes inspiration from a different Nintendo-based franchise: Animal Crossing. Well, albeit in a sideways-scrolling way, as you build a village, fish, make objects and make friends with a series of cutesy animals.iPhone / iPadMonsters vs Superheroes Comic Book MakerPopular children's app-maker Duck Duck Moose has a creative new app for iOS that helps kids create their own digital comics. It involves dragging and dropping characters and stickers onto background scenes, while recording their own voice to tell the story. The link above is for iPhone, but there's aseparate iPad version.iPhone / iPadPool Pro Online 3Namco Bandai's multiplayer pool game returns in a third incarnation for Windows Phone, enabling you to play digital pool (or snooker) with other players around the world.Windows PhoneTrainz DriveriPad app Trainz Simulator has proved to be pretty popular with rail-fans. Now there's a spin-off for smartphones, driving "locomotives from around the world". It ties in with the iPad version too, where routes and sessions can be created and shared with the smartphone editions.Android / iPhoneA Not So Fading LightIf you're looking for a well-crafted book-app for kids this week, A Not So Fading Light is well worth a look. It tells the tale of two children's adventure to try to save the sun (note, not The Sun), with illustrations, voice narration and interactivity.iPhone / iPadDinosaur - Picture MeAnother book-app here, and one that puts your children's faces into the story itself. That story concerning dinosaurs, with audio narration, word highlighting and interactivity. But its use of the camera is what may please kids most, as they see themselves in virtual dinosaur outfits.iPhone / iPadMolomeBlackBerry owners may be waiting a while for Instagram to come to their devices, but Molome is hoping to fill the gap. It's a filter-based photo-sharing app, which like Instagram has its own social network, but can also post pics to Facebook and Twitter.BlackBerryAstroWings3 - IcarusCraving an old-school shoot 'em up game for Android? AstroWings3 might be it. Sitting in the bullet-hell sub-genre (i.e. perhaps look elsewhere if you're a wet-eared novice), it's visually impressive.Android
Thursday, and Great Britain has a brace of golds at last. Right, that's enough Olympics talk, how is your gaming coming along this week?
A quick burst of five links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWith Three Key Exits, Facebook's Top Talent Departures Continue &gt;&gt; AllThingsDEthan Beard, director of platform partnerships, and other top executives leave Facebook. This isn't turning out to be a great year.Dear Mark Zuckerberg by Dalton Caldwell &gt;&gt; Dalton CaldwellA developer whose competitor product Facebook attempted to hire goes public.Mark, I know for a fact that my experience was not an isolated incident. Several other startup founders &amp; Facebook employees have told me that what I experienced was part of a systematic M&amp;A "formula". Your team doesn't seem to understand that being "good negotiators" vs implying that you will destroy someone's business built on your "open platform" are not the same thing. I know all about intimidation-based negotiation tactics: I experienced them for years while dealing with the music industry. Bad-faith negotiations are inexcusable, and I didn't want to believe your company would stoop this low. My mistake.As Twitter Goes To War With Its Developers, Flipboard CEO Mike McCue Quits The Board &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAnd this is where the cards have fallen today.The Future of Twitter's Platform Is All in the Cards &gt;&gt; AllThingsDFascinating post by Mike Isaac:The mandate to crack down on developers comes straight from Dick Costolo -- no doubt feeling the pressure of being the company's third CEO in almost as many years -- who is charged with the task of making profitable a company backed by hundreds of millions in venture capital and valued near $8 billion (see Googler Hunter Walk's excellent post for more on this). Right now, Cards are the long-term bet in continuing to bolster monetization efforts.Windows 8 has reached the RTM milestone &gt;&gt; Windows Team BlogThere we go:Today, I am excited to announce that Windows 8 has been released to manufacturing (RTM)! This means we've completed the product development and testing of the product and have started handing off the final code to our OEM partners. They can now begin preparing new Windows 8 PCs and devices they'll introduce starting with General Availability. For more on RTM, I suggest reading this blog post from Steven Sinofsky on the Building Windows 8 blog.Smartphones mix: &gt;&gt; Twitter / asymcoHorace Dediu: Smartphones mix: Samsung now at 54%. Two years ago they were at 3%. Nokia now at 12%. Two years ago they were at 22%.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
People have started speaking with hashtags. Not often, and not, in most cases, people anyone really likes, but people nonetheless. And the problem – beyond the fact that this is happening at all – is that no one seems to be quite sure how to say, for example, #spokenhashtag.Abruptly inserting the word "hashtag" mid-sentence just won't do. It's far too clunky, like having to shout out "inverted commas!" before and after a suspect sentence, instead of forming a pair of air-quote bunny&nbsp;rabbits.An "air hashtag" also looks tricky: attempting to draw out the # symbol with a finger takes four time-consuming strokes, and makes you look as if you've paused mid-thought to bust out a hand-jive to the imaginary music in your head.Trying it with two fingers and two quick strokes – one horizontal and one vertical – just looks like an effete mimed raptor attack, while going all-out with two slashes of both hands risks being mistaken for a bizarre attempt at semaphore without flags.They would all also require you to say "hashtag" while doing them anyway. At least at first, until people caught on.No, we need standardisation. We need – drumroll please – a hashtag tone of voice. Sarcasm, after all, has one. Why not the humble hashtag?
Nowadays, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater exists as a sort of salutary tale: proof that even what appear to be the mightiest franchises can crumble away to dust if they aren't treated with skill and care. After countless iterations, the once-popular skating game was fatally holed on the twin rocks of a skateboard-shaped controller which didn't work and EA's beautifully executed Skate. And anyway, in its latter years, it had taken the Elvis career-path: becoming grotesquely bloated and a parody of its former self. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater HD, a sort of mash-up of the first two games available as an Xbox Live Arcade download (it will soon be available on the PlayStation Network, too), recreated in the Unreal engine, at least addresses the latter problem.THPS HD's watchword is minimalism, which should please those who idolised the game when it appeared at the end of the 1990s but later grew disillusioned. For your 1,200 Microsoft Points, you get a mere seven levels, albeit classic ones including Venice Beach and Downhill Jam. Each has 10 main goals; to unlock subsequent levels, you must complete a prescribed number within your allotted two minutes per run. The goals are reassuringly familiar, including collecting the letters S, K, A, T and E, and finding the hidden DVD (which has superseded the videotape, in keeping with the times). Each completed objective  earns you money, which you can spend on upping your stats (or buying new boards).There are various game modes, mostly playable solo or online. Career is the classic one; Free Skate lets you get to grips with the levels without time constraints; and Single Session, a tad pointlessly, lets you concentrate on high-scoring runs. Plus, there are two new modes to unlock: Big Head Survival, which encourages you to perform and land tricks constantly, or else your skater's head grows until it explodes; and Hawkman, which makes you collect colour-coded balls by either grinding them, jumping into them, performing manuals over them or wall-riding into them.The latter is quite fascinating as it tests your precision to the max. But Big Head Survival doesn't really satisfy once you get over the visual novelty – it just encourages you to string together runs of small, safe tricks. You can jump into your chosen game mode online against random people (or your Xbox Live friends) with the minimum of fuss, but unfortunately, the old split-screen mode isn't included (although its restricted view did often lead to confusion).But the focus of the game is Career mode, and playing it really is like welcoming back an old friend. Despite the jump to a more modern game engine – and using an Xbox 360 gamepad rather than a PlayStation one – THPS HD's feel is spot-on, with all the buttons doing exactly what they used to do, and even the quirkier aspects of the control system, such as the need to press the grind button fractionally before you reach a rail, preserved lovingly. The music is nice and old school, too – a classic mix of hip-hop and indie rock, which makes a change from recent games' espousal of identikit dubstep and the teeth-grinding 2 Unlimited-style fake rave that David Guetta and his peers continue to perpetrate.Those who have never played a Tony Hawk's Pro Skater game will, once they work out how to play it (tutorials have been eschewed), be amazed by how addictive it is, as you seek to nail precise tricks in prescribed places or reach seemingly inaccessible areas. And those who were once committed to it will find that THPS HD launches them on quite a nostalgia trip. This comeback is exactly what was needed: pared down, cheap and distilled to its irresistible essence. Look out for the PlayStation Network version, as well as extra levels in the form of downloadable content.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
It is difficult to say exactly when Hotmail lost its cool factor, but a series of missteps have turned Microsoft's email service into a languishing relic of the early internet.Microsoft hasannounced that it will bring down the curtain on Hotmail later this year, moving its 350 million users (still – yes, really!) to the revamped Outlook.com.The move is designed to unify Microsoft's range of software products, such as Windows Phone and Office, and entice a new generation of Facebook-addicted users who want to see status updates alongside emails.Like many, I suspect, I ditched Hotmail in around 2007 for Gmail. Size matters, and Google offered more space for chunky messages. It had the added bonus of being a cleaner inbox with a more professional-looking email address. Hotmail, it seemed, had become a place for teenagers who preferred to spend more time using MSN Messenger than lengthy emails."Certainly Hotmail has been stagnating," said Jeff Mann, the vice-president of research at analysts' firm Gartner. "Hotmail was one of the first to gain a lot of the early users and then Google came along and captured a lot of its cool factor."When it launched Gmail, Google was already known to millions as the window to the entire internet through its ubiquitous search engine.However, despite buying Hotmail in 1997 – a year after it launched – Microsoft is still best known for its relatively unsexy Windows operating system and suite of Office products."Google became the cool email place and Hotmail became Compuserve," Mann said, a reference to the stuffy internet service provider that cornered the early US commercial internet. "You knew if you had a Compuserve address you were not cool and Hotmail was threatening to go in that direction."Since the mid-noughties, Microsoft has steered Hotmail through a series of rebranding exercises: from Windows Live Hotmail in 2005, to include Windows Live Web Messenger in 2007, and other feature updates as recently as early 2012.The changes proved to be superficial, and Hotmail began to stagnate as rivals gained ground and younger users devoted more time to social networking.Despite all that, according to the web metrics firm comScore, Hotmail is still the busiest webmail site in terms of internet traffic. In June 2012, Hotmail had 324 million monthly visitors, compared with 290 million at Yahoo Mail and 278 million at Google's Gmail.It is significant, though, that Hotmail is the only one of those three to see traffic fall year on year, down 4% on June 2011, compared with a 17% boost at Gmail and a 2% rise at Yahoo Mail.In the UK, Hotmail still has twice as many users as Gmail, which became the dominant email provider in the US midway through 2010."Hotmail still ranks as the number one email service in the world, despite seeing strong competition from Gmail and Yahoo Mail, and is used by more than one in five of all global internet users," said Mike Shaw, director of marketing solutions at comScore."Almost 40% of all users who visit any Microsoft site use Hotmail, and it is still one of their most popular services, even in spite of the small decline over the past year."He said that Hotmail had been an undoubted success for Microsoft, which bought it from ex-Apple employees Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith for a reported $400m in 1997.But what matters now is whether Hotmail's successor, the already available Outlook.com, reverses its decline in fortunes. The service will be fully integrated with Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Skype so users will rarely have to leave their Outlook inbox.And, more importantly, Outlook users will be able to keep their Hotmail addresses. For now.
It was the internet mainstay that helped take email mainstream in the late 1990s, but now Microsoft has ditched Hotmail after 16 years, relaunching the service in favour of the revamped Outlook.com.Microsoft said its new service, available to preview at Outlook.com, would reimagine the way people use email and be the first major improvement in eight years.Although it still claims 350 million users worldwide, Hotmail has been usurped as the leading email provider since Google launched Gmail in 2007. Google claims to have signed up 425 million users in the past five years.According to the web metrics firm ComScore, Hotmail still boasts more traffic than any of its rivals. In June 2012, Hotmail had 324 million monthly visitors, compared to 290 million at Yahoo mail and 278 million at Google's Gmail.However, Hotmail users will be invited to transfer their accounts to the Outlook.com portal. The relaunch is part of a wider overhaul of Microsoft's widely-used software products, including its Windows operating system and Office services.Microsoft said Outlook.com would offer a less-obtrusive email experience, with fewer display ads and new connections to social networks including Facebook and Twitter.Users will be able to see status updates from friends and followers on Facebook and Twitter with a new feature on the revamped email site."We think the time is right to reimagine email. So today, we're introducing a preview of Outlook.com," said Chris Jones, Microsoft's corporate vice president of Windows Live."We realised that we needed to take a bold step, break from the past and build you a brand new service from the ground up."The demise of Hotmail brings to an end one of the earliest great brands of the consumer internet.Microsoft bought Hotmail from the entrepreneurs Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith for a reported a $400m in 1997 – a full decade before Google arrived on the email scene.Hotmail quickly became known as the younger person's email service as it was allied with Micrsoft's instant-messaging platform, MSN Messenger.After its initial success Hotmail faced intense rivalry in the US and Europe, first from email services from the likes of Yahoo and AOL, and more recently Google, with bigger storage capacity and tidier interfaces.In the fast-growing Russian and Chinese internet markets, Microsoft has been outstripped by dominant local players such as Mail.ru and Yandex Mail.
Zynga is in trouble; at least, that's what the markets tell us. The dominant western force in social gaming, the company that brought us the all-conquering agricultural sim Farmville and its many spin-offs, has just delivered second quarter financial results thatfell far short of analyst expectations.The result: an almost 40% drop in share value, and many leering, gleeful predictions of disaster and decline. For its own part, Zynga has come out and attacked Facebook, which still houses most of the software developer's key games. John Schappert, the company's chief operating officer,claimed to analyststhat changes to the social network favoured newer titles, leading to a drop in user engagement for legacy brands such as Zynga's Ville titles. Others argue that the Facebook gaming fad is losing traction, with playersswarming to mobile.At the centre of the maelstrom is Zynga's compellingly contradictory founder and chief executive, Mark Pincus. This 46-year-old Harvard MBA graduate is a serial entrepreneur in the Silicon Valley tradition, launching a string of digital start-ups from early web service FreeLoader to formative social network, Tribe.net.He would also like us to see him as a keen gamer, in both the classical and digital senses. When he gave a speech to introduce the Zynga Unleashed press event in June, he spoke about his childhood in which regular and viciously competitive family charades sessions would often terrify guests with their intensity. Later, at high school, his friends wrote the message "Anyone want to play Atari?" under his yearbook photo because he was obsessed with console games.He claims, however, to have fallen out of love with the medium in the 90s when the emphasis turned to single-player adventures and anonymous online competitions. He liked the social element, he liked playing with friends. Besides, he was too busy launching businesses.And eventually, that's where Zynga came in.Formed in 2007, and originally housed in an old potato crisp factory in an industrial quarter of San Francisco, Zynga was one of the first developers to understand the commercial possibilities of Facebook. With less than 30 staff and a handful of venture capital investors and partners, Pincus started working on very basic casual titles that could run within the social network; a poker game and versions of classics such as Boggle and Risk.At the time, there were plenty of other developers doing the same sort of thing, but Zynga understood better than most of its rivals the importance of social connectivity within this environment. Its titles allowed players to invite their friends into competitions, and to meet up and chat online.Plus, Pincus built in an ad model that encouraged its users to visit advertiser sites by offering in-game currencies as a sweetener. In short, Zynga perfectly combined three potent driving forces: casual gaming, social networking and online advertising. Business boomed."There were two reasons I'd never pursued gaming before," confirms Pincus when we meet on the day of Unleashed. "One was that I'd assumed it was done – kind of like search in 1999. Before Google, everyone thought that search was finished, it was a mature business. And in 2007, web gaming was mature – the download business wasn't growing. The second reason was, the product experience of gaming, from consoles to web, wasn't anything that appealed to me."But then, along came Facebook and Pincus had a revelation – he started to think about games in a mainstream social context again. It all clicked. "Things came perfectly together," he says. "I had a career interest in creating branded consumer internet services that would matter in people's lives."I got involved early on in social media – I created one of the first social networks – and for me, social gaming was a natural evolution of that. People were hanging out in these places, and just like at cocktail parties, they needed something to do together. I thought, 'how can we fit games into someone's life?'"We came at it with, initially, very basic games that we all know and love. We put the social and the casual games together and all of a sudden it made sense. I think we live in a unique time – the verbs that make up our online and mobile lives haven't been completely invented or imagined for us. That was kind of a life path I was on."Does he think it took someone outside of the traditional games industry to see this potential? "I don't know," he shrugs. "But that's how it happened. There were other players that were doing games when I started, but they were treating Facebook and eventually smartphones as a marketing channel, they weren't building experiences that were organic to these platforms. We were approaching it as social media from the get-go, and we started everything from scratch with a dedicated focus – for other companies, this was just another business line."Also, our approach was so different from the traditional games industry's in terms of how we made games. We wanted to build as we went, we wanted to leverage analytics. Your engineering days are like shots on goal – they're finite, and we use data and analytics to inform our feature and design choices so we don't over-build something before we know that people want it. We built only 20% of each game before we launched and the rest afterwards, while the traditional approach was build 100% and rely on staff who had world-class instincts and intuition. We didn't have those people – we had to take a different approach."In July 2008, Zynga raised $29m in funding and bought YoVille, a cute, moderately successful virtual world app for Facebook with 150,000 daily users – it would be the beginning of the company's defining brand. From here, Pincus and his team developed their concept of simple socially connected construction games, which would allow players to design and improve their own custom environments through the collection of experience points or more immediately via "in app" purchase of new objects.A year after the YoVille acquisition, Zynga launched FarmVille, its defining title. From the outset it cleverly combined sweet visuals, compulsive activity loops, and regular XP and virtual cash rewards, but the company just kept iterating and iterating until the dynamics of play and progression were perfectly tuned. Critics called it a glorified skinner box, a compulsive trap of clicks and rewards, but fans loved creating and sharing their farms. By January 2010, the game had 70 million monthly users.And yet, as Zynga's detractors are only too eager to point out, the developer wasn't the only operator in this sector. FarmVille was highly reminiscent of, among others, SlashKey's Farm Town, another visually quaint casual farming game released earlier in 2009. This would be the beginning of the developer's reputation as a serial plagiarist, happy to benefit from the innovation of other studios in order to boost its portfolio. Perhaps not surprisingly, Pincus sees the early success of Zynga differently."I think you're defined as a company by what you choose to do and what you choose not to do," he says. "At every juncture, we've doubled down on social – our fundamental belief is, our games have to be fun, but theyreallyhave to be social. The unique sauce in what we do is that we hope our experiences are always the most social versions. I believe that matters more than if we have the best art or best design."But even in itself, this is a controversial viewpoint. FarmVille is social in that players can share their achievements with friends, but the interactions are basic and are mostly about building and reaffirming the user-base. It's social engagement as viral marketing. Isn't that right? Pincus pauses, then comes at it from a different angle. "You have to let people have differentiated relationships," he says. "If I visit your farm, are there things that I can do with you andforyou that are unique to our relationship? It can't all be about many-to-many relationships".I'm not sure what he means, so he explains further. "At one end of the spectrum, maybe a friend comes over and helps you move, or picks you up at the airport – and that's very differentiated because they've given you a lot of time, in an altruistic way. At the other end of the spectrum is somebody including you on an e-invite to a party with 300 other people. Being on that invite will make you feel like more of a friend than if you weren't invited, but you don't feel differentiated. As people, there's an amount of attention that we offer, an amount of thoughtfulness, and games are trying to create this other canvas for you to do that."And then it becomes clear. He's talking about the exploitation, not of wide-scale social networks, but of individual relationships. FarmVille and its successors offer a huge range of virtual goods, from essential equipment to purely decorative items, and in sharing these, players are saying to their friends, I know you and I know your tastes. Zynga is positioning itself through its games as a conduit for rich interpersonal activity.Pincus's use of language in this respect is fascinating – especially in relation to the company's hugely successful Pictionary-style title, Draw Something. "The more you express yourself through a game, the more I get to know you," he says. "If you draw a picture, that's a lot of self-expression, you're kinda vulnerable – these are all vectors in the way we get to know each other and change our relationship status."This is the Facebook mindset, the Mark Zuckerberg mindset – that relationships are a commodity as rigidly definable as any other other business facet. The question facing Zynga is whether it's a commodity that the company can still rely on when the focus shifts from Facebook to mobile.•Mark Pincus interview: part two
A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today:Now TV UKFollowing its debut on Android, Sky has launched an iOS version of its new Now TV internet TV service. Subscribers can register for a Sky Movies Pass for £15 a month to choose from a catalogue of films, or "Pay &amp; Play" on the Now TV website for films individually, before watching them on the devices.iPhone / iPadAnimate ItThere are a number of stop-motion animation apps for iOS, but this one has clout: it's the work of Aardman Animations Studios. It aims to be an easy way to create animations using features like time lapse and onion skinning, before exporting the results.iPhone / iPadMy GPS UK &amp; ROIThe team behind navigation app Navfree has a new iPhone app: My GPS. It costs 69p (although some features are then offered as in-app purchases), and uses a new graphics engine and OpenStreetMap data.iPhoneWeather HD 2The original Weather HD app has more than 5m users according to its developer Vimov. A good base for this sequel, which includes animations, 3D weather maps, push-notified severe weather alerts and more than 2m locations around the world covered.iPhone / iPadMitt's VPWell, this is interesting: US presidential candidate Mitt Romney hasn't yet chosen his vice-presidential running mate, but when he does, he'll announce it in an app. "There's no telling when Mitt will choose his VP. But when he does, be the first to find out with Mitt's VP app," explains the blurb for Mitt's VP.Android / iPhoneBreaking Bad: G.F.Y.This US-only app is for fans of TV show Breaking Bad, based on "the twist that no one was expecting" in the final episode of season four. This app involves mapping your own face onto the Gus Fring character to re-enact the "Face Off" scene from that episode.iPhoneKnock Knock 1/Knock Knock 2Two apps here, both cut from the same cloth. That cloth being voice-activated knock knock jokes: a series of cartoon doors that get children to speak to them while telling the jokes. They're the work of Disney animator Dan Lund, and a "who's who of voice talent" from Hollywood.iPhone / iPadLondon GuideReleased by Spotted by Locals, this is a travel app for tourists in London providing tips from the natives on where to go and what to do. It's free, but uses an in-app purchase to upgrade to the full version. And this is just one ofmany Spotted by Locals appsto have just gone live on Android, for various cities.AndroidSlotSpotFacebook casino game SlotSpot has been launched for iPhone – the latest social game to make such a leap from Facebook to smartphones. It's a slot-machine game using in-app purchases for virtual coins, although note, your winnings are equally virtual.iPhoneLive365 Radio for iPadOnline radio service Live365 has a brand new iPad app, offering thousands of streaming radio stations across more than 250 genres of music, with an interface revamped for the larger tablet screen.iPadSeatGuru by TripAdvisorTripAdvisor's SeatGuru app has flown onto Android, helping people pick seats on planes and search for low airfares. It takes data from nearly 100 airlines, and includes more than 45,000 passenger reviews.AndroidiBlast Moki 2iOS hit game iBlast Moki 2 is the latest to make the jump to Android, offering 90 levels of physics puzzles, and an editor for players to create their own levels too.AndroidInapubInapub is a handy app for finding, yes, pubs. It has more than 30,000 UK hostelries in its database, tagged with features like sunday lunch, car park and child-friendly. Social features are included, as are vouchers for pubs supporting them, and the app uses augmented reality for an "On The Horizon" feature to find nearby pubs.Android
On this edition of Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, we hear from Guardian telecommunications correspondentJuliette Garsideon the House of Lords report into the UK's broadband infrastructure.  Juliette discusses why the present network is creating a monopoly in the industry and potentially blocking private investment in broadband.Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthurlooks at the growth in bandwidth and data management services when he meets one of the team behind the Snappli app, Eldar Tuvi.And Guardian games correspondentKeith Stuartreports from the Casual Connect Conference in Seattle, where he meets Sulake chief executive Paul LaFontaine to discuss recent problems with the company's Habbo Hotel social network and why guarding users from inappropriate communications and content is an industry wide problem.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Halfway through the working week, and let's hope you're powering along like a suspiciously fast Olympian swimmer. Anyway gaming fun so far?
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOur approach to Trust &amp; Safety and private information &gt;&gt; Twitter BlogA big moment for Twitter:That said, we want to apologize for the part of this story that we did mess up. The team working closely with NBC around our Olympics partnership did proactively identify a Tweet that was in violation of the Twitter Rules and encouraged them to file a support ticket with our Trust and Safety team to report the violation, as has now been reported publicly. Our Trust and Safety team did not know that part of the story and acted on the report as they would any other. As I stated earlier, we do not proactively report or remove content on behalf of other users no matter who they are. This behavior is not acceptable and undermines the trust our users have in us. We should not and cannot be in the business of proactively monitoring and flagging content, no matter who the user is -- whether a business partner, celebrity or friend. As of earlier today, the account has been unsuspended, and we will actively work to ensure this does not happen again.Apple and Samsung slowly select Silicon Valley jury &gt;&gt; FTGood stuff from Tim Bradshaw in San Francisco:Among the candidates knocked out during jury selection was a man who currently works at Google on its Android design team - despite his ownership of several Apple gadgets and Judge Koh arguing that he had been "very credible" in his insistence that he would remain unbiased about his employer. Another man was a former Motorola employee, the smartphone maker now owned by Google.Samsung Release Excluded iPhone Evidence in Apple Patent Case &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSamsung:The Judge's exclusion of evidence on independent creation meant that even though Apple was allowed to inaccurately argue to the jury that the F700 was an iPhone copy, Samsung was not allowed to tell the jury the full story and show the pre-iPhone design for that and other phones that were in development at Samsung in 2006, before the iPhone. The excluded evidence would have established beyond doubt that Samsung did not copy the iPhone design. Fundamental fairness requires that the jury decide the case based on all the evidence.Microsoft Launches Outlook.com, an Email Revamp &gt;&gt; The Next WebLengthy review/analysis of MSOFT's latest webmail ploy. How long until Yammer is submerged into Outlook.com?UBS to sue Nasdaq over Facebook flotation &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukThe Swiss bank UBS lost SFr349m (£240m) on the flotation of Facebook and is suing the US hi-tech stock market Nasdaq for "gross mishandling" of the share sale.First insider trading lawsuit filed against Zynga after executives cash out &gt;&gt; The VergeThis is not going to be pretty. Chief executive Mark Pincus sold about 15% of his total holdings in April, and other senior executives sold much bigger chunks.As Expected, Ross Levinsohn Departs Yahoo &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIt was on the cards. We wonder what Levinsohn will do next. Anyone hiring?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Samsung deliberately chose to duplicate Apple's iPhone because "it was easier to copy than to innovate," a lawyer for the Silicon Valley giant told a jury Tuesday.The claim came in Apple's opening statements in a California trial that pits Apple against Samsung in a high-stakes battle for the future of the smartphone market.Apple attorney Harold McElhinny said the company had taken a big risk with the iPhone, entering a market dominated by giant mobile phone manufacturers. Apple had created a phone that "the world had never seen before," he said.McElhinny presented slides that featured old Samsung phones from 2006 and compared it to the Korean company's newer smartphones from 2010. McElhinny showed jurors an internal Samsung document that said the company was facing a "crisis of design" following the launch of the iPhone. In another document, a Samsung executive described the iPhone as "easy to copy".Apple is suing the South Korean electronics giant for $2.5bn, asserting in a suit filed last year that Samsung made "a deliberate decision to copy" the iPhone and iPad, infringing technology patents. Samsung is now the world's largest smartphone manufacturer.Samsung's lawyer Charlie Verhoeven told jurors: "We're not standing here telling you ladies and gentleman of the jury that the iPhone wasn't commercially successful. It was an inspiring product to everyone, including the competition."But he said being inspired by a product and seeking to make better products "is competition.""It's not copying," he said. Verhoeven said Samsung had supplied key components for Apple's devices and that it, too, was an innovator."Evidence is going to show that Apple didn't invent the rectangular shaped form factor. Apple didn't invent having a touch screen," Verhoeven said.After jury selection Monday the complex, four week trial began with an 18-minute video introduction to patent law. Judge Lucy Koh explained the difference between a design patent and an utility patent – a design patents covers how something looks, whereas a utility patent covers how it works.Apple wants to make permanent a preliminary ban on the sale of Samsung tablets in the US sales and extend that ban to Samsung's smartphones.Samsung has accused Apple of using patents to "stifle legitimate competition and limit consumer choice to maintain its historically exorbitant profits." It is also counter-suing Apple, claiming Apple infringed its own patents. Samsung is demanding royalties, too.Intellectual property attorney Manotti Jenkins of Valorem Law Group said: "A patent case of this magnitude has the possibility of impacting phone technology for years to come."Jenkins said he expected more litigation of this type as companies continue to use the courts to protect and expand market share.In the second quarter of 2012, Samsung accounted for 32.6% of global smartphone shipments, up from 29% in the quarter ending in March, according to the research firm IDC.Apple's share fell to 16.9% from 23% over the same period.
Most of us will be repulsed by the Twitter message sent to Tom Daley, but we should be more disturbed by the police arrest of the culprit (Teenager arrested over malicious tweets sent to Tom Daley, 31 July). We are seeing an ongoing campaign against social media, with high-profile arrests of anyone sending malicious communications, making offensive comments or seeming to promote violent behaviour, even if (as is the case with the Facebook riots or airport Twitter case)no violence occurred. While this clampdown appears defensible, it rests on a legal basis that is not being applied to the mainstream media.Numerous stories in the daily press seem malicious or promoting aggression towards particular groups, individuals or countries, yet few journalists are being arrested that same morning. The Sun even launched a campaign against internet trolls, despite having trolled popular and political culture and the lives of any individual it chose to target for decades. The actions of many social media users may be offensive but have little effect and are typically policed by their peers. Ultimately they raise important issues about free speech and censorship, while showing up a political and media culture that has always relied on easily controllable, top-down modes of broadcasting. Individuals can now communicate with each other and broadcast opinions back to the world which won't always be informed or agreeable, but that chaos is far preferable to the hunting down of individuals who don't have the support of corporate lawyers, media moguls and prime ministers.William MerrinLecturer in media studies, Swansea&nbsp;University• If you can be arrested for insulting someone on Twitter, why not arrest those who insult verbally? Soon we won't be able to have an argument without the law interfering.Arthur GouldLoughborough• Premier League footballers, be very careful (Ferdinand faces ban after FA charge over 'choc ice' tweet, 31 July). Fatty is getting very upset and Ginger has taken his ball home. As for Four-eyes, he says he'll never play with Spotty again.Les AllenPenrith, Cumbria
Twitter on Tuesday reinstated the account of a British journalist it suspended for publishing the email address of an executive at NBC, which had been attracting a significant amount of incoming fire over its Olympics coverage.The incident has not done Guy Adams of the Independent much harm. Apart perhaps from a little hurt pride, he has returned to the twittersphere with tens of thousands of new followers.For NBC, it was another blow to its already battered reputation over its coverage of the London Olympic Games.But Twitter found itself in a deeply unfamiliar situation: as the subject of one of the firestorms of indignation that characterises the platform, but which are usually directed at others.As the dust settled on Wednesday, both organisations sought to extricate themselves from the mess with as much dignity as possible. Twitter acknowledged it had flunked the situation by actively reporting the offending tweet to NBC, with which it had been working in partnership for the Olympics. Alex McGillivray, its general counsel, saidin a blog post:We want to apologize for the part of this story that we did mess up. The team working closely with NBC around our Olympics partnership did proactively identify a Tweet that was in violation of the Twitter Rules and encouraged them to file a support ticket with our Trust and Safety team to report the violation, as has now been reported publicly. Our Trust and Safety team did not know that part of the story and acted on the report as they would any other.As I stated earlier, we do not proactively report or remove content on behalf of other users no matter who they are. This behavior is not acceptable and undermines the trust our users have in us. We should not and cannot be in the business of proactively monitoring and flagging content, no matter who the user is – whether a business partner, celebrity or friend.NBC, meanwhile, acknowledged that things had got out of hand. A spokesman told theWall Street Journal:Our interest was in protecting our executive, not suspending the user from Twitter. We didn't initially understand the repercussions of our complaint, but now that we do, we have rescinded it.The whole affair serves to remind us that Twitter has come a long way in the past few years.Back in the olden days of 2010, Twitter was the host of another global conversation around a worldwide sporting event: the World Cup. People from 172 countries tweeted in 27 different languages, and the activity sent a new record for buzz on Twitter: 3,051 tweets per second.This was all before a handful of redesigns that helped propel Twitter to new heights. But most significantly, it was all before Twitter added analytics, multimedia capabilities and expanded tweets – the kind of things a company would want to provide in order to gather massive amounts of user information.Now, just a short two years later, Twitter has partnered with NBC for the London 2012 Olympics. The link-up has not gone as well as it might have hoped: its users slammed its newly minted partner forwithholding live coverageof some events from American viewers, showcasingculturally tone-deaf journalistsfiling the complaint that sent Adams to Twitter suspension purgatory for publishing the email address of the NBC executive in charge of the coverage. (Twitter's terms of service ban the publication of "private" email addresses; there's some debate about how private a corporate email address at one of the world's biggest media companies can be.)Worse still, it wasallegedly a Twitter employeewho alerted NBC to the offending tweet.Much has changed since the World Cup. Along the road to London 2012, there were elections, natural disasters and Occupy Wall Street, all events that gave Twitter a sterling reputation as a bastion for free speech and a safe place for people to bash public figures and each other in the semi-anonymous privacy of their homes. And as we were rallying against whatever we wanted, Twitter quietly tweaked its terms of service as the din grew louder – the last revision was in June ago.For gathering real-time information, you'd be hard-pressed to find a more valuable tool. But this is a good time to remind ourselves that Twitter is a private company, complete with amassive set of guidelinesabout how its product is used.Tweeting the email address of a corporate exec who only just spoke on the record about NBC's potential for "enormous contribution to this conversation" on Twitter can be ruled as an abuse worthy of suspension. For a short time, Adams could count himself among the ranks of alleged slandererCourtney Loveand hack-happyAnonymousbefore having his account restored on Tuesday afternoon.Like Facebook or Google, other platforms popularly under the microscope for their evolving (or devolving, depending how you look at it) privacy and use policies, Twitter also has to figure out how to both leverage the flow of free information – and maybe even make some money of of it.And so it forges partnerships with corporate television networks. And it becomes cagey about sharing our pictures, our words and our activities with other hugely popular platforms – for instance, it'll be interesting to see what comes of its recentbreakdown in communication with Instagram, a service in the business of sharing pictures. Sort of like Twitter.Twitter is an invaluable tool, but what it's not is a flag-waving, torch-bearing warrior for free speech – Twitter likes to say that the tweets must flow, but reallythat just means most of them.Twitter will defend users if it's a question of having to set a new, uncomfortable precedent for giving up data – legal battles waged on behalf ofWikiLeaksandOccupy protestersprove this – but protecting itself when an unwieldy conversation about a network partner swings right out of its grasp is another thing entirely.Since 2010, the company's reach has skyrocketed, and many users have assumed that Twitter is a platform where speech of all types is protected, and that information of all sorts is freely circulated. It took an odd circumstance to remind us that it isn't.In the end, NBC's big hopes for "enormous contribution" to the Olympics conversation out of a partnership with Twitter came true. The problem – and a rookie mistake, really – was their joined hope to control it.
It started as a place on the internet where celebrities and sports stars could share amiable updates with their fans across the globe.Now some well-known personalities are quitting Twitter after becoming the target of abusive messages from anonymous internet trolls.Themessages directed at Tom Daleyshortly after his Olympics disappointment on Monday are the latest example of cyberbullies taking aim on Twitter.Several Team GB athletes competing at the London 2012 games have found themselves targeted by a small but aggressive minority on the social network.The 18-year-old weightlifting star Zoe Smith "stuck two fingers up" to her internet critics on Monday when she lifted a British record-breaking 121kg. Smith hadearlier confronted one Twitter userwho said women weightlifters are "probably all lesbians and look like blokes".Smith said: "I love using Twitter. I am pretty much known as the athlete who sits there and pretty much tweets in between her clean and jerk. Some people just abuse it... Just because, at the moment perhaps while we are competing they think we are public figures, they think they can stay as faceless people who would say these things."She is not alone. The swimmer Rebecca Adlington, who won bronze in the women's 400m freestyle final on Sunday, hasspoken outabout being taunted on Twitter – and not just by the comedian Frankie Boyle. A series of footballers, such as the England international Micah Richards and Manchester United's Darron Gibson, have also ditched the social network after being abused.A cursory look at the deluge of tweets sent to Team GB stars shows that the vast majority are supportive. But it only takes one nasty message to distract from the rest.Louis Smith, Britain's bronze-winning gymnast, has chosen to avoid the site before he competes. "There are just tweets that you do not want to see," he said. "It is just that one message. You can get 100 nice ones but there is that one message that you do not want to see – so that is why I took the decision to stop tweeting."Unlike Facebook, Twitter quickly became known as the place where celebrity users such as Stephen Fry and Ashton Kutcher could mingle with the masses, unobstructed by PR handlers or marketing supremos.This intimacy is no doubt what attracts millions of people to the site each day. Where else could they learn of Usain Bolt's dedication to chicken nuggets?The number of Twitter users has grown exponentially since the Beijing Olympics in 2008: from 2 million registered users to more than 140 million active users today.Twitter said it does not actively monitor tweets on its network. Legally, that absolves the company of responsibility for libellous or inflammatory material. But it is also the only answer to a problem caused by 400m tweets each day – up from around 1m a day in 2008.Twitter has become an indispensable part of the Olympics, as internet-addicted fans and athletes alike use the site to trade pithy updates. And for some, that addiction is causing problems of its own.The Australian swimmer Emily Seebohmconfessed that her use of Twitter might have played a partin narrowly missing the gold medal in the 100m backstroke final earlier this week.For better or worse, Twitter has already made its mark on the London Olympic Games.
Thearrest of a teenager by police investigating abuse of Olympic diving star Tom Daley on Twitterhas led to calls for a new initiative educating the public about the ease with which a tweet can end with a jail sentence.Atalie Matthews, an associate at Bindmans, a law firm specialising in human rights law, said mobile phone companies should provide advice to schools and shops and make children and adults aware of the serious consequences that can flow from sending abusive messages, including jail sentences and hefty fines."I think mobile phone companies should give out more advice when people buy phones, because let's face it, most children live online these days. These companies make unbelievable amounts of money and they should take the initiative and help educate everyone," she said.Matthews added that the onus should be on Vodafone, O2 and others to put notices up in shops and have information leaflets in phone packs about what is legal and what is illegal to say in a tweet."Sadly this is a growth area. Twitter just seems to bring out the worst in people, but people need to know, abuse is not a sanctionless act. You will be traced by police and you will be prosecuted," she said.Over the last six months there have been half a dozen cases involving the police investigating Twitter messages, one of which led to a student being jailed after he posted offensive and racist comments following footballer Fabrice Muamba's on-pitch collapse. Liam Stacey served half of his 56 day sentence and was also told not to return to Swansea University's campus.Joshua Cryer, another student, was also convicted after posting a series of racist tweets aimed at footballer Stan Collymore. The judge determined they fell into the category of "grossly offensive" and sentenced him to a two-year community order.He was found to be in breach of section 127 of the Communications Act, 2003, which is now being seen as a catch-all for all internet commentary.It prohibits messages or other matter sent by means of "public electronic communications network" that are of a "grossly offensive or of an indecent, obscene or menacing character".It was this act that snared Paul Chambers, the subject of the celebrated "Twitter joke trial", who was last week cleared of sending a message of "menacing character" when he joked that he would blow up an airport.David Allen Green, head of media at David Preiskel &amp; Co, who represented Chambers, is far from complacent,  despite the initial conviction and fine being overturned by a higher court last week."Twitter users are subject to the general law of the land and there is no social media exemption," he said.Offences may also be committed under the Malicious Communications Act of 1988, which was originally designed to combat "poison pen" letters,  and the Public Order Act 1986, which covers offences committed on a mobile phone while on the street, according to lawyers. The Protection from Harassment Act 1997 could also be invoked after just two abusive messages.Dr Evan Harris, the former Liberal Democrat MP, who successfully campaigned to have the Blasphemy Act abolished and has been subject to his own fair share of trolling, said that the public and Twitter have responsibilities too."It's not necessarily in the public interest to prosecute every case of a tweet that contains an ingredient that may breach the Malicious Communications Act. What we don't want is to get people in the habit of going to the police for something that is a non-credible threat like Paul Chambers' tweet," Harris added.He said the onus is on Twitter users to block followers, not to retweeet abuse and report offences. But, he added, this has to be coupled with Twitter improving its reporting systems. "They should remove people who are racist and abusive... It is in Twitter's interests not to have the police involved," he said.
It will make uncomfortable reading for ministers, but the House of Lords report on the national strategy to speed up and extend Britain's broadband network should be taken very seriously.If implemented, the practical suggestions it offers could unleash a wave of new money to help the many remote communities desperate to come online do so more quickly and in greater numbers than is likely under current plans.Broadband for all – an alternative visionis the result of a six month inquiry by the Lords communications committee which took in evidence from regulators, technicians and companies ranging from BT to tiny community projects such as Great Asby Broadband in Cumbria.And the conclusion is that the government is not being bold enough. The current target of getting speeds of 24Mbps to 90% of the country by 2015 or 2017 – the deadline date is unclear – may assure more bandwidth than most households need today.But the rate at which the internet has evolved in the past, with demand doubling every year or two, suggests the average home will need two or three times that speed come 2020.To deliver ever faster connections, the Lords committee has concluded that different technologies will be needed than the ones currently being paid for by the government and installed by BT. And it is worried about the final 10% of homes, the hardest to reach in the UK.It is far from certain that the government will achieve its target of giving these rural locations a minimum of 2Mbps. And that minimum only just meets the needs of the average household today.It will not be enough by 2015 for home workers, or for families raising teenagers doing their homework, watching video and calling friends on Skype.The 2Mbps figure was chosen because it is the minimum needed to deliver internet TV, but that is already changing. TalkTalk's budget YouView internet TV service, launched towards the end of July, will require a minimum 3Mbps connection.Despite an elaborate bidding process, which at one point involved nine separate companies, it currently looks as if only BT will emerge victorious in the competition to grab a share of the £530m of government funds earmarked for rural broadband.Even with government help, BT is not guaranteed to reach everyone. An alternative is needed.Under the current rules, communities can build their own broadband networks, but they have to hand ownership to BT if they want to be able to plug into its exchanges. This is obviously a major disincentive to private investment.With the system of "fibre hubs" being proposed by the Lords, communities could build and own their own network, and plug them into BT's at a set price using standard technology. Under such a system, smaller companies could offer to build local networks around the country, creating economies of scale.This would, of course, see BT lose its monopoly control of the connection from telephone exchange to household in many rural areas. Is this something ministers should worry about?BT has promised to match every pound invested by the government with its own money, and spend £2.5bn rolling out fibre to the easiest to reach two thirds of the UK without subsidy. This is a big commitment, and one BT might pull back from if the competitive landscape changes.BT is working fast. It has already upgraded 11m of the UK's 26m homes with fibre to the street cabinet. But under current plans, for years to come, much of its broadband network will still rely on old copper wires to carry the signal from the cabinet to the home.Copper often fails in poor weather, leaving rural users without service for hours at a time. It also slows speeds down. And it cannot carry signals over a long distance, leaving remote homes relying on basic dial-up internet.The reality is that we will eventually need to replace every copper wire with fibre,a process that one research firm says could cost as much as £30bn. BT cannot be expected to foot the bill alone, but this fact should not halt progress.Other money needs to be found, and the fibre hubs proposed by the Lords communications committee are a pragmatic way of attracting new investment.The government should respond to the committee's call for it to study the cost of building these hubs, and ask those companies receiving public money to build them.The importance of the internet to the UK's economy cannot be understated. It alreadygenerates a greater proportion of GDP. The national broadband strategy should give the UK the network it needs.
Millions of pounds in public funds are being spent building a UK broadband network that will not be fast enough to deal with the internet needs of the future and may have to be replaced, the House of Lords has warned.The government's internet strategy and the way it is awarding £530m of public funds to extend connections to rural communities have been criticised as flawed and liable to widen the digital divide by the Lords communication committee, which on Tuesday published the findings of its six-month inquiry into the state of the nation's broadband infrastructure."The spectre of a widening digital divide is a profound source of concern which requires the government to address its origin with greater vigour than we believe is currently the case," the committee said in its report.Urging ministers to set out an even bolder vision for broadband policy than is currently the case, the committee said that BT was the only company likely to end up winning the public funds being awarded via the BDUK process to develop rural broadband, and that it was designing a network that would stifle competition and not be future proof.The report said: "[BT] is planning to use this public funding to invest in … technologies which may meet the speed targets set by the government, but which looking beyond 2015 are both relatively constrained and liable to necessitate an expensive phase of upgrade, if not outright replacement in the future."It suggests instead that the government should look at the cost of creating a national network of "fibre hubs", essentially boxes placed within every town and village which are connected by fibre to the wider internet.These hubs would allow the many local broadband networks being created by rural communities around the UK to plug into BT's pipes, at a set price and with a standard interface.The community networks could then use fibre, or wireless technologies for particularly remote houses, and would be owned by the companies that install them, introducing greater competition and more investment from the private sector in Britain's broadband network.These hubs would, according to the committee, bring better connections more quickly than BT could manage on its own.As things currently stand, the Lords committee claimed that government subsidy was being used to fund a new world in which there might be less competition than there was over copper – reinforcing BT's market power.According to the report, the UK should be laying the groundwork for a day when each home is connected to the internet via its own fibre line, just as each home currently has a copper wire all the way to the exchange.Fibre is capable of carrying many hundreds of times the amount of information that copper can, and "point to point" fibre is considered by many experts as the only future proof solution.The consumer broadband explosion was made possible after BT agreed to let other companies such as TalkTalk or BSkyB "unbundle" its copper and take over individual lines by installing their own equipment in its exchanges.This allowed them to make a bigger profit and differentiate their services – for example, by offering tiers of speeds.BT's fibre network cannot be unbundled because it runs fibres from the exchange to the street cabinet. It then relies on copper wires to take the signal the rest of the way, or where fibre is used a new line runs to the premises.A BT spokesman said: "A shared network is essential if the maximum number of homes are to be reached with fibre. That's because it maximises your bang for your buck."Point to point fibre may be the preferred option of some, but it would require the taxpayer to foot the associated £28bn bill, something that isn't going to happen in the real world. Every internet service provider can access BT's network on equal terms so none of them will have a competitive advantage."The committee was also critical of the national speed targets, which are for every home to have access to a minimum of 2Mbps and 90% of the country to have 24Mbps by 2015.The report calls on the government to drop these targets, and take a view of what will be required at least 10 years ahead, saying that based on past experience by 2020, those who currently get by on 2Mbps could need as many as 64Mbps.Speed targets are inherently divisive, according to the report, because "communities who would enjoy the greatest uplift in their quality of life from enhanced broadband provision are precisely those likely, on such a policy, to find that it still lies beyond their reach, maintaining if not widening the digital divide".The report said: "What is important is the long-term assurance that as new internet applications emerge, everyone will be able to benefit – from inhabitants of inner cities to the remotest areas of the UK. Success to the internet should be seen as a domestic essential and regarded as a key utility."
The culture minister Ed Vaizey has said 90% of the country will have superfast broadband by 2015.The minister insisted the government was working to put the right infrastructure in place for "the vast majority of the country" by 2015 to "future-proof" the service.Those who want "really, really fast speed" would then be able to connect to a network and choose to upgrade, he said.Vaizey made his comments as a report by the House of Lords warned that the government's broadband policy had become "preoccupied" with delivering certain speeds to consumers when what was needed was a greater focus on access through a national broadband network.The Lords communications committee concluded after a wide-ranging, six-month investigation thatBritain would need a better broadband network to cope with future technologies.It raised concerns about the way Britain's network was being built, describing government strategy as "flawed" and liable to widen the digital divide between those communities with fast internet access and those living in broadband blackspots.The peers said broadband should be treated as a vital national asset, like roads, rail and energy.The report,Broadband for All – an Alternative Vision, recommends national planning for a "communications network of local, regional, national and internet exchanges where different operators can site equipment and exchange traffic, all linked by ample optical fibre that is open to use by competing providers"."The delivery of certain speeds should not be the guiding principle; what is important is the long-term assurance that as new internet applications emerge, everyone will be able to benefit, from inhabitants of inner cities to the remotest areas of the UK," it says.The Conservative Lord Inglewood, chair of the communications committee, told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "The current strategy is based around providing certain levels of speed across the country and we're not convinced at all that that is the right place to start thinking about a policy and a programme for rolling out broadband infrastructure."He added: "What we need to do is to find a system, it seems to us, that enables people to get what they want and pay accordingly."Vaizey said the UK was one of the most "digital nations in the world", with a thriving e-commerce economy in which people spent more online and used technology more.He said there was a "very competitive marketplace" in Britain in terms of laying fibre optics in people's homes in two-thirds of the country, with "government intervention" needed in the rest.Vaizey told Today that £500m had been put in place to support this, with funding from devolved governments bringing the total to around £1.2bn, plus additional funding for pockets of cities where broadband connection was poor."We have set ourselves a target that by 2015, 90% of the country will have superfast broadband," said Vaizey. "Generally speaking most people define that around the 35 megabits a second (Mbps) speed but we have said that 100% of the country should have access to 2Mbps. To put that in context, for example, if you want to watch the iPlayer on your computer you would need about 1-1.5Mbps."He said he was "happy" the target would be met.The highest speed broadband requires fibre optics in the home, but Vaizey said further improvements to broadband speed must be "demand-led".Pressed on the fact that some European countries had faster connection, Vaizey said: "I think the rest of Europe actually looks to us as leaders in this. That also includes price because there's absolutely no point in having superfast broadband coming past your door if you can't afford it. So we also want competition on price and we do have very low prices on broadband."
A selection of nine new and notable apps for you today:KBC Kids – Kid Friendly Hip Hop!One of two musical children's apps from US startup Gabuduck in today's roundup, this is based on a real-life trio called KBC who make, yes, hip-hop for kids. The app helps children to make it too, using technology from another firm ArtJam to trigger loops and samples by tapping on characters and items. Two tracks are included, with others available via in-app purchase.iPadObama for AmericaThe US Democratic party has already released an Obama 2012 campaign app, but this new iPhone app takes more of a location-based approach, helping supporters find nearby events, sign up as volunteers and register friends to vote in the upcoming presidential election. They've managed to spell America right too,which is a bonus. The app is US-only.iPhoneMiffy Goes FlyingNo, not because someone's tripped her up. How could you think such a thing... This is the second official Miffy app for iPad from Sanoma Media, following Miffy's Garden earlier in 2012. It's a combination of story and mini-games, as well as a feature for children to make their own Miffy e-cards to send to friends and family.iPadMiko and ColaGabuduck's other new app is half storybook and half music-making tool for children – again using the ArtJam technology. The story part concerns a pair of cats – Miko and Cola – as they go on their adventures. Two songs are available to play with and re-record samples.iPadWalk The TubeWorried about congestion on London's tube system during the Olympic Games? This app from PruHealth is encouraging people to walk instead, using the tube map as their guide. It tracks distance, time and steps, while recording the calories you burn. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhoneCountersNokia is keeping up a rapid pace of development on exclusive apps for its own Lumia Windows Phones, with Counters the latest. It's a useful utility for tracking calls, messaging and data, including the ability to measure it against any restrictions on your operator tariff.Windows Phone (Lumia)Iron CrusadeGet back to the 1980s with this 8-bit-referencing tank game, which offers turn-based action and the ability to destroy everything: enemies, weapons, platforms and the environment itself.AndroidZ OriginsAnd in more retro game action for Android, this is a remake of the famous Bitmap Brothers real-time strategy game Z, as you send robot soldiers into battle while managing your resources to make more.AndroidAR.Rescue 2This is apparently the first game developed for Parrot's AR.Drone 2.0 iOS-controlled copter. It's a single-player augmented reality game that involves collecting (virtual) spacecraft pieces while shooting down monsters.iPhone / iPad
Twitter is under growing pressure to explain the suspension of a British journalist after it emerged that the social network alerted NBC to his highly critical tweets of the US broadcaster's Olympic coverage.Guy Adams, the Independent's Los Angeles bureau chief, had his Twitter account suspended after he publishedthe corporate email address of the NBC executive Gary Zenkel, who is responsible for the broadcaster's coverage of the London Olympics.Adams posted a string of tweets criticising NBC for being "utter bastards" for failing to air the opening ceremony live to viewers on the West coast of the US, who had to watch it on a six hour time delay.He then took aim at Zenkel, who was appointed president of NBC Olympics in 2005, and published his corporate email address.Twitter immediately shut down Adams' account and told him it was a violation of the site's rules to post the private and confidential information of others.One of Adams' critical tweets read: "America's left coast forced to watch Olympic ceremony on SIX HOUR time delay. Disgusting money-grabbing by @NBColympics."Another said: "I have 1000 channels on my TV. Not one will be showing the Olympics opening ceremony live. Because NBC are utter, utter bastards."On Tuesday, NBC claimed that Twitter  had alerted it to Adams' tweets, not the other way round.Previously, it was reported that NBC approached Twitter and asked how to have Adams' offending tweet taken down.Christopher McCloskey, NBC's vice-president of communications,told the Telegraph in an email: "Our social media dept was actually alerted to it by Twitter and then we filled out the form and submitted it".When contacted by MediaGuardian, McCloskey said that NBC had nothing further to add to its original statement.NBC said: "We filed a complaint with Twitter because a user tweeted the personal information of one of our executives. According to Twitter, this is a violation of their privacy policy. Twitter alone levies discipline."Adams wrote in the Independent on Tuesday that his ban "raises various ethical issues relevant to journalism in the online era".A spokeswoman for Twitter declined to comment.The company has previously told the Guardian that it does not actively monitor users' accounts, and added that it was company policy not to comment on individual users.Twitter has faced criticism for the suspension, withsome influential commentators describing it as quick-triggeredand raising questions about the social network's relationship with NBC.Twitter and NBC havepartnered during the London 2012 games. The two companies joined forces to show tweets from NBC presenters, Olympics athletes and fans onto a single page on Twitter.com. No money is changing hands with the partnership,according to the Wall Street Journal.
Here is Tuesday! Anyone watch the Olympics yesterday? Well done to the British gymnasts – made me want to play Hyper Sports again...
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJonathan Ive: Apple's goal isn't to make money &gt;&gt; Wired UKIve on the artist Augustus Pugin, who rallied against mass production during the industrial revolution:"Pugin felt there was a godlessness in making things in volume. He was completely wrong. You can make one chair carelessly, thoughtlessly, that is valueless. Or you can make a phone [that will eventually go on to be mass produced] and invest so many years of care and have so many people so driven to make the very best phone way beyond any sort of functional imperative that there is incredible value."v1 preview &gt;&gt; Rethink DiggDigg unveils the first draft of its reincarnation. The top comment at the time of saving this bookmark was this:i really hate the digg bar... thanks for killing itCan't please everyone.Apple vs. Samsung: the complete guide to a billion-dollar trial &gt;&gt; The VergeThis is a keeper. (We wonder, too, whether everyone else also gets distracted by the fabulously sleek design at the Verge. That's not meant to happen, we're sure).Apple Stocks Up on Components for Fall Product Launch - John Paczkowski - News - AllThingsDHere's a big hint:According to Apple's latest 10-Q filing, prepayment for inventory components rose $1.15 billion sequentially in the June quarter. That's a big increase and one that puts such prepayments at their highest level in four years -- 12.6 percent of Apple's total sales, according to Wells Fargo Securities analyst Maynard Um.Apple iPhone 5 and iPad mini event planned for September 12, iPhone 5 release date for September 21 &gt;&gt; iMore.comAccording to iMore:The iPad mini will be announced at the same September 12 event, as will the new iPod nano. We haven't heard a release date for the iPad mini yet, but it could be the same as the iPhone 5. It seems likely the new iPod touch will make an appearance on September 12 as well, though we haven't heard any specific information about that yet either.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The switch to digital television is not yet complete, but UK households could be forced to adjust their sets again with a parliamentary inquiry now forecasting a second wave of switchover, this time from the airwaves to the internet.The government should draw up plans to have every channel, including those from the BBC, broadcast over the internet, freeing up the spectrum for other uses such as mobile phones, the House of Lords suggested on Tuesday."Eventually the case for transferring the carriage of broadcast content, including public service broadcasting, from spectrum to the internet altogether will become overwhelming," the Lords communications committee said in itsreporton internet infrastructure.The recommendation comes months after most of the country's 26m television households retuned their sets from analogue to digital, with two regions – the north-east and Northern Ireland – due to complete the process by the end of October. Digital switchover increased the number of terrestrial channels from five to 50, but the internet can transmit an unlimited amount of content, at a lower cost.However, Britain will need a better broadband network to cope with future technologies, the committee concluded after a wide-ranging, six-month investigation. It raises the alarm over the way Britain's network is being built, describing government strategy as "flawed" and liable to widen the digital divide between those communities with fast internet access and those living in broadband blackspots."If broadcast services move to be delivered via the internet," said committee chair Lord Inglewood, "then key moments in national life such as the Olympics could be inaccessible to communities lacking a better communications infrastructure."BT, TalkTalk, Sky and Virgin Media are moving rapidly to connect more television sets to the internet, so that they can offer video on demand as well as conventional TV channels.TalkTalk'sYouViewbox, unveiled last week, offers internet access to libraries of TV series and films for viewing on demand, as well as conventional channels broadcast over the internet rather than through an aerial. BT this summer spent £738m onacquiringPremier League football rights to boost its own internet TV service, BT Vision.The committee says the airwaves are better suited to mobile, and their use for TV could be considered "wasteful". It says the date for a second switchover could be some years away, but recommends that the government, regulators and the industry start planning now."People will perhaps feel fed up, but going from analogue to digital may not be the whole journey," said Inglewood. "Now we are finding we may go from digital to internet."A broadband connection could become a universal right, he said, as and when all channels including public service broadcasters such as the BBC and ITV are delivered over the web.However, services including YouView require a connection of at least 3 megabits per second. With an estimated 14% of UK homes unable to get even 2Mbps, according to telecoms watchdogOfcom, swaths of the population could be left out of the next phase of the TV revolution. Government targets promise only that everyone will be able to get 2Mbps by 2015, with 90% getting 24Mbps."The government's strategy lacks just that – strategy," said Inglewood. "The complex issues involved were not thought through from first principles and it is far from clear that the government's policy will deliver the broadband infrastructure we need – for profound social and economic reasons – for the decades to come."The government is urged to abandon its speed targets, which could widen the digital divide by reinforcing the idea of a two-speed Britain, and instead concentrate on making sure that every home is eventually connected to the internet by a fibre line all the way to the exchange.BT has been rolling out fibre at record rates, with 11m homes now connected, but the technology it is using comes in for criticism by the committee. This is because BT is only installing fibre to street cabinets, with old and weather-sensitive copper wires carrying the signal to the doorstep. Those who wish will be able to order fibre from BT all the way, but this will come at a high price."It is our contention that the government have proceeded from a flawed prospectus, that the progress being made may prove illusory," the committee warns.It also proposes to help the efforts of many communities left out of BT's fibre plans to build their own networks by proposing a series of "hubs" within reach of every village in the country. These hubs would allow any company or community to plug their local broadband network, be it fixed-line or wireless, into BT's network at a set price.These hubs would increase the amount of money from the private sector for building out broadband networks, and increase the speed of roll-out, the committee suggests.TV, but not as we know itWith a little help from companies such as Apple and Google, the internet has changed music and publishing forever, and many believe that it is only a matter of time before television goes the same way. Switching off the terrestrial broadcast signal in the UK would mark the beginning of the end of TV as we know it.For many viewers, TV has already changed. First, we have what the industry likes to call "time shifting". Digital video recorders can easily be programmed to save a whole series, so that we are just as likely to get our Downton Abbey fix a day or two after broadcast than we are to watch it live.In a growing number of households, TV is just as likely to come over the broadband connection as it is to arrive through the aerial or satellite dish. The BBC iPlayer, so successful that it has prompted some good copycat versions from the other public-service broadcasters, received requests for nearly 2bn television and radio shows in 2011. While most people still watch it on their desktop, smartphones, tablets and internet-connected TVs are generating a lot more traffic than they used to. In December, 7m BBC programmes were requested via connected TVs, an increase of 1000% on the previous year.And the choice of on-demand entertainment is set to grow. Sky, BT, Virgin Media and, as of last week, TalkTalk all now sell internet TV services bundled with a broadband connection. The TalkTalk set-top box, priced like BT's for the mass market, will offer US television series like Lost, and Hollywood films on a pay-per-view basis.Instead of buying the DVD boxed set, customers will be able to summon up and pay for a series using their remote control. Some sets now also have access to Lovefilm, the UK film rental service bought by Amazon.Eventually, televisions may have their digital video recorders and internet connections built in – no box required. The programme guide will be stored online, and the remote control will be replaced by a mobile phone running a specially designed app. In fact, many believe that Apple is developing a set along just these lines.All of this means that a new way of watching is emerging. Instead of letting the channel controller decide the time and content of our evening's entertainment, the internet is giving viewers the power to choose for themselves.On these connected screens, the traditional television channel, broadcasting one programme at a time, with a menu determined by the time of day, may no longer have a reason for being.• This article was amended on 31 July 2012. The original version wrongly suggested the switchover to digital television in the UK was complete.
