It's not a surprise, given the lack of new versions of Microsoft Money in the UK, but the program is being discontinued.Microsoft says: "Microsoft Money Plus will not be available for purchase after June 30, 2009. All purchased Money Plus products must be activated prior to Jan. 31, 2011."Microsoft has also published acomprehensive FAQabout it.Once you've bought the program it should continue to work forever, of course. However, there is always some risk that it will not be fully compatible with future versions of Windows. Also, banks and financial institutions that provide automated services for Money (which include tax rates and share prices) probably won't continue to do that for a declining audience, though you should still be able to download data and import it.US users have an option in that they can still use Quicken, though Intuit abandoned UK users a long time ago. A Microsoft spokesman toldTechFlashin Seattle:"Microsoft is working with Intuit to help develop a file conversion process that will help Money customers more easily convert their existing data files to Quicken. Both Intuit and Microsoft hope this will be ready to go for the new release of Quicken this fall."There are also online programs that provide similar features, including Quicken Online. However, this is a dangerous area for "cloud computing". You need to ensure that you won't lose all your data if you get locked out of your account (which is a frequent problem with online services), or if the supplier goes bust (not uncommon). If you run a business, you may also have to observe laws concerning the security and privacy of financial data, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.Having a desktop product that synchronises with an online system could be a good solution, since each provides a backup for the other. If you've found a good standalone or online alternative, please let us know.Hat-tip to CNet for breaking the story:Microsoft to discontinue MS Money
Internet users around the world should be cheering the news thatFrench judges have struck down the country's proposed 'three strikes' lawfor alleged filesharers - and not just because they declared that access to online communications is a human right.Ever since the French law was first proposed inNovember 2007, six months after Nicolas Sarkozy took presidential power in France, governments around the world have been building a house of cards surrounding the concept.Everybody's considered the same law:Britain,New Zealand,Irelandand evenAmericaare among the countries that have proposed their own version of three strikes - the idea that anyone thought to have illegally shared files online will get two warnings, before having their broadband connection cut off on the third accusation.But here's the problem: each proposal has a disturbing tendency to point back to the others in an attempt to shore up its case. I've had conversations with various officials, and read documents from most of the major initiatives, that reference the French law as a precedent, or point out that the British are considering a similar rule."We're not alone!" the lobbyists cry. "Another government is doing this too! We must be on the right track!"If you're trying to get the law passed, it's a tactic that makes a lot of sense. Governments are, generally, big cowardly beasts that find it hard to make decisions - or at least find it much easier if somebody else has already decided to do the same thing. Combine that withthreats of job lossesand aregular stream of news about filesharing,  and it's no surprise that three strikes looks intoxicatingly persuasive from parliament.However, asCharles points out, the story surrounding illegal downloads is far from straightforward.Something less fuzzy?If your law is a carbon copy of one that's been deemed as unconstitutional, then it's time to ditch it.Doing otherwise puts me in mind of the new mayor of Doncaster, a representative of the English Democrats who crumbledwhen asked by a local radio interviewerwhy so many of his manifesto pledges were essentially against the law or undeliverable.Danny O'Brien, a friend who works for the Electronic Frontier Foundation here in San Franciscorecently suggestedthat copyright holders can't use three strikes to skip past the judiciary."We have now an increasing amount of power passed on to the hands of the copyright holders. It's cutting out the middleman, which the Internet is very good at, except in this case the middleman is a judge," he said earlier this year. "All they have to do is accuse you three times and then you're off. There's no checking to see if the evidence is good."Danny's right - but it's worth going back a step further, too: we should be checking to see if the laws we are basing our own legislation on is good, too. And if it's not, then surely you've got to wonder whether you're doing the right thing.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Splinter Cell Conviction, Assassin's Creed 2 – Ubisoft showed some hugely promising games at E3 last week.Splinter Cell Convictionwas probably my most pleasant gaming surprise of the show. But what about more casual gamers? Yes, Ubisoft have entered the fashionable motion control market, albeit not quite as excitingly as Natal or the PS3 wand, with the first Wii camera game. Called "Your Shape" the exercise game promises to create personalised workouts depending on your body shape. The release explainsThe game will scan your body and then project the image onto the TV, creating a personalized and interactive workout. Based on your specific body shape analysis, fitness level and personal goals, Your Shape is able to recommend the workout program that is best suited for you.Quite how this will work in reality remains to be seen but the camera-led personalisation aspect may make it easier for users to stick with than the likes of Wii Fit. Alternatively it will be used once and then thrown into the peripheral cupboard next to theWii Vitality Sensor.So what do you think then? Excited by the first camera game on the Wii? Or is this just a shameless attempt to tap into the burgeoning fitness gaming market?
Released ten years ago this March, Everquest was the original massively-multiplayer phenomenon. Not the first ever MMORPG, I hasten to add (even in terms of graphical online adventures, Meridian 59 was there before), but it was the first to truly get its talons into a global, obsessive community and keep them hooked with updates and add-ons. It was also probably the first where a complex economic structure developed, which in 2002 led to it being declared the 77th richest country in the world.And to celebrate all this, publisher Sony Online Entertainment has produced EverCracked!, a feature-length documentary on the phenomenon, looking into the development of the game and its impact on game culture. From the press release:EverCracked! celebrates EverQuest's legacy by taking a look at the past, present and future of the franchise. The film, hosted by veteran video game developer and personality Jace Hall, includes never-before-seen footage and interviews with industry moguls and longtime players. EverCracked! details the events, products, personalities and art that graced the world of Norrath over the years, with many tongue-in-cheek moments that befit EverQuest's own sense of fun and humor.The film will debut at the 2009 Fan Faire in Las Vegas, NV on June 26, but I'm not sure how it'll be distributed from there - hopefully via one of the many digital movie sites.I think we've looked into this before, but why aren't there more documentaries on games and game culture?A while ago, developers started to put little 'making of' featurettes and interviews onto game DVDs and press sites. The special edition of BioShock came with a 'Behind The Scenes' DVD as did the likes of Edlder Scrolls: Obvlivion, Fall Out 3, Gears of War II and Spore. However, these could hardly be deemed objective cultural explorations, and for the most part studios now favour blogs and Twitter feeds.Outside of the industry, interest has been patchy. Considering videogames have been a mainstream source of entertainment for thirty years, it's bizarre that their rise to prominence has been to so sparsely documented.Here are, I think, the best examples of a miniscule selection:The King of Kong: Fistful of QuartersA fascinating look at the bizarre rivalry between gamers Steve Wiebe and Billy Mitchell as they vie for dominance of Nintendo's Donkey Kong coin-op. Met with huge critical acclaim on its release two years ago.Chasing GhostsJoyfully nostalgic ode to the arcades of the early eighties. Performed well in film festivals in 2007, but is hard to track down now.8BitDescribed as, "a mélange of a rocumentary, art expose and a culture-critical investigation" this is a more cerebral approach to the subject matter, analysing the impact of game graphics on art and music, with a nod toward the chiptune scene.FragReasonably recent documentary on professional gaming circuit, considering the dedication of the players but also the corruption, money and drugs seemingly blighting the emerging sport.Any others to add? Give us the links below!
The world's two leading antivirus companies have been fined for automatically charging customers to renew their subscriptions.McAfee and Symantec, which make the computer industry's most popular virus protection software, each agreed to pay $375,000 (£230,000) in fines and costs after a complaint was brought by the New York Attorney General's office.The case came after customers complained that both companies had not been clear that anyone signing up to use their products would automatically be charged to renew their subscription every 12 months. This, said New York attorney general Andrew Cuomo, constituted an unfair attempt to separate customers from their money."Companies cannot play hide the ball when it comes to the fees consumers are being charged," he said in astatement."Consumers have a right to know what they are paying, especially when they are unwittingly agreeing to renewal fees that will not appear on their credit card bill for months. Symantec and McAfee - two of the nation's largest vendors of computer security software - will now have to be clear and up-front with their customers when it comes to renewal fees."The two Californian companies dominate the market for virus protection with products including McAfee VirusScan and Norton Antivirus McAfee, and between them are worth more than $20bn.Automatically renewing subscriptions has become standard practice in the antivirus industries in recent years, with companies saying it is vital to protect consumers and prevent potential viruses and malicious software from being downloaded to their computers.The investigation by Cuomo's office, however, found that the information on renewal fees was hidden in the small print of the subscription agreement, and that both companies made it difficult for customers to opt out or request refunds if they did not want to keep the service. They have now agreed to make it more obvious that subscriptions will be automatically renewed, and to offer refunds to any customer who requests to cancel their service within 60 days of being charged.
&bull; Less than a week after launching the Pre, Palm isinstalling chairman Jon Rubinstein as chief executive. Rubinstein, a former big cheese at Apple, has been helping mould Palm since joining in 2007 - and will take over complete control of the company from current CEO Ed Colligan by Friday, in what looks like a vindication of his ideas.&bull; TechCrunch is reportingthat MySpace may be preparing for 'massive layoffs', just a couple of months after new boss Owen Van Natta took over.&bull; On the subject of MySpace,the company's travails are the cover storyin this week's print edition of Technology Guardian - available from your newsagent. Also: thelatest twists and turns with Phormand aninterview with senior Intel executive Sean Maloney. Just 90p (you get a newspaper too) orread it all online here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I am writing a book that has a lot of pictures. I want friends to see this work in progress and comment on it, but the files are too big to email. What would be the best filesharing program?Simon BarleyDo your friends really need to see pictures that are intended for printing, or would web-sized versions do? If you use an image viewer or paint program to convert images to a web-friendly format with a resolution of 72ppi and a width of about 960 pixels they will be much smaller. I just experimented withPaint.net, and a 2.5MB shot from a DSLR camera came down to about 300K, whilePixresizerreduced the same 2.5MB photo to just 180K. But why not upload them to an online photo album service such as Flickr or Photobucket, or even Facebook, and simply email your friends the web addresses?If you want to share complete pages as Adobe PDFs – a handy file format for books – or Word document files then you could upload them to Zoho Share. If you email your friends the web addresses, they can read them online in a web browser using theZoho Viewer. You can share things without signing up and without installing any software, though I'd suggest you open an account – it's free.Another alternative would be to upload groups of pages, or even whole chapters, to a filesharing site so your friends can download them. Use an archiving program such as WinZip orWinRARto create a single file for each upload, and add a password to protect your privacy. There are dozens of sites that work well enough for this process, including Rapids­hare, MegaUpload, SendSpace and YouSendIt. For more ­permanent storage, you could try DropBox and similar sites. All of these allow files to be downloaded much faster and far more easily than using filesharing software such as BitTorrent.Finally, you could considerScribd, whichI wrote about recently. You upload your documents and Scribd converts them to a Flash-based iPaper format that your friends can read full screen. It also lets you form groups, so your friends could have an instant discussion forum, too.
For many years I have used AvantGo to download news from guardian.co.uk on to my Palm PDA before setting out from home. The AvantGo service ceases on 30 June, so what alternatives are there?Richard CowlingSome alternatives to AvantGo were described inPalm Tipsheet 29, dated April 2002, but you would have to figure out a way to collect the Guardian pages you want before converting them to the Palm. Insofar as the Guardian has a replacement, it's the mobile version atm.guardian.co.uk. In other words, most people are now using mobile phones rather than PDAs for news on the move. We do, however, deliver some content by email, such as guardian.co.uk Today and The Fiver. You can select the ones you want on theEmail Servicespage.
Please confirm that the iTunes DRM [Digital Rights Management] has now been relinquished. An affirmative will allow me to buy an MP3 player. A ­negative means I will have to buy an iPod, which can only partly meet my requirements.Ray StephensApple said it would stop using its FairPlay DRM on music tracksby the end of March, and to the best of my knowledge, it no longer does. However, videos may still have DRM protection, as do Audible's audiobook files. Also bear in mind that your MP3 player will need to handle the AAC file format that Apple uses – and not all do. You can "transcode" media files from one format to another, but this involves some loss of quality, however small.
I've just had a spam email in which the "from" address was the same as the "to" address, ie mine. The subject was something like Error: returned email. Is this a new wheeze to get round spam filters?Tim GosslingYes. Internet email systems don't actually use the To: and From: addresses, which can be forged to say anything. The recipient (you) is identified in the headers that are created when the mail software sends the email to the mail server. Mail headers are hard to read, and nowadays, most mail software hides them. The trick works because curiosity may make people more likely to read a message they appear to have sent themselves. Also, you can't really blacklist your own address, though ­content-based blockers should still catch this type of spam. But I wouldn't worry about it unless you have a copy of the same email in your Sent folder.
ReWhat's the optimum security software for a Windows PC?, won't using Secunia's Personal Software Inspector or PC Pitstop's tests – both useful – result in what you describe as "unnecessary background programs" being put in the startup sequence? Also, the installation of AnVir Task Manager Free will set the default search engine to Yahoo and install the Dealio toolbar unless you uncheck the boxes! It seems that we need to be vigilant especially when we are being vigilant.Colin HeydonYes, we do. However, you can runSecunia PSI"on demand": you don't have to run it in the background. If you find it in the startup sequence, You can useAnVirto disable it, though it doesn't consume much in the way of resources. Running thePC Pitstoptests doesn't add any background process that I can find – it runs once in the browser.However, you do have to avoid ­clicking on any of the things PC Pitstop wants to sell you, and as you say, you should avoid Dealio and any other unwanted side-effects from installing AnVir Task ­Manager Free. I'd rather companies didn't take this sort of approach, but it's the usual result of trying to make a profit by providing free software and services.
Microsoft's new search engine, Bing, went live on Monday 1 June, though the UK version is in beta and lacks many of the features in the US edition. Although the core index is the same, Bing is not just a rebranding of Microsoft Live Search, but has new features – including instant preview of websites and ­videos, automatic categorisation of search results, and Best Match results with deep links.What about the actual results, though – are they as good as those from Google? Michael Kordahi, a Microsoft employee, reckoned that testing search could be like tasting wine, where you cannot help being influenced by the label, so he createda blind search engine. Search results are returned in three columns with identical formatting, representing hits from Bing, Google and Yahoo (the order varies), and users vote for the best one. His site went live on 7 June. Initial results slightly favoured Bing. A day later, Google had pulled ahead. "Google: 45%, Bing: 33%, Yahoo: 21% | 8,518 votes" reported Google's search associate Matt Cutts in a Twitter post. Shortly afterwards, Yahoo's vote soared, but by then it was obvious something was wrong. "Some douche is gaming the system, I've removed the ability to see the results until I sort this out," reported Kordahi.The result is that we are no closer to knowing which search engine generates the most favoured results, though early indications suggest while Google may be slightly preferred, its margin of success is less than its market share. According tofigures from Net Applications, Google gets around 82% of searches, against 9.5% for Yahoo and 5.5% for Microsoft.That raises the question: is there anything Microsoft can do to wean us away from Google? The search giant is the default in Apple's Safari and Mozilla's Firefox, and it is common for new PCs to come with Google's search tools pre-installed. According to Advertising Age, Microsoft is budgeting $80m-$100m to promote Bing, but it will take more than advertising to change people's search patterns. The evidence so far is that Bing saw an early spike in usage, driven by tech-savvy users giving it a try, only to sink back a few days later as old habits returned. Bing needs to be dramatically better than Google. Being almost as good will not win new users; though even Kordahi's blind test is not perfect, as it hides the new usability features that Microsoft is promoting.The consolation for Microsoft is that most reviewers have found Bing better than expected, and that while Google will be untroubled, winning a few points of market share looks possible, though by no means assured. There is still potential for new approaches to search though, and to prove it the best tool for researching what happened to Kordahi's search experiment is neither Google nor Bing – but rather Twitter.
One morning, David Clayton woke to find carnage on his doorstep. Living in Newmarket, Suffolk, he has horses; but during the night, thieves had removed the gate from the field they were penned in. The horses had wandered on to the nearby road, and two had been hit by a car and killed.From that came the germ of an idea: if he could have been alerted when the horses left their paddock, or when the gate had been moved … which has led to the Traakit, a GPS device you can attach to pretty much anything in order to track its movements remotely.The Traakit is, in itself, an unremarkable black box about the size of your palm of your hand. The idea is that you attach it somewhere in sight of the constellation of GPS satellites. It then knows where it is, of course. But then comes the smarter bit: it relays its position over the mobile phone network to Traakit's systems (based in Scotland). You log in to the Traakit website, and you can view not just where your GPS module is, but also where it has been, using Microsoft's Live Maps. (Why not Google Maps? "Microsoft is cheaper," Clayton explains.)The unit costs £273 inc VAT, with a monthly service charge of £14.75 (though the company has a special offer at the moment).There are various neat additions. Once you've located your device on the map, you can surround it with a virtual "invisible fence" roughly 100m square. If it finds itself outside that fence, it will notify Traakit, which will send you a warning by text message or email, saying when it moved out and where it is. You can then start tracking its movements on the map; if whatever it's attached to is valuable, you'll probably be notifying the police as well. The company can see all sorts of possibilities for the device, particularly for industrial plant (digging, construction and farm equipment is apt to wander). The "fence" can be moved, and a future software update promises to make it configurable for non-square properties.My own experience suggested that the weakest link in the chain is the part that the whole system relies on: being able to "see" the GPS constellation. I stuck it on one side of the back shelf of my car, but the pillars of the chassis clearly interfered with the GPS reception; it would insist it was still at home when I knew it was at the railway station. The "fence", though, worked perfectly, once the system spotted where it was.The mapping software is optimised, unsurprisingly, for Internet Explorer on a PC, but I got ­perfectly good results with Safari on a Mac. The prices may look steep, but ­anyone who has woken up to find that their precious ­possessions gone may not agree. Future versions will, Clayton says, be "horse-proof" – rubber-housed, in order to be able to ­withstand being trodden on. Those thieves in Newmarket caused calamity once, but others may have been saved from the same fate.Pros:simple; good web interface; "invisible fence" for alertsCons:pricey for individuals; careful location required for trackingtraakit.co.uk
Phorm has launched Webwise Discover, what it calls the final piece of its "full ­circle" behavioural advertising service. This aims to get ISPs, web users, advertisers and publishers to sign up to its Webwise tracking technology so more targeted adverts can be sold at a premium.Despite this rounding off of its service, the focus is bound to shift to next week's preliminary results as investors, analysts and online media experts ask: with no ISP – and hence no web users, advertisers or publishers on board – how long can Phorm carry on?The answer would appear to come in a recently-published report from its brokers which identified the next six months as critical for the company. That is when Phorm has to turn BT's interest into a full rollout if it is to start generating ­sufficient revenue to reward investors, who pumped £32m into the AIM-listed company last&nbsp;year.On target?Phorm's business model requires a three-pronged approach. It has to monitor which pages individuals are visiting, using equipment installed at the ISP; it has to persuade websites to allow it to put adverts on their sites; and it has to persuade advertisers to go through it, rather than any other media buyer. The idea is that by working out what each (anonymised) person is interested in, based on their web viewing, Phorm can serve better-targeted adverts, regardless of the site someone is visiting. Certain websites, such as sex, tobacco and gambling, would be excluded from the web viewing profile and adverts.According to Mike Moore, Phorm's global commercial director, the new Webwise Discover system is designed to "capture the interest" of web users who typically follow a link to a single story on a publisher's website, often through a social network site or an RSS feed. Once that one story is read, very few will browse the rest of the site, because the links are not ­tailored to their interests, he suggests.But by using the same interest-tracking technology as Webwise (which serves tailored adverts through Phorm's "Open Internet eXchange", OIX) customers who have opted in can be given more relevant links, to encourage them to delve further. Publishers have a choice of installing Webwise, or Webwise Discover, or both."I keep getting told that 'stickyness' is a real 90s term, but that's essentially what we're giving with Webwise Discover," Moore says. "When I check ESPN for NFL results it has no way of knowing I want to see how my football team in England got on in the Champions League, so it doesn't offer me that link. With our system, it would know. I've worked in online publishing for many years and I know the huge issue all publishers face is how they get people to stick around and check out more of the site."Moore knows the entire service relies on ISPs launching Webwise in a "highly competitive market" where, he says, they cannot fail to be aware of the privacy concerns raised against Phorm. Those, he says, have been stoked up by "a vocal minority".The latest launch also comes at a time when growth in display advertising is slowing in comparison to other channels. Figures just released by the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) show that search marketing spend, which is nearly three times higher than display advertising, has grown at nearly twice the rate as display (28% compared with 16%) over the past two years. Also, although sponsorship and social network marketing budgets are low, marketers appear to be shifting focus to less interruptive advertising methods, such as branding content and developing social network fan sites.Warren Cowan, the chief executive of the search advertising agency Greenlight, says that Phorm has an uphill struggle."The ISP, Phorm and the publisher will all want a cut and there just isn't going to be sufficient extra revenue to cut every­one in and so it will inflate the price of their inventory," he suggests. "It could mean it's far too expensive and because the cost on non-behaviourally targeted inventory is so cheap, it's going to be cheaper for advertisers to just buy much more space and use a blanket approach."Sam Brownfield, founder and chief executive of the digital consultant Tradewind London, points out the flaw in behavioural targeting that is only too familiar to anybody who has bought gifts online – short-term interests and presents for others can send long-term recommendation systems "haywire".You go firstThere is a far more pressing question, according to Richard Sharp, managing director of the online advertising network ValueClick and chair of IASH (Internet Advertising Sales House), the IAB committee that regulates networks: "The big problem they've got is nobody wants to be first to come out and implement the technology because of the privacy problems they've had, which is probably unfair because at least they've been very open about their technology."They've got a great board and team in place now, but that's pretty much their main problem. With the likes of Norman Lamont as a non-exec and some really talented industry heavyweights on the board and in the team, their staff and office costs must be huge. Also, with all the privacy problems they've had in America, in Britain and with the EU, their legal bills must be horrendous. I know they raised £32m last year but, believe me, they must be burning through that at a really quick rate."Phorm will not be drawn on how much cash it is spending before next week's preliminary report, and says out that it is well funded because the cash raised last year though an institutional placing was put into the business (minus expenses) with no need to pay off debt.A glimpse of where it needs to be was produced by one of its brokers, Mirabaud, at the end of March. It painted a very rosy future for Phorm, predicting that the company's OIX platform will attract £600,000 of ad revenue by the end of the year, rising to £417m by the end of 2012 (from which it will take £97m after costs and partners are paid).However, the figures rely on BT rolling out the service in the latter half of this year, followed by TalkTalk and Virgin Media in the next two to three years. The figures are also based on a perhaps optimistic view that 60% of each ISP's customers will opt in to the service. TalkTalk and Virgin Media have been wary of committing to Phorm since the privacy storm last year (Phorm fires privacy row for ISPs, 6 March 2008).For the report to be proven correct, BT must persuade half of its 1.6 million BT Broadband subscribers to sign up. If not, it is highly unlikely the two ISPs that have yet to fully test the system will make the first move.All attention will then turn to Phorm's survival and, according to its own broker's report, the critical next six months.
A throbbing head, weak knees and flashing lights: these are only three of the reasons I did not go to the second coming of E3, the Electronics Entertainment Expo, last week in Los Angeles. There are others. The west's Tokyo Game Show is, as I have written on the Gamesblog in the past, an orgasm of the senses. Problem is, it's actually someone else's orgasm, and you've had nothing to do with it.Instead, you have to watch, slightly embarrassed, increasingly uncomfortable, desperately hoping an exit opportunity will present itself, or that you'll find an Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, or Portal Gun, so you can make a speedy getaway through a well-placed hole in the closest wall.Sure, being at the Nexus of Game has its advantages: you can be the first past the post on news and you can grab a few milliseconds with one of the industry's illustrious heroes. But you can do that at other - more sedate - games conferences, when schedules aren't so tightly packed, and the digerati have more interesting things to talk about than announcement fodder. Attending E3 is like being trapped inside of a glitter ball for seven days as it whirs around at the speed of light, while 10,000 shrieking kittens claw at your body, trying to snag one little piece of skin to hold on to so they can anchor themselves away from the walls of their spinning Alcatraz.No, not top of my agenda; I'll leave it to my esteemed colleagues to cover that show. Instead, last week I watched the fountains of games coverage that streamed through my newsreader from behind the postage-stamp-sized screen on my gargantuan original Game Boy.I was celebrating the quarter century of my personal crack cocaine, Tetris, by getting lost in its forest of gentle falling blocks, its perfect interface and its maddening learning curve. How can you go wrong with Tetris? It's been instrumental in my life; it taught me how to pack a moving van, a skill that has been extremely useful in my time as a nomad. With the sound turned down, playing Tetris is like falling in love again. Going to E3 is like being perpetually stuck in the tail end of an agonising relationship.The best vantage point for E3 is from the web, where you can sift through the announcements, videos and playable demos at your own pace, pulling out the cream of the crop without all the crap. You won't be assaulted by a booth babe - the models bought in to hide a pile of terrible silicon - attacked by a PR person or deafened by the sound of a thousand people falling from Wii wobble boards.And if the lights start to flash and your head starts to throb, it's time to put down Tetris and turn off the glitter ball. Those poor kittens have had enough.
It's a bit late in the day, but I detect signs of a refreshing change in the way the Labour government chucks money at computer systems. For the first time in at least a generation, a cabinet minister last month said that officials who place IT contracts should bear in mind the wider consequences for British industry. John Denham, who was skills secretary before last week's political G&ouml;tterd&auml;mmerung, said that in future, government IT contractors will have to show they are improving the skills of British workers.In pretty well any other industrial country such a statement would be unremarkable. Almost everywhere, governments push the limits of procurement laws to ensure major contracts are let in ways that suit local policy objectives. The US reserves a proportion of federal government business for small firms, and Japanese governments are notorious for making it inconvenient for foreign firms to bid.Since the 1980s, at least, the UK government has been unique among major economies in its enthusiasm for opening government contracts to all comers. Up to a point, such openness is commendable. Even laying aside wider arguments for free trade, it is far from evident that the UK computer industry would now be a world-beater had we preserved ICL as national purveyor of taxpayer-funded mainframes. The defence industry, where procurements are inseparable from wider political concerns, does not set a particularly inspiring example.However, openness can be taken too far. The NHS in England took such a step six years ago, when it parcelled up the major implementation work of the National Programme for IT in &pound;1bn chunks - deliberately to encourage bids from overseas. This was a public-policy scandal. It dealt a near-fatal blow to the British healthcare informatics industry, which in some areas was a world leader. It also set back the modernisation of hospital systems, as inexperienced multinationals struggled to understand the NHS and its software requirements.A similar tendency is evident in the national ID card programme. Whatever you think of the programme, it seems extraordinary UK taxpayers are funding such an attempt to push technological boundaries in a way that pays little attention to ensuring UK companies reap the benefit. Meanwhile, our willingness to place parts of the critical national infrastructure under foreign ownership causes jaws to drop elsewhere.So, following Denham's announcement, one of the last to emerge from the short-lived Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills, what has changed? In procurement policy, not much: the only commitment was: "Wherever possible, government spending should not just provide good public services, it should also ensure young people are trained in the skills we need for the future."On the surface, that's not much of a change. In fact, as some commentators pointed out, a training requirement could even deepen the government's love affair with multinationals at the expense of small firms, who rarely have resources to spare for training.I think it's more significant than that. Denham, who was at the Department of Communities and Local Government when this paper went to press, has identified a growing sense of public anger about the way the government allocates its IT spending. Once the principle has been conceded that government IT contracts should be about more than the organisation in question getting the best deal, almost anything becomes possible. The look and feel of the modern government machine is very much the look and feel of its information infrastructure. It's time to explore new ways of buying and operating that infrastructure.
The mystery of where all the money has gone isn't just puzzling economists and estate agents. It's also one that has had the music industry on edge, time after time. Thus, we saw the release last week of some ­"research" that said 7 million ­people "use" illegal downloads in the UK, "costing the economy billions of pounds and thousands of jobs" . I'm ­unhappy to say that it was repeated in this paper. Had I seen it sooner, I would have queried the assertion about the cost to the economy. The number of people doing downloads sounds near enough right, however.Still, Ben Goldacre eviscerated the claims in ­Saturday's paper,in his Bad Science column, pointing out that if every illicit download were a lost sale, then we would be missing about a 10th of GDP. Though on checking he found it was only a 100th of our GDP. (Oopsy, ­someone missed a decimal point.) Even so, it's the sort of amount that you don't overlook. And one that doesn't stand to reason. It's too big.Why does the music industry keep putting these numbers forward? Because it looks at its sales and sees them falling. And it looks at filesharing and sees it growing. Cause and effect, right? Not necessarily. I decided to start from the premise that downloads are not lost sales; that instead there's only a limited amount of short-term spending cash available to people (which remains true, generally, despite credit bubbles). That instead of buying music, they choose to spend it on other things.What other things might they spend it on? Here's a thought: people who spend on recorded music (CDs, the occasional music DVD) are also very likely to spend on things such as games and DVD purchases or rentals. They are all discretionary purchases. So I dug up the figures from the UK music industry: the British record industry's trade association (the BPI), and the UK games industry (via its trade body, Elspa) as well as the DVD industry (through the UK Film Council and the British Video Association). Theresultsare over on the Guardian Technology blog, because they are the sort of numbers that should be available to everyone to chew over.What did I find? Total spending has grown – but music spending is being squeezed. The games industry – hardware and software – has grown from £1.4bn in 1999 (the year Napster started, and the music business stood rabbit-transfixed) to £4.04bn in 2008. That's 12% annual compound growth. You'd kill for an endowment like that. Even DVD sales and rental take a £2.5bn bite out of consumers' available funds, double that of 1999.So the music industry's deadliest enemy isn't filesharing – it's the likes of Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony, and a zillion games publishers. The BPI can argue, fairly, that it loses out badly because its product remains the easiest to steal (and filesharing is a form of theft; don't lie to yourself). But to claim that filesharing is the whole story really fools nobody who has had to choose between a £40 game that will give them weeks of enjoyment, or a Simon Cowell-inspired CD for £10 containing two good tracks and eight somewhat less inspiring efforts.I hope, though, this will finally shut up the ­idiotic debate about "lost sales" and "lost jobs" from ­filesharing. True: filesharing isn't good. But the games industry has found the way to persuade people to buy its products. Locked-down consoles? Content you can't transfer? Perhaps if they found some way that it was locked to a device – a phone? Or a subscription service? And it turns out both are being tried – Nokia Comes With Music, and Spotify (and, in some countries, Last.fm). The music business is having to adjust, sure. Everyone is. But let's stop blaming imaginary lost sales for what are really changes in society. Everyone will feel a lot better for it.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk
Just what do we gain from newer computers, I wondered as I hauled my wife's PC towards the dump? The case still proudly proclaimed it the pinnacle of 1992 technology – a 66-DX2 Pentium processor, which I somehow inherited from a job as a columnist on a technology magazine that folded. OK, the innards had been upgraded since then, so that by the end the case and power supply were the only bits from 1992. Some of the rest was as much as 10 years younger. The motherboard had been replaced some time around 2001, and the memory upgraded to a throbbing 384MB a few years later.This was a machine so obsolete that when the network card suddenly failed, there was no chance of getting something to replace it, as nothing would fit in the motherboard slots. Nor would the old case and power supply take a new motherboard. Nothing to do but buy a "new" computer, a nameless Athlon machine from the secondhand dealers down the road.There was no real trouble with backups: the rather wonderfulSecond Copymeant everything was quickly and safely restored to the new machine, and I was left to contemplate how much faster everything had become. Except it hadn't. The new machine has a processor four times faster than the old one. It has more than four times as much memory, and eight times the hard disk space (the 10GB drive may have been one of the original 1992 bits). But for ordinary secretarial-type work, where you boot it up, check emails and write letters, or spend a despairing two hours every month entering receipts into Quicken, there is no discernible difference.The one thing the upgraded computer will manage that the old one wouldn't is to run YouTube and other videos. Whether I could have got the effect by using a new graphics card is impossible to know, because you couldn't fit any graphics card you could buy today into the slot of the old one.This is extraordinary. I have felt a complete fool for years because I wrote once that nobody needed anything more than a 400MHz processor; and now it turns out I was right all along. Certainly, if all you do is read and write with a computer, then that is all you need. In fact, you will notice no difference at all when upgrading. Something like this was the epiphany behind Quentin Stafford-Fraser's company Ndiyo, which makesvery fast, thin clients on a chip that runs off Ubuntu servers(Just say yes to sharing computer power.It also makes me wonder where all the hardware went. Changing from Windows 2000 to XP on a faster machine has left the boot time pretty much unaffected: not long enough to make a coffee, but enough to fetch it from the kitchen. I think Office 2007 has grown a little faster, on hardware four times faster than Office 1997 was, so Microsoft has made progress there.It does make me wonder just how over-engineered even the simplest netbook must be. If we take the ability to play YouTube or DVDs as the baseline for what anyone will want from a net-connected device, then it has, for almost a decade, been impossible to buy a PC that isn't fast enough. So, if it is now impossible to buy a new computer that isn't powerful enough – and this is true, I think, even of the humblest Dell if used with something such as Ndiyo – why do small businesses buy new computers at all?One answer may be that really cheap computers are often badly configured. They will scrimp on memory, which is the one thing that makes a huge difference to ordinary performance, while boasting about processor speed, which is almost irrelevant. This is even more true of secondhand or reconditioned PCs.But I think I can see an expanding niche in the market. As hardware does die, people will always need to replace their PCs, but why replace them with new ones? There must be enough perfectly adequate used computers around that buying new ones makes as little sense as buying a brand new car with your own money. There are already companies that do this for laptops, selling off corporate refurbs on eBay, for example. But if they start doing it for desktops, we'll know the recession has bitten deep; but the bite, this time, will be entirely painless.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
A wave of revulsion against a law that ­targets filesharers has sweptthe Pirate partyinto a seat at the European parliament.Not even in existence when the last European elections took place, the Pirate party managed to secure 7% of the national vote in Sweden, beating the country's Eurosceptic party, June List, which suffered a collapse in its vote.Two events have taken copyright to the fore in Sweden, which has the highest penetration of high-speed broadband-fibre connections in Europe. In April, the Swedish government brought into force the EU'sintellectual property (IP) enforcement directive, which demands that internet service ­providers turn over traffic data to copyright holders who are trying to track down filesharers. Later that month, a court sentenced The Pirate Bay's owners to a year in jail on top of awarding damages of SKr30m (£2.5m).Following the case, the Pirate party, which campaigns for patents to be scrapped and copyright to last just five years instead of 70, trebled its membership to more than 45,000.Sweden is not alone in seeing political parties capitalise on public unrest at tighter controls on internet use. TheGerman pirate party, Piratenpartei Deutschland,won close to 1% of the vote. The group failed to secure a parliamentary seat but passed the threshold for public funding. Registered "pirate parties" now exist in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Poland and Spain and groups are attempting to register as political parties in the UK and the US.Although it may choose to join the Liberal bloc, the Swedish Pirate party is looking at joining the Greens-European Free Alliance (EFA) group of MEPs. "Nothing will be confirmed before next week," says Chris Coakley, the Greens-EFA spokesman. "But their policies fit with ours. We share the principles of a free internet. We have done quite a lot, although IP does not have such a high profile in the UK."Ray Corrigan, senior lecturer in ­technology at the Open University, says the sudden high profile of IP issues in European politics could help drive ­policies better than those that have, up to now, "been put together in dark smoky rooms"."A lot of IP laws are being driven through because they are off most people's cognitive agendas," says Corrigan. "If you start knocking people off the internet for ­allegedly infringing copyright those numbers start to grow into the thousands, or tens of thousands, very quickly. It has a direct impact on their children's education and some people may need the internet for their job. When IP has a real impact on lives that is when you start to see a backlash."Andrew Dearing, secretary general of the European Industrial Research ­Management Association (eirma.org), says: "My view is that IP is a good and necessary thing. I'm not in favour of a free-for-all but I do think that there are many important questions that need to be addressed."I think it's a good thing that you are getting representatives in parliament who wish to challenge the established view," says Dearing.
Any Englishman (or woman) would describe Sean Maloney as a good bloke. He's a rugby fan who supports Bath and England, loves rowing, and looks comfortable wearing jeans. He was the youngest of six, and didn't finish his diploma course at Thames Poly before getting into programming and discovering an enthusiasm for computing. What's unusual about this former lad from Lewisham is that he's executive vice-president of Intel, and its chief sales and marketing officer, which makes him one of the US's top businessmen.Or, rather, the world's. When I met him for lunch in London on Friday, he'd just got off a plane after a WiMax launch in St Petersburg. He'd gone to Russia from Taiwan, where he gave a keynote speech at last week's Computex trade show, and on Monday, he emailed me from another WiMax event in Tokyo. Around 80% of Intel's business comes from outside the US, and Maloney reckons he spends about half his time travelling. But he's due some time off, and his holiday will include watching some rugby in South Africa.Blunt forceIt's not the kind of lifestyle he'd envisaged in the 1970s, when he was selling leftwing newspapers outside the dock gates in London (his grandfather had been a docker), but joining Intel helped change that. It gave him the chance to rise through the ranks in the UK then move to the US, where he spent a couple of years as Andy Grove's assistant. Grove, who had arrived in the US as a refugee from Hungary, built Intel: he was like Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer rolled into one.What was it like working for him? "He was extremely blunt," says Maloney. "We had some very blunt arguments. As a manager he was extraordinarily demanding: he paid you the compliment of taking your word seriously, and then expecting you to do better. You owe that to the people who work for you, who put so much of their lives into their jobs. He paid me an extreme level of attention, which is what I wanted: life goes by in a flash, so you might as well do your best!"Much of the world runs on Intel processors, and Maloney's current task is encouraging the adoption of WiMax wireless networking, which is like longer-range Wi-Fi - but isn't being adopted as rapidly as hoped.Intel is also making an impact with the Atom chip, which is at the heart of the netbook market, and the new Culv (consumer ultra low voltage) platform.Culv was big at Computex Taiwan, I remind him, with Acer, Asus and MSI all backing Intel's new chip set. Was I right in thinking Culv was driving a wedge between netbooks and notebooks?"That was the idea," Maloney says, "but that's not what's happened. It turns out you can tune your manufacturing processes for higher clock speeds or for lower power consumption. And we found that in all the market segments, there was utility in coming out with better battery life, lower temperatures, less electricity use. Now it's a parallel universe, where each processor will have its own shadow."Maloney reckons Culv chips will lead to thin notebooks that have extraordinary battery life, probably eight or nine hours instead of three or four. Intel is investing more than $7bn in factories to produce smaller 32nm versions of its chips, which it hopes will take battery life over 12 hours.Intel had low-power chips before, of course, but they weren't x86 software (DOS/Windows) compatible: they were based on ARM designs, which dominate the markets for PDAs and mobiles. But after acquiring what had been Digital's StrongARM business and changing it to XScale, Intel sold it on. How did that make sense?"XScale still exists and it's doing well," says Maloney, "but we were the 14th or 15th ARM licensee, and didn't really bring that much to the party. In 2003-04, we were trying to prioritise between doing another version of ARM or doing another version of Banias [the Centrino processor]. We had a budget crunch and we didn't have the headcount to do both. We realised we had a greater commitment to x86 so we shifted resources to that. It turned out to be a strategic decision."So instead of having its own ARM range, Intel is now driving into ARM territory with the Atom chip - and, of course, ARM chips are starting to attack the low end of the netbook market with what Qualcomm is calling smartbooks.But does the Atom make economic sense? Microsoft took a financial hit by selling cheap copies of Windows XP into the netbook market instead of Vista: doesn't it hurt Intel to sell cheap Atom chips instead of more expensive Core 2 Duos?Mighty AtomMaloney doesn't think there's too much cannibalisation of sales at the low end - 80% of netbook buyers wouldn't have bought a notebook - and he sees a big netbook market emerging for the 7-12 age group. But, he says: "The alarm bells should ring if you're defending a business - it's a wake-up call." The message is: "Do it to yourself before someone does it to you."Intel has followed up on the Atom by buying a software supplier, Wind River Systems, for $884m. That doesn't seem to make sense either, because Wind River has been supporting the ARM camp, and Intel already had Mobilon, its own version of Linux tuned for netbooks."We're moving Atom into the embedded [processor] market, and Linux is the game there," he says. "Wind River is bulking out our knowledge in embedded applications." In other words, to penetrate the business for chips in TVs, set-top boxes and portable devices, Intel needs Wind River to provide the sort of support for Atom that it provides for ARM. It's an answer to the chicken-and-egg problem of hardware needing software, and vice versa.Intel is aiming the Atom at the market for MIDs (Mobile Internet Devices), and perhaps even mobile phones, where x86 chips have not been able to go because of their high power requirements. These sell in much bigger quantities than PCs, which ship about 300m a year, but without much of a price premium.Maloney says that with the Atom "we knew we were going to make lower margins than ever before, so we had to design it that way, using different people, with a different culture. We made a decision to go that way, so that's what we did. If we can't make money in high-volume, low-cost markets, we're doomed anyway."That's not to say it wasn't an emotional discussion," he says. "It was. It still is."The chip business has always been a bit of a gamble, and in this case, Intel is betting tens of billions of dollars. It's something for Maloney to think about when he's at home in Palo Alto, rowing his wooden Carl Douglas boat around, watching the dawn break over San Francisco bay. He could, after all, be Intel's next chief executive.
Science supports Simon SinghSign an online petition against the use of libel laws "to silence critical discussion of medical practice and scientific evidence".USB - the new floppy?Viruses used to circulate on floppy disks, and now they use USB sticks, according to Symantec's latest report.Going for GoldtouchGoldtouch has introduced a fold-up keyboard for portable PC users whose laptops are a health risk.Learning Chinese onlineChinese Class 101 is a way to learn Chinese using online videos and podcasts.IT in a new GalaxyIntel has launched IT Galaxy, an online community for the UK's IT managers.The gender agendaA US report finds few race/ethnicity but lots of gender differences in young people's perceptions of computing.Blu-ray for the massesLite-On reckons its &pound;77 iHOS104 drive brings Blu-ray "to the mass market".New Flip for video bloggersFirebox believes the shiny Flip HD will be great for vbloggers as they can see from their reflection if they are in shot.Advent comes of agePC World (Dixons, Currys) has launched the Advent AIO-101, an all-in-one PC with an 18.4-inch screen for &pound;699.99
Rupert Murdoch's purchase of Intermix Media and its MySpace website in July 2005 was arguably the moment the world started to take social networking seriously. Despite the astonishment of his old media rivals at the $580m (then &pound;331m) price tag, the acquisition was vindicated by a deal with Google beginning in October 2006, which guaranteed News Corp $900m in advertising revenue over the next three and a half years, providing certain traffic targets were met.Come the end of June 2010, the Google deal dies, and with it nearly half of MySpace's revenue. Google has already intimated it isn't benefiting from the deal, though MySpace's new chief executive, Owen van Natta, played down the importance of the agreement at the recent All Things Digital conference, saying improving user experience was the priority.But he may want to think again. Murdoch is known to dislike pouring money down the drain, especially online: he is already mooting the creation of paywalls for the Sunday Times, and has reversed an earlier suggestion that he would tear them down at the Wall Street Journal after acquiring it. Thus the latest data from web metrics companies will have given Van Natta shivers.They all show MySpace in decline - whether it's in terms of time spent on the site per user, or number of page views. The same is true for the British-devised Bebo, bought by AOL in March 2008 for $850m: its numbers are also heading south.For both, such a reverse could herald a decline towards obscurity - just like that suffered by another British social networking site, Friends Reunited, which was bought by ITV for &pound;120m in December 2005, but was recently valued at only &pound;20m.Yet Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter, three very much younger networking sites that have steadfastly refused to be bought (Facebook has turned down approaches from Yahoo; and Twitter from Facebook), have thrived, while their apparently better-funded rivals are struggling.Growing painsIs it just a phase that MySpace is going through? That could be an argument - but the parallel fall in Bebo, compared with the rise in others, implies not.The data is unequivocal. Figures from the metrics firm comScore - and echoed by Nielsen and Hitwise - show that Facebook secured its dominance over MySpace in the UK early last year, since when MySpace's user base has declined regularly. By comScore's estimates, unique users have fallen 18%, from 8.5 million in April 2008 to 7 million one year later, while Facebook has seen 63% growth to 23.5 million unique users.Twitter, while starting from a small user base, has seen traffic rise nearly 4,000% to 2.5 million unique users a month - and that excludes traffic through third-party applications, which are estimated to make up a substantial amount, between one-third and two-thirds, of the service's traffic, which means it has far more impact.Bebo, usually considered to have a younger user profile - principally, school-age children - has also lost out: unique users dropped 24% year on year to 9 million in April. Kate Burns, vice-president and managing director of Bebo Europe, acknowledged the economic climate, but said social networking is trend driven; 2006 was MySpace's year, 2007 Bebo, 2008 Facebook and 2009 Twitter."It's been a tough year in the UK and while social networking is often considered to be a fickle market, Bebo is focused on innovating in what it does best - self-expression and entertainment," says Burns, who points to some of the site's recent launches - a music entertainment show, a new series of the Sofia's Diary drama and a major ad deal with Samsung - as examples of the site's growth. Bebo has expanded into several markets across Europe, India and the US Latino sector. "We have also made major advancements to capitalise on Twitter and Facebook's unquestionable growth by letting people stay in touch with their Twitter and Facebook friends from within the Bebo experience itself through the Social Inbox."As for Friends Reunited - possibly the biggest wasted opportunity in social networking - it continues to slide, undermined by Facebook. Its decision to swap from a paid-for model to a free one came too late: its audience dropped by 24% in 12 months - to 1.8 million unique users.Work experienceBy contrast, LinkedIn, generally considered a place for business people to network, saw its UK audience rise during the year - possibly a sign of people who feared losing their job trying to build new connections to secure their next one. The Polish networking site Nasza-Klasa and Google's Brazilian favourite, Orkut, also saw their UK audience rise during the year.In the US, every social networking site increased its audience over the year - apart from MySpace, which lost more than 1 million unique users to fall to 63.2 million.Still, with a vast audience and a substantial advertising network, News Corp has addressed the problems facing the site by carving up the senior management team. Brought in from AOL, News Corp's chief digital officer, Jonathan Miller, was recruited by Murdoch to whip MySpace into shape.Miller responded by ousting its co-founder Chris DeWolfe and replacing him with Van Natta - the former number two at Facebook. DeWolfe's co-founder Tom Anderson, the default friend on every MySpace profile, is also among those stepping aside for a less high-profile role at the firm.The principal problems for Bebo and MySpace, though, are that it is expensive to run their services, and declining traffic makes it harder to persuade advertisers to come to them. For MySpace, the end of the Google contract next year will mean a serious cash crunch. The company proclaimed that it was profitable in 2007.Splitting upAs for Bebo, it faces the challenge that AOL is being cut adrift from Time Warner, to stand as an independent company, and while it is unclear if it will have to carry any of the debt associated with the Bebo purchase - which valued each of the estimated 20 million to 40 million users at between $20 and $40 each - it will still need to focus on profit. As use declines, that becomes harder.The truth seems to be that social networking may, like other networking trends, be one of those elements of the internet where the winner takes nearly all: if your friends have a MySpace and a Bebo and a Facebook account, but are spending more and more time on Facebook, where will you go? The outcome is inevitable, even if it only happens slowly.It proves the truth of a comment made by John Riedl, a professor of computer science at the University of Minnesota, who in 2008 noted a decline in the users of MySpace. "One of the challenges with running one of these large social networking sites is you are always trying to figure out what it is that people want and then balancing that against how do you make money off it," he told the Minnesota Daily.And that is still the case: making money remains hard to do if you aren't the top of the pile. Amazon and Facebook know it - as do the retailers and social networks that lie below them. MySpace and Bebo may not be finished, but they need something dramatic to happen to ever revive.
Every picture tells a storyI am writing a book that has a lot of pictures. I want friends to see this work in progress and comment on it, but the files are too big to email. What would be the best filesharing program?Simon BarleyJS:Do your friends really need to see pictures that are intended for printing, or would web-sized versions do? If you use an image viewer or paint program to convert images to a web-friendly format with a resolution of 72ppi and a width of about 960 pixels they will be much smaller. I just experimented with Paint.net, and a 2.5MB shot from a DSLR camera came down to about 300K, whilePixresizerreduced the same 2.5MB photo to just 180K. But why not upload them to an online photo album service such as Flickr or Photobucket, or even Facebook, and simply email your friends the web addresses?If you want to share complete pages as Adobe PDFs – a handy file format for books – or Word document files then you could upload them to Zoho Share. If you email your friends the web addresses, they can read them online in a web browser using theZoho Viewer. You can share things without signing up and without installing any software, though I'd suggest you open an account – it's free. Another alternative would be to upload groups of pages, or even whole chapters, to a filesharing site so your friends can download them. Use an archiving program such as WinZip or WinRAR to create a single file for each upload, and add a password to protect your privacy. There are dozens of sites that work well enough for this process, including Rapids­hare, MegaUpload, SendSpace and YouSendIt. For more ­permanent storage, you could try DropBox and similar sites. All of these allow files to be downloaded much faster and far more easily than using filesharing software such as BitTorrent.Finally, you could consider Scribd, whichI wrote about recently. You upload your documents and Scribd converts them to a Flash-based iPaper format that your friends can read full screen. It also lets you form groups, so your friends could have an instant discussion forum, too.AvantGo to stopFor many years I have used AvantGo to download news from guardian.co.uk on to my Palm PDA before setting out from home. The AvantGo service ceases on 30 June, so what alternatives are there?Richard CowlingJS:Some alternatives to AvantGo were described inPalm Tipsheet 29, dated April 2002, but you would have to figure out a way to collect the Guardian pages you want before converting them to the Palm. Insofar as the Guardian has a replacement, it's the mobile version atm.guardian.co.uk. In other words, most people are now using mobile phones rather than PDAs for news on the move. We do, however, deliver some content by email, such as guardian.co.uk Today and The Fiver. You can select the ones you want on theEmail Servicespage.iTunessans DRMPlease confirm that the iTunes DRM [Digital Rights Management] has now been relinquished. An affirmative will allow me to buy an MP3 player. A ­negative means I will have to buy an iPod, which can only partly meet my requirements.Ray StephensJS:Apple saidit would stop using its FairPlay DRM on music tracks by the end of March, and to the best of my knowledge, it no longer does. However, videos may still have DRM protection, as do Audible's audiobook files. Also bear in mind that your MP3 player will need to handle the AAC file format that Apple uses – and not all do. You can "transcode" media files from one format to another, but this involves some loss of quality, however small.More spamI've just had a spam email in which the "from" address was the same as the "to" address, ie mine. The subject was something like Error: returned email. Is this a new wheeze to get round spam filters?Tim GosslingJS:Yes. Internet email systems don't actually use the To: and From: addresses, which can be forged to say anything. The recipient (you) is identified in the headers that are created when the mail software sends the email to the mail server. Mail headers are hard to read, and nowadays, most mail software hides them. The trick works because curiosity may make people more likely to read a message they appear to have sent themselves. Also, you can't really blacklist your own address, though ­content-based blockers should still catch this type of spam. But I wouldn't worry about it unless you have a copy of the same email in your Sent folder.Unwanted softwareWon't using Secunia's Personal Software Inspector or PC Pitstop's tests – both useful – result in what you describeas "unnecessary background programs" being put in the startup sequence? Also, the installation of AnVir Task Manager Free will set the default search engine to Yahoo and install the Dealio toolbar unless you uncheck the boxes! It seems that we need to be vigilant especially when we are being vigilant.Colin HeydonJS:Yes, we do. However, you can run Secunia PSI "on demand": you don't have to run it in the background. If you find it in the startup sequence, You can use AnVir to disable it, though it doesn't consume much in the way of resources. Running the PC Pitstop tests doesn't add any background process that I can find – it runs once in the browser.However, you do have to avoid ­clicking on any of the things PC Pitstop wants to sell you, and as you say, you should avoid Dealio and any other unwanted side-effects from installing AnVir Task ­Manager Free. I'd rather companies didn't take this sort of approach, but it's the usual result of trying to make a profit by providing free software and services.Backchat• Inan answer about Waitrose broadband, I mentioned "smaller ISPs such as Be, NewNet and Zen," Stephen Stannard points out that "Be hasn't been a 'smaller' ISP since it was taken over by O2". He adds: "My experience of O2 Broadband has been so good that I was genuinely surprised, and, as a pay-as-you-go O2 mobile phone user, I pay £7.34 per month for unlimited bandwidth and get an average of 5.5Mbps real-download speed on an 'up to 8MB' connection."
Former Apple executive Jon Rubinstein is taking over day to day operations at Palm, the company said today - succeeding existing chief executive Ed Colligan later this week.Rubinstein - whojoined Palm as executive chairman in 2007- will take over the top role from Colligan, who will in turn move to Elevation Partners, the Silicon Valley investment firm that owns almost half of Palm.In a statement, Rubinstein said he was looking forward to the new challenge."I am very excited about taking on this expanded role at Palm,"he said. "Ed and I have worked very hard together the past two years, and I'm grateful to him for everything he's done to help set the company up for success."The move comes just days after Palmlaunched its new Pre handset, the company's first attempt to provide serious competition for the new generation of smart mobiles, including Apple's iPhone.Rubinstein has been credited with much of the vision behind the Pre, and for injecting a fresh and competitive approach to the business after he was recruited to work with Palm a year after stepping down from his role as head of Apple's iPod division.Insiders say the 53-year-old's role at Palm has been hands-on from the beginning, and that he has been instrumental in hiring hundreds of workers away from Apple to help Palm rebuild its business. One of his first acts after joining the company was to scrap Palm's struggling product lines and plans for the future in favour of re-focusing on a new approach.In an interview with the Guardian earlier this year, Rubinstein said that getting the company back on track was a long-term project that could take as long as 10 years."We're just getting started," he said. "We've been fighting the battle with basically both hands tied behind our back for the past year and half. Now we're getting on the playing field, and we're going to be extremely competitive. But it's the beginning."His plan to build just a handful of high-quality products is one gleaned from more than 15 years spent as one of Steve Jobs' closest lieutenants, helping build the computer company NeXT and then joining Apple in 1997 when Jobs returned to the company he helped found.Rubinstein took over the role as head of Apple's entire hardware operation - running a team that included the company's award-winning designer, Jonathan Ive - before moving to focus on making the iPod a success.After leaving the company in 2006, he was courted by Elevation Partners to take on the job of Palm's executive chairman - famously agreeing to the job while sipping cocktails on a beach in Mexico.Rubinstein will retain the chairman's job as well as taking over the chief executive's role.The move also marks the end of the reign of Colligan, who had worked for Palm before leaving to start rival Handspring in 1998. When that company merged with his old employer in 2003 in a $169m deal, Colligan returned to Palm and became chief executive in 2005.However, he has presided over what many believe is the worst period in the company's history - watching thecompany's profits plungewhile new competitors such as Apple, Google and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion stripped the company of its share of the high-end mobile market.Having once been considered the pioneer of handheld computing, a failure to capitalise on the market's sudden growth has seen Palm lose its crown andwitness revenues fall by more than 70%in the first quarter of this year.The company, which is due to report its latest earnings in two weeks, saw stock climb more than 3% in after hours trading.
Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, will help make government data more easily available online, Gordon Brown said today."So that government information is accessible and useful for the widest possible group of people, I have asked Sir Tim Berners-Lee … to help us drive the opening up of access to government data in the web over the coming month," the prime minister said in a statement about electoral and parliamentary reform.Berners-Lee has been a proponent of better access to data. In a talk to the TED conference in March, pictured above, he said: "People in government departments … hug their database, hold it really close, so they can build a beautiful website to present it. Sure, make a beautiful website, but first give us – all of us – the unadulterated data."The government is known to be working on the creation of a central data source for government data, as introduced by the Obama government."You have no idea about the excuses people come up with to keep data out of your hands, even when you as taxpayers have paid for it," Berners-Lee told the TED talk.
The French judiciary has ridden to the rescue of the country's web users, striking down a controversial new law which would have allowed the state to cut off the internet connections of illegal filesharers for up to a year.The ruling is a blow to French president Nicolas Sarkozy, who had characterised the so-called "three strikes" law as a crucial weapon in the fight against online piracy. The Hadopi law, named after the government agency which was to police the new regime, was also used by many in the content industry as an example that could be followed in the UK.But France's constitutional council ruled today that "free access" to online communications services is a human right and cannot be withheld without a judge's intervention. The council also ruled that the method of policing the web envisaged in the law breaches a citizen's right to privacy.The news comes as the UK's communications minister, Lord Carter, prepares to publish his final Digital Britain report next week. Carter has pledged to safeguard the UK's creative industries against online piracy, but has long maintained that he does not see a so-called 'three strikes' rule as workable.Under the French law, which was passed last month after initial resistance from politicians, persistent illegal filesharers were to be warned by email and then letter that they should stop sharing copyrighted material. If they continued, their internet connection could be cut off for up to a year.A similar system of warnings was introduced in the UK under a deal brokered between some of the UK's internet service providers and the content industry last year. It has not, however, been a success andrecent researchhas shown that only a third of internet users would actually be deterred by such a warning.Carter's Digital Britain report is expected to propose legislation which would codify this warning system. If people persist in illegally sharing files they would then see the speed of their internet connection reduced. Speaking last week – before he was reshuffled into the post of health secretary – the culture secretary, Andy Burnham, said the government intended to apply such "technical measures" to crack down on persistent illegal filesharers, but would stop short of actually cutting off people's internet connections.The French ruling, which comes after the country's Socialist party asked the council to look at the legality of the Hadopi law, is unlikely to have a direct impact on the legality of any UK moves to combat piracy by using technical measures because it is based on a reading of the French constitution, rather than EU law.
Apple announced a new iPhone 3G S on Monday, which created a problem for people who already had an iPhone 3G but who really need the new features, or whose lives are hopelessly incomplete unless they can flash the latest shiny shiny gadget. Well, it was O2's fault, really. The phone company decided that people who wanted to upgrade would have to buy out their existing contract. In other words, it was offering "business as usual" rather than doing them a special deal.Steve Alder, general manager of devices for O2 UK, toldTechRadar:"Having subsidised much (or all -- depending on tariff) of the price of a customer's iPhone 3G, we simply cannot justify invalidating that contract and subsidise a second device for the same customer."Much as we understand the desire of many customers to have the latest version, this would be a loss making deal for O2 and would be a distinct set of business terms for iPhone customers that don't apply to our other customers."In fact, O2 did do a cut-price deal for iPhone users when the iPhone 3G came out, and it will do an iPhone 3G upgrade on its usual terms. The problem is that O2's early upgrade programme is only for people who are 6 months or less from the end of their contracts.The obvious solution, of course, is for O2 to offer iPhones on an annual contract basis, based on the assumption that Apple is going to introduce a new model every year. At the moment, for some buyers, the contract is longer than the useful life of the iPhone.Some Twitter users (egme) have seen rather a lot of pleas to sign an online petition orTwitition(how twee!) that says "we the undersigned petition O2 to offer reasonable iPhone 3GS upgrade and tethering #o2fail". It has 3,902 signatures at the time of writing.There's aparallel petitionthat says: "we the undersigned petition AT&amp;T to offer reasonable iPhone 3GS upgrade prices" with 3,999 signatures. Or twignatures.But as theLA Times says: "In the name of fairness, it should be noted that this movement comprises a vanishingly small fraction of iPhone 3G owners. The company has sold more than 15 million of the second-generation devices since their release last summer."My own view, expressed here several times since2003, is that it should be illegal to subsidise handset sales, as it is in South Korea. The mobile phone market would be a lot healthier if people knew how much heir handsets cost, and bought what they were willing to pay for, and if phone networks had to compete on the price of minutes and the quality of their service. The current system distorts competition in both areas.
For most of the 5,000 attendees at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco this week, the first taste of proceedings came from a familiar face: not Steve Jobs, but John Hodgman, the charmingly nerdy face of "I'm a PC" in America (he's the character played by David Mitchell in the British ads).Hodgman came onto a huge screen and told the crowd they just had to stop being so cutting edge."I want to be the first to wish you a week with some innovation - but not too much," he said. "You've already sold 1bn apps, don't you think that's enough?"The ironic introduction set the tone for announcements largely intended to project the image that Apple's new software - both the forthcoming Snow Leopard version of Mac OS X, and the 3.0 version of the iPhone's system - is bigger and better than anything made by its rivals.Despite the column inches handed over to the hardware launched on Monday, including the new iPhone 3GS, events at the Moscone Center were really focused on software. That shouldn't be surprising, given that programming pays the bills of attendees, but Apple's recent penchant for launching gadgets at WWDC had people waiting expectantly for hardware news.Once all the hubbub was over, however, what did Apple really deliver?Perhaps the most important thing was dates: the iPhone 3.0 software will arrive on 17 June, while Snow Leopard is set to be available in September. This ends the speculation about when consumers might be able to get their hands on what developers are creating behind the scenes.Despite the strict timelines and the refrain of "innovation, innovation, innovation" - though much of Apple's product line-up has been seen already - the iPhone update has been talked about for months, while Snow Leopard was first announced at the same event last year.That didn't stop Apple from pinpointing a variety of new technologies that it is using, and providing more details that made the case for upgrading.For Snow Leopard that boiled down to a few key areas, some, to make a selection of basic activities easier: advanced 64-bit support; multithreading processes to make better use of the power of modern machines; and support for Microsoft Exchange - which could allow Apple to scoop a few more business users.The company made a big push on several applications, including the Safari 4 web browser, that Apple claims is the fastest on the market and up to eight times faster than Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8, and its media player, Quicktime, which has been rewritten and redesigned.These changes may involve major developments under the bonnet but on the surface they appear incremental - one reason, admitted the software boss Bertrand Serlet, that the name Snow Leopard was chosen as the successor to Leopard.Perhaps the biggest surprise was the price. Snow Leopard will cost just $29 in the US, a marked contrast to the $129 that previous major updates have cost. While the price shift is partly a recognition that it is not the most essential upgrade in Mac history, and partly an attack on Windows 7 - due to go on sale just a few weeks later - it is also an unexpected recessionary business manoeuvre. Apple has entrenched itself at the higher end of the market, keeping its profit margins inflated as much as possible. But a $29 upgrade price shows, at least partially, that the company recognises the struggles of some of its customers: it makes upgrading from Leopard a straightforward decision.Access all areasIt is in the iPhone, however, that the company is making the largest strides. According to Apple's vice-president, Scott Forstall, the 3.0 software developers kit now includes access to more than 1,000 APIs - delivering a set of tools that seemed beyond the imagination just a year ago, and allowing them increasingly deep access to the phone.The speed of development on the iPhone is remarkable and the inclusion of new API systems and new services, despite the fact they have nearly all been seen before, impressive.Among the new developments were peer-to-peer connections, largely aimed at allowing iPhone gamers to play against each other; greater access to other iPhone services from inside applications; and better streaming access to enable video and audio over the network. The demonstrations, when they worked, got the crowd cheering with unbridled enthusiasm. Amid all the excitement it is worth highlighting one statistic: that Apple referred proudly to how many people are using OS X.According to Phil Schiller, Apple's  senior vice-president of worldwide product marketing, the installed base of users has tripled in the past three years to around 75 million. Those figures are a little disingenuous as they include the 40 million iPhones and iPod Touch devices that run iPhone OS - a system derived from, but not the same as, its Macintosh cousin.State of playThis leaves the company in a strangely ambiguous position: happy to claim large user figures by glossing over the fact that, if it were to compare like with like, Apple would be left trailing by its rivals.The installed base of Windows Mobile, for example, is only a little bigger than the iPhone OS, at around 50 million, but once you include full computer systems, Microsoft has another 1bn Windows PCs in the bank.That is not to underplay the iPhone's impact, but it does hint at a degree of insecurity on Apple's part - particularly as the company's desktop computer business continues to shrink in the face of its other devices.That is, perhaps, one of the reasons why Apple chose to knuckle down at WWDC and focus on delivering what it had already promised. The pace of change has seen Apple shift rapidly away from what was once its core business - big desktop computers - and to a world full of surprises; one thing that software developers, who need time to prepare for major changes, do not tend to like. For once, they got what they wished for.
Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, will help the British government to make its data more easily available online, Gordon Brown said today."So that government information is accessible and useful for the widest possible group of people, I have asked Sir Tim Berners-Lee who led the creation of the world wide web, to help us drive the opening up of access to Government data in the web over the coming month," the Prime Minister said in astatement about electoral and Parliamentary reform.Sir Tim has been an eager proponent of better access to all forms of government and other data. In atalk to the TED conference in March, shown below, he said: "What you find if you deal with people in government departments is that they hug their database, hold it really close, so that they can build a beautiful website to present it."I would like to suggest: sure, make a beautiful website, but first, give us – all of us – the unadulterated data. We have to ask for raw data now."The government isknown to be workingon the creation of a central data source from which all sorts of government data could be accessed, as has been introduced by the Obama administration in the US.Sir Tim was also critical of the obstacles that national governments put in the way of easy access to data. "You have no idea of about the excuses people come up with to keep data out of your hands, even when you as taxpayers have paid for it," he told the TED talk.Sir Tim originally devised the technologies behind the world wide web in the early 90s while working at the particle collider laboratory at Cern in Switzerland: he was trying to devise a method that would allow researchers to get easy access to documents for a future project they were working on - the Large Hadron Collider, which finally began operation last autumn.
I've noticed some unease - a mild disturbance in the Force, as though a few hundred had had a bad curry - with some people wondering on the blog(s) whether Chatterbox is for some sort of chop.Just to say: no. Absolutely no intention of doing away with Chatterbox. We love you people.So... just keep calm and carry on. And if that's not clear enough...(photo byMarrz13at Flickr)OK? So it's official.
One of the enjoyable side effects of the Wii's success is the second chance afforded to the point and click game, a genre perfected by Lucasarts in the 1990s. The remote's infra red pointer is a perfect fit for the sedate pleasures of these puzzling adventures. Capcom's Zack and Wiki, Ubisoft's revival of the wonderful Broken Sword sequel and Telltale's Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People all make compelling evidence for the argument that there's life in the old dog yet.This second instalment in the Secret Files series starts agreeably enough, with an elderly priest attacked by a trio of Splinter Cell rejects and the promise of derivative but enjoyable Da Vinci Code shenanigans beneath the dated visuals and basic production values. But it's not long before the cracks begin to show. More than any other genre, point and clicks rely on the quality of their script and actors, and Secret Files 2: Puritas Cordis, translated from the German original, sinks almost immediately beneath a sea of cliches, bad jokes, irritating characters and weak voice acting.Most damaging is the absurdity of the puzzles. The best examples of the genre balance the need for lateral thinking with the internal logic of the world, but Secret Files' bland realism points up the artificiality of its tasks. Again and again the game refuses to allow the player to carry out the most logical solution. Need to find a ping pong ball to stop a bored child from playing the bongos? Try building a scale model of a Belgian landmark. Too often on your travels, from Indonesia to Paris, you're reduced to searching for hotspots on the screen or arbitrarily combining objects in the hope that you'll find the answer to a particularly perverse puzzle. While the developers might argue that they've thoughtfully included a hint system, it's no compensation for a lack of satisfying, clever challenges.As a final insult, for a genre based on backtracking, encountering loading screens between every single (mostly static) location makes even the simplest task teeth-grindingly slow. Even if you're desperate to play a point and click adventure, it's difficult to recommend a game that suffers in comparison to examples released over a decade before.
PSP Go and some interesting exclusives meant Sony had a confident E3 show. But Microsoft and Nintendo are attacking from both sides and the PS3 still has a lot to prove. I spoke to Playstation global boss Kaz Hirai about all things Playstation including why core gamers are crucial to PS3 and why he thinks iPhone games just don't compare to those offered by the PSP Go.What were your impressions of this year's E3?I think anecdotally and seeing what I have of the show it feels about the right size. I think it grew too big and too quickly with all the parties and showbiz. It got out of hand. The last two years the pendulum swung the other way though so I think the organisers have got the right balance this year.Is Playstation becoming as much about services as hardware and games?We've always been less about the hardware and more about what people can do with it. Back when we started with the original Playstation it was all about playing games. With PS2 it was DVD that came into focus. Now we're talking about a number of things players can do in addition to games. Connectivity to the network and service are features of the Playstation Network (PSN). As technology advances there are more things you can do. Technology drives these things but for us it has always been about content.When PSP Go launches you will continue selling and supporting the original PSP – why? Will it not cause confusion?It's about giving options to the consumers. For a start there will be a price difference between the two. (The Go will be more expensive). But some consumers like to collect a library of games and are happy to go out and buy physical media. But there are some consumers who want less bulk and like the lighter features of the Go. The Go has 16GB flash and you can store around 8-10 games on it, maybe more. Compare that to carrying around all those discs and cases and there is clearly a big convenience factor. We're not trying lasso people into the Go, it's all about giving a choice. The PSP 3000 is still key for usHow risky is it to go download only with the Go?From a timing perspective now feels right. The PSN launched in 2006 and 2007 and it's got to the point now where we have 24 million registered accounts and 450 million pieces of content downloaded. PS3 and PSP users are now used to downloading and getting content. Given the growth of the network we felt it was the right time to announce the Go.How much influence has the success of the iPhone and the app store had on your decision to launch the Go?That has nothing to do with our decision. Everyone talks about the app store having games but the types of games the app store offers are completely different from the game experience we are presenting to consumers on the PSP. Look at Gran Turismo or Metal Gear Solid: Peacewalker. These are games that are meant to be played on devices like the PSP where you have physical buttons. There are some fun games on the app store but they are often limited. Soft on-screen buttons are totally different to proper controls. Games are all called "games" but the ones on the app store are not comparable to the ones on PSP.How important is the casual gaming market for you?We've sold nearly 52 million units of PSP worldwide and clearly we have engaged with the core gaming audience. But to grow the market we do need to attract more casual or light games players to expand the install base even further. So we hope announcements like the Hannah Montana PSP will really help here.Motion controllers were big news at E3. Is motion control the future of gaming?It all depends on what the content creators can do with these new input devices and how they can express their creativity. Plus it is vitally important to see how these new games get accepted by consumers. We're confident about our device. It tracks 1-to-1 but also depth as well. I've spoke to a lot of publishers and they are very excited about this. It all depends on what designers and game makers can do but we're very excited by the device and pleased by the response to the demo.Nintendo talked a lot about attracting "everyone" to gaming while your press conference was very much focussed on the core gamer. Do you feel that Sony needs to do this to reconnect as little with gamers who may have defected to other systems over the last few years?It really depends on where you in the life-cycle of a console. We have always started with the core audience and then expanded. A console always needs a solid core of games that appeal to gamers. Look at God of War. We launched that in the seventh year of the Playstation 2 and a lot of people wondered why we did. It's because we always wanted to keep the support of the core gaming audience. The PS3 is only a quarter way through a 10-year life cycle. So we want to make sure that we are supporting and exciting the core gamers. That's not to say we're not doing anything to expand the demographics. Singstar and Buzz are obvious examples. But we need to do this in a controlled way. If you go mainstream too quickly and don't support the core gaming audience then you lack the pillar to support your platform.  Without this pillar you end up with a fickle audience that might be big but will probably move on. This is fine if you're looking at a 5 year life cycle like all of our competitors, even looking back in history, have always done. The new console comes out and the old one is immediately disregarded. We tend to take a longer term view of how we manage the platform and the software titles that come out at any given time.In hindsight was the inclusion a Blu-ray drive in the PS3 a mistake?Purely from a gaming standpoint there was no other choice for us. Why? The capacity of the disc. Last year's Metal Gear Solid 4 was pushing 50GB as it was. If it was on DVD it would have been a 6 disc set. The packaging and cost would have been prohibitive and it would have been hugely inconvenient to consumers. So from a gaming standpoint there was really no choice if you wanted a high definition gaming experience. Kojima-san has been pushing the boundaries already.  And then there is the motion picture issue. The PS3 installed base certainly went a long way to making the movie studios side with Blu-ray rather then HD-DVD or supporting both. Ultimately it ended up being the right thing for the entirety of the industry as consumers don't need to hedge their bets. We had a lot to do with making Blu-ray the de-facto standard. That's great. But our decision to include a Blu-ray drive in the ps3 was mainly driven by gaming priorities and what the content creators could do with the storage space.How important are platform exclusive games?When we look at first party titles we want to make sure they are as good as they can be. With regard to 3rd parties we need to decide whether the title, if it were to be exclusive, would be a platform driver for us. And if it is then we need to talk about marketing opportunities. But just because something is exclusive it doesn't necessarily mean it will drive platform sales and that's ultimately what is most important.How important is PS2?PS2 sold 9 million last year, and we are planning for 5 million this. So the software and peripheral business as well makes it a very important and profitable business for us. We're in the PS2 business as long as there is demand for the console. It does fly under the radar from a media perspective but retail is very keen.The PS3 had a difficult launch period. Why was this and in hindsight what you have done differently?Given the circumstances that we had we needed to make some tough decisions. Looking back if we could have done it again we probably would have not gone for the simultaneous worldwide launch. Given the cards that we were dealt we felt we made the best of the launch that we could have. But remember that the success of a platform isn't based on the launch. It's more about the latter half of its life cycle. Look at the PS2. Nearly 10 years since launch and 140 million units later it has obviously been a huge success. But to look at the PS2 two years into its life cycle and not know what the next eight years would hold it would have been premature to judge. For other consoles which have a five year life cycle it is much easier to judge performance after two years. But for us, with the 10 year life cycle we have, it is premature to judge after such a short time.The PS3 and PSP have always had numerous non-gaming features that feel a little underused – Remote Play is one. Do all these features take the focus of the PS3/PSP away from gaming?I've always said the PSP and especially the PS3 are first and foremost videogame consoles. But why stop there? Even if we had the most successful videogame console around I'd say I'd seen that movie and that movie was PS2. Why do we want to repeat that? So we need to expand our horizons. This is both from a gameplay experience but also because of the additional features. We want consumers to ultimately benefit from using these features. We want PS3 owners to use the photo gallery software or Blu-ray or remote play. Remote play is a good example. We want to offer that remote play functionality to content creators so they can – if they choose – add it to their games. We can't force that technology on creators but we can say that the technology is there if you wish to use it. Of course, whether the creators who design games for 32 inch + HD TVs want their content to appear on the smaller PSP screen is clearly a discussion point. But it's a creative issue rather than a technical one.Will the PS3 go download only?Let's say we took out the drive so PS3 is network only. What happens when Kojima-san comes out with a new Metal Gear Solid game? Do consumers want to wait for a 50GB download? I think they would rather go the store and pick up a copy. The file sizes for a HD PS3 game are much heavier than a PSP game. Conceptually it may make sense to remove the Blu-Ray drive but in reality it doesn't make sense. Also we never want to be in the position where countries without super fast broadband connections are locked out of the Playstation business because the PS3 has gone download only.Do you feel aggrieved about Singstar and Buzz essentially creating the casual market on the consoles only for the Wii to step in and reap the rewards?Buzz and Singstar have been huge successes for us. And if we opened some doors for the industry then we have done a good service to the games industry. This industry is all about creativity. If other companies come up with something we think looks fun then we may look at it too. It's all about creativity. Look at the Eyetoy. We've had phenomenal success with that on PS2. If Microsoft decides they want to do that for 360 then great, that's fantastic. It's all about what excites the consumer. I don't feel aggrieved at all – it's all about making sure we have great content for the consumer.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
EA boss John Riccitiello has beentalkingabout the motion control, surely the most fashionable gaming subject of the moment. Referring to Microsoft'sProject Natal, Riccitello says that EA were looking at a similar system.We almost invested to create a platform extension like that for some of the games we're working on. We're very pleased, frankly, that it showed up at Microsoft, because I'd rather them pay for that. They can leverage it better, and we can build software. But I felt the market wanted that technology and I'm glad it's coming. We were looking at a camera system. In fact we were looking at the camera system they ended up going with. That technology's pretty compelling. I don't think it applies to all genres of games. We thought packing it with some things we're working on in our studios, maybe sports and music, made a lot of sense.Riccitello then contradicts himself slightly by realizing that playing sports games on something like Natal may not be practical over long periods of time.  Or, as he puts it, a 75-minute session on FIFA would be "frigging tiring."  And action games fare just as badly.I'm not sure that anybody wants to play Splinter Cell and actually duck-and-cover as much as is involved in Splinter Cell, because it'd be like doing 700 squats.So what do you think then? Excited by the potential of motion control gaming or happy to stick with your pad for the foreseeable?
A coalition of creative industries organisations, including the UK's biggest trade union, Amicus/Unite, have increased the pressure on the government to act against illegal downloading in next week's final Digital Britain report, warning that a failure to do so could lead to large job losses in TV, film and music across the UK.The lobbying effort is backed by more than 15 organisations from the creative industries and, for the first time, Amicus/Unite and the Trade Union Congress.In a letter to today's Daily Telegraph, the creative industries coalition urges the prime minister, Gordon Brown, to ensure a tough stance is taken in the final Digital Britain report, due to be published by the communications minister, Lord Carter, on Tuesday.The letter argues that illegal filesharing is not a "victimless crime" but one that results in revenue losses that mean "fewer films, songs and TV programmes [will be] able to be commissioned"."Job losses will be felt right across the chain, from production to distribution, from technicians to manufacturers and from logistics companies to staff in high street shops," states the co-signed letter."The government report is Gordon Brown's golden opportunity to tackle this growing threat and, at the 11th hour, to save the future of the UK creative industries."Other organisations that have signed the letter include the independent TV and film producers' trade body Pact, the broadcasting and entertainment union Bectu, the Musicians' Union, and the UK music industry trade body, the BPI.Carter's interim Digital Britain report,published in January, outlined proposals to introduce legislation to standardise a process in which internet service providers would send warning letters to illegal filesharers and collect information on "serious repeat offenders". The rights holders could then individually pursue offenders through the court system.The creative industries coalition argues, however, that much stronger measures must be introduced if the government were serious about reducing illegal filesharing of music, TV and film content byup to 80% in two to three years, as it has stated in a leaked letter by Baroness Vadera last year.The coalition wants to see ISPs forced to follow up the warning letters with technical measures such as slowing internet connections, restricting access to certain websites or even temporary suspension of web access, to "deter and redirect offenders to legal alternatives"."There is no doubt among members of our unions, as well as the coalition of rights-holders who voice the consensus of the creative industries, that filesharing poses a serious but utterly avoidable threat to jobs," said Brendan Barber, the general secretary of the Trades Union Congress."This is through films never made, tracks never recorded and content never invested in. ISPs hold the key to creating the step change necessary to tackle illegal filesharing."For the vast majority, simply drawing attention to the illegality of their actions would be sufficient, but this needs to be backed by further graduated technical measures for those who do not change their behaviour."The letterwas co-signed by:Brendan Barber, general secretary of the Trades' Union Congress; Derek Simpson and Tony Woodley, joint general secretaries, Amicus/Unite; Christine Payne, general secretary, equity and director general of the Federation of Entertainment Unions; John Smith, general secretary, Musicians' Union; Gerry Morrissey, general secretary, Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph and Theatre Union; Benjamin King, chief executive, Publishers' Association; Susie Winter, director general, Alliance Against IP Theft; John McVay, chief executive, Producers' Association for Cinema and Television; Geoff Taylor, chief executive, British Phonographic Industry; Suzan Dormer, chief executive, Directors' UK; Phil Clapp, chief executive, Cinema Exhibitors' Association; Mark Batey, chief executive, Film Distributors' Association; Lavinia Carey, director general, British Video Association; and Kieron Sharp, chief executive, Federation Against Copyright Theft.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
&bull; Facebook - which famously encourages people to use their real identities online - is taking a strange turn byby letting people sign up for vanity urls- facebook.com/bobbiejohnson, for example. The site's already become the main lens through which millions of people view the web, and it'll be interesting to see the fight when thelandrush begins on Friday. What does it mean? Not sure, but Chris Messina worries that"companies are racing to achieve namespace dominance over your online profile".&bull; Space fans should keep their eyes on the sky tonight -Japan's Kaguya orbiter is set to crash into the lunar surface at 18.30 GMT, says New Scientist.&bull; Talking of crazy Japanese stuff, Bouncing Red Ball has the details of a130 megapixel camerabuilt out of a Canon lens and a flatbed scanner by Japanese camera enthusiastspyuge. Truly incredible.  (viaBoingBoing Gadgets)You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Sending warning letters to people who download illegally copied music, TV shows and films from the internet will do little to stop them, according to research published today.Under a government-brokered deal last year some internet providers sent letters to persistent illegal file-sharers warning that their actions could land them in court, but according to the 2009 Digital Entertainment Survey, only a third of internet users consider the letters a deterrent. That was down from 70% inthe same survey last year.Asked whether the threat of having their internet connection cut off would stop them, four out of five internet users said they would stop downloading illegally.The survey, by specialist media lawyers Wiggin, comes as Lord Carter prepares to publish his final Digital Britain report, which will include measures intended to stop Britain's creative industries being washed away by the tide of online piracy.Lord Carter has promised legislation to combat piracy and it is expected to codify the scheme under which warning letters are sent to illegal file-sharers."The findings of this report show that letter-sending alone will not be enough and that much more needs to be done if there is to be a real reduction in unlawful file-sharing," said Simon Baggs, litigation partner at Wiggin.The film and music industries believe that with an estimated 6 million people in Britain illegally sharing files, the suggestion they should pursue all pirates through the courts is ­unworkable and Britain should instead follow the lead of France's recently passed Hadopi law, disconnecting persistent illegal file-sharers for a year.Butspeaking last week– before he was reshuffled into the post of health secretary – culture secretary Andy Burnham said the government did not support such draconian measures. Instead it wants to apply "technical measures" to crack down on persistent illegal file-sharers . The music and film industry has been lobbying Lord Carter in recent weeks aboutintroducing online "speed humps", which would involve ISPs slowing the internet connections of persistent illegal file-sharers. It is this sort of "technical measure" which is expected to be included in the final Digital Britain report, with the new legislation overseen by Ofcom.Many in the ISP industry believe such measures will not deter pirates, who will merely disguise their traffic or turn to other ways of sharing content. Last week Carphone Warehouse chief executive Charles Dunstone, whose TalkTalk unit has campaigned hard against attempts to get Britain's ISPs to police the web, likened battling the pirates to a Tom and Jerry cartoon."The mouse always wins in this battle and we need to be careful that politicians do not get talked into putting legislation in place that, in the end, ends up looking stupid," he said.Instead Dunstone, like many in the ISP industry, reckons the only way to secure creative industries is by building compelling services that consumers will pay for.But consumers do not appear much excited by the idea of paying. The survey, designed and analysed by Entertainment Media Research in association with paidContent:UK which is owned by Guardian Media Group, asked consumers to say what they would pay for if currently free pirated material was made unavailable. Less than half were willing to pay for anything, with movies and TV in high-definition, at £3 a month, and unlimited TV on demand – at £8 a month – scoring highest, with 48% of consumers.Most people would prefer their content to be free and backed up by advertising. Only recent movies not yet out on DVD were rated as worth paying for.Only a quarter of the 1,500 internet users polled would consider paying for TV, a fact that may be connected with the runaway success of the BBC iPlayer. Only 13% of respondents had not heard of the iPlayer, A third of them, in contrast, had never heard of Channel 4's catch-up service, 4oD, although that is likely to change next monthwhen the broadcaster fills it with far more content.The survey also showed that the social networking bubble may be deflating, with all the major social networks in decline except Facebook and Twitter. The number of people with a MySpace profile is down from 39% in the same survey last year to 21% this year, while Friends Reunited is used by 25% compared with 36% last year. The number of people with profiles on Bebo, meanwhile, is 13%, down from 24% in the 2008 survey. Facebook has held up well with 54% of respondents maintaining a profile compared with 55% last year while Twitter has gone from nowhere in 2008 to 11% of consumers polled using the micro-blogging site in 2009.Part of the reason may be that 40% of respondents with a social network profile said they preferred having one social network site for everything. Facebook appears to be becoming that one site for at least half the people surveyed."The social network market is settling down," said Alexander Ross, music and technology partner at Wiggin. "There appears to be a distinct gravitational effect towards a single network, and right now that network is Facebook."
The influence of the Stanford University computer scientist Rajeev Motwani, who has been found dead in the swimming pool of his California home, at the age of 47, stretched beyond Silicon Valley to affect the lives of millions of people around the world.Known among his peers as having a brilliant mind, Motwani was an award-winning professor whose work in data mining and algorithms scooped a string of accolades, including the prestigious G&ouml;del prize (2001). But it was in his role as a mentor and adviser to some of the world's most powerful technology companies - including his pivotal part in the development of the internet search engine Google - that he made the greatest impact. He had a critical role in assisting the graduate research of the Google founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page, encouraging the duo and helping them develop the systems that made them billionaires, so kickstarting what has probably become the pre-eminent company of the 21st century.Like many of America's pioneering technologists, Motwani was an immigrant, born in the Indian border city of Jammu to a military family. With his father in the army, the family moved regularly, but the young Rajeev was soon sent to the St Columba's boys' school in New Delhi. He showed an aptitude for numbers at an early age, and soon expressed a desire to become a mathematician, inspired partly by the family's collection of biographies of famous scientists, including his hero, the 19th-century German genius Carl Gauss.When the time came to consider university, however, Motwani's family encouraged him to study computer science, which was a sideways move that they saw as more stable and lucrative than pure mathematics. Despite his protestations, Motwani enrolled at the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur and swiftly discovered that computer science was, after all, a highly mathematical discipline.By the time he graduated in 1983, the home-computer explosion was in full swing, and he moved continents to conduct research for a PhD (1988) at the University of California, Berkeley. Within a few years he became a professor at Stanford, the institution that spawned companies including Hewlett- Packard, Cisco and Sun Microsystems and has a unique role at the heart of California's hi-tech industry.Thus Motwani was at the academic summit of technology, and over the years oversaw the work of many students as director of graduate studies in the computer science department, and became involved in fields such as robotics, data manipulation and even drug design. However, his most profound impact came when he played a role in guiding the work of Brin and Page. As an expert on data mining and algorithms, Motwani saw an incredible opportunity in the worldwide web, and helped start a number of classes and groups at Stanford aimed at investigating how to apply the mathematical principles he had worked on to the online world.When approached by Brin for advice, he was initially sceptical that a new web search engine could make a difference in a crowded market. However, he saw something different in their work and co-authored several papers that developed their strategy for finding information online - taking on the role of informal adviser to Google as a result. In return for his involvement, Motwani was rewarded with a stake in the company, a relationship that paid off when Google reached the stockmarket in 2004, making Page and Brin billionaires and reaping great rewards for himself.Although Motwani did not get the mainstream recognition that his former students achieved, the experience turned him even further towards helping nascent technologists and he found entrepreneurial zest intoxicating. As an adviser and investor to a string of other companies, including the internet payments service PayPal and venture capital firm Sequoia Capital, he quickly became one of the best-connected figures behind the scenes in Silicon Valley.Motwani gained a reputation for never turning away a question and going out of his way to help any entrepreneur who asked him for advice. Confident but not brash, unlike many of his peers, he was described by his friend Ron Conway, another technology investor, as "one of the smartest people who has ever existed in Silicon Valley". By the time he was interviewed by Business India in 2007, Motwani had a different way to describe himself: a "startup junkie".He is survived by his wife, Asha Jadeja, and daughters Naitri and Anya.• Rajeev Motwani, computer scientist, born 26 March 1962; died 5 June 2009
Applelaunched the iPhone 3GS yesterday, and last weekend, Palm also distributed the goods across the US in the form of their much-anticipated Pre smartphone. Have these devices finally graduated from the geek community to the mainstream?Bobbie Johnsonanalyses both and asks whether this one-horse race finally has some competition.We'll also be peeking at the diary of Steve Jobs, well, the Fake Steve Jobs, that is. Our correspondent Kevin Anderson tracked writerDaniel Lyonsdown and asked him what was so funny about impersonating one of the most revered tech geeks in the world.Aleks Krotoskiis joined by Charles Arthur, the Guardian's technology editor, andDan Sungfrom Shiny Media.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Mobile network O2 has reacted to protests by customers who became angry after it emerged that the new iPhone 3GS could prove substantially more expensive than its predecessor.The new iPhone handset,unveiled by Apple yesterday in San Francisco, goes on sale next Friday and sports increased memory, new software and an improved, video-capable camera. But according to price plans from O2 - which has an exclusive deal to act as the iPhone operator in the UK - buyers could pay substantially more than they did for the previous model.This has upset many customers, who are airing their grievances online through hundreds of messages on blogs, forums and social networks.A string of Facebook protest groups have sprung up, while some angry customers haveset up online petitionsand are circulating the email addresses of senior O2 executives in an attempt to force them to reduce prices.Their argument is that the iPhone 3GS is markedly more expensive than its predecessor, and that existing O2 customers who want to upgrade will have to pay hundreds of pounds for the privilege.The company responded to its critics by saying that its prices were consistent, telling the Guardian that British iPhone buyers - who can only officially use their handsets on the O2 network - are "not going to find a better deal anywhere else".A spokesman for O2 admitted that there was a premium of around £25 for the new model, but that the company was simply trying to offer the best option to customers."We understand that everyone wants to get the new device, but we have to treat iPhone customers the same as anyone else," he said. "All our iPhone tariffs are the best value: you're not going to find a better deal anywhere else."The figures show that when the new model comes out on June 19, buying an iPhone will become more expensive in a number of areas.At the lower end of the scale, buying an older model iPhone 3G has become marginally less expensive than before, with the existing 8GB handset dropping in price by £2 - and available free to those willing to spend at least £44 each month on their contract.At the upper end, however, the new iPhone 3GS appears to be significantly more expensive than its predecessor. For consumers who choose the most popular tariffs, a new iPhone 3GS will cost £184.98: almost £26 more than the previous model.Customers looking to buy the top-end version of the 3GS - which boasts 32GB of memory, enough to store 40 hours of video - are also being asked to spend significantly more than they did for the equivalent model a year ago. Under the most popular call plans, will have to spend £274.23; last summer, the most expensive iPhone 3G model cost £159.Prices are lower for those willing to sign an extended two year contract - but in order to get a 32GB iPhone 3GS for free, customers must sign up to pay at least £73 each month for 24 months.The O2 spokesman said that the company was working hard to keep its contract prices stable, and that many existing iPhone owners would be eligible for an upgrade."All the price plans are the same, it's the hardware that has changed," he said. "We set the pricing on a variety of factors - not least of which is the wholesale price that Apple charges us."However, he was unable to say whether this increased price was a result of an increase in the price levied by Apple, or if it had been introduced by O2.Some shoppers had alsovoiced anger over O2's pricing for the new iPhone's tethering service, which allows customers to link their phone and computer together to surf the web - instead of plugging in a 3G wireless dongle into their laptop for mobile broadband access.The company will charge users around £15 on top of their contract each month for the option to download up to 3GB of data - enough to stream around three and a half hours of video from a service like the BBC's iPlayer.The company said that some price comparisons were unfair because they pitted the iPhone's monthly tethering charge against a recent promotional deal for mobile broadband - but that customers could not expect to get such a service for free."If you're connecting to the web using tethering, this has huge implications for us," he said. "We are not able to include tethering within the existing unlimited data plan due to the larger data requirements of laptops and impact this would have on our network."
It's a modern nightmare. Your hard drive starts making a funny noise. Just as you're wondering where you put that helpline number … blue screen of death. You take your computer to an expert who shakes their head slowly and says: "Total hard drive failure. I hope you're backed up."It's Tuesday. Do you know where your backups are?Hard drives typicallyhave alife expectancy of five yearsor so. But from year two onwards your hard drive has about an 8-10% chance of failing every year. And every hard drive will eventually fail.Given this, I'm astonished by the number of people I know who don't have a comprehensive back-up strategy in place. I know a writer – who earns her entire living from the words stored on her hard drive – who says: "I send the files to my Gmail account when I think of it." This is not a backup strategy. Nothing that relies on your memory is a strategy.Even people who are meticulous about backups at work can fail to arrange them at home. I know an IT professional who says he doesn't bother backing up his home computer at all because "everything on there is downloaded". Fine, but would you want to download it all again? And have you checked every file to make sure it's replaceable? If there are any files at all stored on your computer, don't try to sift through and decide which are important, back them all up.It's ridiculously easy to set up a system that fulfils these two criteria: automatic, total back up. Mac users have Time Machine, although they'd be advised tomake a bootable system clonetoo. Windows users have a variety of options, some of which are listed in aLifehacker article.And yet not everyone does it. A recent survey suggested that87% of home computer users back up their data once every two or three monthsor less frequently.Perhaps the problem is that we're just not used to thinking of data as being easy to lose forever. Even if you dropped a handwritten manuscript into the bath, you'd probably still be able to read enough of it to make a fresh copy.But this isn't a new problem. The annals of literature are littered with examples of authors who managed to destroy the only copy of their work even though employing a copyist – not financially impossible for the likes of TE Lawrence, who lost the first manuscript of Seven Pillars of Wisdom at Reading train station – would have preserved their work.I suspect this isn't so much a technological issue as a psychological one. We put off backing up for the same reason that we put off doctor's appointments to investigate that strange lump. We don't want to acknowledge the possibility that bad things can happen. They can, of course. No matter how many backups you have, there's still a faint chance that they'd all be destroyed in the same day.But magical thinking won't bring your data back. Simple, comprehensive solutions are available at the cost – at most – of an external hard drive and a piece of software. So, if you don't have one already, go and set up an automatic backup system right now. You'll thank me later.
The music industry does like to insist that filesharing - aka illegal downloading - is killing the industry: that every one of the millions of music files downloaded each day counts as a "lost" sale, which if only it could somehow have been prevented would put stunning amounts of money into impoverished artists' hands. And, of course, music industry bosses' wallets. But we won't mention that.Take thestory that appearedin this paper last week:At least 7 million people in Britain use illegal downloads, costing the economy billions of pounds and thousands of jobs, according to a report.Shared content on one network was worth about £12bn a year according to the research commissioned by the Strategic Advisory Board for Intellectual Property.David Lammy, minister for intellectual property, said: "Illegal downloading robs our economy of millions of pounds every year and seriously damages business and innovation throughout the UK. "It is something that needs tackling, and we are serious about doing so."Well, up to a point, minister. Ben Goldacretook apart the rather dodgy calculationsbehind the claims on Saturday.But it left me wondering. Why does the music industry persist in saying that every download is a lost sale? If you even think about it, it can't be true. People - even downloaders - only have a finite amount of money. In times gone by, sure, they would have been buying vinyl albums. But if you stopped them downloading, would they troop out to the shops and buy those songs?I don't think so. I suspect they're doing something different. I think they're spending the money on something else.What else, I mused, might they be buying? Hmm... young.. like the entertainment industry... ah, how about computer games and DVDs? Thus began a hunt for the figures for UK sales of games and of DVDs and of music to see if there was any consistent relationship between them. And since this was about filesharing, it seemed sensible to analyse it since 1999 - when Napster started and blew up the CD business model.(It's surprising how hard it was to find these statistics. You'd think someone like ELSPA, the European Leisure Software Publishers' Association, would have them. Nope: instead initially I had to track them via press releases. The BPI, representing British record labels, said that it didn't have numbers going back before 2004, which seemed a bit 1984-ish to me; it turns out the BPI doesn't like to release those figures because it changed the methodology for recording sales in 2004, effectively reducing the number. At least DVD data are easily obtained from the British Video Association and the UK Film Council. Thank you.)The first clue of where all those downloaders are really spending their money came in searching for games statistics: year after year ELSPA had hailed "a record year". In fact if you look at the graph above, you'll see that games spend has risen dramatically - from £1.18bn in 1999 to £4.03bn in 2008.Meanwhile music spending (allowing for that * of adjustment in 2004 onwards) has gone from £1.94bn to £1.31bn.DVD sales and rentals, meanwhile, have nearly doubled, from a total of £1.286bn in 1999 to £2.56bn in 2008.If we assume that there's roughly the same amount of discretionary spending available (which, even allowing for the credit bubble, should be roughly true; most of the credit went into houses), then it's clear who the culprit is: the games industry. By 2009, the amount spent in games and music is almost exactly the same as 1999 (though note that the music industry changed its methods from 2004).Yes, downloaders aren't spending money on the music industry, and in that way they are hurting it. But I'd argue that the true volume of "lost" sales is nowhere near the claims made. Assume that music couldn't be copied (as many games can't). I don't think that the volume of music sales would equate to all those downloads. At best, it would be £600m larger.But the reality is that nowadays, one can choose between a game costing £40 that will last weeks, or a £10 CD with two great tracks and eight dud ones. I think a lot of people are choosing the game - and downloading the two tracks. That's real discretion in spending. It's hurting the music industry, sure. But let's not cloud the argument with false claims about downloads.DATA: UK sales of music, DVDs and videogames• Can you do something with this data? Please post us your visualisations and mashups below or mail us atdatastore@guardian.co.ukSee all our data at the Datastore directory•Follow us on Twitter
A game based on the latest Terminator film is not that enticing a prospect: McG's noisy blockbuster is by all accounts a stinker, and decent movie licences are a famously rare breed. It's therefore quite a surprise to discover that Terminator Salvation for the iPhone and iPod Touch is actually pretty good.The aim of this third person shooter is to stomp around an impressively rendered post-nuclear LA blasting an assortment of malevolent robots with some big guns – and that's pretty much it. With limitless ammo and extremely linear progress it feels almost like a rail shooter, and the fact that it's not that challenging or immersive is beside the point; the developers were clearly going for quick, arcade-type thrills, and that's what you get in spades.The controls can be a little awkward and unresponsive, and at under two hours to complete it's undeniably short. However, there's definte replay value thanks to an achievement set, some unlockable content and the uncomplicated fun of the gameplay, and at around the same price as a ticket to see Terminator Salvation at the cinema, this could well be a better use for your money.
As you may expect, The Sims 3 is all about milking EA's mighty cash cow more efficiently – so much so that you now have to click past the online store to even play the game.However, there are some significant improvements – including a truly open world of linked neighbourhoods, more occupations to try and a new Trait system that provides personal goals and ultimately defines your score.Graphically, it looks and plays better than ever (albeit at the expense of longer loading times) while the social shenanigans remain inventive, amusing but unashamedly repetitive. Sims 3 won't win many new fans, but it's easily the best in the series – which will doubtless send it storming up the charts.
You can blame Diablo 2. Released in 2000, Blizzard's seminal hack'n'slash roleplaying game was of such high quality that it scared off most competitors. Only 2005's low-key PC title Titan Quest and last year's Sacred 2 have come close to mimicking its addictive charms. And that's on the PC.Console owners have had even less chance to play, so the release of Sacred 2 on the 360/PS3 is good news. The action is viewed mainly from above, with your character battling through a cliched – yet pretty – fantasy world. Quests involve killing, fetching and escorting and the rewards allow you to upgrade your character's stats and gear. Simple, yes, but addictively effective. Online play works well too, with four players able to play together.But there is a lack of polish; the tutorial is ineffective, and inventory management – crucial in a game like this – is woefully inadequate. But despite this, the lure of exploring a huge world with friends is hard to ignore.
A little early for Wimbledon it may be – you can blame the impending release of EA Sports' hugely promising Grand Slam Tennis on the Wii for that – but Virtua Tennis 2009 is more than welcome.As with all tennis titles, the game can be picked up and played very easily. But practice is necessary for some of the more effective shots, particularly when competing online.Multiplayer is the predictable highlight, with online play working well. As always, though, be prepared to come up against opponents with more time to practice than you'll ever have. Get a friend to play and the entertainment goes up tenfold.It's hard to get too excited about the look, but the visuals are bright and sharp. Unfortunately the players – Murray, Nadal, et al – still look like they live in the uncanny valley and the retro metal guitar soundtrack grates.It may lack the ease of Wii Tennis, but for depth and entertainment Virtua Tennis is hard to beat. The ball is now firmly in EA's court.
Trips, falls and head injuries related to the use of computers at home have increased eightfold in the last decade, and young children are the most likely to be injured, according to researchers.US scientists studied records in the country's National Electronic Injury Surveillance System, which records computer-related injuries from 1994 to 2006, 93% of which occurred at home. In the 13 years that data was available, researchers found that the total number of injuries increased by 732% in a period when household computer ownership increased only fourfold.The most common injuries were caused by hitting computer equipment or by the equipment falling on to the victim. There were also cases of strained muscles or joints when moving equipment.The computer monitor was the biggest culprit. Between 1994 and 2003, monitor-related injuries rose from just under 12% of cases to 37% in 2003. By 2006, this had dropped to around 25%, most likely due to the introduction of smaller, lighter, flat-panel LCD displays.Children under five were most at risk from tripping or falling, accounting for 43% of such cases and people over 60 made up another 37% of this injury group. Children under 10 had most injuries to the head. The results of the study are published today in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine.Lara B McKenzie of the Nationwide Children's Hospital Centre for Injury Research and Policy in Columbus, Ohio, who led the study, said: "Future research on acute computer-related injuries is needed as this ubiquitous product becomes more intertwined in our everyday lives. More information is needed on the types of computers and equipment used, the layout of these systems, and the furniture utilised in order to develop household-safety practices in this area."The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (Rospa) said that many of the injuries in computer accidents are minor – bumps, bruises and cuts – and can easily be prevented and "that inconvenient trip to A&amp;E avoided".The government collected data on computer-related accidents in the UK until 2002. In that year, 2,100 people went to an accident and emergency department after an accident at home involving a computer, up from 800 in 1995. Around 30% of the incidents in 2002 involved children under 15."Accidents always happen more easily when you're rushing, so if you're carrying a computer do take care to look where you're going and don't try to lift too much equipment in one go," Rospa said. "Make sure computers are well-positioned so they cannot be pulled over by inquisitive children. And, as with all types of electrical equipment, watch out for trailing cables."
O2 has surprised iPhone owners and would-be buyers by saying that it will impose a £15 per month "data charge" on users of its new iPhone 3GS or the existing iPhone 3G if they want to use the phone as a computer modem.The prices being charged are greater than those O2 itself is charging for "mobile broadband" dongles with the same data allowances.O2 has also told owners of existing iPhones - such as the 3G version released last July, which came with a minimum 18-month contract - that they will have to wait for their existing contracts to run out before being eligible for an upgrade. Last year, when the 3G replaced the first version of the iPhone, O2 allowed immediate upgrades.And the carrier has not dropped its prices on the iPhone 3G - even though Apple last night dropped its prices in the US. The cheapest iPhone 3G, with 8GB of storage, still costs just under £99 for an 18-month contract costing just under £30 per month. Buying the phone outright costs £342.The cheapest iPhone 3GS, with 16GB of storage, will cost £185 with an 18-month contract costing £30 per month.Although the iPhone itself comes with an unlimited data subscription as part of the contract, many people had looked forward to being able to use their iPhone as a "dongle" – able to connect their computer to the internet. Apple has explicitly allowed such "tethering" in the new version of the software controlling the iPhone, which will be released on June 19.But O2 has decided that it will impose an extra monthly charge to allow such use. A 3GB allowance costs £14.68 per month, and a 10GB allowance costs £29.36 per month.Those prices compare unfavourably to O2's ownmobile broadband offerings, where a 3GB monthly allowance costs just £9.79 for the first four months, and £14.69 for the next 20 months of the required two-year contract. The 10GB mobile broadband has the same price as the tethering charge for the iPhone.Would-be users reacted with annoyance and frustration, querying the need for extra charges for tethering, and the high prices of the phones. "It's ludicrous, barmy, batty, recession-timed-madness,"saidGordon Kelly at TrustedReviews.com.
