Better late than never dept: There wasa long story in The Washington Post this week about playlists, and the growing market for them. It starts with Justine Saylors, who "was deep in 'the grief pit' nearly two years after her son's death":Saylors had amassed a sizable collection of some of the most heartbreaking music to be found on iTunes. And nearly all of it had been recommended not by professional critics or some sort of Amazonian collaborative filtering bot, but by people who -- judging from notes posted with their iMixes or just the song selections alone -- seemed to Justine to be much like herself: hurting, missing someone special, reaching out.As a result, she became "one of the more visible iMix creators," on iTunes...But as personal and private as they can be, such playlists are expected to have a significant impact on online music distribution and sales, according to one recent study by market research firm Gartner Inc. and Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society. By the year 2010, the study predicts, 25 percent of online music-store transactions will be driven by people like Saylors.The Harvard research isConsumer Taste Sharing Is Driving the Online Music Business and Democratizing Culture.
Photo: Engadget"Earlier this week we scored an exclusive hands-on session with the Motorola ROKR E3 (at least, we think it's called the ROKR E3!). As you've probably noticed, this is the very same mystery phone that was up on stage for a few brief moments during Ed Zander's keynote at MotoNow last summer. Motorola hasn't officially announced this phone yet," reportsEngadget.Comment: The original ROKR was widely reviled (well, our Victor Keeganquite liked it) and this one looks as though it will attract even more vitriol.
Let's be honest - the 360 has some very average games. Pretty, yes, but there's nothing, other than some of PGR's online bits, that really feels "next-gen". That may well change on March 24th whenThe Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivionis released. Today's confirmation of the release date means the gorgeous free-flowing RPG is only a few weeks away. This will please more than just RPG die-hards. Microsoft must be chuffed/relieved and 360 owners generally have been crying out for something new since launch - Full Auto, clearly wasn't it - and Oblivion's graphics (the grass, the GRASS) will be appealing. And the delay - this was supposed to be a launch day title - will only increase anticipation.I've got high hopes based on a brief play last year, with the combat a lot more interesting than its predecessorMorrowind. The thought of wandering around the stunning environments, bashing trolls and admiring the view makes me all tingly. Is that just me? And then there is the World of Warcraft effect. While obviously an offline game, Oblivion shares many of WoW's characteristics - exploration, questing, fantasy-chic - and could appeal to WoW players looking for an offline adventure. Anyone else excited by Oblivion?
"Microsoft and Intel plan to announce next week that several industry partners will make small, light versions of a tablet personal computer, people close to the two companies said yesterday. The machines, which have been the subject of considerable speculation, will be tailored more for consumer entertainment than the larger tablet machines running Microsoft's Windows that were introduced in 2002," saysThe New York Times.The models to be introduced this year are an initial step to what Microsoft and Intel hope will be a popular hybrid category of computer, a consultant to Microsoft said.They will be hefty, at about two pounds, and have a limited battery life of three hours or so between charges, the Microsoft consultant said. A new generation of low-power chips, extending battery life to six hours, will come next year. Later models, he added, will come with screens of four inches or so.
"Imagine the year is 1968: mainframes rule the roost, the concepts of personal computers and collaborative systems are non-existent, and people's conception of the Human Computer Interface are punch cards and teletypes," writesBrad Neuberg.At that point Doug Engelbart gaveThe Mother of All Demos, showing, for the first time, mice, windows, hypertext, email and other stuff that is now what we think of as personal computing. It was called NLS, for oNLine System, and later, Augment.Today I start a new project with Douglas Engelbart, Eugene Kim, and Johnathan Cheyer, named Hyperscope; I'm deeply honored and humbled to be a member of this team. Hyperscope is a National Science Foundation funded project to rebuild portions of Douglas Engelbart's groundbreaking NLS system on the web.
A special lunchtime edition of Chatterbox.
Julian Dibbell, writer for theVillage Voice,Terra Novaand others, is aghast and distressed at the finalists showcased at MTV's new university-directed broadband initiativemtvU, submitted in response to the challenge posed bydarfurisdying.com. The competition called for designers to create a politically-slanted casual game to bring awareness of the genocide that's destroying the Darfur region of Sudan. The results, as Dibbell points out, are appalling.Fetching Water casts the player as a cute Darfuri child dodging heavily armed militia gangs through the five kilometers of desert between home and the nearest well. Fail to outrun the militiamen and the game ends, with "kidnap, rape, and murder" listed as your likeliest fates; make it to the well and back, and maybe your family survives another day of drought....Ashanti Ambassadors, pitting Sudanese student activists against government gunmen, is a first-person shooter that doesn't let you shoot; Guidance reimagines the complexities of murderous ethnic conflict as a Tetris-like abstraction of sliding colored dots.Dibbell contends that this is the result of a cynical attempt to cash in on college-age conscience....you might start to wonder which use of game violence is sicker: the game companies' exploitation of adolescent aggressive impulses in pursuit of unit sales, or MTV's exploitation of adolescent social conscience in pursuit of ad revenue. Say what you like about Grand Theft Auto or Mortal Kombat, but neither of them was ever so cruel as to delude anyone that playing a game might change the world.I disagree that playing a gamecan'tchange the world, and am sure that theSerious Gamescontingent would concur. Indeed, what's the point of putting a political interactive product on the market (likenewsgaming.comandPersuasive Gamesdo), or forcing gamers to look at advertising whilst playing them? Both of these activities - and indeed the MTV contributions - attempt to raise awareness about an issue. Studies show that adverting in games works; games critics argue that kids learn behavioural patterns from games; educationalists suggest that interactive learning can foster more critical thinking.Furthermore, the idea that such content creation for the purposes of digital activism should be ineffective undermines the profuse research conducted ononline civic engagement.Surely, therefore, the message of these games can raise awareness enough to evoke a reaction from players.
In the final part of my unintentional gangster news trilogy, it seems -according to Gamespot- that Midway has canned its Fear and Respect game, another urban gangsta shooter, this time given dubious authenticity through the involvement of ex-Cripsmember Snoop Dogg and Boyz N The Hood director John Singleton. The report claims that Midway is still working with the two stars, but this particular project is on the backburner.Apparently, no reason has been given for the cancellation. Perhaps Singleton, who brought worldwide attention to the tragic fate of young black males in the ghettos of LA, thought twice about trivialising their predicament in a game that could surely only ever end up glorifying gang violence.However, a quote from Midway CEO David Zucker, suggests otherwise:"I think we're at a juncture in the video game business. Everyone's talking about it. How many times are you going to give me the 16th iteration of...I'm not even going to talk about the other products," Zucker explained. "The 20th iteration of a driving game isn't going to keep the industry growing."What?! An upper-echelon videogame executive has realised that churning out genre wannabes is not a great business model?! Alan Rusbridger, sir - hold the front page!
Now you can have maps that don't just have satellite views: Microsoft's Virtual Earth now lets you walk or drive around the streets and see a street-level view athttp://preview.local.live.com/.You can explore street-side views by "driving" (with your mouse or with the arrow keys on your keyboard) our "Sports Car" or "Race Car" along streets in the map or you can also "Walk" along the street. When the car is on a street that has street-side images, the car headlights turn on and you can view the front, right, and left views through the car windows above. When there are no available views, a "no view" screen is displayed. Simply drag (or "drive" with keystrokes) the car to a different place to continue browsing.As long as you don't try to drive too fast!According toThe Road to Know Where blog, the "technology preview" usesFacet Technology's Street-Level Imageryfrom San Francisco and Seattle. Facet's database now has over 700 million high resolution images.
After decades of devotion, the British teenager is falling out of love with the television. For many, the old TV set is no longer the first thing they turn to after a day at school. Sadly for teachers, it's not always homework that kids are turning to as a substitute, but rather a group of fast-growing websites that let them watch - and communicate with - each other.In the past 12 months, "social networking" has gone from being the next big thing to the thing itself. Last month,MySpace, the site that famously propelled the Arctic Monkeys to pop stardom, overtook the BBC website in terms of visitor numbers. Along with competing sites Bebo and Facebook, MySpace has formed one of the fastest growing sectors on the internet. Latest data from the internet traffic monitor Hitwise reports that visits to MySpace, the market leader, have grown sixfold year on year, while those to rivalsSpaces.MSN.comare up 11-fold and toBebo.coman amazing 61 times more.To their users, social networking sites fill a number of functions: part diary, part shareable contacts book, part social club. For a generation of teenagers, they are increasingly becoming as important as ownership of a mobile phone. The fastest growing is Bebo.com, which, like its US counterpartFacebook.com, bases its membership around lists of schools and colleges, a kind of Friends Reunited for people who are still there. And teenagers are taking to Bebo quicker than they can pop a can of paprika-flavoured Pringles; there are 4 million in the UK alone.Each Bebo user - or Beboer - is given their own mini-homepage that they use to represent themselves. Some list favourite bands or movies or display their football allegiances. Others generate delicate illustrations comprised entirely of ASCII characters, while more set polls and arrange topical debates or simply wallow in the latest school gossip.Bebo is based in California but the company's founder, Michael Birch, was raised in the Hertfordshire village of Cuffley, before moving to London to study physics at Imperial College. There he met his wife Xochi, a native of California. The pair hatched two websites:Birthdayalarm.comandRingo.com, a virtual address book. The latter they sold toTickle.com, an online dating service, for a significant, but undisclosed, sum. The pair now live in the suburbs of San Francisco with their two children.Purely personal"Email is very limited in what you can do with it," explains Birch. "With Bebo, everything you get is purely personal mail. When you get a mail you can click on their name and learn so much about the person who sent it." So much so that the standard email exchange feels naked by comparison.So what do Beboers do that is so compelling? The simple answer is nothing radically new. Beboers send email, exchange voice messages, share photos and, naturally for teenagers, trade insults. And as of last month, members can also make voice calls over the Bebo network thanks to a partnership deal with internet phone company Skype. "It's pulling all the different media together," says Birch. "It used to be phone, then email, then SMS. But now Bebo does all of these things but with photos, quizzes, drawings and blogs thrown in."The big difference is that they are using the individual tools - email, chat, voice calls, photo-sharing - together, as if they were all part of a single tool. Together they form a kind of interactive, multimedia channel for the whole school. No need for lots of multiple downloads, no need for multiple accounts and passwords for lots of different services. All your means of communication are available on Bebo and so are all of your mates.But it's one thing to pull the kids in, another to keep them happy. According to Heather Hopkins, director of research for Hitwise, the "net community and chat" sector - to which Bebo belongs - can be as fickle as teenage love. "At least 40% of this year's top 10 will be nowhere this time next year," she says. This is because the launch of a new social networking site is like the opening of the latest uptown bar. They are events in themselves, meaning sites experience huge swells in traffic before receding as certainly as the onset of the next day's hangover.Bebo.com is, indeed, on its second bout. More than half its users registered when it was essentially a photo-sharing site back in January last year, but traffic stalled until, last June, it relaunched, focusing on colleges and high schools. It has not looked back.Marketing blizzardIn its first year, Bebo - thanks mostly to a blizzard of email marketing campaigns (the site spent nothing on conventional advertising) - has attracted 21.4 million registered users worldwide, 4 million of whom live in the UK. And while only about a quarter of registrations become highly active, that still equates to more than 700m page impressions every month.However, the backlash to social networking sites has begun. Two years ago, prominent blogger Russell Beattie famously chose to opt out of LinkedIn (linkedin.com), an early precursor to Bebo, saying he was overwhelmed with personal data about people he didn't know nor particularly cared to know. But what many affluent adopters and super-connected bloggers fail to realise is that a younger generation, native to the internet, would feel quite different. To them, social networking technology is fast becoming a default rather than an option.And this is, perhaps, what makes Bebo so exciting. Although, hypothetically at least, it is possible for Beboers to contact any one of its 20 million members, most use the network not to make thousands of new friends, but "to keep tabs on people you already know," says David Mosby ("Moz" to fellow Beboers). Like many 17-year-olds, Moz has grown up on the internet. He got into Bebo by accident, being sent an email invitation from a friend a few months ago. Now he's on it every night, talking to friends from school and new ones from overseas.Bebo caught on at his school, Oakbank in Keithley, at the start of this academic year and spread like a benign, although extremely virulent, infection. So quickly, in fact, that within a matter of days it had been banned from the school servers. It didn't matter. Bebo continued to grow after school because many children have long enjoyed the internet at home. And Oakbank school is lucky: teachers at least knew about the students' double lives, although the site has been placed on ban lists by a number of local education authorities, which mistake the site for an ordinary chatroom.Bebo also represents something beyond any school's control. Several teachers contacted by Technology Guardian were alarmed that so much of their pupils' personal lives were paraded in such a way without their knowledge. At the heart of social networking is an exchange of personal information. And many users are happy to casually reveal intimate details of their personal lives, which concern many adults and internet safety experts.Rachel O'Connell advises the government on internet safety. She recently chaired a conference in London looking at the inherent dangers of social networking. "The etiquette on these sites is to post accurate information, and to share photographs, which flies in the face of internet safety advice," she says. "In this particular social networking environment, the premise is affording people the opportunity to network with friends and friends of friends, much as you might do in a school. That's a worry because people detail which school they attend, their age, and provide photos."Enhancing communicationBebo says its method of communication is safer than regular email, in a very practical sense. It argues that because each user is required to give so much personal information, it is much more difficult to be abused. "Bebo is all about enhancing Beboers' real life, not replacing it," says Jim. His official title is "the deal guy". He cut his teeth at Friendster, an early example of social networking that blazed for a few years before falling off to nowhere. "We have had a few isolated instances of abuse," he admits, "but these were rectified quickly." The fact that abuse was reported swiftly demonstrates, so far, that it has the ability to self-police.Bebo may fall the same way as Friendster, but the most net-savvy nation suggests it may be here for good. In the tower blocks of South Korea, the kind of intimacy played out by the Beboers is already being witnessed on a national scale. Although few use names such as social networking, South Korea is hooked into Cyworld.It is more sophisticated than western equivalents - Cyworld's integration with the mobile phone makes Bebo look primitive - but it carries the same show-and-tell culture. It is a cartoony, super-flat mirror universe but most of Korea's social activity already revolves around it. And according to Jee Hyun Oh, a devotee of Cyworld, "social death awaits" those who fail to link up. Teenagers and parents, take note.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Intel now has its ownteaser sitefor the Ultra Mobile PC, which says nothing apart from "Stay tuned" for March 7. This presumably refers to theRuby concept designrather thanMicrosoft's Origamiproject. (See today'sTechnology section.)It would be surprising if the two didn't overlap, but Intel and Microsoft always do competing projects, and often don't even mention the other company -- as happened with Intel's Entertainment PC project and almost happened with the follow-up, Viiv. In Intel's case, that's partly becuase it's willing to bend over backwards to help Linux or any other non-Microsoft operating system. In Microsoft's case, it's because it goes out of its way to support AMD. And with the UMPC, I suspect it may be looking towards Transmeta.Sure, Transmeta was overhyped (as I complained at the time) and turned into a bit of a disaster. But theOQO Model 01+ Tablet PC-- one of the UMPCs already on the market -- has a Transmeta processor, and the Origami clearly offers a new market opportunity. Geeks didn't like paying high prices for small notebooks with Transmeta chips because they were horribly slow, but non-geeks might find current versions are fast enough, if they are cheap enough.The way the game is played, this may not mean extra sales of Transmeta chips. However, it could encourage Intel to make its low voltage Pentium M chips more attractive when it cuts prices in July.
Is there such a thing as a silent/clickless/very quiet mouse? JimBobMartin Conaghan asked the same question in October 2002 and I still haven't found one. The good news is that some modern mice are quieter: try a sample from Logitech's Cordless Laser Mouse range. A more expensive alternative is a pen and touchsensitive pad: Wacom offers a wide range. If you are handy with a soldering iron, you can even rebuild a mouse to make it quieter, followinginstructions on the web. The simplest solution could beActiveClick, which works with any mouse, trackball or pointing device. The website says: "ActiveClick detects when you are moving the mouse - and when you stop - it waits several milliseconds and then it clicks for you". It sounds a bit pricey at $18.95 but it costs nothing to try.Update: Thanko'sSilent Mousehas just appeared, but only in Japan. in any case, it looks a lot like aMicrosoft IntelliMouse Explorerwith a couple of bits of foam...
I'm looking for a laptop for my business, for communications, Microsoft Office and also EasyCAD 7. I want something small enough to fit my BMW motorcycle cases. My current machine, a Dell Latitude, only just fits - and not in a proper padded case. It hasn't lasted well. Neil Budgen MicrolimitMost notebooks are built down to a price and are not designed to take any physical punishment. One of the few widely available exceptions is thePanasonic Toughbook, designed using US militaryMIL-STD-810Ftest procedures.Alternatives include the "semirugged"Itronix GoBook VR-1, which is available in the UK from Computacenter Direct. "Semi-rugged" is just as rugged but not environmentally sealed. Rugged notebooks are more expensive to buy, but for mobile workers, can work out cheaper in the long run.Backchat: Mike Hickman, a sales manager with Itronix in the US, responds: "You mentioned only our VR-1 semi-rugged machine. OurGoBook IIIis tougher than the ubiquitous Panasonic Toughbook CF-29 and is more powerful (1.8GHz Pentium M vs. 1.4GHz Pentium M). In fairness I should mention that Panasonic is also in the semi-rugged game."
My daughter has an iPod Mini and a store of songs bought from iTunes. She wants to change to an MP3 player but there does not seem to be any method of changing a song into an MP3 or WMA file. Is she stuck with having to buy another iPod or having to write off all the money spent on her iTunes library? Barry WattsThe simplest approach is to use the iTunes software to create audio CDs of the songs, then "rip" these to MP3. If using Microsoft's Windows Media Player for this (it's not the best way), make sure that digital rights management (DRM) is turned off. To do this, go to Tools|Options, click the tab marked Copy Music, and untick the box where it says "Copy protect music". Since music players and personal computers can fail or be lost or stolen, itseems to me that all music bought online should be backed up to CD. I'd therefore suggest buying original CDs as the best "back up" then ripping them to MP3 or FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec), rather than buying any copy-protected music. Shop online and the CDs are often cheaper, and you can create betterquality rips for a portable player. It doesn't work as well for pop singles, but these usually appear on compilation CDs.
My computer is almost full and I have discovered that I have approximately 3GB of ntuninstall files. Can I delete them safely? Georgia WilsonThe ntuninstall files are created when you install a Microsoft hotfix or security patch. They store old files so you can uninstall the patch if something goes wrong. You can compress them (right-click a folder and check the box marked Compress contents to save Disk Space). If you are sure you will never want to uninstall a patch, you can delete them. However, these are protected files, so if you simply delete them, Windows will cleverly make backup copies, and in the short term, you won't actually save any space.The best option is to runCCleaner, which can remove all sorts of unwanted files. The latest version v1.27.260, released on February 14, now includes Windows HotFix Uninstaller cleaning.
More gang news... The Advertising Standards Authority has upheld a complaint made against a recent Konami ad for Crime Life: Gang Wars, placed in the Metro newspaper last year. According to theASA ajudication:"The ad showed a street scene with five black men lined up; two of the men were holding guns, another was holding a baseball bat and one was holding a hammer. Text above the men stated "RULE THE STREETS OR FALL BY THE WAYSIDE". The complainant objected that the ad was offensive and irresponsible, because it exploited racial stereotypes, glorified violence and encouraged anti-social behaviour."Konami responded by pointing out that the men were members of rap group D12 and that the group had approved the message. The company also stated that, as Metro is read by young affluent commuters it was unlikely to cause offense. Does this mean that young affluent consumers understand that this is a videogame and that not all young black man parade the streets with offensive weapons? Or is that all young affluent consumers know who D12 are? I'm not sure.What this does show, however, is that the industry needs to show a little restraint with its adolescent gangland fantasies at times. Interestingly, though, a complaintadjudicatedon the same day by ASA - this time against Atari for a Driv3r ad, which showed, 'men leaning out of car windows firing handguns' was not upheld. This one appeared in the Beano and Dandy. What are we to make of it all?
There's only one gaming piece in theTechnologysupplement this week so luckily it's a good 'un.Keith arguesthat Nintendo could benefit from the boom n' bust console cycle by essentially focussing on the games rather than the technology. He has a point of course. Sales are flat at the moment, with punters generally unimpressed by the sequels that clogged the Q4 release schedule. Sadly these same punters ignored the original titles too, with even the relatively successful Shadow of the Colossus knocked off the top spot in the UK charts after one week.So with the DS being the main sales success story of the last 12 months you can see why Nintendo would be confident that their gamesforall strategy is the right one. And it could be - but anyone hoping the next-gen will see a back to basics approach is likely to be disappointed. The big sellers over the next 12-18 months are likely to be as violent (Halo 3, GTA) and graphically powerful (Oblivion) as ever. So yes, change is in the air, but the core gaming market remains as important as ever.
Get chatting.
Computer systems are being used to snub you more effectively, depending on your value to the company you're calling.This is how it works. In the customer record is a field that rates your importance, based on your spending power. If you have deep pockets, you may merit a "1", marking you as first-class customer whose calls should be answered pronto by a senior customer service agent.The same field, in the record of a poor customer, might contain a 3, which tells the system to treat you like a third-class customer (or pond life, as one IT executive described non-priority customers). The system will put you to the back of the queue. If you eventually get through, your call will be routed to the cheapest call centre."It's all about finding out who the customer is, and putting them in the correct bucket," explains Ian Davis, director of product strategy for customer experience management company ATG.Companies need to screen out the least valuable customers, explains Davis. "The unprofitable customers never hear about the discounts or the promotions."Subtle powerThis is the new power of databases: a subtle means of reinforcing a financially-based class system. It's part of an umbrella of systems generally called Technology for Marketing. It was also the name of a trade show held recently in London.Henrik Mandal, from a company called Responsewave, explains how his invention can be used to target prospects. "There's a range of ways we can get to the customer. If we don't get them on the phone, we can text them. If that doesn't get through, we can fax them. If that's not working, we can get them face to face."Critics of technology always seem to imagine that a new world order is being created. That's mistaken, Mandal points out. "Technology only really takes the processes we have in place and makes them more efficient," he says.This even applies to the class system apparently. The process of discrimination has been subtly refined and fine-tuned over centuries. The only real difference that IT has made to the class system is to automate the instant judgments.This is achieved through customer relationship management (CRM) systems, the databases of customer information that companies exploit to "cross-sell" or "up-sell". It's 10 times cheaper to sell to existing customers than it is to find new ones, according to market analysts at Gartner. That's why the "reward" for buying from some companies is often to suffer endless unsolicited follow-up calls.What happened to the democratising effect of e-commerce? Isn't this an automated class system? "Yes, but it's important to companies to get the profitable customers," explains Chris Parson, marketing director at Teradata, a data warehousing company.In the IT industry, this segmentation process is called "class of service". "Your best customers get the best service," explains Greg Anderson, product marketing director at Frontrange, which makes Goldmine, a popular CRM system.Still, if the class system is formalised, there's a way of fighting back. Under the Data Protection Act, we are allowed to find out what sort of customer we are classed as. Are we a "platinum partner" or just pond life? Will our calls be patched straight through, or will we be routed through the tradesman's entrance?Applying to a company for this information is a good way of fighting back against the other problem of e-commerce - cold calling. You can demand that they supply you with your records.You could also register with the Mailing Preference Service (www.mpsonline.org.uk/mpsr/) and Telephone Preference Service (www.tpsonline.org.uk/tps/) to cut down on junk mail and cold calls. But neither guarantees an end to the unwanted: only 34% of UK companies comply with the EU Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communications, according to a study by marketing specialist CDMS. So how do you fight back?Fighting backThe American consumer activist Amy Alkon found one way. She billed one cold-calling company $254.74, after its telesales team got her out of bed. It paid up. The tactic might not work here butAdvicegoddess.comhas plenty of consumer tips.The problem with marketing technology, explains Tim Wilmot, from Wizard Systems, a systems integrator that installs systems for clients, is that a lot of companies don't realise how offensively they are using it. He tries to make clients act less aggressively. "They need to be more sophisticated. When all you have is a hammer, everything begins to look like a nail."Meanwhile, the advocates of aggressive marketing techniques have opened up a new front. Mobile phones are the latest key. At the show, Vodafone gave a headline seminar entitled Mobile Marketing, Make it work for your brand."Your mobile is the closest we get to your personal space," explains a Vodafone PR spokeswoman Catherine Danby. "Eighty per cent of all mobile messages are opened and read."Even small companies are getting in on the act. Dynmark, a small Gloucester-based firm, was launched specifically to cash in on the mobile marketing boom. Chief executive Oscar Jenkins says: "It's really easy to devise a system to send out masses of texts to mobile phones."But aren't people sick of these intrusive calls? "Traditional marketing is suffering from recipient fatigue," he concedes, but "new mediums are popular".Is nowhere sacred? "Probably not," he jokes. But legislation covering unsolicited messages, and the fact that mobile networks act as gatekeepers, means that unsolicited text will only be a minor annoyance, he insists. "We have had no more than a few complaints in the past two years," he says.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
ea_spouseshould have done a lot of damage to the games industry. The story by the partner of a over-worked, underpaid and underappreciated drone at Electronic Arts ricocheted through the communication channels, led to intense discussions, roundtables, conference presentations and industry white papers against the often abusive working conditions of games development employees. Regardless of thefuroreand thelawsuits, the long hours continue, and very little seems to have been done to correct the problem.A few weeks ago, however, a collection of US-based recruitment agencies announced that they had formedProfessional Electronic Entertainment Recruiters(PEER)...to reaffirm the high ground for ethical standards, quality performance and as an alliance of those who lead the profession, to encourage others to either be accountable for their conduct and efficacy or to be re-categorized as those who will not.PEER is ostensibly a recruitment organisation. It is keen to distance itself from a games union, which many in the industry have both openly advocated and argued against. However, its presence is welcomed by many who feel they have had enough.Despite the allure to make games for a living, the hours can run long and weekends for many are just another workday. Game developers aren't just a bunch of wide-eyed, caffeinated video game junkies anymore. They have families, mortgages and ironically most of them worry about the number of hours their own kids spend in front of video games instead of playing outside and studying for school. Their wives want them home for dinner and kids who have moms or dads working in the industry want to see them more than just a few hours in the evening every week.More fromars technicaandeToychest.
Sony has released some details on forthcoming PSP title, Gangs of London, a self-explanatory action strategy romp set in and around the capital and produced by the team behind The Getaway. Here's a press release - I find it helpful to imagine Phil Daniels reading it out:"Set in the mean and moody streets of London, this title isn't for the faint-hearted. Action meets strategy as you take on London's fiercest gangs in a bid for domination of the capital. With the opportunity to play as one of five gangs, you have to use brains and brawn to overcome the rival criminal factions and gain control of the city's underworld. Become the guv'nor of the Cockney, Triad, Yardie, Russian or Pakistani gangs and take on the capital over a number of unique and challenging game modes"And sure enough, as far as gaming options are concerned, Gangs of London is more engorged than Ray Winstone at an all-you-can-eat chop house.There's the main action mode where you lead a crack squad of cockney crimelords as they carry out 60 missions, which may or may not include hobbling rival gangsters while being respectful to old people and giving a bit of money to Charity. You can shout out orders or hot swap between differently armed hoodlums on your quest to become the city's Mr Big.There's also a multiplayer turn-based strategy mode, a freeroaming mode (explore london as an American tourist or a cabbie! No really!), a game sharing mode (with missions based around different tube stations, which you download from other people's machines - a neat little idea) and finally a British pub games mode where you play darts, skittles and pool. Cor blimey, all they're missing is a SingStar Chaz n' Dave sing-along and a design your own Pearly King section.Anyway, it's out later this year, guv - if Eastenders hasn't already killed off any desire you had to fetishistically celebrate London's criminal underworld.
The print edition is here! Well, it's somewhere. And you can read it on your screen too (though it'll probably take you longer..):Show and tell onlineSocial networking sites are everything to today's teens - but can it last, asks Sean Dodson'Press 2 if you're loaded...'Companies can now rate your importance, based on your spending potential. Nick Booth reports.Time to hop aheadCrowded radio spectrum might be solved by hopping. By Karlin Lillington.Don't shoot me, I'm only the computer salesmanDave Lee explains what life's like as a computer salesman in one of those big chain storesTechnobileCharles Arthur: It would all be so simple if we had just two USB cables to connect our gadgets. So why are there so many?Ultimately, there's a version of Vista that fits the billJack Schofield: Windows Vista is due later this year, and on Monday, Microsoft UK announced which SKUs - stock-keeping units - it will be offering.Protection racketUS music lovers are fuming about copy-protected CDs but in the UK they are rare. Is it because the record labels trust us - or fear us, asks Adam Webb?Just Ask: the search market has far to goVictor Keegan: Search is still in its infancy and the 'hidden web', the iceberg of buried data, is only now being mined seriously.Could the Revolution be a winner in this cycle?Keith Stuart: As we stand at the dawn of the super-console era, the games business has loaded up the self-destruct disc and hit start.GadgetsSony Ericsson W900i; Garmin Nuvi 350; Philips's MCP9350i Media Center PCRead this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your post town and if possible a telephone number.Ask Jack: silent mice, tough laptops, moving iTunes, uninstalling ntuninstall and Backchat.Newly asked questionsWhat is Microsoft's Origami project?Apparently, a handheld 'Ultramobile' PC that's also a media player - so, a sort of iPod, PlayStation Portable and Tablet PC rolled into (a not very comfortable) one.Can I break an uncracked Enigma code message?Now, advances in computing power mean that we can apply what the geniuses at Bletchley Park could not: an optimised brute-force solution.What has Google been up to lately?Busy launching products, as usual.
Impact Lab - Digg Clones Springing to Lifecontains a long (too long to count) list of all the digg, reddit, del.icio.us sites that are springing up. It also has its own verdict on them, though we think that's a bit premature. Surely what we really need is a digg or reddit for the diggs and reddits? It would have made the page easier to read...
Windows Vista is due later this year, and on Monday, Microsoft UK announced which SKUs - stock-keeping units - it will be offering. David Weeks, our local Windows Client Marketing Manager, says prices haven't been decided. However, it's going to cost you.Weeks says Microsoft has changed from a "platform" to a "customer" focus, so there won't be separate editions for different types of hardware (unlike now, where there is XP Tablet Edition for Tablet PCs, and so on). You thus have to make two decisions: first, are you a home or a business user? Second, do you want the basic version or one with fancy extras? The four boxed versions are therefore Windows Vista Home Basic, Home Premium, Ultimate, and Business.There are another two versions you can't buy. At the bottom end, there's a starter edition for "emerging countries". At the top end, there's Vista Enterprise, available only under Microsoft's Software Assurance and big business schemes.All packages will be available as upgrades. Weeks reckons that Home Basic will cost roughly the same as today's XP Home (&pound;89.99) while Vista Business will be priced like XP Pro (&pound;169.99). However, if you want a noticeable upgrade, you will have to buy a Premium or Ultimate edition at a price to be determined.Upgrades will be available from all versions of XP, but if you are still on a DOS-based version of Windows (3.1, 95/98/SE or Me) you will have to pay the full price for Vista. The fate of Windows 2000 users has yet to be decided.The Home Basic version, for "low-end PCs", is pretty basic and doesn't include the new Aero Glass user interface. To get the new 3D interface and the digital entertainment experiences that used to be part of Windows Media Center Edition - including Xbox 360 extensions - you have to buy the Premium version.The Premium, Business and Ultimate editions also include some features from today's Tablet PC Edition, such as Ink recognition. This will appeal to people who use graphics tablets.The Enterprise edition includes BitLocker drive encryption, Virtual PC Express support for hosting a second operating system, and the Subsystem for Unix-based Applications (SUA), which is intended to run Unix programs.Finally, there's the Ultimate edition, the one you really want. It combines the home/multimedia features - which some business users will want for things such as presentations - with the Enterprise features - which some home users will want for things like running an old copy of Windows 98/SE/Me, and their old applications and games.Apparently, all versions of Vista have new security features such as Windows Defender (the anti-spyware program), a better firewall, Internet Explorer 7, and global search utilities developed from MSN Desktop Search. Any Vista user who wants BitLocker will be able to download it.Either way, it's not true that most Vista users will have encrypted hard drives that the police won't be able to access, as has been suggested (http://tinyurl.com/8bwcg). And while Weeks says BitLocker does use Vista's TPM (Trusted Platform Module) for security, DRM (digital rights management, for media files) does not use the TPM.What all versions of Vista lack is anti-virus software. A bunch of companies make a nice living out of supplying AV software, and Microsoft has backed away from taking food from their mouths; or possibly from attracting yet more attention from antitrust departments.Otherwise, Vista is based on the current Windows Server 2003 codebase and has various improvements that make it the most secure version of Windows so far - easily hurdling what is a regrettably low bar.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It sounds like the sort of gadget James Bond may have wielded - a pen with a camera under the nib which records what is written and transmits it back to base.Dorset police are using the &pound;100 Magicomm pen to cut down on time spent inputting information into computers.As an officer fills in a form while out and about, the pen reads what he is writing and the data is sent via mobile phone to the force computer. When he returns he can check the information has been read correctly.Richard Tubb, of Dorset police, said: "It will go a long way to getting officers back on the beat."
Apparently, a handheld "Ultramobile" PC that's also a media player - so, a sort of iPod, PlayStation Portable (PSP) and Tablet PC rolled into (a not very comfortable) one. After a teaser post by Microsoft &uuml;berblogger Robert Scoble last week, more details have begun to leak out, including a video of the project showing someone listening to some music, using handwriting recognition on the screen, reading a map with GPS and playing Halo.Microsoft has promised to reveal more today but had already been forced to admit that a video spotted on the site for the marketing company Digital Kitchen did feature "an early version", though it insisted that was a year old.There is a Project Origami teaser site (www.origamiproject.com) if you're into pointless Flash sites. The company has also been giving mixed messages, saying it wouldn't announce anything this week. A number of manufacturers are expected to show off their versions at the CeBIT trade show next week.Over-excited online journalists have been quick to label the device as Microsoft's answer to the iPod or PSP. This follows speculation in Business Week, and older rumours going back to last year, about Microsoft's desire to enter the handheld market. Indeed, last April Bill Gates talked up a prototype machine as thin as 10 sheets of paper, with a camera and a six-inch screen which he said Microsoft hoped would sell for about $800 or less - though he added that he didn't know when that would be commercially feasible.The device was dubbed "Ultramobile 2007", which may be a hint about when it was expected to come to market. "We do believe this is achievable," Gates said then.Clearly Microsoft is not going to take the hardware risk this time, and will again license the software and let third-party manufacturers swallow the inevitable costs of slow early uptake. But if the device is too limited - as happened with 2003's Smart Displays (http://tinyurl.com/qolbu) - then the market will drop it. However if too many manufacturers pile in, they may find themselves scrabbling for market share and profit while Microsoft rakes it in, as happens with PCs.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The videogame industry seems in a familiar mess again. Every five to six years, the current generation of console technology expires; but because the next generation takes time to get established, game sales plummet and companies collapse.As we stand at the dawn of the super-console era, the games business has loaded up the self-destruct disc and hit start. In the past month, Namco Bandai has cut by 55% its profit forecast for the financial year ending March 31; Midway posted $112.8m losses for 2005; Atari admitted it may have to lose 20% of its workforce to remain afloat. Sony shares recently fell 3.64% as rumours of PS3 delays reached the Tokyo stock exchange.In 1983, when the industry first crashed, many wrote videogames off as a fad. We laugh now, but how could experts have predicted that a business model built around a five-yearly cycle of enforced obsolescence could work? It is lunacy.Several crashes later, publishers seem no better prepared. It is a vicious circle: consumers buy fewer of the current generation of games, ostensibly because they're saving for next-generation ones. Publishers won't commit resources to triple-A games at the end of a console's lifecycle, concentrating instead on banal sequels and movie tie-ins. Guaranteed modest sales, they alienate a substantial percentage of their audience.Publishers could commission big budget games to the very end, but this is risky. Even after 20 years of boom and bust, it is still tricky to predict the tipping point where consumers leave a format en masse for a new piece of hardware. When you have to predict this two years in advance of committing millions of pounds and hundreds of staff to a new game, the gamble is even less attractive.A few well-placed veterans buck the trend. Sony has targeted the casual PS2 user with titles such as SingStar Eighties, Buzz and Spytoy: none rely on visuals and work as well on this generation of hardware as on the next. Electronic Arts is a master of using (expensive) gimmicks to keep punters interested.It is Nintendo, though, that may have discovered a route out of the five-year plan. Its Revolution console is not cutting-edge in terms of graphics capabilities, but with its innovative remote control-style joypad, which features movement sensors (and is rumoured to be touch sensitive), the company is looking to bow out of the techno-scramble, instead instilling a new era where concept is king.One day, the industry is going to bellyflop into a trough too deep to crawl out of. While millions are spent researching and building ever more advanced hardware, wouldn't it be amusing if the cute old-timer that hopped off the treadmill is the only one standing?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Busy launching products, as usual. Last week it unveiled a beta version of Google Page Creator (http://pages.google.com), which enables anyone to create good old-fashioned web pages. However, you must have a Gmail address that you are willing to expose to the world, and to get in you had to sign up at the launch. Within hours, Google was unable to handle the demand and stopped accepting users. How odd that Google didn't figure out that people might want to try it.Before that, Google launched beta versions of Google Desktop 3 (http://desktop.google.com), with an enhanced Sidebar, and Toolbar 4 (www.google.com/tools/toolbar/T4). Desktop 3 created a small furore because of its "Search Across Computers" feature. This provides an option to search one of your computers from another of your computers, even if it's turned off. (The data is actually stored on Google's servers.) This is nice only if you don't mind Google storing your data. SAC could be particularly attractive to any hackers who can get hold of your Gmail account details. (A security flaw was found in Gmail in October 2004, though none has since surfaced.)Google's Toolbar 4 has some neat features, such as buttons. Instead of using bookmarks with vanishing icons, you can create buttons for sites and stick them on the toolbar. (They also go on to a Google server.) Toolbar 4 also lets you send web pages via Gmail. Unfortunately, it created so many other problems with Windows XP, I had to uninstall it.This week, the excitement is about Google's forthcoming payments system, now available to a select few (https://services.google.com/inquiry/sell). If you sell things on Google Base, Google can handle the payments - making it a potential threat to eBay and PayPal, as well as to Craigslist, and newspapers that sell classified advertising. And Amazon. And everyone.Google points out that it is already in the payments business: "Google has billed advertisers in 65 countries more than $11.2bn in 48 currencies, and made payments to advertising partners of more than $3.9bn." All it wants to do is extend that to your purse or wallet.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Time to plug the camera into the computer and download the latest pictures of family irrelevance. This is a task I don't do as often as I might, for a simple reason. It requires a USB cable.My problem is not that I don't have a USB cable. Or two. It's that there are too many of the flaming things. And they're all different. You know what the normal USB cable-end looks like? A flat rectangle with a flat plastic insert. That's the one that goes into the computer. That's easy. No, the trouble starts at the other end.Let's see, what sort of plug do we find when we follow the black (they're almost always black, except when they're white or transparent) cord to its far end? Which USB connector will it be? The roundish sort-of rectangle, the one that printers and scanners quite like? Or the really teeny flat rectangle that looks like it's a miniaturised version of the big rectangle at the other end? Or the farmhouse loaf-shaped one, which is also really tiny and you often mistake for the previous one and try to force in to somewhere it won't go? Or will it be the false summit of cables, the USB extender, which ends with the female version of the male plug that's at the other end?This is where the computer and consumer electronics industry is so completely messed up. Why does it have to be so complicated? You're building a printer and it seems like a good idea to have a plug that's a different shape from the one that goes into the computer? Why? What were the minutes of that meeting like? "Mr A said it would be a good idea to have the same plug at both ends because it would be cheaper, consumers would understand it, they'd only need one cable for different gear and there'd be no confusion. Mr B disagreed. Vote carried in favour of Mr B."True, you need something different for the little gadgets - the cameras, phones, things like that. But do you need a dozen different tiny plugs and sockets? What, apart from some bizarre expertise at manufacturing, are you showing off here? You could have two USB cables: the ones with big plugs at both ends, and the ones with a small plugs at one end. (OK, three - you need USB extender cables.)I know that all this should have been sorted out by Bluetooth - the wireless communications wonder. Only two obstacles there. First, get the camera and printer companies to build it in for no added cost? Sure, that's going to happen in a hurry. Second, get it to work without draining the battery in moments, far too quickly for you to download those pictures. Of course that will happen. Absolutely.While I wait, I'll go and hunt for that cable.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Can you teach an old search engine new tricks? At a time when search has become almost synonymous with Google this is a tall order - butAsk.comis having a go. This week, it re-invented itself with a digital striptease, shedding baggage such as intrusive advertising, cluttered desktops, links aimed at raising money rather than informing and even its former name, Ask Jeeves.The aim? To go for Google. It believes that Google is very vulnerable. This is true partly because of its sheer size. But its squeaky clean image has also been tarnished by criticism from publishers because of its plan to scan whole libraries, from liberals angered by its acceptance of censorship in China and from punters worried that its search for money will tarnish its search for knowledge. Ask, which claims 6% of the UK search market, reckons Google's vulnerability could make a 10% market share a realisable goal.The new Ask could claim to be the only "pure" search engine of any size. It is not a portal, it is dedicated to search without Google's "clip-ons" (such as email), has a clear home page and hasn't - yet - ventured into China. How clean can you get?But does it work? The home page has a (customisable) toolbox on the right, enabling you to directly search images, news, weather, dictionaries and so forth. Search inquiries throw up several sponsored links in a shaded box above the actual search results. The links were interestingly different from Google, MSN and Yahoo.Whether this was down to Ask's trendy claim to rank results based on popularity within communities as well as number of links is difficult to say - but it does illustrate a general truth about search engines: it is good to have a diversified portfolio. Most of the time, all of them do a pretty good job, but if you are searching for something special it pays to try a number of them: mouses for courses.I use Google as my default search engine not because it is better but because it has so many nice add-ons. As a journalist, I find its news search (click on "news" above the search box), which scours newspapers around the world, vital for research.Google also has its own newspaper, automatically generated and culled on the hoof from the day's newspapers. There is a user-friendly facility for customising your own paper so all recent stories on, say, the five topics of your choice come up every time you click. No wonder newspaper circulation is falling.To keep up with what bloggers are saying I useTechnorati.com. If you cut and paste the web address of any blog into it, it will link you to comments made by other bloggers. The new trend in search is to look not just at stories that are top of the popular pile but those recommended by like-minded people or experts. Sites such asdel.icio.usand ultra-trendydigg.com(mainly technology) will never win design prizes but their content is edited by readers.It may be strange to think of them as potential rivals to Google. But if there are millions of responses to a search inquiry, it is not self-evident that the most popular links will deliver more relevant content than that provided by like-minded people.Search is still in its infancy and the "hidden web", the iceberg of buried data, is only now being mined seriously. Search engines such asBlinkx.comare searching videos in an intelligent way. Most engines will search your hard disk and emails, but using artificial intelligence to extract the quality from the dross is taking longer than expected 10 years ago, as Blinkx knows more than others.It would be absurd to complain. Search engines have revolutionised access to knowledge in little more than a decade. The answer to anything is a mouse click away from anyone able to access a computer. The task for the next decade is to ensure the benefits of search are spread to poorer people around the world.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Like oil, radio spectrum is one of the world's dwindling resources. Why else would five mobile operators have paid that infamous &pound;22.5bn for 3G licences in the UK in 2000, if they didn't think it was a rarity?Tightly controlled by regulators in each country, spectrum is required by radio and television broadcasts and mobile phone networks, microwave ovens, home wireless networks, hospital x-ray machines, satellites, cordless phones, Bluetooth computer keyboards and garage door-openers. And, as Mark Twain said of land, they're not building any more of it.The explosion in wireless computing and mobile devices has placed even greater strain on this scarce natural resource - so much so that last week, the US-based Tech CEO Council issued a report (http://tinyurl.com/jx3vb), stating: "There are few more important natural resources than our radio spectrum. An increasingly essential platform for how we work, live, play and learn, radio spectrum may be the most critical infrastructure element of 21st century economies."The council's idea of a solution to scarcity in the US is for the government there to give up some government-held spectrum to private companies, which, they argue, will use it more productively.But across the Atlantic, a research group based at Trinity College Dublin, partnering with Bell Labs, has a different approach: spectrum-hopping, or dynamic spectrum allocation. Operators could hop across the frequencies, utilising unused or underused spectrum.Scarce resource"Spectrum is considered a scarce resource," notes Dr Linda Doyle, who leads the spectrum research group within TCD's Centre for Telecommunications Value-chain Research (CTVR). "But some of that scarcity is actually a false scarcity, because spectrum isn't efficiently used."She displays a chart of spectrum use in London over a 24-hour period, with heavy use marked in red bands, and blue bands indicating no activity. Perhaps 70% of the chart is blue. The US Federal Communication Commission (FCC) has stated that about 90% of spectrum is underutilised, she adds.Most of the congested areas indicate usage in the more desirable spectrum bands. Certain frequencies are valued by some industries because they enable better signal quality or strength - mobile and television operators - or conversely, enable a signal to be received over a longer distance - shortwave radio broadcasts - where distance is valued. But even within the very congested bands, not all are used at capacity all the time, and spectrum-hopping is seen as a possible solution as more devices and services clamour for a slice of spectrum.The central piece of virtual equipment needed for the experiment is what Doyle calls a software radio - "a bucket of software components that can be put together in many different ways," says Doyle.This makes the software element highly flexible. For example, it would enable a single device using the software to be marketed in multiple geographies. Now, devices such as mobile phones generally have to be manufactured separately for each region, at greater cost and lower efficiency. The software could be used in any device that uses spectrum, whether passively (to receive) or actively (sending and/or receiving), from handhelds to mobiles to radios to television sets.What makes the TCD-Bell Labs collaboration unusual is that, in a unique arrangement with Irish communications regulator ComReg, their researchers have been granted a 50MHz swath of spectrum for an experimental software radio licence to conduct live experiments. By contrast, the entire FM radio broadcast band in Ireland is 20MHz.Until now, nobody has been able to experiment with live spectrum, says TCD Professor Donal O'Mahony, director of CTVR. Research groups worldwide have been working in the area of spectrum-hopping for some time, but have had to use computer simulations.Doyle says there isn't another regulator in the world that has been willing (or able) to grant spectrum for this kind of use. When, at a recent conference, she mentioned the grant to Michael Gallagher, the assistant secretary for communications and information of the US National Telecommunications and Information Administration, "he nearly fell off his chair," she says.Isolde Goggin, the chair of ComReg, says it was able to offer the spectrum under its "test and trial" research and development programme because Ireland "is in a fairly fortunate position": a low population density means there is a lot of uncongested spectrum, and being an island on the western edge of Europe means the spectrum is cleanly isolated from neighbouring countries and the experiments are unlikely to cause interference. And it's not a Nato member, so the military won't complain.New approachFor the same reason, Ireland has more spectrum available than countries with a large military. Goggin says that ComReg made the decision "to turn spectrum allocation around from a restrictive approach, to saying if we can do it, we will".Doyle says spectrum-hopping would require a complete rethink of how commercial-use spectrum is allocated and paid for. Rather than a licensing system that lets operators control a fiefdom of spectrum - the current model, which the Tech CEO Council would like to see expanded - spectrum-hopping would be more like a frequency timeshare. One aspect of the research will be to consider the issue of management as well as potential business models, she says.Goggin notes that hopping is only one possibility for the way spectrum management might develop. However, "The consensus is that the current model has to change." Regulators worldwide are moving away from the notion that the regulator's role is to imagine what future uses of spectrum might be, and then reserve chunks for those uses. "That approach is not very well able to cope with unpredictable fluctuations in demand".Other options for better spectrum management include: ultrawideband (UWB) technology where, rather than hopping around, a signal is broken into incredibly short pieces and simultaneously spread over an enormously wide frequency band, allowing numerous signals to share the same bandwidth at slightly different times; mesh networks, where numerous individual devices form large, ad hoc networks for passing signals around; and new technologies that minimise interference. Goggin says she imagines a mix of these approaches are likely.The Irish hope their ability to give researchers access to spectrum will attract investment as well as create opportunities for local companies. "Because Ireland is an island, it can be a playground for spectrum," says Doyle.But Goggin has even bigger dreams. "This could be Ireland's oil," she muses.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you only read blogs, you could have believed that last November all CD buyers were convulsed with fury over Sony BMG's use of copy-protection software to prevent people ripping some 50-odd CDs - from internationally known artists such as Foo Fighters, Alicia Keys and Santana - to MP3s. True, some bloggers were, but in the UK it was a non-issue: none of the CDs issued here had the software.So while American bloggers examined the XCP software, written by the Oxford-based First4Internet, which covertly installed files deep in the Windows operating system if the CD was played on a PC, UK buyers could safely ignore it. Every new revelation - that XCP could open security holes on PCs where it was installed, that Microsoft classed it as "spyware", that Sony BMG was offering replacement CDs - made no difference in the UK.Yet that raises its own question: why are record labels not copy-protecting their CDs in the world's third largest music market, given that the UK labels' association, the BPI, says "lost sales" caused by file sharing alone rose 35% from &pound;278m in 2003 to &pound;376m in 2004?Chequered historyUK labels certainly have used copy protection, with an equally chequered history. The UK's first copy-protected CD, Natalie Imbruglia's White Lilies Island (BMG), was returned en masse by customers in November 2001 after it failed to play on certain CD and DVD players - but compared to the US, and certainly the rest of Europe, the UK has remained almost unaffected.Four years ago, there were widespread calls within the five major record labels to use it, but only Sony and BMG released any copy-protected product in the UK, including albums by Duran Duran and Kings Of Leon. That ceased when the two companies merged in August 2004. A Sony spokesperson claimed then that its message against illegal duplication had "widely sunk in". Yet a BPI report to parliament last month said that about 180m blank CDs sold in 2004 were used to make "unauthorised" copies - compared to the 163.4m albums sold that year.Even so, only EMI has since dabbled: the UK editions of Shelby Lynne's Suit Yourself and Al Stewart's A Beach Full Of Shells, both released last year, were encrypted with updated versions of Macrovision's CDS 200. But neither Lynne nor Stewart could be described as priority releases for a label with Coldplay and Gorillaz on its books. An EMI spokesman says the protection was purely for "software testing".Testing what? "We started doing copy protection in Germany several years ago," EMI's spokesman says. "And we've gradually been rolling it out in other territories around the world. Last year we tested a handful of titles in the UK and the US and we are just evaluating the results of those tests." EMI would not define the tests' parameters, but some customer comments on Amazon UK have been less than ecstatic: one described Lynne's album as a "strait-jacketing scam" because the songs could not be transferred to his iPod.The other majors are similarly unforthcoming about why they don't use copy protection in the UK. For Mark Mulligan, research director at Jupiter Research, this reflects their incoherent global strategy: "Each local label is fiercely territorial and wants to keep hold of their decisions, and to deploy strategy as and when they see fit."Though hardly immune to physical piracy - the BPI estimates the volume of counterfeit CDs in the UK increased threefold between 2000 and 2004 - our CD album market, excluding compilations, has proved remarkably buoyant.In 2003, for instance, the volume of albums sold in the UK actually increased by 7.6%. In 2004 there was a further 3% increase and although overall album sales - both artist and compilations - dropped by 1.2% last year, sales of artist albums were up 1.4%. Even with supermarkets and online retailers driving prices down, the UK appeared to buck global trends.As a result, while the UK majors retain an open attitude towards copy protection, at least publicly, some employees are highly sceptical about the cost and effectiveness of such initiatives. One Sony BMG UK representative says the US XCP fiasco was met with evident relief.At Jupiter, Mulligan explains: "You might put off some of the casual copiers but you're not going to cut out the sort of person who's doing it on a serial basis. So you're not penalising the hardcore criminals, the mass pirates - you're penalising the average consumer."99% effectiveOne class of listener does have to put up with copy protection virtually all the time: journalists and "tastemakers" who receive pre-release promotional CDs. Most are encoded to be unplayable on any computer, and watermarked with the recipient's name. In extreme cases, the CD is not sent out; last year Kate Bush's much-anticipated Aerial was only played to individual journalists at the record company's offices. One industry insider explains: "When albums leak in pre-release it's embarrassing for the industry, but it's also the most commercially damaging period."Even today, copy protection can only act as a deterrent, admits Yoav Elgrichi, product manager for Macrovision, which makes one of the widely used protection systems. "If you buy the most expensive car alarm, people can hack it," he says. "But you prevented 99% of the riff raff from the street from taking your car. It's not 100%, but it is effective enough."There is one way in which copy protection is sneaking in: digital downloads are now topping a million a week in the UK - equivalent to about 100,000 CDs, or 5.2m annually. Most downloaded tracks have copy protection, though that can usually be circumvented (by burning an audio CD with the track, and then ripping the CD to MP3). But that sacrifices sound quality, unlike ripping an original CD. As the digital market grows, the labels might not need to put copy protection on CDs; people will buy it, unaware, online. After the XCP fiasco, the labels will surely find that more attractive.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Willing to pay more for convenienceMost of the points Danny Bradbury makes are valid (Money for nothing, February 23), but the merchants he castigates serve a useful role. Sometimes I find myself missing a utility or feature. I want it cheap, easy and now. A quick Google search will get me a ready download, and if that costs me $20, while an hour's research would have found it free, that is fair service and value. These purveyors should be no more castigated than convenience stores, which charge double the prices of the supermarket.Peter SmithLondonPower strugglesJack Schofield, in otherwise sensible remarks about power consumption (Shocking news for power users, February 23), said that standby mode uses surprising amounts of energy, so I checked the specification for my TV, which gives standby consumption as 1.4W. This seems about right, given that only a fraction of the circuitry and an indicator LED are running. No such information is given for my PVR, DVD, VCR and PC but assuming 1.5W for the DVD and PC, and 2W for the PVR and VCR (which have clock displays), the total standby consumption would be 8.5W. Over a year this would amount to 75KW, which, at my current rate, would be about &pound;6. Surely the only surprising thing about the saving from not using standby is how small it is compared with the other examples that Schofield cites.Richard WilliamsLondon&middot; Maybe someone should tell the BBC, which is trying to sign up 10,000-plus people for its distributed computing project - to study climate change (http://tinyurl.com/osh6l)!Andrew DeanShepherd's Bush&ge;Google apparently has about 100,000 servers; each would probably use about 75W, which would mean that Google pays $8,935,200 per year for its energy bill (assuming all its servers are in California). This definitely does not justify a nuclear reactor. Google only needs about 7.5MW - about two wind turbines.www.thewatt.comDisc disastersMike Whitley's struggles with his DVD recorder (Technobile, February 23) was due to one missing feature - no hard disk. I can understand his frustration. Had he purchased a DVD recorder with a hard disk he could have done all his recordings to the hard disk first, edited the recording, and then dubbed it to a DVD. It would also make it easier to record all his VHS tapes, some of which I assume are three or four hours and wouldn't fit on to a DVD if dubbed at a reasonable recording quality.And to give Whitley more bad news, with high-definition DVD just around the corner, his DVD recorder could be as obsolete as his VHS recorder in the not-too-distant future.&middot; Mike Whitley's article on DVD recorders was interesting and I think very relevant for people who wish to archive TV programmes on to storage media. However, I suspect most people use their VCRs as timeshifting devices rather than archive tools. Here technology really has improved things in the shape of the PVR. Sky+ or the Freeview equivalents are fantastic devices and run rings around VCRs.Mark ManningPinner, MiddlesexPrice war on publishersI read the Google Book Search article (As long as Google sells ads, publishers be damned, February 23) with interest and wonder why nobody is addressing the fact that Amazon Marketplace operates a similar "bypass the copyright holders" form of selling. Books on Marketplace sit cheek by jowl with the full price version of the book, but undercutting the price by 25-75%. This is a bit like Waterstone's running a boot sale on the shelf beneath the full-price copy. Why can Amazon not program the Marketplace copies to pay a percentage to the publisher? They are able to program the system to pay a percentage to themselves, after all.Joanna Anthonywww.indepublishing.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Silent miceIs there such a thing as a silent/clickless/very quiet mouse?JimBobJack Schofield replies:Martin Conaghan asked the same question in October 2002 and I still haven't found one. The good news is that some modern mice are quieter: try a sample from Logitech's Cordless Laser Mouse range. A more expensive alternative is a pen and touchsensitive pad: Wacom offers a wide range. If you are handy with a soldering iron, you can even rebuild a mouse to make it quieter, following instructions on the web (www.abclinuxu.cz/blog/hajma/2005/3/23/81023). The simplest solution could be ActiveClick, which works with any mouse, trackball or pointing device. The website says: "ActiveClick detects when you are moving the mouse - and when you stop - it waits several milliseconds and then it clicks for you" (http://activeclick.com). It sounds a bit pricey at $18.95 but it costs nothing to try.Tough enoughI'm looking for a laptop for my business, for communications, Microsoft Office and also EasyCAD 7. I want something small enough to fit my BMW motorcycle cases. My current machine, a Dell Latitude, only just fits - and not in a proper padded case. It hasn't lasted well.Neil BudgenMicrolimitJS:Most notebooks are built down to a price and are not designed to take any physical punishment. One of the few widely available exceptions is the Panasonic Toughbook (www.panasonic.co.uk/toughbook), designed using US military MIL-STD-810F test procedures (www.dtc.army.mil/navigator).Alternatives include the "semirugged" Itronix GoBook VR-1 (www.vr1online.com) which is available in the UK from Computacenter Direct. "Semi-rugged" is just as rugged but not environmentally sealed. Rugged notebooks are more expensive to buy, but for mobile workers, can work out cheaper in the long run.Out of iTunesMy daughter has an iPod Mini and a store of songs bought from iTunes. She wants to change to an MP3 player but there does not seem to be any method of changing a song into an MP3 or WMA file. Is she stuck with having to buy another iPod or having to write off all the money spent on her iTunes library?Barry WattsJS:The simplest approach is to use the iTunes software to create audio CDs of the songs, then "rip" these to MP3. If using Microsoft's Windows Media Player for this (it's not the best way), make sure that digital rights management (DRM) is turned off. To do this, go to Tools|Options, click the tab marked Copy Music, and untick the box where it says "Copy protect music". Since music players and personal computers can fail or be lost or stolen, itseems to me that all music bought online should be backed up to CD. I'd therefore suggest buying original CDs as the best "back up" then ripping them to MP3 or FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec), rather than buying any copy-protected music. Shop online and the CDs are often cheaper, and you can create betterquality rips for a portable player. It doesn't work as well for pop singles, but these usually appear on compilation CDs.Space saverMy computer is almost full and I have discovered that I have approximately 3GB of ntuninstall files. Can I delete them safely?Georgia WilsonJS:The ntuninstall files are created when you install a Microsoft hotfix or security patch. They store old files so you can uninstall the patch if something goes wrong. You can compress them (right-click a folder and check the box marked Compress contents to save Disk Space). If you are sure you will never want to uninstall a patch, you can delete them. However, these are protected files, so if you simply delete them, Windows will cleverly make backup copies, and in the short term, you won't actually save any space.The best option is to run CCleaner (www.ccleaner.com), which can remove all sorts of unwanted files. The latest version v1.27.260, released on February 14, now includes Windows HotFix Uninstaller cleaning.Backchat&#183;John Nicholson complains that last week's response to a question about the hazards of running DVDs raised more questions than it answered. "Please, tell us the hazards regarding copy-protected CDs and DVDs that your correspondent seems to have heard of but we haven't." The issue came up after some Sony BMG audio CDs, sold in the USA, installed "rootkit"-style copy protection software on PCs, a malware technique that left a door open for other malware to exploit. This was explained on the SysInternals blog (www.sysinternals.com/blog/2005/10/sony-rootkits-and-digitalrights.html) and covered at the time on our Technology blog.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Shopping for computers is painful. Signs full of jargon, queues that barely move, questions you can't answer; and worst of all, those pesky sales staff lurking in the aisles, peering over your shoulder, waiting to pounce on you. Except when you actually want them, they'll have disappeared. However, loathe them as you may, do they deserve all the blame?I ask because I'm a part-time computer salesman. My job is simply to serve customers, get them what they need, and get them out so I can move on to the next one. Along the way, I'll be asked questions about the printers, scanners and so forth.But at least once per shift there will be something I can't answer. If you ask the resolution of that scanner, I'll tell you. But if you ask me the clock latency of the Ram in that desktop PC, I'll look at you with a blank stare that says 'please leave me alone'.Why? First, it's unreasonable to expect anyone to know the intricate detail of thousands of products, and second, training in these jobs is minimal and, given the nature of computing, would be out of date before it was implemented; so learning as we go is always the best method. It's a little unfair to expect staff on little over &pound;5 an hour to be qualified computer experts. If you pay peanuts...Any product-specific training comes in the form of retailer handbooks direct from the manufacturers, with over-the-top gems like: "Photography has entered a new era of spontaneity, convenience, ease and quality." Even if I managed to keep a straight face while saying that load of tosh, I'm sure you wouldn't.Not that we're entirely innocent, however. I will pester you, because I'll be pestered too if I don't get sales. I'm pressured into selling you additional items or warranties to maximise profits. It does little to ease my conscience, but you would do it too if it meant keeping your job. Those pestering me are no doubt pestered themselves by the higher powers.Yet we do try our best, even if it does not appear that way. One evening, I sent away a smiling lady with a new PC, assuring her that it would work with her existing monitor. It did. Later in the week she returned red-faced, her ears spouting steam. She'd lost all her files."I thought they stayed in the screen!" she screamed. Now, some people don't know much about computers, which is understandable, but I can honestly say I didn't expect a comment like that. Quite what she thought the big lump of metal under her desk did, I'm not sure.Sadly, we all knew she went away telling her friends that the good-for-nothing teenager had conned her.Then there are the businessmen who decide I am a devious liar before even stepping through the doors, or women who go crazy over the fact we no longer stock ribbon for a typewriter twice my age. Trust me, it won't be "out the back".And if I had &pound;10 for each person that asks for printer cartridges but knows neither the model nor brand of their machine ("It's about this big, with a silver bit on top") my student overdraft wouldn't be so depressing.So when you next find yourself in a computer store, try to look differently at the sales staff. Remember, it's not our fault that printer ink is more expensive by weight than champagne, or that you need to pay extra just to connect your printer. Shoot the manufacturers, not the messengers. Oh, and please have a warranty. Please.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You can certainly have a try. Point your browser athttp://tinyurl.com/lj94b, read the instructions, download the software and let your PC do the rest. The M4 Message Breaking project, led by Stephan Krah in Utrecht, has two still-uncracked messages encoded by the German Enigma system from the second world war and monitored by the Allies in the North Atlantic on November 25, 1942. Now, advances in computing power mean that we can apply what the geniuses at Bletchley Park could not: an optimised brute-force solution.The Enigma machine, invented in 1924, used three or four "rotors"; given a "plugboard" extra, the four-rotor version could encode plain text into any of 158 million million million combinations. Its only flaw, from a cryptographer's point of view, was that it never encoded the same letter the same way. Thus original signals with identical beginnings - because they were made at the same time of day, for example weather reports - revealed some of the underlying codes used. (We did say the Bletchley folk were geniuses.)Since the project began in January, one of the signals has been cracked: it was a report from a submarine that had been forced to submerge after an attack.The software being used to crack the codes was developed by Krah, who is intrigued by cryptanalysis, and aims to create an ad-hoc supercomputer by getting as many people as possible to use spare capacity on their PCs.As he points out, not even today's computers are quick enough to do a pure brute-force solution (of trying every possible answer); instead he uses a "hillclimbing" optimisation, which sees whether a failed answer seems "nearer" the potential solution.If you want to crack the messages, you might have to be quick. A burst of online publicity earlier this week means that people have rushed to download the software and are plugging away for a brief taste of the glory of finding out what weather conditions were like that day (cloudy, we imagine).Krah estimates that 100 users could work through the "search space" of solutions in four days if they dedicated their computers to it. "Easy messages break on the first walk through ... tougher ones require more," he notes. "Based on my experience with messages of this length, there should be a good chance that one to 10 walks will yield a break."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Beauty in the beastSony Ericsson's latest music-playing mobile, the W900i, is something of a beast, largely because in addition to its two megapixel camera and basic smartphone facilities, it has 3G facilities. Users can experiment with mobile TV, make video calls and use the phone as a modem via its easy-to-install software. The W900i's ample storage (470MB) can be supplemented by a Memory Stick Duo card. Almost all the features can be operated without opening the screen. Bizarrely, though, it has a poor-quality speaker. Sony Ericsson also loses points for the MP3 loading software, which is tricky to operate, and a fiddly remote control. This is a quality handset, but music phone buyers are probably advised to wait for the arrival in summer of Sony Ericsson's W950i, with 4GB storage, and a superb screen that will display album art.Multitasking companionGarmin is billing its latest GPS device as more than just an in-car satellite navigation system. With extra software, the Nuvi 350 moonlights as an electronic travel guide, language translator and personal entertainment system.It performs GPS brilliantly, delivering excellent 3D maps and clear voice instructions. The translator harnesses the device's text-to-speech system to say the words you need to hear. On board is an MP3 player, 700MB of internal memory, an audio book reader, currency converter, world clock.It can also view JPegs.Using it is a little odd, for if you are carrying it around you need to ensure the antenna has a clear view of the satellites. While it looks great, performs the GPS basics with aplomb and proved great fun on travels round Spain, the Nuvi 350 falls down on price - &pound;600 for the unit, plus a further &pound;75 for the language guide and &pound;150 for the travel guide sadly take this great little GPS unit beyond most people's pockets.PC to grace the living roomPhilips's first XP Media Center PC, the MCP9350i, scores highly for an excellent wireless keyboard and an interface that can be operated by a remote. Sockets include Scarts for hooking up video to a TV, as well high-end DVI (video) and optical digital audio outputs. The PC is also easy to install and use, thanks to a clever menu system. The PC has integrated 802.11g wireless for instant internet access and to enable audio and video streaming from other PCs in the network.Its video performance is a league above most rival PCs. The lack of a digital TV tuner (it has two analogue ones), a fan that could run a little quieter and a hard drive of just 250GB are its most obvious failings. Nevertheless, this is by some distance the most living room-compatible PC so far.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Okay, I've tallied up the scores fromlast week's blog. Basically I wanted to find out whether my theory - that PSP's are more prevalent in the wild than DS's - stood up. It did. The scores were:DS 33PSP 51Others (GBA, Gizmondo etc) 7Of course, this small survey doesn't really prove anything - other than how good you lot are at sizing up fellow travellers - but it does hint at the importance of product design. Style and branding makes the PSP appeal more to an older audience - no commuting embarrassment here - even if the quality of games can't match those of the DS. It'll be interesting to see if these figures change when Lite and Brain Training arrive - I'm guessing they will.
A bid to curb the sale of violent video games was launched in the Commons today by a former minister.Keith Vaz, Labour MP for Leicester East, has been leading a campaign for a crackdown on the sale of such software after Stefan Pakeerah was killed with a hammer and knife by a 17-year-old in the city two years ago.Giselle Pakeerah, Stefan's mother, believes the killing was encouraged by the controversial video game Manhunt, which has an 18 certificate.Mr Vaz told MPs his video games bill aims to increase the size of the age certificate on video games, but he also called for a description of the content that led to the rating. Categories could include violence, drugs, criminality and sex."This Bill does not seek to censor the industry," Mr Vaz said. "We must, however, recognise that it is our duty to protect our children from inappropriate influences, such as violent video games."Many games now encouraged players to behave violently towards innocent bystanders and act out "criminal fantasies".He told the Commons that the 18-certificate Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas game, made by Rockstar Games, had sold 12 million copies worldwide. He claimed a hidden code introduced "sexually explicit" acts into the gameplay.Rockstar wassuedin January by the City of Los Angeles for allegedly hiding explicit sexual material in the game and allegedly violating California's business code by making misleading statements in marketing it.Mr Vaz also claimed that Bully, a forthcoming Rockstar game, encouraged players to "physically and psychologically torment" other children at a boarding school.Research by Professor Bruce Bartholow of the University of Missouri-Columbia showed people who played violent games were desensitised towards violence and more likely to commit aggressive acts, he said. "Those who believe that playing violent video games has no effect on the person playing are, in my view, ignoring the facts. The link exists."Mr Vaz said more than two-thirds of boys aged 11 to 14 admitted playing adult video games.His Bill gained an unopposed first reading but has little chance of becoming law due to a lack of parliamentary time.
Happy March!
As covered in Technology blogthis morning, andelaboratedupon by Gamesindustry.biz, a release date has been announced for the first Blu-ray disc player - the Samsung BD-P1000. It'll hit US shelves on May 23 along with a small selection of movies.Of course, there is now wild speculation over how this revelation will affect the launch date of PS3. Some feel the announcement is a positive development - previously problems over agreeing the final specifications of the Blu-ray format have beencitedas the main delaying factor behind the launch of Sony's next-gen machine. It has been suggested that, as a release date has now been agreed, the Blu-ray standardmusthave been official finalised.However, the fact that the very first Blu-ray movie players won't be out in the US til May makes Sony's Spring PS3 launch date look even more ambitious.Read the official Sony Pictures press releasehere
"Vodafone has announced a new handset from Sharp that includes a face-recognition security system. The 904SH handset will go on sale in Japan on April. Its VGA screen with 480 pixels by 640 pixels has four times the resolution of screens found on most high-end handsets currently on sale. A prototype of the phone was shown at the 3GSM World Congress in Europe earlier this month," reports theIDG News service.The security system "is based on technology from Oki Electric and is capable of authenticating within 1 second whether the face of the person trying to use the phone matches that of the pre-registered owner. Should recognition fail, for example, in a dark room, a back up system involving a question and answer can be used."The 904SH has a 3.2-megapixel camera with 2X optical zoom and supports the Felica nearfield wireless communications system. This latter support means it is possible to use the handset as a touch-and-go transport pass on railways in the Tokyo area and for payment in convenience stores and other shops that accept the Edy e-money system.Comment: The NFC (Near Field Communications) capabilities may be more important than the face recognition. See some Guardian Online stories from 2004:The magic of touch, aDave BirchSecond Site column, and my earlierSmart Placescover story.
"Caterina Fake knew she was onto something when one of the engineers at her Vancouver, British Columbia-based online game start-up created a cool tool to share photos and save them to a Web page while playing,"and so on. Includes a side-bar on how Stewart Butterfield and Caterina Fake got together....
A solution is on the way for mobile gamers who wish to play games across platforms.Next Generationreports that the major publishers are seeking to develop a standardised architecture for mobile game development, which will allow developers to create one library of code per game for all phones.The mobile games industry is anticipated to explode over the next few years, but has been held back in the past because of slow public uptake. One of the reasons, industry pundits argue, is that games developers must spend time and money developing software products for every mobile platform they wish to be on.From the article:Companies including Activision, Electronic Arts, Konami, Microsoft and Square Enix hope to define an open gaming architecture in order to facilitate the development of mobile games. By making games easier to port between different handsets, developers, publisher and other mobile game companies can capitalize on a wider audience.The standardised architecture is anticipated to be rolled out in the second half of this year. Unfortunately, that's too late for people who wish to downloadvNES, the virtual Nintendo Entertainment System emulator that allows users of J2ME and Symbian mobile platforms to go retro on the go.
I made a serious mistake this morning. Not fatal, obviously, but the kind of mistake that actually might be injurious to health - someone else's, if not mine.My error was to draw the attention of a motorist to one he had made: turning right without indicating. I was turning behind him and, seeing his window wound down, said something about his non-signalling. Back came a colourful stream of invective. In the heat of the moment, I could think of no worthwhile reply without resorting to obscenities myself, so all I managed was a feeble: "Nice language, too!" Which only resulted in a further volley of abuse ricocheting off nearby buildings.After that delightful start to the day, I stalked into the office, furious. What is it with motorists that they react to even a mild criticism of their driving as if you've personally insulted their mothers? An hour later, when my rage had subsided, I went back over the incident. What was it I'd said that had provoked such a ferocious response?"Thanks for indicating - not!"OK, so the sarcasm was puerile. Right there, my chances of getting even a grudging acknowledgment, let alone an apology, went from close to zero to rather less. So I had to ask myself what my intervention had achieved. Answer: another driver who would feel utterly homicidal towards cyclists for several hours and fairly hostile for an indefinite period thereafter.There is a problem with motorists. I know because I am one, and I hate the person I become behind the wheel. Put me in charge of a car and I metamorphose from a sane and rational Dr Jekyll into a rampant Mr Hyde. And it's not just me. Unfortunately, motoring does not create an environment that rewards courtesy and consideration: drive like a competitive jerk and you will get there quicker. I resist it but, sooner or later, I lapse into the general pattern of passive-aggressive mean-spiritedness, grandiosity about one's own skill and power, and casual disregard for just how dangerous a fast-moving tonne of metal really is. The genius of Kenneth Grahame was to realise there is a bit of Mr Toad in us all.This is not to say that cyclists are any different. There are plenty of people who ride bikes with much the same mentality; it's just that it doesn't usually affect anyone but themselves. And they just get sweaty. Except when they get themselves into slanging matches with motorists. If you go out with the "right" (ie, wrong) attitude, you can have a fight with a driver every time. Again, I've been there and done it.But, as of today, I'm through with such uncouthness. When a motorist cuts me up on my bike, I'm just going to count to 10 and ride on by. It's my very own traffic karma measure. I'll let you know if it works.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,I commute to work year round, doing about 2,000 miles a year. I am at the point of upgrading to a more expensive bike that will last longer. Two shops I have visited have extolled the virtues of eight-speed hub-gear bikes. How do you think they compare with their derailleur quivalent?Pat Heery, via emailFor your purposes, I'd say a hub-gear bike is a really good idea. They give you more than enough ratios, are practically maintenance-free, and will definitely last longer than derailleur parts. If I didn't ride a fixed-gear bike about town, I would probably have one myself.Derailleurs are more mechanically efficient, but only if the chain and sprockets are in good nick. And cleaning derailleurs is a mucky job, especially in winter when you tend to run more oil on the chain. Hub-gears save you all that hassle.One piece of advice, whichever you opt for: do change the chain regularly (maybe twice a year with your mileage). It's virtually the cheapest part on the bike, but if you run a worn chain, you will quickly wear out much more expensive parts. It's a good "stitch in time" strategy.
Fame came unhappily to the SsangYong Rodius last year when it was voted Britain's Ugliest Car in a poll of 1,500 visitors to the used car website, cardata.co.uk. News of this cut-price Korean people carrier's sensational finish (one place ahead of the frog-faced Fiat Multipla and a glorious six positions above the gargoyle-like Rover 75) was widely broadcast, lending the phrase "the odious Rodius" a certain currency, and handing the car the kind of web presence that its publicists would probably rather have avoided. To quote just one random web entry: "The Rodius fell out of the ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down." And to quote a second one, just for the fun of it: "If Martin Clunes were a car ... "The Rodius is certainly a riot to look at - like something that has come into the hazardous materials disposal business, via an episode of Scooby Doo. The rear end of the car, in particular, is a sock to the jaw. It appears to be in the process of giving birth to another car. Either that, or it has reversed at high speed into a pig shed and has ended up fused with it.The Rodius doesn't hide its talent for ugliness under a bushel, either, and certainly not under a carport. The vehicle is enormous - 5m long and 2m high. To the honour of being Britain's Ugliest Car, then, it can add the accolade of Britain's Car that is Most Visible from Space. Its dimensions make it the biggest people carrier that money can buy. Better still, being Korean, it's the biggest people carrier that not much money can buy. Not even those far more expensive family cruise ships, the Chrysler Grand Voyager and the Renault Grand Espace, can touch it for bulk. However, it has to be said, they don't look as funny.In Korea, the Rodius is essentially a minibus and comes with a uniquely football-friendly complement of 11 seats. The European version uses the same space to seat seven. As a result, the interior is comically roomy - a first-class twin cabin up front, two business-class seats in the second row and a three-person bench in economy at the back, with enough space up the centre to wheel through an at-seat trolley-service of drinks and light refreshments.The classic people-carrier quandary (room for people, no room for people's things) is thus partly seen off, and, what's more, in a heart-warming gesture back to the golden era of the camper van, the second and third rows can be folded down to form twin beds. If nothing else, the Rodius can sit on your drive and function as a spare room and may, in fact, prove cheaper than a loft conversion - although a loft conversion may not be quite so spongy to drive when not fully loaded.Note, also, the plastic flower vase on the dash - a trippy-dippy touch lifted from the VW Beetle. What to put in it? One of those clown flowers that squirts water, maybe. After all, the obvious approach is to embrace the Rodius for, rather than in spite of, its comedy - at the same time bearing in mind that, beneath that laugh-a-minute exterior, there lies a 2.7-litre diesel engine and five-speed automatic gearbox made by Mercedes-Benz - made by them for a previous generation of cars, admittedly (the old E-Class), and bought by SsangYong as a job lot, but authentic, Mercedes-Benz parts, none the less.I was perfectly happy, bouncing about in my Rodius, until I attempted to pull out quickly into a stream of oncoming traffic. The Rodius doesn't much go in for sudden movements - something I only really appreciated when I was halfway out into the road with a van bearing down. Bleached with panic, I stamped on the accelerator. Some time later that morning, the Rodius achieved a level of speed that would have made my manoeuvre plausibly sociable. By that point, I had fumbled belatedly into the now much slower traffic stream, leaving the van driver shrugging in disbelief and me waving apologetically into my rear view mirror (in which, by the way, next to nothing is visible).Ah, well, I can at least report that the Rodius tested extremely well within the six-to-seven-year-old age group where, with a child's absence of prejudice, testers were able to look beyond the car's mere appearance and into its essential heart (fold-down tray tables). At the same time, if it's a budget bus you are after, the Kia Sedona seats seven for less than &pound;14,000. Then again, it only came 10th in Britain's Ugliest Car. That's not really trying, is it?ModelSsangYong Rodius 2.7.CDTiPriceFrom &pound;18,999Top speed104mphAcceleration0-62mph in 13.1 secsConsumption28.5 mpg (combined)Emissions267g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelChris EvansThey'd rather walkBillie PiperOn the stereoHello Children EverywhereEn route forKwangju
Blu-ray is scheduled to hit the US market on May 23 with one player, the $1,000 Samsung BD-P1000 shown in January, and a small selection of movies. Titles include 50 First Dates, The Fifth Element, House of Flying Daggers, The Last Waltz, Resident Evil Apocalypse, Crash, and Terminator 2: Judgement Day. The June line-up includes Kung Fu Hustle, Robocop, Species, SWAT and Terminator. (Kenji Mizoguchi fans have been predictably ignored -- not enough explosions, I guess.)It looks as though old movies with cost $30 each while new(ish) ones will cost $40.The IDG News Service, Tokyo Bureau, has more detailshere.There's no announcement about the PlayStation 3's arrival in the US, but it's very unlikely to appear before November/December.
TheDaring Fireball Linked Listhastwopostson how buyers of the new Intel-based Mac minis may be getting something less than they were with the PowerPC-based versions:Footnote 4 on the new Mac Mini tech specs features page:Memory available to Mac OS X may vary depending on graphics needs. Minimum graphics memory usage is 80MB, resulting in 432MB of system memory available.These machines are using very different  and decidedly inferior  graphic cards than the MacBook Pros and iMacs. Instead of a separate pool of video RAM, the video card uses regular RAM. 512 MB was barely tolerable on the old Minis  it's probably not even close to enough memory on the new ones. I figure if the minimum graphics memory usage is 80 MB, then it'll probably use at least 128 MB in real-world use, leaving only 384 MB for the system and applications.From the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine cache of Apple's Mac Mini Graphics page from March 5, 2005:Go ahead, just try to play Halo on a budget PC. Most say they're good for 2D games only. That's because an "integrated Intel graphics" chip steals power from the CPU and siphons off memory from system-level RAM. You'd have to buy an extra card to get the graphics performance of Mac mini, and some cheaper PCs don't even have an open slot to let you add one.What a difference a year makes: the new Minis use an "integrated Intel graphics" chip that siphons memory from system-level RAM and doesn't have a slot for another video card.Obviously you'll have to see them in the real world, but it does put the claims at launch of being between 2.5x-5x faster into a different light.
No video iPod, no magic home media system (unless you count the updated Mac mini), no movie downloads over the web.. if you are one of those people who believes all the rumours ahead of an Apple event, you'll have a familiar feeling after Apple's latest announcement.So what has Apple done? Shifted the Mac mini to an Intel-based version, both single- and double-core, which Steve Jobs claimed are respectively between 2.5-3x and 5.5x faster than their PowerPC ancestors. Prices however have gone up slightly. Jobs also said that Apple is on track to convert its entire line of Macs to Intel-based processors by the end of the year. Since there's only the iBook (MacBook?) and PowerMac (if the PowerBook became the MacBook Pro, will this become the MacMac Pro?) to go, and it's not yet March, that seems to leave some headroom.And on the iPod front, you can - now try to stay calm - get anItalian leather casefor your video iPod and iPod nano (funny how much Apple is into cases for the iPod since all that scratching stuff).Plus, ahah, Apple has itself put a toe into the $1 billion (reckons the New York Times) market for iPod accessories, launching the iPod Hi-Fi, which Jobs called a "reinvented home stereo". It's a single-unit white system with three speakers and an iPod dock on top (which accommodates all iPods apart from the shuffle, which can use an auxiliary input). There's also SPDIF optical audio in; and it can run on batteries. Basically, it's an iPod boombox, with a remote. It costs 249 in the UK ($350 in the US if you're going there soon).
This evening's entertainment was supplied, briefly, by trying to catch the latest announcements from Apple... you know, the "fun" stuff they've been working on.The product cycle from Cupertino seems to be getting faster (Macworldwas less than two months ago) but this year's bound to be packed with relaunches, since Jobs promised that the company would refresh its entire line of computers this year.That being taken into account, not all of the 2006 events this year are likely to stand up in the excitement stakes to big-time new product launches. Indeed, when I spoke to Apple earlier today they said not to over-expect.And they were right: what did we get? A newMac miniand an "iPod Hi-Fi". They both do pretty much what you'd expect: the Intel mini comes in two flavours (Core Solo or Core Duo) but I can't confirm UK pricing right now. The Hi-Fi is erm, a big speaker that your iPod plugs into.The latter, billed as the star of the show judging by its last-on-stage billing, doesn't seem like much more than an accessory to me (after all, you can already buy these products, albeit not from Apple). Instead, I find the idea of the mini much more interesting, especially now that it can stream using Bonjour - so your desktop could act as a server for your underneath-the-TV mini box.As many of us have been predicting, that's clearly the aim for this little tyke (until today Apple rarely countenanced the idea in public) although I still think it's overpriced and underserved for that right now.
