Wii owners, well those who actually buy additional games for their Wii Sports machine, have got a busy April to look forward to. Nintendo has announced that Mario Kart Wii will launch in Europe on the 11th April. The game comes bundled with theWii Wheel, although the Wii remote and even a Gamecube controller can be used. The introduction of bikes and the ability to race with your Mii avatars offer some innovation, but let's hope the bikes work better than previous attempts to update the classic action. 11 player simultaneous online play is a welcome move while the Mario Kart channel - which launches with the game - will allow for rankings, leaderboards and downloads.Less exciting, but possibly a bigger long term seller isWii Fit. The fitness board is confirmed for release on the 25th April and likely to benefit from the word of mouth that helped the Wii do so well in 2007.
If you mention 'multiple touchpoints' to a bunch of advertisers, their eyeballs will roll back and they'll start to salivate like Homer Simpson. It's the holy grail of money-making: get your property out there to as many people in as many ways as possible and you'll see the results in your bottom line. It's been the boon to the web's widget industry and to social networks like Facebook.We've seen this in games - witness the enormous market in console game ports from one machine to another. But to date, there's been no relationship between the different versions. The closest the industry has got to the 'multiple touchpoint' ideal is the ever-innovative Sega Dreamcast's Virtual Memory Unit, or VMU for short. That little gadget allowed the player to continue whichever game was saved on the unit while away from the console. It was primitive, but proved that it could be done.We've talked about a similar concept in gaming on the blog before, the notion of a pan-gaming identity which can be taken from one property to another with transferred skills. But the prospect of interacting with a game on the move, of progressing when away from the primary touchpoint, is on the way thanks tothe realisation of virtual world Second Life on a mobile phone.In the interest of full disclosure, I'm currently contracting with Linden Lab as a research analyst, but have nothing to do with the mobile phone implementation.But which other games would suit multiple touchpoints, and which technologies - from mobile phones to GPSs would they translate best on?
IPod owners will be able to legally download shows like Life on Mars and Doctor Who and watch them on the move, following a deal between Apple and the BBC.In the first big agreement between a UK broadcaster and the computer giant, episodes from a range of BBC shows including The Mighty Boosh, Ashes to Ashes and Spooks will be available to download from iTunes for &pound;1.89 each.The deal is expected to lend extra momentum to the trend for "anytime, anyplace, anywhere" viewing. Television viewing habits are slowly changing thanks to the popularity of personal video recorders like Sky Plus and new online services like 4 on demand and ITV.com.The BBC is also today expected to unveil statistics for its free, seven-day catch-up service, iPlayer. More than 17m programmes have been watched in the seven weeks since its launch and it has been chiefly responsible for a 29% year-on-year surge in traffic to the BBC website.Ashley Highfield, BBC director of future media and technology, also revealed that owners of the latest iPod Touch and the iPhone would be able to access the iPlayer via wi-fi within weeks.The corporation has also agreed deals with Yahoo and MSN to promote the service by showing programme clips on their websites. Highfield also unveiled plans to improve the service by introducing new recommendation and personalisation options.The most popular programmes so far have included Ashes to Ashes, wildlife documentary Life in Cold Blood and Six Nations rugby. Highfield said it had boosted ratings for some shows such as Torchwood by up to 10%.
Jakob Nielsen's latest Alertbox lists and explains theTop 10 Application Design Mistakes, with lots of links to previous columns on the detailed uses of things such as tabs, scrollbars, links and so on.Obviously the hope is that some readers will find the tips so useful that they will sign up for atwo day courseat $16,000 or attend aUsability Weekevent.Nielsen Norman Group is also looking for theYear's 10 Best Application UIsfor its design annual. To enter, you have to submit 8 to 20 screen shots. Hm, does that mean NNG is assessingusabilitywithout actually using applications? Or do they do that remotely?
Ever wondered why OpenOffice.org does such a poor job* of supporting binary Microsoft Office file formats while Google Docs' support is almost indistinguishable from pathetic? It's not just that it's hard to emulate a closed binary blob, it's that the file formats themselves are insanely complicated. This we know because Microsoft has nowpublishedthem.I recommend them highly, especially if you're an insomniac. The Word spec alone can send you to sleep in minutes. Fortunately there are men made of sterner stuff, such as Fog Creek Software's Joel Spolsky, of whom we are all fans. Joel not only understands specs, and not only knows how they came to be that way, he can spin it into a useful and entertaining story.Which he just has.Joel has an unfair advantage in that, many moons ago, he worked at Microsoft. Indeed, many readers will remember the story of the 1-2-3 date compatibility "bug" from one of his best ever posts (My First BillG Review), which this time he says "is too boring to describe here". It also gives you the chance to freshen up onStrategy Letter IV: Bloatware and the 80/20 Myth, which may be seven years old but will still be bang up to date in 2028.WillWhy are the Microsoft Office file formats so complicated?still be as relevant then? I hope not, but one should never underestimate people's ability to cling to the past.* Theminimumdoc test involves at least one odd headline face in two or three decks, and multiple columns of justified text flowed round embedded photos with captions, all paginated (with footnotes) on letterheaded paper with a graduated background: in other words, a typical press release. Sorry, the ability to handle your annual one-page letter to your mother doesn't count.
The team looks at entertaining technologies this week. There are interviews on video blogging with the people behind Diggnation, Boing Boing and zefrank, and the makers of the online Torchwood alternative reality game tell us how they put it together.Plus, personalised stationers Moo.com take a ride in the elevator to make a pitch.Listen or download- we don't mind. But tell us your thoughts!As always:• Subscribe free to Tech Weeklyvia iTunes• Thepodcast feed URL• Visit ourFacebook group
I had blocked from my mind the news that a new Street Fighter movie was being made - and thenVariety came alongwith news of the recently announced cast. It turns out that Smallville star, Kristin Kreuk will take on the role of Ken, sorry, Chun Li, while Chris Klein will make a rather loveable Nash and Michael Clarke Duncan will bring his considerable bulk to the part of Balrog.Also on the roster are Rick Yune (Die Another Day, Fast and the Furious) as Gen, plus Moon Bloodgood (best known from US TV series Journeyman), Taboo from the Black Eyed Peas, Singapore-born actor Edmund Chen, and veteran Chinese actress Cheng Pei Pei, perhaps best known in the West for her role as Jade Fox in Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon.Despite countless hours of professional counselling, I have been unable to obliterate the memory of the original Street Fighter movie - and this cast seemsmarginallymore appropriate than the satanic combination of Van Damme, Kylie and, bless his soul, Raul Julia. This is, however, possibly not the route to silver screen success that Kruek had mapped out for herself - it didn't work for Kylie; just as DOA didn't work for Holly Valance.Anyway, what else do we know about this project? According to Variety:Andrzej Bartkowiak ("Romeo Must Die," "Exit Wounds") is directing from a script penned by "Voltron" scribe Justin Marks. Hong Kong fight choreographer Dion Lam ("The Matrix") is handling the extreme fight sequences.Dammit, I was hoping for Paul Thomas Anderson.Also from the article:Plot of the new pic is being kept under wraps but will focus on the Chun-Li character.It is likely, however, that the 'plot' will remain an unfathomable mystery even as the opening weekend audience sits watching the movie, and later as they trudge away from the cinema, reflecting on 90 minutes of their lives that they could have spent embracing their loved ones or chatting to friends over a glass of cold lager. Or playing Street Fighter.
Aleks Krotoski,Jemima Kiss,Charles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonare back for another Tech Weekly, this week with a look at entertaining technologies.Ahead of a bigger article in thisSaturday's Weekendmagazine, Bobbie discusses video blogging withAlex AlbrechtfromDiggnation,Xeni JardinfromBoing Boingandzefrank.The makers of theTorchwood alternative reality gametell us how they put it together, and the complications of tieing an online game into a major television series.Moo.comtake a ride in the elevator to make a pitch, and there's the latest in the HD-DVD and the Yahoo takeover sagas.  There's your blog comments too.Don't forget to:&gt; Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.uk&gt;Post a message on the blog about this week's programme...&gt;Join our Facebook group
Microsoft chairman Bill Gates has denied that the software giant is secretly renegotiating with Yahoo over its takeover bid and has pledged to invest heavily in the internet even if the deal falls through.In a carefully couched interview with Reuters, Gates prepared the ground for a possible snub by Yahoo by saying Microsoft could "afford to make big investments in the engineering and marketing that needs to get done" to boost its online business."We will do that with or without Yahoo. But we also see that we'd get there faster if the great engineering work that Yahoo has done and the great engineers there were part of the common effort," he added.The cash and stock offer for Yahoo, which the internet company's management rejected last week, is now worth $41.7bn (£21.4bn) after Microsoft's share price fell.Gates described it as a "full and very fair" offer and would not confirm whether Microsoft plans to up its bid.Yahoo's board rejected the offer, saying it undervalued the company. But shareholders, who have witnessed the Yahoo's share price fall to a four-year low before the Microsoft offer, are putting the board under increased pressure to accept.The Yahoo board is said to be split over the decision, with the chairman, Roy Bostock, reportedly allying with Ron Burkle and others in favour of accepting a Microsoft takeover, against some longer-serving executives including the chief executive, Jerry Yang.Microsoft is expected to authorise a proxy battle this week, according to a report on the New York Times website today, lining up a panel of directors that would get the firm's shareholders onside and oust the existing Yahoo board.But a hostile takeover would be a last resort for Microsoft as it would upset key Yahoo staff and make integration of the two companies more difficult.Henry Blodget, writing on the technology industry blog Silicon Alley Insider, said the news of the proxy battle was well-choerographed."Microsoft doesn't want to go through the hell of trying to get Yang &amp; Co fired, but it has to keep demonstrating that it is willing to do so if Yahoo keeps playing hard to get," he wrote."Proxy fights are ugly, and one here will keep Yahoo paralysed for months. Although paralysing Yahoo might help Microsoft in the near term it will hurt Microsoft in the long term, because Yahoo's competitive position will continue to erode."Yahoo, meanwhile, has discussed alternatives with companies including AOL and News Corporation, but none has made a public takeover offer to match Microsoft's.There has been speculation that if no deal can be reached, Microsoft will instead begin a Silicon Valley spending spree, buying alternative companies and services that will allow it to pursue its strategy of creating a tidal wave of internet activity to compete more effectively with Google.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It's not been the best day for Microsoft. First theBBC reportedthat a demo 360 at the hugely important GDC event had embarrassingly succumbed toRROD. And then there was the confirmation that HD-DVD is dead, with analysts predicting a huge upswing in PS3 sales, presumably at the expense of the more gaming focused 360. Personally I think the RROD issue is more relevant. A friend's console recently died and after much cursing he sent it off for repair. A few days later and he received a scuffed second hand 360 in return. Cue more cursing. It's hard to quantify but word of mouth has to be an issue here. Anyway, so far so good for my Xbox 360 Elite - how is your 360 bearing up?
As expected (below), Toshiba has announced that it is dropping support for the HD DVD format backed by the DVD Forum. Engadgetblogged the press conferencelive from Tokyo, though there wasn't much to it....In case you were wondering:Q:How many HD DVD players and recorders, exactly, did you sell?A: 600,000 players in the US -- 300,000 of which were Xbox 360 HD DVD drives. 100,000 units were sold in Europe. And about 10,000 players and 20,000 recorders in Japan. So about 730,000 units worldwide.There's a Toshibapress release, and a longer story fromAP in Tokyo.
Here are the current UK game charts:1 Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games 2 Devil May Cry 4 3 Turok 4 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 5 FIFA 08 6 Burnout Paradise 7 The Simpsons Game 8. The Club 9 Conflict: Denied Ops 10 Assassin's CreedYes, the Nintendo and Sega mascots have clambered to the top of the pile, mostly thanks to the excellent sales of the DS version. Like its Wii equivalent, the game has attracted mixed reviews, but the allure of two videogame legends squaring up in Beijing has proved too much for consumers to effectively withstand. Considering the event itself is still over five months away, we can probably expect this title to lurk around in the Top 20 for a good while yet.This is bound to set a new precedent in the world of videogame licensing: to guarantee success, merely securing the rights to a world-class sporting event isn't enough, nor is adding in justoneinternationally recognised videogame character, but combine the sports tie-in withtwodigital superstar endorsements and it's payday. Expect Lara Croft vs Master Chief at Euro 2008 in shops from May!There are only two new entries in the Top 20, and they're strictly re-entries: Sonic and His Secret Rings and Super Mario Galaxy - what on earth is the latter doing bouncing about at the lower reaches of the UK chart?
Apologies for the absence of a Chatterbox yesterday. I was having misadventures. But now, let's move on. Welcome to Chatterbox Tuesday!
I chatted with theTorchwood ARGproducer Mat Fidell and writerPhil Fordyesterday for the Tech Weekly podcast and the results arenow available to download.In particular, I was interested in their intentions: is this Torchwood: The Mission just a branding exercise or is it a new direction in entertainment? How can such cross-media endeavours truly be interactive when to date they've been adjuncts rather than feedback loops?More on the making of the BBC's latest adventure (listen out for a special clue, mystery hunters) plus the latest in theHD-DVD/Blu-Ray newshere.
Sony looks as if it has won the two year fight to produce the next generation of home DVD players with its Blu-ray format, as arch-rival Toshiba prepares to accept defeat and pull the plug on its HD DVD format.The home DVD market is worth an estimated $24bn (&pound;12.3bn) but has come under threat in recent years. Prices have declined as a result of online piracy and the boom in sales of personal video recorders which make it easy for consumers to save their favourite films and programmes from broadcast TV, doing away with the need for them to buy DVD box sets.The next generation of DVDs promises to inject new growth. Both Blu-ray and HD DVD deliver high-definition graphics and sound, while the film industry has high hopes that the next generation of players will make it easier to protect their content. The TV manufacturers, meanwhile, believe the availability of content such as natural history programming and movies in the new high-definition standard will provide a reason for consumers to upgrade to the latest in HD television sets.But take-up of HD DVD and Blu-ray has been low as consumers have held off buying while Sony and Toshiba battle it out. Blu-ray has the upper hand in terms of units sold because its player is built into the Sony PlayStation 3 games console which has sold more than 10m units. Only about a million HD DVD players have been sold and the vast majority are in Japan.Toshiba, which initially seemed to have the upper hand after signing up DreamWorks, was dealt a severe blow last month when Warner Bros, the world's largest DVD producer, opted to use the Blu-ray format for all new releases, dumping HD-DVD.Consumer preferencesWarner, which accounts for about a fifth of the lucrative US DVD market, was the last remaining big Hollywood studio producing discs in both formats. MGM, Fox, Walt Disney and Sony Pictures had already signed up to the Blu-ray format. On the device manufacturing side, Blu-ray is also supported by Hitachi, Matsushita and Sharp.Then late last week the largest retailer in America and indeed the world, Wal-Mart, said it would dump HD DVD across its 4,000 US Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores by the summer in response to consumer preference."This decision will make my job so much easier," said Susan Chronister, one of Wal-Mart's movie buyers on the company's own Check Out blog. "So ... if you bought the HD player like me, I'd retire it to the bedroom, kids' playroom, or give it to your parents to play their John Wayne standard definition movies, and make space for a BD (Blu-ray disc) player for your awesome hi-def experience."Wal-Mart's move followed a similar decision from consumer electronics retailer Best Buy and online video rental firm Netflix earlier in the week.At the weekend Toshiba admitted that while it has made no definite decision about the future of HD-DVD it is "making various considerations about its business policy after Warner's decision and the announcements by Best Buy and Wal-Mart".Insiders believe Toshiba's board could make an official announcement that it is dropping the HD DVD format later this week. The move is a huge success for Sony, which has lost format wars in the past. Perhaps most famously, its Betamax format lost out in the home video battle to VHS. "If true, this will be good news for the next-generation DVD industry in clearing up the confusion for consumers because of the format competition that had curbed buying," said Credit Suisse analyst Koya Tabata.Certainly the DVD industry hopes that with just one standard for consumers, sales will take off. "Everyone had been waiting to see who will win, so if Toshiba exits, then it could really take off for Sony," said a spokeswoman for Taiwan's CMC Magnetics, which makes a third of the world's DVD discs.In what many are calling a rerun of the Betamax-VHS video format wars of the 1970s and 80s, Blu-ray's dominance has come on the back of rising sales in Japan, where it accounted for 96% of total sales in the last quarter of last year, according to market researcher BCN.In fact, Toshiba's discs are cheaper to produce but have a 15-gigabyte storage capacity compared with Blu-ray's 25 gigabytes. Attempts to boost sales with dramatic cuts in the price of HD DVD players in the US and Europe have had little impact.Toshiba was also hampered by the fact that one of its major technology partners, Microsoft, did not produce a version of its successful Xbox 360 video games console with an HD DVD drive installed, as had originally been mooted. Instead Microsoft has been selling a plug-in HD DVD player.Deft gambleSony, meanwhile, held back the launch of its PlayStation 3 - despite some serious criticism from the analyst community - in order to bring out a console with Blu-ray installed. In fact, the PS3 lags behind Nintendo's Wii in terms of monthly sales and the cost of the Blu-ray player means it makes a loss on every console shipped. But the fact that Blu-ray is likely to become the pre-eminent next generation DVD format, means sales should increase and components become cheaper. It turns out to have been a deft gamble on Sony's part.Toshiba's shares rose 5.7% to 829 yen (&pound;3.92) in Tokyo yesterday as investors gauged the positive impact of quickly abandoning what had turned into a potential money loser. Shares in Sony, which refused to comment, rose by 1%to 4,900 yen.As for those consumers who have bought an HD DVD player, they may just have to accept that this time they made a bad decision. HD DVD players were selling on auction site eBay yesterday for about &pound;70 and the price is expected to plummet as it becomes obvious that Blu-ray has won out. As a guide to what an HD DVD player may one day be worth, the losers in some of the other most recent format wars are little more than hobbyist's pieces these days. An in-car eight-track player, for instance, was going for &pound;4.99 on eBay yesterday while a Betamax video recorder will set you back a mere &pound;20.Fallen formats: From Betamax to mini-discThe success ofBlu-raywill come as great relief toKiyoshi Nishitanithe head of Sony's video business, not just because he has seen off the threat of Toshiba but because of his failure in the last"format war"that he fought.Nishitani developed theBetamaxvideotape standard that lost out so spectacularly to Video Home System (VHS), developed by arch-rival JVC, despite the fact that Betamax, which appeared before it in the mid-1970s, was abetter technology, not least because it was based on a standard used by TV professionals.Recorders that could use Betamax were produced by a range of manufacturers including Sony, Sanyo, Toshiba, Pioneer and NEC, but they did little marketing in North America. Fearing that Sony would end up with a de facto monopoly, JVC produced the VHS standard - which offered longer playing time than Betamax - and marketed it heavily in the US, gaining a lion's share of this new market.Using the scale it had in the US to reduce the cost of production, JVC was also able to flood the European home-recording market with cheaper devices and rein back the early-mover advantage enjoyed by Betamax. In 1988, Sony was forced to admit defeat and launch its own VHS recorders. It stopped making Betamax recorders in 2002.In the Asia Pacific region, where Betamax started out so well, it was quickly overshadowed by laser discs, because humidity plays havoc with magnetic tape.Laser discsgave way toDVDs, but Betamax is not dead - a variant of the technology is still used by television professionals.Betamax is not the only setback Sony has suffered. ItsDigital Audio Tapedevices, introduced in the mid-1980s, andmini-disc technologyannounced in the early 1990s were both supposed to replace Philips's magnetic cassette technology. Neither were taken up by the music industry with the same enthusiasm as CDs. Both have been in effect made obsolete byMP3Richard Wray
Wikileaks has certainly annoyed some people with its determination to publish leaked documents from all over. And finally, it properly annoyed someone who had the money for lawyers. A US district court judge ordered Wikileaks.org deleted from the DNS (domain name server) by its Californian host Dynadot following acomplaintfrom a Swiss and a Cayman Island bank. (Update:the DNS is the system that translates a domain name - eg wikileaks.org - into a numerical IP address, eg 88.80.13.160. Without a DNS entry, you need to enter the IP address into your browser's address bar. Then you'll find the site.Here, in fact.)FromLibertypen:In July 2000, the United States Department of the Treasure Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued an advisory states stating that there were "serious deficiencies in the counter-money laundering systems of the Cayman Islands", "Cayman Islands law makes it impossible for the supervisory and regulatory authority to obtain information held by financial institutions regarding their client's identity", "Failure of financial institutions in the Cayman Islands to report suspicious transactions is not subject to penalty" and that "These deficiencies, among others, have caused the Cayman Islands to be identified by the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (The 'FATF') as non-cooperative in the fight against money laundering". As of 2006 the U.S. State Department listed the Cayman Islands in its money laundering "Countries of Primary Concern".Yes, they're wonderful people. Wikileaks, by contrast, exposed documents about the laundering by the former Kenyan president Daniel Arap Moi of $4.5bn (read theGuardian story, which of course does credit Wikileaks).Oh, the basis of the complaint? That Wikileaks was telling the world about methods being used by the bank relating to its clients' money. The bank alleges that this came from a disaffected former employee.What's amazing about the injunction is that it's a prima facie infringement of the US First Amendment - which says that "Congress shall pass no law .. abridging the freedom of speech". Sites on the internet are speech. Unless it used that rather popular technique in California, which is to claim that the content is copyright, or atrade secret, or both.And here's anextractapparently from the injuction application: that the Wikileaks papersconstitute violation of trade secrets, conversion and stolen documents by former employee in violation of a written confidentiality agreement and copyright infringement, among other wrongful and tortuous conduct.(Don't mention people using copyright to win court cases over leaks to us at the Guardian. We know all about it. Still painful.)But fear not: Wikileaks is still publishing inBelgiumand, um,Christmas Island- the latter offering its many "cover names".
Photo:AkihabaranewsSome people are concerned about the future of the arcade industry. Frankly, I worry about little else. From the mid-nineties, it was threatened by the arrival of powerful new consoles able to provide gamers with stunning (at the time. Sort of) 3D graphics in the comfort of their own homes. The industry fought back, however, by basing its business around big novelty cabinets which offered physical experiences unreproducable on home systems. But then Wii came along and stabbed that business model in the guts, too; Namco hasblamed Nintendo's machinefor the closure of arcades across Japan.At this year'sAOU (Arcade Operator's Union) exhibitionin Tokyo, however, Konami seems to have come up with a new solution to combat the slow lingering death of the coin-op: really silly concepts likely to amuse school boys. Byon Byon Action Arcade is a 'telescopic fist simulator' in which players use a plastic fist to punch enemies in a variety of mini-games. It's sort of a cross between those old robot wrestling games and the popular 'whack-a-mole' archetype. Akihabaranews.com has somefootage of the game in action. After you've watched this, you'll understand why telescopic fist simulationisthe great white hope of the arcade fraternity.Also at AOU - Capcom was giving lucky journalistshands-on time with Street Fighter IV. The game will apparently beta test at the Capcom Plaza in Tokyo at the end of Feb, with a full release following in July. And fighting fans could also get their twisted fingers on King of Fighters XII, the latest inSNK's series of hardcore 2D beat-'em-ups.Street Fighter vs King of Fighters - it's like the 21st century never happened.
Or are Americans crippling themselves?Anthony Williams is "on the disabled list". According toABC2 News:He's really an MTA bus driver, out of work for more than a month thanks to countless hours with the Wii. He says, "As time went on it was waking me up at night, the soreness. That's when I went to see my doctor."The doctor diagnosed severe tendonitis, telling the TV station: "It takes you aback initially when you hear about someone playing a video game in front of their TV and having a sports injury. It's really a new version of sports injury."The story says: "Newer systems also include messages warning you to take a break every now and then. It's those reminders that Anthony Williams ignored and now his career in the big leagues has been cut short."Nintendonitisis not to be confused with writer's cramp, housemaid's knee*, pizza-cutter's wrist, clergyman's throat or even lighterman's bottom (see thisList of Occupational Related Diseasesfor more). It's not an occupational hazard unless playing Nintendo is your occupation.In other shock news, a TV programme has revealed that eating more than one packet of chocolate biscuits a day can tend to make you fat. Sorry, can lead to a highbody mass index....* inflammation of the bursa in front of the patella, apparently.
If you like wandering around craft fairs,Etsyis the site for you.It's a treasure house of bags, scarves, jewellery, pottery, candles,quilts, paper goods, soft toys and similar stuff, all of it handmade.Indeed, many items are offered on a made-to-order basis, so you canspecify what you want. Or what your mother might want.Not that geeks are completely excluded. The Geekery section includesStar Wars Stormtrooper cufflinks, iPod cosies, Tetris earrings andclocks made from recycled circuit boards.And since there are no retail markups, prices are generally low. Etsyis clearly an outlet for professionals who have their own websites,and some of the jewellery looks terrific, but 95% of the sellers arewomen and many seem to love making what they make. They are pleasedto see their efforts appreciated. They're not crocheting doll'sclothes to get seriously rich.Dissatisfaction with eBayIn many respects, Etsy is like eBay, and dissatisfaction with eBay wasone of the reasons it was launched in 2005. Sellers have profiles andratings, and both buyers and sellers can leave feedback. The maindifference is that Etsy prices are fixed: it's not an auction site.And it has been a success. Etsy says it now has "48 full-timeemployees [and] approximately 650,000 registered users, 60,000 of whomare individual artists selling more than 950,000 of their handmadecreations."The main drawback is that it's very hard to find things. Like eBay, Etsy doeshave categories, but you can also search by colour, checkout the gift guides, and look in the Treasury section where usershave made their own little collections of attractive objects. Startingthis month, you can search by price range, too. But the site feelsslow (it's based on Adobe Flash), and it takes hours of meanderingabout just to scratch the surface of what's on offer.Somewhat frustratingEtsy probably works well if you enjoy shopping. You can chat to othermembers of the community, or send someone a message (a "convo" inEtsy-speak). You could even join one of Etsy's Teams, where peoplewith similar interests combine to help each other. But if you regardshopping as a chore to be disposed of as quickly as possible, you mayfind it all somewhat frustrating.Another drawback with Etsy, which is based in Brooklyn, is that it's aUS site with all its prices in dollars. Etsy has a Shop Local feature soyou can look for sellers in your area, but unfortunately there's nogeocoding: the location is left to the whim of the seller, sosearching for London also finds New London (the US has several) andLondon, Ontario.Still, London (England) and Paris (France) are already wellrepresented, and Etsy could follow eBay onto the international stage.As more goods are mass-produced in China, there's a growing market forunique, handmade ones. And if Etsy could just enable third-world craftworkers to sell directly to Western buyers, that really could helpchange the world.
I'd like to start a blog, but I've no idea how.Brian MoranThere are plenty of "how to start a blog" guides on the web. Three good examples are:How To Blog: A Beginner's Blog Publishing GuideHow to Start a Blog(WikiHow)How to Start a Blog(Working Smart, Michael Hyatt)However, I'd suggest running a disposable test blog for a week or two to get the idea before you tackle something serious. Blogger (http://www.blogger.com/) is still one of the simplest places to start, and it's free. You can sign in with a Google account.
In case you've missed this so far, various sources (including our own Technology blog) are reporting that Toshiba is planning to pull out of HD-DVD production. Recently, the main driving force behind the HD format has seen the likes of Warner, Walmart and Netflix abandon its product, with even Microsoft rumoured to be weighing up the possibilities of Blu-ray support for Xbox 360.According to Bloomberg, Toshiba stock rose by 5.7% in response to the reports - presumably because it would allow the manufacturer to focus on more profitable areas of its business.And of course, if Blu-rayiscrowned the HD champion of the world (what a ceremony that would be), PS3 can only benefit.
It may not match the diversity of the US store but at least Xbox 360 owners on this side of the pond will soon have an improved selection of movies to download. Paramount Pictures have signed up, which means the likes of Transformers and 1408 will be available to rent from the Xbox Live Video marketplace. You know the score - 2 to 5 quid a pop, with a 24 hour window to finish watching once you start.The HD content is the main pull, especially the more recent stuff - how many 360 owners are going to spend 5 hours downloading Naked Gun 2 in standard definition? - but is the quality good enough? I've previously downloaded the Matrix in HD and it was, well, ok. No extras or real sound options, although the picture quality was fine (in 720p). But you can't help feeling that the market for this service - ie users happy to wait hours for the download - are hardcore movie buffs. And realistically they are going to want the full deal - ie highest picture quality, surround sound options and the rest. Or maybe I'm reading this wrong - anyone here downloaded a movie on their 360? If so, what did you think?
Media companies including the BBC, Channel 4, Google, Yahoo and social-networking site Bebo have signed up to a new code of conduct, to be announced today, designed to give parents more information about the suitability for children of audiovisual content available on the internet and mobile phones.The new content information guidelines have been developed by industry and the government's independent advisory body the Broadband Stakeholder Group, backed by regulator Ofcom. For the first time, they extend the existing principles of broadcast consumer guidance across the wider new media industry.The guidelines do not cover user-generated content such as that found on YouTube or adverts. Instead, they call for all commercially generated content available online or on mobile phones to be flagged if it is unsuitable for particular age groups or contains content that may harm or offend.Content providers must ensure that the information they give is easy to understand, clear and consistent and "gives adequate information to enable the user to make an informed choice about whether or not to access the content".The on-demand nature of the web makes the traditional watershed approach to unsuitable content, used by broadcasters redundant."In a world where consumers access content from an increasingly wide range of sources, the importance of enabling users to use media effectively and safely by exercising informed choices is growing," the guidelines say.There are already several codes of practice in specific areas online designed to provide information about the suitability of content or bar certain age groups from accessing some services. The mobile phone industry already self-regulates its adult content services, having introduced age-verification technology. The Association for Television on Demand has a code of practice for TV firms and the BBC clearly labels programmes that may be unsuitable for young audiences on its iPlayer online service. A lock on the iPlayer allows parents or guardians to prevent younger viewers from watching certain content.The guidelines, however, are designed to take the underlying principles behind many of the codes of practice in the burgeoning new media industry and ensure that everyone who makes and distributes commercial content adheres to them."Yes there are a number of different approaches but what the document is doing is saying there is a set of underlying principles that everyone can agree they will take forward into new services as they are developed," said Anthony Walker, head of the Broadband Stakeholder Group.For the first time these principles include social-networking sites such as Bebo. Ofcom is pleased that "the industry has come together to address the challenge of providing consumers with content information which is appropriate for the evolving media landscape", said a spokesperson for the regulator.The Broadband Stakeholder Group will review the operation of the code of conduct next year.
AOL is understood to have held talks with Yahoo about a potential deal to head off an approach by Microsoft.The US internet group is thought to be talking to Yahoo advisers to see if a transaction between the two would be workable. Microsoft has offered to buy Yahoo for about $42bn (&pound;21bn) to create a rival to the web search leader Google, but Yahoo has rejected the offer.And last week Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation began tentative talks about merging its online division, which includes MySpace, with Yahoo to create a powerful presence on the internet.
Reuters is reporting that sources within Toshiba, which has been the principal driver of the HD DVD format, isgetting ready to admit defeat. That of course would mean that Sony's Blu-ray is the only one left standing in the hi-def war that already feels like it has gone on longer than the US elections. (What do you mean, it has?)Toshiba's cause has suffered several setbacks in recent weeks including Friday's announcement by U.S. retailing giant Wal-Mart Stores that it would abandon the HD DVD format and only stock its shelves with Blu-ray movies.Of course, it was the decision atComdexCES (d'oh!) by Warners to go with Blu-ray that cut HD DVD down. After that the more recent decisions by the Blockbuster film rental group and now Wal-Mart to go with Blu-ray have hammed the nails into the coffin.[Japanese broadcaster] NHK said Toshiba would suffer losses running to tens of billions of yen (hundreds of millions of pounds) to scrap production of HD DVD players and recorders and other steps to withdraw from the business.Even Microsoft is considering adding Blu-ray support to the Xbox - oh, the turncoats (er, pragmatists?) - for Microsoft was initially a key backer of HD DVD: Bill Gates said that its DRM was less restrictive than Blu-ray's.So what's next? We can expect the following in short order: 1) hackers to focus their attention on cracking the Blu-ray codes so they can make copies of Blu-ray films. 2) PC makers to begin including Blu-ray players as standard. 3) retailers to come off the fence and start putting Blu-ray players in prominent positions, next to those vast TVs, and suggesting that Sir (or Madam?) might like to buy...? 4) Sony executives to do little jigs around their desks and sing the company songreally loudlyin bars. 5) Sir Howard Stringer to smile and mean it for the first time in ages.One thing I'm not sure about is how soon Apple will introduce a Blu-ray drive in its machines - because it seems to be moving towards a driveless (or just DVD-based) model.So, are you left with a useless HD DVD player or discs? Do tell us what imaginative use you've thought of for them...
When Max Gogarty, a 19-year-old gap-year student, landed a coveted blogging spot on which to chronicle his two-month backpacking adventure around India and Thailand, he could have never predicted how his moment of triumph would backfire so spectacularly.But within 24 hours of his first posting on the guardian.co.uk travel pages, the teenager was swamped by a tidal wave of internet hate mail as he became a victim of the phenomenon of 'going viral'. As the north London teenager was touching down in Mumbai, hundreds of comments - many vitriolic - were appearing not only on his blog, but on scores of message boards and social networking forums, including Facebook and high-profile gossip sites such as Holy Moly.The astonishing reaction was provoked when surfers spotted that he had the same surname as Paul Gogarty, a travel writer who occasionally contributes to the Guardian. Readers presumed he was a privileged public school boy whose father had secured him the blog spot and whose gap-year travels were being funded by the newspaper.The resulting 'cyber-bullying' has now forced Max, an occasional scriptwriter for the E4 teenage drama series Skins, to ditch his weekly blog while he and his family cope with the consequences of global internet exposure.Max, who introduced himself as living 'on top of a hill in north London...spending any sort of money I earn on food and skinny jeans', was last night alone in India at the beginning of his trip, while his father accused his detractors of class hatred and envy. 'It's the conformity of the comments, the cruelty, the smug self-righteousness and envy. It's all so bitter and full of bile. The exposure is  terrifying,' said Gogarty Snr. 'He's out in India on his own. We were all feeling upset at him going away anyway. But this...this tsunami of hate. We just cannot believe it. Max is a talented and hard-working boy. He is what he is - a middle-class kid who goes to a comprehensive and managed to get four As and is supporting himself by working in a cafe.'He said his son was invited on to a young writers' group at London's Royal Court Theatre, and from there he began writing for Skins before being offered the travel blog. 'There is no nepotism. I hardly ever write for the Guardian,' said Gogarty. 'He is not an attention seeker. He is just bright and 19 and middle-class - and that's a crime in Britain.'Max's debut blog on Thursday, an innocuous, possibly gauche, account of his preparations for his trip, attracted so many comments that other websites soon seized on the debate. He now appears on Wikipedia under the section on 'nepotism', alongside Kim Jong-il of North Korea and George W Bush.Eventually Gogarty felt compelled to weigh in himself, posting: 'Max won't be writing any more blogs, I thought I'd bring all those heroic internet warriors the good news. Max's trip (which he paid for himself I'm afraid - sorry) has got off to the worst possible start and he's feeling pretty grim You may like or dislike the blog, but the cruelty is shocking, if quintessentially British.'The blog attracted almost 500 comments on guardian.co.uk before it was closed. The director of digital content, Emily Bell, said the mood had changed after the intervention of Max's father and the comments had become more critical of the website and its editors' decision to commission and publish the blog: 'They were much happier to give us a kicking instead of him.'She added that 'going viral' happened reasonably regularly, but was unpredictable. Other recent examples included the DJ Mike Read's blog supporting Boris Johnson for mayor of London, which had a record 1,132 comments. An intimate email, allegedly sent by Claire Swire to her boyfriend Bradley Chait in which she is said to have referred to a sex act, also went round the world. Of the comments on Max's blog, Bell said: 'A lot of this is quite funny, but not for Max. As publisher, we have a duty of care to him.'In her own online blog, Bell wrote: 'We're used to it, but it is still an absurdly awful experience for the individual on the end of the monstering, particularly if you are a relative novice.' She added: 'Perhaps an open blog post was not the best place to publish it.'Some contributors were uneasy over the tone of many  comments. One wrote: 'The amount of hate, envy and hypocrisy that's been on display here is shocking.'But others compared Max to Nathan Barley, a loathsome fictional twentysomething London media type in the Channel 4 sitcom of the same name. One asked, 'Whose son is Max then?', while another predicted, 'Oh, Christ. This guy's going to get an absolute hammering.' Yet another added: 'Don't show Derek Conway this - he'll be most upset.'Still others urged him to continue the blog and answer the critics, but his father said: 'We just want him to be left alone. It's scary and the exposure is so horrible. He's a strong kid and I think he is moving on. Max himself made the decision to pull it and I think it is a mature decision.'People have said "stay and fight". But there is no way - whatever he writes next week, it would be pilloried. It's a no-win situation. He has seen some of the blog. He has said to me that he doesn't like the media world now. He doesn't want to go into it any more.'
Wikipedia, the free online encyclopaedia, is refusing to remove medieval artistic depictions of the Prophet Muhammad, despite being flooded with complaints from Muslims demanding the images be deleted.More than 180,000 worldwide have joined an online protest claiming the images, shown on European-language pages and taken from Persian and Ottoman miniatures dating from the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries, are offensive to Islam, which prohibits any representation of Muhammad. But the defiant editors of the encyclopaedia insist they will not bow to pressure and say anyone objecting to the controversial images can simply adjust their computers so they do not have to look at them.The images at the centre of the protest appear on most of the European versions of the web encyclopaedia, though not on Arabic sites. On two of the images, Muhammad's face is veiled, a practice followed in Islamic art since the 16th century. But on two others, one from 1315, which is the earliest surviving depiction of the prophet, and the other from the 15th century, his face is shown. Some protesters are claiming the pictures have been posted simply to 'bait' and 'insult' Muslims and argue the least Wikipedia can do is blur or blank out the faces.Such has been the adverse reaction, Wikipedia has been forced to set up a separate page on its site explaining why it refuses to bow to pressure and has also had to set up measures to block people  from 'editing' the pages themselves.In a robust statement on the site, its editors state: 'Wikipedia recognises that there are cultural traditions among some Muslim groups that prohibit depictions of Muhammad and other prophets and that some Muslims are offended when those traditions are violated. However, the prohibitions are not universal among Muslim communities, particularly with the Shia who, while prohibiting the images, are less strict about it.'Since Wikipedia is an encyclopedia with the goal of representing all topics from a neutral point of view, Wikipedia is not censored for the benefit of any particular group.'So long as they are relevant to the article and do not violate any of Wikipedia's existing policies, nor the law of the US state of Florida where Wikipedia's servers are hosted, no content or images will be removed because people find them objectionable or offensive.'The traditional reason given for the Islamic prohibition on images of prophets it to prevent them from becoming objects of worship in a form of idolatry. But, say the editors, the images used were examples of how Muhammad has been depicted by various Islamic sects through history and not in a religious context.
Amazon Web Services stopped working yesterday morning, which affected a number of Web 2.0 sites.TechCrunchwas quick to point out that this blew a big hole in the "cloud computing" hype that seems to be prevalent in Silicon Valley at the moment. It said:This could just be growing pains for Amazon Web Services, as more startups and other companies come to rely on it for their Web-scale computing infrastructure. But even if the outage only lasted a couple hours, it is unacceptable. Nobody is going to trust their business to cloud computing unless it ismorereliable than the data-center computing that is the current norm. So many Websites now rely on Amazon's S3 storage service and, increasingly, on its EC2 compute cloud as well, that an outage takes down alotof sites, or at least takes down some of their functionality. Cloud computing needs to be 99.999 percent reliable if Amazon and others want it to become more widely adopted.Amazon Web Services is nothing like that reliable: it seems it only aspires to 99.9% availability, which would have been unacceptable in an antique mainframe, let alone a specialised fault-tolerant server. If people really want "five nines" availability, they'll have to pay for it, and at the moment it doesn't come at anything like Amazon's prices.One of the people promoting cloud computing is Greg Olsen, founder and chief technology officer of Coghead. Rather amusingly, the day before Amazon fell over, GigaOM published hisguest columnabout adopting this stuff. He wrote:By leveraging service options like Amazon's EC2 and S3, a small company can deploy a complex, highly available and scalable multi-user software application -- without huge upfront investments in hardware or software infrastructure. Likewise, a very small company can build a simple, narrowly focused service and can cost-effectively sell it to a mass audience. Neither of these companies would have been possible only a short time ago.Although I have a natural resistance to boosterism, I think Olsen is right and TechCrunch is wrong. Cloud computing doesnotneed to be 99.999% reliable to get adopted by Web 2.0 companies. It makes sense to adopt it because it's cheap and because you don't need much technical competence to do it. It therefore meets Web 2.0 needs very nicely.Of course, you'd have to be incompetent way beyond stupidity to build your banking, air traffic control, hospital or mission-critical corporate system on Amazon Web Services, because these do need to be reliable. Web 2.0 systems don't. Who really cares if Twitter goes down for a couple of hours, or even a couple of days, apart from the people who run Twitter?There are, however, a couple of useful lessons from the debacle. The first is that "cloud computing" is still mostly hype. It will stop being mostly hype when service providers start to offer guaranteed service level agreements (SLAs) backed up by real financial guarantees.The second is that relying on somebody else's unreliable system makes your system less reliable, not more reliable. You don't have "five nines" reliability in whatever it is you do if you're using a supplier that only has "three nines" reliability. And if you're relying on a beta Web 2.0 site that's relying on another beta service like Amazon Web Services, then you're just asking for trouble.Web-based services are great, especially if they're free or very cheap, but it's insane to pretend they have the reliability of the electricity grid (which isn't wholly reliable) or a water utility (ditto, plus leaks). Web sites today don't guarantee reliability, availability or adequate performance, and there are lots of ways you can lose not just the service but also your data (as I wrote in a column this week). I'm not saying you shouldn't use them. I am saying that you should know what you're doing. Yesterday just showed that some people don't.
Regular readers will associate Dork Talk with actor/quizmaster Stephen Fry, but he's broken his arm. Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger has stepped into the breach today with a review of theAmazon Kindle.Not sure why Stephen isn't usingNaturallySpeaking 9now he can run Windows on one of his Macs....
In the early 90s, I made a pilgrimage to Boulder, Colorado, where the Knight Ridder chain of newspapers had established a research lab to contemplate the future of newspapers. It was rumoured that they were developing a "tablet" - that is, a portable screen about the size and weight of a paperback - on which people would in future be able to consume their news.The rumour turned out to be loosely true, though, disappointingly, the "tablet" was made of wood, or possibly polythene. Full marks for futurology, though I seem to remember that the research lab was wound up shortly after my visit. Around 14 years later I got my hands on the real thing - the Amazon Kindle, an ebook more or less exactly as the Knight Ridder boffins had imagined it (though, disappointingly, not made of wood).This is the third such real-life ebook I've now tried. The first was the iRex Iliad, the second the Sony Reader. I keep buying them because no editor wants to be like a generation of music industry executives who woke up one morning to find the iPod had eaten their business. That, and because I'm a sucker for gadgets in general.I don't think the Kindle is quite the iPod moment for newspapers, but even so, it is pretty cute. The Sony Reader is leather-bound, stylish, sleek and rather grown-up. The Kindle, meanwhile, cast in white plastic, looks more like a toy, though it comes in a mock-leather wallet about the size, shape and weight of a Moleskine notebook.In America the gadget is hooked up to the EVDO high-speed data network, whatever that is. Downloading books from Amazon using one-click settings is child's play. Leave it on overnight and the New York Times, Le Monde, the Irish Times or Frankfurter Allgemeine (but not - yet - the Guardian) will (for $9.99 a month) be waiting for you in the morning.In Britain, it's a little more complicated. Actually, it's quite a bit more complicated. You have to buy the machine in the US, and can register for an Amazon Kindle account only if you can supply a US billing and credit card address. It won't work on any European network, but you can get round that by hooking it up to a laptop via a USB cable.Until Amazon decides to take an interest in Europe, only a few gadget junkies are going to bother to go to these lengths. Which is a shame, because the Kindle is really rather lovely. The black-and-white screen is as close to reading print on paper as anything I've yet come across. And even in Europe, a book takes all of 20 seconds to download and sync. Changing font size, making notes and clipping bits of text are all pretty simple. Page-turning is fast. The controls are rather more intuitive than the Sony. And battery life is impressive.The machine costs $399, which is not cheap. On the other hand, there is a staggering amount of literature now available from sites such as Project Gutenberg. At manybooks.net there are hundreds of out-of-copyright books ready formatted for the Kindle. All free.Amazon promises that the Kindle will hold 160 full-length books, so your suitcase is going to be a good deal lighter in future. Before going on a piano course in France last year, I downloaded 40 or so music scores (nearly all of them from free open-source websites) in pdf form on to my Iliad, which made staggering to the hire car much less of a burden. I can't yet work out if the Kindle accepts pdf files - and, in any event, the screen is probably a little too small for musical scores - but, at worst, that means packing two small ebooks for the journey rather than a tonne of dusty old scores.The Kindle is not very web-friendly: the screen lacks the colour and gorgeous, tactile playfulness of the iPhone. It would be more useful if it did more. But, all the same, it's a shame the Amazonians have left Europe as an afterthought. Here's hoping it works here one day.&#183;As a result of sustaining a break, Stephen Fry is taking a break. A broken right arm will take a few months to mend, and he will resume Dork Talk as soon as he can.
Subtitled "The ultimate gamer's annual", the Guinness World Records Gamer's Edition isn't simply a list of records in the sense of its more generically flavoured older brother, but more a Guinness book of game-related facts, some of which contain superlatives. Underlining the extreme brevity of the history of games, with almost all achievements having occurred in the last 15 years, there are a fair few dodgy records (most overall kills in a 30-minute Unreal Tournament deathmatch being one of the more strained) and some amusingly breathless editorial. Still, it's highly readable and frankly ideal for positioning within arm's reach of your lavatory. The highest ever score on Space Invaders, you ask? Why, that's 55,160 set in June 2003. And on Giga Wing? That's 260,805,365,030 set on the Dreamcast version also in 2003 - apparently an epic year in the annals of videogame high score history.
Donkey Kong Jet RaceNintendo WiiDonkey Kong Jet Race sees Nintendo's simian mascot and his family take to the air for some low-altitude rocket-assisted racing. Holding the Wii remote in one hand and the nunchuk controller in the other, you shake them alternately to accelerate to maximum velocity, then shake each side to turn or both to jump. While you can hit top speed with your monkey very easily, winning races means collecting bananas to earn nitrous oxide-style boosts, which you can chain together for prolonged bursts of speed. Unusually for a Nintendo-published game, it's completely awful, with the shaking mechanic feeling tacked-on and the racing imprecise enough that winning or losing will often not feel particularly like your fault. Dull, characterless and lacking any sense of involvement, Jet Race is a pitifully weak addition to the Wii's very gradually expanding catalogue.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;39.99Devil May Cry 4PS3, Xbox 360Devil May Cry 3 was rightly criticised for its brutally uncompromising difficulty level. Thankfully, the developers have learned from its forebear's errors, and have created several ways to tweak the fourth instalment's level of cruelty, some of which allow masochistic obsessives to make it even tougher. Dante and his brother Nero return; the latter armed with the devil bringer, an extensible arm that pulls enemies toward you to be neatly diced before being hurled into a group of their chums. The action is as stylish and wilfully overblown as ever, with vast combinations of blade and gun enhanced by "revving-up" your sword, an entirely non-essential technique that can lead to truly spectacular combos. Although repetitive (a number of boss fights occur a yawn-inducing three times over the course of the game) the action is as relentless as ever, providing the ideal outlet for those with extremely itchy trigger fingers.&#183;Capcom, &pound;39.99-&pound;49.99
A split is rumoured to have appeared within the Yahoo board over chief executive Jerry Yang's refusal to engage with Microsoft over its $44.6bn (&pound;22.4bn) bid for the company.Chairman Roy Bostock has formed an alliance with fellow board member Ron Burkle and a number of other independent directors against some of the longer-serving Yahoo executives, including Softbank's Eric Hippeau and Activision boss Robert Kotick, reports suggest.Last summer, Burkle, a billionaire investment expert who made his fortune with leveraged buyouts of supermarket chains, worked with union leaders at Dow Jones to try to come up with an alternative to News Corp's $5bn bid.He and Bostock fear that Yang and some of the other directors are becoming too emotional in their dealings with Microsoft and forgetting their fiduciary duty to investors, according to a report in the New York Post yesterday. Any move to keep the company independent at all costs could leave the board open to shareholder lawsuits.Yang has opened negotiations with Google over a tie-up and News Corp has made a tentative approach, suggesting merging some of its online properties such as MySpace into Yahoo and taking a stake in the overall company."It's certainly easy to believe that the board would be splitting this way," said influential former Wall Street analyst Henry Blodget on his Silicon Alley Insider blog yesterday. "We understand what Jerry's so passionate about, and we wish there were an easy way out of the room. But we have yet to hear a plan that will persuade Yahoo shareholders to willingly take an instant 40%-plus hit to their holdings on the hope that Jerry will be able to deliver even more value over the next couple of years."Microsoft is still considering whether to raise its offer or back off and spend the cash it would use on a number of web 2.0 companies such as social-networking sites.On Thursday a reshuffle at Microsoft saw the departure of Steve Berkowitz as head of the online services division. He swapped his job as chief executive of Ask Jeeves - now Ask.com - for a place at Microsoft in 2006 in a move that was seen as heralding an acceleration of Microsoft's fight-back against Google.But Google has continued to dominate the search market and Berkowitz will leave Microsoft in August. His role has been split between three executives.
I want an iPhone, but I don't think it's worth the money to upgrade because I spend only about &pound;120 a-year on prepaid mobile calls. Can you recommend a Mac-friendly 3G smartphone with email, a good web browser, maybe Skype and providers with decent prepaid data rates?Pay-as-you-go and smartphones don't go together very often, and there aren't many good prepaid data plans out there, either. 3 lets you add on cheaper-rate internet access for &pound;2.50 a week, and their newish Skypephone (&pound;50 without a contract) does some of what you want - but it isn't Mac compatible. So you might prefer to buy a pricey Sim-free smartphone. Blackberrys require a contract, but why not look at Nokia's N95 (about &pound;400, from Carphone Warehouse) or the HTC Tytn (&pound;420, fromDirectmobileaccessories.co.uk).Whatever you choose, the truth is that most handsets need some jiggery-pokery to be Apple compatible. I recommend Missing Sync software (&pound;20, frommarkspace.com) - it's the best way to get your smartphone to shake hands with your Mac. In the end, all this means that the overall price of an iPhone is actually pretty competitive with the other options - if more restrictive.
MondayUK violent videogame 'clampdown'Is the devil in the detailEA chief admits 'we killed Bullfrog'TuesdaySpore gets dispersal dateWednesdayNintendo discriminates against NorthernersMass rip-offHangmen offer glimpse of mobile gaming futureUse your DS in public, says IwataThursdayTo gamesbloggers, with lovePS3 hits magic millionCloverfield = Half-Life the movieFridayHave games had their punk moment?A Rare glimpse
From our better late than never dept, Sam Garfield has been looking into thecostof sending text messages via AT&amp;T.He's calculated that the cost of transferring 2,560 MP3 files is around $1 via his ISP but more than $61 million via SMS. In fact, he reckons SMS is even more expensive than getting the bits hand-delivered on paper to your front door ($307,072). They would admittedly be less useful that way, but as Sam says: "The cost would drop dramatically if we compressed the data onto, say a DVD and our cost would be something more like $1.20."That's quite a saving over $61 million, should you ever be tempted to text someone 2,560 songs.Of course, if you just want to ask your spouse to pick up some eggs on the way home, cutting a DVD is probably not the best approach....
It's not unusual to hear rumours within the games industry about what goes on behind the closed doors at super-secretive Midlands-based developerRare. remember once hearing that all employees had CCTV cameras trained on them to record every movement of every day.But let's cast that uncorroborated (but intriguing) nonsense aside.If you'd like to get arealglimpse into what it's like to work at Rare, the company which produced GoldenEye, Banjo Kazooie, Conker's Bad Fur Day, Blast Corps, Perfect Dark and DK Country (all magnificent games in my eyes), then check outthis iCast, recorded on-site by Warwick University last November, but finally released to the public.You'll get to hear it straight from programmerNicola Bhalerao. She also happens to be one of the organisers of theWomen in Games Conference 2008, so expect to learn what it's like to bea woman in the games industryas well.
On November 26, 1976, the Sex Pistols released Anarchy in the UK and irrevocably shifted the course of music history. Well, that's the condensed version. Of course, it was much more complicated than that; The Stooges, MC5, New York Dolls and The Ramones ploughed the anarchic furrow that Rotten and co, egged on by Malcom McLaren, merely re-packaged and cynically exploited. Whatever, punk happened, and it left an indelible sick stain on the audio landscape.Has there been a videogame equivalent? Does this industry have its own Anarchy in the UK? We've skirted around this issue a few times before on Gamesblog, and I'm not sure why I've thought of it again now. But I don't think we've hit the question directly. So let's do it.Some would argue that there's no basis for comparison. Music is, after all, a primal emotional force - it defines lives. Punk didn't just head-butt the music industry, it put the boot into fashion, literature and cinema too. Punk was a generational war cry, and on this side of the Atlantic, a howl of frustration at Callaghan's catastrophically malfunctioning Britain. Games are... well... games.Others will immediately counter this. In socio-political terms, games are the punk of the early 21st century - this is the youth 'fad' that parents and politicians most fear, an empowering, arcane culture that - like punk - revels in unfathomable nihilism and violent imagery. Game lobbies are the new dive venues. Rocket-jumping is the new pogo-ing.And anyway, we can take 'punk moment' to mean a single event that forced a paradigm shift away from orthodox thinking. Astronomy had its punk moment with Copernican heliocentrism, biology with The Origin of Species, economics with An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (all arguable of course, but you see what I mean).When did it happen for games?Some say it was Doom. The genre defining shooter was created by two adolescent geeks and, according to popular mythology, coded in a garage - nicely recalling the garage bands of the late-sixties that lay down the blueprints of punk. The huge influence and cultural impact of the game certainly fit the bill, as did the fear and controversy that attended the game's ascent. Over the last twenty years no tragic teen shooting has been complete without the press digging around for the slightest link to Id's 'murder sim'. More subtly, Carmack's open source approach to coding, and the modding community it has engendered, reflects the communal feel of New York's punk scene in the mid-seventies.There are other theories. In 2006 Aaron Ruby wrote an article for next-gen.biz entitled,Games with Punk Attitude; he saw in 'political games' likeSuper ColombineandMadrida mix of attitude, incendiary subject matter and do-it-yourself methodology that resembled the punk ethos:Super Columbine is not punk because of its subject matter; rather, it's punk because it seethed with anger that the event happened in the first place. It's ironic, then, that Super Columbine did a better job of portraying the consequences of violence than any videogame ever made and, at the same time, became one of the most reviled.You could posit that Rockstar is the true heir to Malcom McLaren's vision of manufactured notoriety. Grand Theft Auto was a genuinely radical concept, not just because of its anarchic, laissez-faire approach to urban violence, but also because of its open, freeform structure. It's possibly more punk than Super Columbine because, like punk, it transcended intimate in-the-know communities and hit the mainstream.Or is gaming's punk moment still to come?What do you think?
The ThinkPad X300, previously discussed here, is the newBusinessWeek cover story, as Lenovo gears up for the launch. It's a serious effort for China's Lenovo, because it's the first ThinkPad that won't carry the IBM logo. But it has been designed by the same teams as before, in North Carolina and Yamato, Japan.BusinessWeek says:Lenovo doesn't expect the X300, with prices ranging from $2,700 to $3,000, to be a huge seller. They believe it will be a "halo" product, leading to positive reinforcement for the corporate brand and for the more affordable ThinkPads. The X300 will be prominently featured at the Beijing Olympics, where Lenovo is to be one of the major sponsors.Lenovo is obviously aware of Apple's MacBook Air, and mentions that the X300 also fits inside a plain manila envelope. It will be interesting to see how the two products fare, because the X300 has a much better specification, and far fewer compromises. The MacBook Air wins as an exercise in thinness, but it's a bit like lowering the height of a Porsche by fitting the wheels off a scooter.The X300 uses a new 7mm-ultrathin DVD drive which,as I've mentioned before, is already available in the Toshiba Portege R500 ultraportable range. The R500 is also much lighter than the X300 and Air, albeit it has a smaller (12.1inch) screen, and cheaper. However, the ThinkPad has been the standard corporate notebook for 15 years, and big companies buy them in bulk. That's the market Lenovo needs to hang on to.Oh, the BusinessWeek article is also readable inone page.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
As Microsoft's battle to pick up Yahoo continues,this videosupplies some negotiating tips for Jerry Yang from Israel's "Shpigler the Shark".Running through advice for Yahoo's boss on "the big deal", this cigar touting self-styled business guru gives various hints on how to get the most out of Microsoft's head Steve Ballmer, including the trick of taking a call on an Apple iPhone during talks.Shpigler reels off other advice on playing it cool - "even Steve Ballmer can wait" and "Tell him: 'You have other options, go and buy a country ... let's see you monetise Liberia'". And on getting the biggest price - "negotiate each part separately ... tell him: 'I will give you Flickr for $2bn, in the end give him Yahoo Mail for $40bn and he will kiss you lips."Wooden GatesBut if "Tips for Yahoo!" doesn't float your cyber-boat you might like to check outthis other topicalbut less recent item - Bill Gates's own send-up of his final days at Microsoft.And if that doesn't do it, you can always send in your own viral video tips  - business-themed please - tokatie.allen@guardian.co.uk
What's your favourite piece of technology?I'm quite a technophobe, but it would have to be myNintendo DS. I got it a couple of Christmases ago with one game, Tetris, which I love. This Christmas I got the brain-training game, which I love even more.How has it improved your life?A while ago I was saying to my sister that I don't read as much for pleasure as I used to — I'm always busy reading scripts for work. So this game really does keep my brain young, if you like.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it yesterday to prevent atrophy and keep the brain active. You're supposed to do it every day, but I try to do it every second day or twice a week, at least.What additional features would you add if you could?Probably to have some sort of sentient interaction with it. It's well designed already, because whatever time you switch it on, the doctor character will make a comment, because it knows what time it is. But when it repeats itself, you know it's just a program. But it's ever so clever.Do you think the Nintendo DS will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I think it will probably have evolved into a visor or a helmet or something.What one tip would you give to non-DS users?I would definitely say to get one, especially if you take the tube because it makes the time fly by, it's fab.Do you consider yourself a luddite or a nerd?I would say neither, because I'm not anti-technology — I think it's phenomenal, and I marvel at all the progress we've made — but I do feel like a spectator a lot of the time. I'm applauding from the sidelines!What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably nothing more expensive than a mobile phone — I don't even have a digital camera or anything.Mac or PC?As long as it sends email, I don't really mind. At the moment I have an old, second-hand boxy laptop that I use only for emailing.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Um … I don't have an iPod! It's never appealed to me, really.Will robots rule the world?Probably — I do think it is heading that way. If they had an emotion chip, that might help.What piece of technology would you most like to own?If it's make believe, it would have to be a teleport device of some kind — not just because of the Tardis, but because it would make life easier. You wouldn't have to cope with rush hour on the tube any more, or traffic, or swollen ankles on a plane.Torchwoodscreens on BBC2, Wednesday at 9pm.Doctor Whoreturns in April.
"A woman in Germany who became pregnant after an online sex auction has won a court battle to force the Web site that hosted the sale to reveal the names of the winners, so she can find out who's the father," reportsReutersin Berlin.Six different men won Internet auctions to have sex with the woman in April and May last year. "The woman wanted to discover which one of the men had made her pregnant," the spokesman said.
If any one's in any doubt whatsoever about the influence videogames have had on JJ Abrams (and by extension, director Matt Reeves), play Half-Life for a few hours, then go and seeCloverfield. I watched it last night, and was astounded by the number of similarities between Valve's alien invasion series and the digi-cam monster movie. Just as Lost is essentially a survival horror game, Cloverfield is a narrative FPS, employing the visual tricks, shock tactics, weapons and creature concepts we all recognise from sci-fi shooters.SPOILERS AHOY!The influence is most obvious when Hud's camera catches incidental skirmishes between the mini-monsters (very reminiscent of the antlions from HL2 or bullsquids from HL) and the US soldiers. We just get these voyeuristic glimpses of horrendously bloody combat, just like those sections in Half-Life where you turn a corner and find a bunch of marines firing wildly at vortigaunt slaves.Others have mentioned the sequences where Lily and Rob attack the mini-monsters with axes and metal bars, mirroring Gordon Freeman's trusty crowbar. The juxtaposition of above ground and murky subterranean locations also feels familiar - the journey of Cloverfield's twenty-something posse is similar to Gordon Freeman's flight through the decaying super structure of Black Mesa, and out into the open, where further horrors await. The New York of Cloverfield is City 17, an urban metropolis terrorised into rubble and inhabited by confused clusters of isolated survivors.Throughout the action, the movie's central device - the fact that everything is viewed through one character's camcorder - mimics both the first-person perspective of Half-Lifeandits lack of cut-scenes. In both, everything happens on the fly - there are no cuts to alternative perspectives, no 'meanwhile on the other side of town' breakaways. Everything is experienced, more-or-less in real-time with this huddled group of bewildered protagonists. In both Half-Life and Cloverfield, the camera itself is a surrogate viewer - the camerais us.(And surely it's no coincidence that the character who mans the camcorder is named Hud - echoing the term HUD - head's up display - from military and videogame parlance.)So, Abrams, has done survival horror, he's done FPS, and it's arguable that with Alias, he did Metal Gear. So what can we expect from Star Trek? A platformer? A retro 2D beat-'em-up? How disappointed would the Trekker community be if the movie turned out to involve a series of staged fights between members of the Enterprise crew, with poorly animated Vulcans lounging about in the background, cheering and clapping?Whatever, Abrams is at the vanguard of this new generation of movie and TV creatives who've had their visual sense filtered, not through grindhouse sleaze flicks or arthouse auteur genius, but through playing games.Update:I'm not alone. Just foundthis- an episode of US movie review podcast The Totally Rad Show, in which the presenters talk about the similarities between Cloverfield and HL2 - they also draw attention to the Hud/HUD parallels...
Kevin Kelly's bookOut of Control, published in 1994, was a prescient look at (in his words) the "immense power of bottom up systems. You know: smart mobs, hive mind, web power, amateur hour, decentralized webs, network effects, and collaborative work.". He's now published a thoughtful essay that explains whyThe Bottom is Not Enough. He says:But throughout my boosterism I have tried to temper my celebration of the bottom with my belief that the bottom is not enough for what we really want. To get to the best we need some top down intelligence, too. I have always claimed that nuanced view. And now that crowd-sourcing and social webs are all the rage, it's worth repeating: the bottom is not enough. You need a bit of top-down as well.The reason every bottom-up crowd-source hive-mind needs some top-down control is because of time. The bottom runs on a different time scale than our instant culture.In fact, it takes ages:It is important to remember how dumb the bottom is in essence. In biological natural selection, the prime architect is death. Death powers evolutionary selection. Death is one binary bit. Either off or on. What's dumber than that? So the hive-mind of evolution is powered by one-bit intelligence. That's why it takes millions of years to do much.Kevin's point is that control is still necessary, but that you can now have more hive-ness and less control than was generally the case in a non-networked world.But of course, you should never mistake net hype for reality. If you actually look at successful "hive mind" efforts, they haveDraconianlevels of top-down control. You can write whatever improvements you like for the Linux kernel, for example, but it has a rigid control mechanism that can simply ignore them, whether they are any good or not. You can add anything you like to Wikipedia, but Wikipedia can remove it instantly, and the site's admins ultimately have and exert absolute control.Stalinwould have been completely at home in either system.
Rupert Murdoch might seem an unlikely white knight, but the reported talks between News Corporation and Yahoo have presented a characteristically ingenious alternative to the Microsoft takeover.When Yahoo's share price rocketed after Microsoft's $44.6bn (£22.65bn) takeover offer was made public on February 1, many in the technology industry predicted that the beleaguered web company would try to push for a higher offer while continuing to appeal to alternative buyers.So along with the latest reports of renewed talks with News Corp over a business alliance, Yahoo is also said to have discussed possible tie-ups with suitors ranging from Disney to AOL and Google since Microsoft's takeover bid.However, that strategy has not placated Yahoo's investors, with chief executive Jerry Yang under intense pressure to accept the Microsoft deal.The Yahoo board's rejection of Microsoft's first offer this week could even land them in court. The Michigan-based fund the Wayne County Employees Retirement System is suing the board for rejecting the latest offer, which was 62% above Yahoo's languishing share price before the Microsoft approach.And earlier this month, two US law firms filed a suit against Yahoo for allegedly failing to look after the interests of shareholders when it rejected Microsoft's first takeover offer last year.So far, Yang is sticking to his guns, reiterating the Yahoo board's view that the initial Microsoft offer undervalued the firm in a note designed to reassure shareholders yesterday."I want you to know that your board is continuously evaluating all of Yahoo's strategic options in the context of the rapidly evolving industry environment, and we remain committed to pursuing initiatives that maximize value for all our stockholders," he said.Yang repeated that Yahoo had 500 million users worldwide, a healthy cash balance and has made investments in computing infrastructure.He also said the firm is uniquely positioned to capitalise on the global growth of web advertising - expected to be a $75bn business by 2010 - and said Yahoo was the market leader in online display advertising.Global advertising on social networking sites is predicted to rise from $1.2bn in 2007 to $4.1bn in 2011, according to eMarketer.None of those strengths will have gone unnoticed by News Corp, which has previously held talks with Yahoo about a deal to combine their online businesses.In June last year, Rupert Murdoch confirmed that he had talked to former Yahoo head Terry Semel about an idea to trade MySpace for 25% of Yahoo.Murdoch told Time magazine that "Semel was enthusiastic about it. We were looking to see if it was a good idea. I wasn't sure".The deal now back on the table is a swap of News Corp digital assets - including MySpace - for a 20% stake in Yahoo. This arrangement would secure News Corp's stake in the growing internet market and give Yahoo a powerful ally.For shareholders, however, a takeover by Microsoft offers a far clearer, more secure future for the firm.Writing on the Wall Street Journal's AllThingsD blog, business journalist Kara Swisher said "the mash-up with News Corp would likely be a hopelessly complex deal, especially compared to the cleaner and simpler giant-pile-of-cash-and-stock that Microsoft is offering that big shareholders are likely to prefer".She quoted one major Yahoo investor who said the deal would be too complex compared with Microsoft.For Yahoo's management, the crucial point will be to retain the credibility of its brand - something which an asset swap with News Corp would allow by keeping the company independent.But for shareholders, who will dismiss Silicon Valley talk of Microsoft's uncool image, the only credibility that matters is the bottom line.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Jerry Yang, Yahoo's co-founder and relatively new chief executive, has writtena letter to Microsoftabout its attempted takeover, but for some reason has sent it to his own shareholders.As intended, it provides a much better set of reasons why Microsoft would benefit from buying Yahoo than Microsoft has managed to come up with so far. In other words, the subtexts are: (1) Microsoft: Give Us More Money, and (2) Shareholders: Give Us More Time.Unfortunately, time is in short supply. Shareholders who have not noticed any striking advances at Yahoo since Yang resumed control last June are surely entitled to ask how long it's going to take to turn it round. And since Microsoft is simply taking advantage of the long decline in Yahoo's share price, it's hard to see why it should offer more money, though it probably will. Offering a few dollars more would get Yahoo's board members off the hook -- and it was offering more to buy Yahoo last year.If Microsoft doesn't want to play nice, it could go direct to the shareholders, or it could seek to get Yahoo's board replaced -- they're all up for re-election next month. Their chances of surviving without a deal in place look pretty slim. However, Microsoft must also know that it's helping to damage the properties it wants to buy.Ironically, the Yahoo staff who have actually been crushed by Google in the marketplace are most likely looking for jobs at Google.
Last week Rupert Murdoch was keeping his options open when asked about swapping some of News Corporation's online properties for a stake in Yahoo. "I think that day has passed, but you never know," the News Corporation chairman said.However, Murdoch and News Corp's president, Peter Chernin, had dinner - also last week - with Yahoo's chief executive, Jerry Yang, who is trying to fend off a $44bn (£22.4bn) hostile takeover bid from Microsoft.Late yesterday it emerged - first on the TechCrunch Silicon Valley blog, but also reported by the News Corp-owned Wall Street Journal - that the swap plan, which has been under discussion for 18 months, is back on the agenda.The Journal reported that Yahoo initiated contact with News Corp as part of its efforts to consider a range of alternatives to Microsoft's approach.News Corp, which has only just completed the $5bn (£2.54bn) takeover of Dow Jones, has ruled out bidding for the whole of Yahoo.What is under consideration, though, is News Corp taking around a 20% stake in Yahoo, in return for handing over MySpace and other of its digital assets.This move would effectively value these News Corp properties, including MySpace, at around $10bn.That compares with the £580m News Corp paid for MySpace's previous owner Intermix Media in July 2005.News Corp would also inject cash, reportedly $15bn, alongside a private equity firm as part of a possible deal with Yahoo.Not all News Corp's online assets would be involved in a potential tie-up. Among those that may be included are online videogame network IGN, the men's magazine Askmen.com and the movie site Rotten Tomatoes.For News Corp, the deal would have the benefit of flagging up the valuation of MySpace and allowing advertising tie-ups with Yahoo.There may also be opportunities for collaboration - for instance between the photosharing sites Photobucket, which is owned by News Corp, and Flickr, part of Yahoo.Yahoo has been perceived as falling behind in social networking - so it may relish access to MySpace, as well as bringing expertise that could breathe new life into the site, which remains the global leader in its field but has appeared less agile and tech-savvy than the likes of its rival Facebook.A Yahoo-News Corp tie-up could also bring in Google on an advertising deal, according to the Journal.But although Google could help Yahoo stave off Microsoft, it is the search giant that has been Yahoo's main undoing, by dominating the lucrative internet search market&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I seem to have a Gmail problem following last night's Windows Update for XP SP2. In case anyone else has had the same experience, I've published a couple of quickworkarounds, one of which is the industry standard Just Use Firefox ;-)The culprit may beIE7Pro, which adds a lot of Firefox-like features, so I'd really rather not lose it....
