I tried a registry cleaner and it came up with 10,021 errors. As it was a tryout, it offered to fix six errors. In alarm, I subscribed in order to fix the rest. Wilson John HaireThis is a common marketing technique, but I would advise against paying up. There's no guarantee that the "errors" are meaningful, if they even exist. There is no guarantee that fixing them will bring any improvements, and some chance that the cleaner will do more harm than good. I only use CCleaner (http://ccleaner.com), which is free. TweakNow RegCleaner (http://tweaknow.com/RegCleaner.html) is more specialised, and free for personal use. Try not to pay for one.
Columnist Seth Finkelstein mentioned Pretty Good Privacy (PGP). Can you explain how this works? Geoff RenshawPGP has two uses. First, it is an encryption system that uses public-key cryptography. Each user has a public key and a private key. In simple terms, you can encrypt a message using someone's public key and they can decrypt it using their private key. (A one-off session key is actually involved.) If the private key has been kept truly private, no one else can read the message.More commonly, PGP is used to create a digital signature based on the contents of an email. This enables the recipient to verify that the message has not been changed, using the sender's public key.However, there are simpler approaches. If you want to email someone a confidential document, you can compress and password-protect it using an archiving program such as RAR (eg WinRAR) or Zip, then send the recipient the password in a text message.
I keep getting a message: "HTTP Error 403.6 -- Forbidden: IP address of the client has been rejected. Internet Information Services (IIS)." PBK SuppliesSomeone is using Microsoft's IIS web server software -- probably an-out-of date version -- and blocking access to some IP addresses. You probably don't have a blocked address. However, every time someone hits the website, IIS has to do a reverse DNS lookup on the address. If it can't handle the DNS, or the lookup fails for some reason, then obviously it must reject you. SeeMicrosoft Knowledge Base article 227943for details. Try not to take it personally.
Work from home and save the planet. It seems reasonable: if you don't have to travel to work there are fewer cars pumping out greenhouse gases. Homeworking can indeed be good for the environment, according to a report from a team at Oxford University - but only if it is done in "a planned and managed way".The report, sponsored by BT Conferencing and Giritech, a Danish company specialising in security systems for remote working, concludes that teleworking can significantly reduce road traffic. But it also warns that the government and companies need to promote changes in the way people use technology if the green advantages of teleworking are to be realised."The indications are that the energy savings from travel will outweigh the additional energy used as a result of the extra hours spent working at home," says the report, published last week.Says David Banister, professor of transport studies at Oxford's Centre for the Environment and one of the authors of the report: "There is a massive appetite for home and remote working: 65% of people asked said that they would work from home if they could."The report highlights the pros and cons of working from home, and finds, for example, that while teleworking eradicates energy used on journeys, the extra heating and lighting needed at home wipes out 80% of the savings.According to Aaron McCormack, CEO of BT Conferencing, the report demonstrates a need for smarter thinking: "There is a need for people to think innovatively and how they use technology to run their businesses more efficiently."The report, published to coincide with last Friday's National Work from Home Day, was backed by the TUC and the CBI as well as Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth. But many are still doubtful about the benefits. There is a perceived fear, for example, that teleworking can be done more cheaply by outsourcing the functions to lower-cost economies such as India, while others point out that there is an additional environmental issue. "The more that people work from home, the more computers there will be," says Jon Godfrey of Lifecycle Services, which specialises in recycling old machines. Meanwhile, increasingly powerful computers demand increasingly hungry power supply units, says Godfrey. "Computers used to have 250W power supplies. Now modern computers have 500W power supplies. They also have items like servers and routers which are left permanently on."This is the kind of problem the research is designed to air, says Aamir Butt of Giritech. "The purpose of the research is to find out what problems technology is creating for the environment and getting people to think about ways of solving them."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have a little pet theory, based purely on wild speculation and a little bit of observation: web companies arereallyinterested in people with game development experience because games folkknowhow to keep audiences' attentions for more than just a click. I know, it's revolutionary.But it's proven successful for Jason Rubin and Andy Gavin, who brought the gaming world Crash Bandicoot and Jak &amp; Daxter (and don't say a word against 'em) when they created development studioNaughty Dog. The pair's latest project, a social interactive slideshow thingie namedFlektor, has just been bought by Rupert Murdoch's MySpace branch less than a month after it was launched. It has nothing to do with games, folks.After landing a nice little buy-out package from Sony when Naughty Dog was purchased by Sony, the pair are set to land a cool 10-20 million USD for getting into bed with Rupert.According toTechCrunch:Rubin and Gavin have leveraged their experience with gaming to create an awesome user experience at Flektor.I imagine $10,000,000 is a lot more than most game developers will see in their lifetimes. Will a surge of interest in gaming's interactivity lure more games bods away from their dev kits and into Web?
I've been interested in artificial brain stimulation for a while: the developments being made in using various stimuli to treat neural conditions is moving at pace.Guardian science reporter Alok Jha has written aboutdeep brain stimulationand last year on a trip to MIT last year I met Professor John Guttag and found out more about his work onbrainwave analysis and epilepsyIt turns out that the same technique used by Guttag, Vagal Nerve Stimulation (essentially a pacemaker attached to one of the major nerves going into the brain)could be useful for dealing with depression.VNS has been used for 10 years to treat epilepsy, where it can cut the number of seizures for some patients by about 40 percent. Doctors began to suspect it held potential for treating severe depression when patients clung to the device, even when it wasn't helping their epilepsy."We asked (epilepsy) patients who weren't being helped if we could remove the device and by and large, the patients said, 'No, no, don't take this away,'" says Dr. Mitchel Kling of the National Institutes for Health. "In some cases where there wasn't good seizure control, patients' mood problems stabilized."The researchers also admit they don't really know why VNS helps with depression, which just goes to show that however much we think we know about the body and its functions, we're still a world away from understanding what goes on inside the brain.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..When drugs become weaponsChemical weapons are banned - or are they? Steve Wright reports on how an exemption to the convention raises questions about their use in law enforcement.New light shed on the time when dinosaurs roamed the EarthScientists have found a novel way to study some unreachable fossils in Spain.Royal Mail fails to address database issueFree Our Data: The fight continues between government bodies over who controls postcode information.Newly Asked Questions:What will more research on Wi-Fi's health effects show?If it's anything like the outcome of the further research on the health effects of mobile phones that was called for in 2000, then it'll probably show that we need ... more research.Is my notebook computer's LCD screen faulty?The question has been raised by a couple of MacBook users in the US. They have launched a class action lawsuit against Apple, alleging that it has misrepresented the capabilities of the screens of its notebooks.Is that an orc over there or an al-Qaida terrorist?Aleks Krotoski: Online games are flooded with terrorists, trying to steal your money and your innocence. Or so the popular press says.GamesSpider-Man 3 | Tomb Raider: Anniversary | SBK-07No such thing as a free downloadVictor Keegan: It is difficult to grasp how successful the mobile phone industry has become. People think of it as a sideshow compared to the internet, yet in terms of revenues generated from content, it is already far bigger.It only takes one weak link to unleash a chain of trouble onlineAndrew Brown: I'm puzzled why there has not been more of an outcry over the TKX credit card theft. It is the largest and best-organised theft of credit card numbers that has ever come to light.TechnobileCharles Arthur: Microsoft has finally got around to producing a Word 2007 converter - but it's big and it's bossy.'Philips is now a very different company'The boss of the Dutch consumer electronics giant, Rudy Provoost, has changed its focus from technology to being 'a lifestyle business'.Whitehall must learn from Estonia's e-governmentMichael Cross: "E-government" has entered the chattering class's lexicon. "E-government? Isn't that what they call the town council in Yorkshire?" one of the wags on Radio Four's News Quiz quipped last week.How probing cells could help cancer patients' treatmentA new device being trialled could make sure that gruelling chemotherapy will actually work before people are subjected to it.Will working from home save the planet - or just employers' costs?Homeworking can indeed be good for the environment, according to a report from a team at Oxford University - but only if it is done in "a planned and managed way".Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesTop of the chips | News in briefs | Hot trends | Make entertainment history | 2,000-song phone | Greying internet is nearly here | Bugs a problem?Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
I've spent the last couple of days in Paris checking out Ubisoft's upcoming titles - think Tom Clancy EndWar, Splinter Cell: Conviction, Assasins Creed and Brothers In Arms. Ubi boss Yves Guillemot billed the Ubidays event as "our E3". A grand statement that lost impact when it was announced that Assassin's Creed - the game most of us came to see - wouldn't be playable until the "July conferences". Or E3 to you and me. The only product announcement - a game based on the Beowulf movie - wasn't quite the Beyond Good and Evil 2 revelation that I had secretly hoped for. But there was some decent stuff shown...Sadly there wasn't a whole lot to actually play at the event. Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 raised a smile on Wii while Blazing Angels 2 showed a promising mix of Indiana Jones and WW2 flight combat. But the rest was a mix of live demos - Splinter Cell: Conviction (or Fugitive as it should be called), Brothers In Arms: Hells Highway, Haze - and video.Haze was a highlight. The new FPS from veteran developer Dave Doak (Goldeneye, Timesplitters) is launching on PS3 later this year and promises a bit of soul-searching to go along with the shooting. The plot supposedly makes you "uncomfortable with your actions". It was a bit of a looker too - those smoke effects were delicious - and the four player co-op surely lays down the gauntlet to Halo 3.Splinter Cell: Conviction saw Sam Fisher face life bereft of his usual gadgets, presumably including his electric razor. There was still some hiding and sneaking but the emphasis appeared to be more on combat, with guards dispatched by whatever Sam could get to hand. The demo ended with a hoodie disguised Fisher walking through a crowd, avoiding guards and, possibly, hugs from David Cameron. So a striking new direction for the series then, but is it still Splinter Cell?Elsewhere Brothers in Arms: Hells Highway looked to have a loosened up a little for its next-gen debut. Authentic as ever yes, but there appeared to be more flexibility in the tactics available as you battle the Nazi's once more. There seemed to be more characterisation too, with the ghost of a soldier killed in one of the earlier games showing up at the end of the demo.Tom Clancy's EndWar was video only, with no gameplay shown. Despite this sizable setback the World War 3 RTS certainly sounds intriguing - not a word normally associated with RTS games - particularly the persistent online stuff that sees you battle over a fluid frontline as your army grows and "levels up" RPG style. The use of the 360 headset to voice command you troops is pretty exciting too. But until we actually get a chance to see and play the thing, EndWar remains a promising mystery.Elsewhere there was a lot of emphasis on casual games - *the* current hot topic in gaming - with new titles revealed for the Wii and DS. Topics covered include guitar tuition, life coaching, fashion design and language skills - Ubisoft has joined EA and Eidos in targeting the huge non-gaming audience courted so successfully by Nintendo.Overall Ubidays was a useful, if frustrating, event, with the lack of playable code a real let down. But while there was nothing shown that really took the breath away, there were some highly polished performers - Splinter Cell, Brothers in Arms - and a whole stack of potential (Assasins, EndWar, Haze). More Ubidays stuff later this week.
Ubisoft is holding a big press event in Paris at the moment. I couldn't make it, sadly, but the press info and screenshots are now trickling back. Most interesting perhaps is Spinter Cell Conviction in which Sam Fisher, now resembling an early seventies Kris Kristofferson, is forced to become a fugitive when the government turns against him - a twist influenced by 24, perhaps?Here, Fisher is able to pick up and implement a range of every day items, as well as hit his blackmarket contacts for familiar high-tech gadgets. Like Assassin's Creed, there's a big emphasis on crowds, with Fisher often having to hide amid civilians in order to evade his persecutors.I'm fascinated by the promised crowd-based multiplayer system in which players do battle surrounded by innocent passers-by. This, I feel, is going to get extremely messy. The game is due out this winter.Ubisoft has also been showing off Tom Clancy's EndWar a full-scale 3D RTS set during an imagined World War III. As Creative Director Michael de Plater explains:"Set in the year 2020, EndWar explores the future implications of a number of real world events which are taking place today. The nuclear deterrent kept the Cold War from going hot for 60 years. In EndWar's story the missile defence shield cooperatively deployed by the USA and Europe effectively removes that deterrent. Also for 60 years the Western world was united against the perceived threat of the Soviet Union. Without a common enemy, without mutually assured destruction and in a world of diminishing resources, we assume that the 21st Century won't be so different from the age of hate we saw in the 20th Century. When people start forgetting the horrors of the past they are doomed to repeat them."Apparently people are calling it Command and Conquer meets GRAW - a combination of traditional real-time strategy unit farming and management with astonishing 3D visuals and realistic military hardware:"The team has studied hundreds of books, specialist publications and websites to ensure that every unit and weapon in the game is based on real world technology which has working prototypes existing today and which will be on the battlefields of 2020. This includes some advanced technology such as high energy microwave and laser weapons, satellite weapons and soldier exoskeletons."Also at the event were Rayman Raving Rabbids 2, The Settlers: Rise of an Empire, a surfing sim named Surf's Up and Ninja battler, Naruto: Rise of the Ninja, as well as big hitters Haze and Assassin's Creed.You can get more details, screens and trailers at theofficial site.
Alright, I'mreallylate with this, but a few of you may have missed it. Sony has announced the latest firmware update for PS3. Version 1.8 features upscaling for DVD movies as well as PSone and PS2 games to full 1080p HD resolution. We'll have to check out the quality with our own eyes (and I'm working on Official PlayStation Magazine at the moment so might get the chance), but this is certainly a compelling addition.Also interesting is the extension of the Remote Play connection between PS3 and PSP - handheld owners (who also have the PSP 3.5 firmware available at the end of May) will be able to access their PS3 hard drive from anywhere in the world via a broadband internet connection. Need to get at your music and movie files from a hotel room in Barcelona? Power-up your PSP, hit the Remote Play option and your PS3 gives up its multimedia goodies.PS3 will also be able to access content stored on any DLNA3 enabled device, such as a PC or laptop. Like the Xbox 360, then, you'll be able to use it as a media extender - accessing media files stored on your PC in the study or bedroom and playing them in the living room via your console. The wireless home networking dream Sony has hawked for so long.The update will be available from tomorrow.
You probably wouldn't buy a PlayStation Portable games console to use as a phone, but if you carry one around anyway, you might just be interested in using it as a Wi-Fi videophone. Thepress releasesays:BT and Sony Computer Entertainment Europe (SCEE) have signed a groundbreaking deal to transform the PSP (PlayStation Portable) gaming device by adding wireless broadband communications functions, including high quality handheld video calls, voice calls and messaging.It's a four-year deal with the roll-out starting in the UK. SCEE operates in 102 countries (and it could be many more before Yorkshire finally gets home rule) and is shopping for deals with other phone companies to reach new markets.
Alrighty folks, the entries for the Lumines Plus giveaway that have flowed into the gamesblogs' email account have been fantastic, but there are stilltwo days leftbefore the competition box closes.More information on exactly what's happening, what we want from you and what we're giving away ishere, but suffice to say that we've got talentedartistesamongst the readers, all of whom want a prized copy of the new Tetsuya Mizuguchi title Lumines Plus. We've had music, photography, art and even baked goods come through our digital door. We couldn't be happier.So get your thinking caps on and get creating. The deadline for your entries is 11:59pm GMTthis Friday25 May.Send your contributions to gamesblog+at+gmail.com.
Pandora, which provides personalised "radio" to US-based web users, has now been launched for Sprint mobile phone users for $2.99 per month (press release).There's also a handheld MP3 player made by Sandisk, which is similar to the Sansa Connect; and finally, Pandora will also work in the home via Sonos streaming devices.Wiredhas brief details.If you like Pandora then you should like Pandora Everywhere, and maybe you'll even be willing to pay for it.However, it may not last. The leading internet radio stations have been sentenced to death by the inflated royalty payments that are about to be introduced: seehttp://www.savenetradio.org/for details. According to anAP storythat quotes Pandora founder Tim Westergren:Pandora, however, faces a potentially life-threatening expense of music royalty fees that a panel of copyright judges recently approved for Internet radio providers. The new royalty rates are set to kick in July 15 but are being contested by a coalition of companies, including Pandora, Yahoo Inc and Microsoft Corp."If those rates don't change, business doesn't make sense for us anymore," Westergren said.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
There were plenty of reasons to be interested in the news that Google has invested almost $4m in23andMe, the genetics company created by Anne Wojcicki, who married Sergey Brin earlier this month.As our Wall Street correspondent Andy Clarknoted, 23andMe "aims to unite people with copies of their genetic blueprint".My first thought was that I wouldn't necessarily be too happy if I was a Google shareholder. Regardless of the intrinsic value of 23andMe or its potential, there are always going to be questions when the principals are as closely related as this. In Google terms, though, $3.9m is a drop in the ocean when it's prepared to invest zillions in other companies so it might not become a topic of debate.The second thought was about the long-term implications of this investment. What happens when you can sequence your own genetic code? What can we find out about the human race when that data is searchable? And what happens when that data is owned by a third party?Back in 2004, Glyn Moody wrote a piece for us about theethical questions of googling the genome- at that time it was a possibility, now it seems a probability.Of course, this isn't Google's first foray into genetics. In 2005 Craig Venter - the legendary businessman/biologist who launched his own commercial genome sequencing scheme in competition with the Human Genome Project - said that he was working with Google to catalogue the genome and make it searchable.It seems the mission to organise the world's information has stepped up a notch or two.
Thanks for the heads ups gamesbloggers. Indeedy, it hasfinallybeen officially announced that theAlternate Reality Gamemessing with BBC Radio 1is linked to the next series of Mind Candy'sPerplex City. So for those naysayers who thought it was all just about pumping up publicity for last weekend's Preston-basedBig Weekend Festival, pah on you suckers. The fun continues.It has now officially been linked with Series Two of the independently-funded, puzzle-based treasure hunt.More informationhere. Check outViolet Underground's blogfor information about the game, which is running in parallel to theFrozen Indigo Angelstoryline. Don't forget to go to Paul Denchfield's blog forFIAinformation.Thanks to DennisChow for the top detective work. He pointed usherelast week
I've only just dropped by Clive Thompson's Collision Detection blog and seenthis referenceto a Washington Postarticlewhich discusses the emotional relationship modern soldiers develop with their robotic helpers. The piece begins with an anecdote about a colonel who orders the testing of a mine-clearing robot to be halted on the grounds that the process was inhumane. He couldn't stand watching the insect-like robot dragging itself from mine to mine, losing limbs in the process.Gamers develop similarly illogical relationships with virtual beings. I'm not talking about lead characters - that goes without saying. I mean the foot soldiers of the gaming universe. I've had veteran battle units in Civilization that I began to defend like cities, with multiple lesser vehicles constantly surrounding them. There have been Champ Man players I've been unable to sell-off or retire after years of faithful service - in fact, I've had whole teams of Teddy Sheringhams puffing apologetically around the pitch. And don't get me started on exploding Lemmings.This isn't just me, right? What's your least logical emotional connection to a game character?
I have beencomplaining at lengthaboutthe inadequate qualityofDAB digital radio, which could potentially be improved by moving to the new world standard, DAB+, which replaces the antique MP2 codec with high-efficiency AAC. More efficient coding frees up bandwidth for better quality broadcasts, more stations, or both.Anyway, Steven Green fromdigitalradiotech.co.ukhas alerted me to theMay release from WorldDMB (PDF), which used to be WorldDAB, which sets the standards. Almost at the end, it gets intoCurrent development of DAB+ receivers, as follows:3.2.1 DAB+ Roll-out PlanPURE Digital, the world's largest manufacturer of DAB receivers, plans to have the first DAB+ ready (ie DAB+ upgradable) devices out in August or September 2007. DAB+ upgradable software should be available for the consumer at about the same time. The first DAB+ receiver (thus DAB+ enabled, no software upgrade necessary) will be finished by the end of 2007.It is planned that approximately 80% of all new PURE devices will be either DAB+ ready or DAB+ enabled by the end of 2008; and a future goal is to only sell DAB+ capable radios starting in 2009. Further manufacturers have announced that their DAB/DMB products will be DAB+ upgradeable in the near future.Since the status is varied from country to country, this process will take place rather quietly, especially in those markets already well advanced in DAB, thus holding at bay the risk of disconcerting consumers and destabilising the market by the innovations.This last bit is critical, of course. I'm clearly a bad boy for "disconcerting consumers" by writing about DAB+ when only DAB sets are on sale.However, the DAB+ contagion is spreading, and Which? now has a piece:What the new DAB+ standard will mean for digital radio fans.Which? says "Don't be put off buying a DAB radio," but it's not quite clear how much of a grip it has on the current market. It says:when the DAB+ standard was developed, the boffins behind it kept to a minimum any mucking about with the technology for processing the signal. This should allow as many current digital radios as possible to be upgraded.But as far as I can see, most current DAB radios don't have a USB port for connection to a PC, so it's not clear how these could be upgraded to DAB+. Factory refits?In any case, a lot of these machines are tabletop radios with mono or minimal stereo speakers and pull-out aerials -- not exactly the way to get concert hall sound quality -- and they also have built-in FM. They'd still be usable as tabletop radios even if DAB disappeared overnight, and it's a cast-iron certainty that Ofcom won't go for that approach. Ofcom has bet so much of its diminishing credibility on DAB, it would be in a hilarious egg-face situation if it let that happen.Update: Nick Piggott asked a number of valid questions, and I have now answered them in Comments....
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
This morning's Education section carries on its front page ablistering attack by Sir Harold Kroto, co-discovered of buckminsterfullerene (aka the 'buckyball'; formallly the 60-atom carbon molecule) on the lack of incentives being given to children and educators to improve our science and engineering output.Here's how it opens:There is food for thought in the fact that, after a decade of Labour government and at the same moment that the prime minister was making a speech about how important he considered science, the University of Reading announced the closure of its physics department.Further on, he points out:As well as trained engineers and scientists, we desperately need a scientifically literate general population, capable of thinking rationally - and that includes lawyers, businesspeople, farmers, politicians, journalists and athletes. This is vital if we are to secure a sustainable world for our grandchildren.The facts that a) we use in one year an amount of fossil fuel that took a million years to accumulate, b) we may be on the verge of a climate change catastrophe of global proportions and c) powerful technologies may soon fall into the hands of disturbed individuals with minds riven with those twin cancers of nationalism and religious fanaticism, seem to concern the scientific community a lot more than they do politicians or the media. As my Sussex colleague, the Nobel laureate Sir John Cornforth, has written: "If you are a scientist, you realise before long that if the world is in anyone's hands, it is in yours."The failure of our general science educational policy is manifest in the fact that so few are aware of the true level of our dependence on science and technology, or the truly humanitarian contributions that science and technology have made to society: from raising the health of the population (half of all 18th-century children died by the age of eight) to the advanced technologies that pervade our everyday lives (the internet and mobile phones being archetypal examples).He doesn't have nice things to say about media studies students or the vice-chancellors who encourage them either. (In case you're wondering, I did electronic engineering.)He thinks there's a worthwhile point to be made about a science/engineering/technology career:A Royal Society of Chemistry/Institute of Physics study found that graduates with chemistry and physics degrees earn, for the most productive 15-20 years of their working lives, some £15,000 more annually than most other graduates. They earn thousands more than those studying psychology, that seductively popular subject diverting a large proportion of our best young people into dead-end, uncreative careers.It's thought-provoking fare that deserves to be read in full. Bonus point, meanwhile, if you can name the object frequently seen on TV screens that shares the same shape as buckminsterfullerene..
As a proponent of "user-generated content" (or whatever you want to call it), I believe that giving the design reins to the consumers will cause an explosion of innovation in ways that creators never imagined. In the case of games, my hope is that a title like Little Big Planet will shake the games industry out of its sequel-laden comfort zone and kick-start a new phase of interactivity. So I corralled Leo Cubbin, the Sony bod in charge of the forthcoming social network/game design platform and asked him a few difficult questions.So Leo, what's the aim of Little Big Planet?Even though this is a game, it's part of an overall movement towards entertainment. The aim is for players to create. Whether that means they'll create a playable level or something else is entirely up to the user. The ambition of Little Big Planet is to give people the tools they need and let them go, and see what they do.What Media Molecule [the game designers] are looking forward to is the day the game is released, when they can see what people will make with it. It must have been like that with YouTube and MySpace. The guys who put that up must have thought, "Wow I never thought they'd do that!"How will you balance the needs of gamers and the non-gaming social network community which will inevitably build up?We're not just going to have one community. We may refer to the "LBP community", but we're aware there will be lots of smaller communities within that. A young girl playing the game will form a small community of about 10 people and she may only ever invite her close friends to be in it. I imagine this is similar to how an instant messenger space works. In those, people try to reach out and find new friends. We want the community to take control of the game and for them to decide whether a level is good or bad, hard or easy, suitable or not suitable, which is something that happens a lot, for example, on eBay, where people get rated. Like on YouTube, or Flickr. That's what we want people to do: to take control and decide the compelling and good content.You'll get sub communities which ignore the big communities and they'll do their own things. We want to offer people as many different ways as possible to filter out what they want to play, in as creative a way as possible.The general consensus is that only a small proportion of consumers create content in spaces like these. How will you ensure that Little Big Planet isn't over-run by freeloaders, and there is always new content for players to consume?We will put in what people will expect for a game at the time that it launches. There will be a full game's worth of Media Molecule levels and assets which users get to play with and to use as their building blocks. After the launch, once we start to see how the community goes, we can make content available for download very easily and very quickly. We can respond to a world event, like the Olympic games for example, and we may decide to do some cool sets for the community, or make country costumes. We might even build an Olympic village that the community can use to stage their Olympics in.But how will you ensure people contribute?The idea of creativity can be quite daunting to a lot of people. You give a blank piece of paper and a pen and say, "Be creative!" What do I do? People are looking for inspiration. With LBP we want to create a fuzzy felt experience, where we give the component parts to trigger the creativity. I don't think any of us as kids had a problem with cracking on and creating something when we were given a Lego set; it didn't really matter how it ended up. We're trying to give people the bare bones, and then we'll let them go. Obviously there are going to be sophisticated users who will make incredible things because they'll know how to create textures and images, import photos, videos, audio files. They'll know the things to do to make their contributions incredible, but at the same time incredible things can come from simplicity. Someone can do something unexpected which might spark a whole string on the community. It's going to be emergent.So this is all about emergent gameplay. But what about the gamers who want to have a gaming experience, rather than being forced to create something?Give a child a stick, give they'll turn that stick into whatever they want it to be. It's the emergent creativity that's hard to get your head around as a designer; you don't know what they'll do. However, we don't want players to realise they're creating; we want them to be so involved they don't know they're doing it.One of the simplest things people do in a game is create a character, but people don't think about it as creating. They put a hat on, change the eyes. By just doing that they've created something which is quite unique. Obviously, the sophisticated player will know straight away they're creating, but an entry level user will feel like its part of the game.I've shown the PlayStation controller to a non-gaming designer friend and she was baffled. How are you planning to make the creative tools you offer accessible to anyone who wants to take part in this experiment?The SixAxis PlayStation3 controller is amazingly sophisticated, but there are also other ways to input into PlayStation3. For example, you can take your Sony Ericsson phone, whiz out memory stick and put it into the PlayStation3, so anything contained on memory stick can be imported into the game. I can take a photo of you on my phone, pop it in and put the photo onto a character's face.One of the things Media Molecule are focusing time on is making the user interface as simple as intuitive as possible, and they're good at doing that. They're experienced, skilled. They're working on a very intuitive UI. Essentially, there will be lots of pop up menus.You can use your PC as well. If you're happy to do work on the PC and then put that onto a memory stick, you can import in onto the PlayStation3. The PlayStation3 also has Bluetooth connectivity, you can use that too.One of the criticisms of Little Big Planet and the Sony virtual world Home is that the content and experience will be limited to a Sony platform. If people can upload content from other platforms, will creators be able to distribute their levels and games to a wider audience?We would love people to create something and to be able to send an image of their creation to someone else, using every method of communication possible, but at the moment our focus is on the PlayStation3 and getting the game right on the PlayStation3. Once the game launches, that's when the community will build and be formed, and we are keen to support them in any way they want to interact with the game. If it becomes apparent that they really want some type of offline experience other than on a PlayStation3, like on a PSP or other device, then we'd think about that for the community. It's a PlayStation3 game; we're making it for people who have a PlayStation3. At the moment, the whole experience is based around them. The other devices which they want to use will become apparent when the community makes itself known. We'll help them out. But we won't be doing a standalone PC version of the game.How do you imagine people will use the games industry's first mainstream independent publishing platform?We've had an approach from a developer in the US who wanted to know if they'll be able to design a level for the game. Of course they can! Once the game's released anyone can design. We've also had a couple of bands who are interested in designing their own levels. They want to have a presence in an online community where they can give away stickers, unique images, music that can be downloaded. A reward at the end of a level. Some of the legalities about downloads are a little bit sticky at the moment, but if an unknown band or artist wants to make its products known, they can do it through us.Will there be an economy? For example, will it cost players to download content from Sony?If we were going to build stuff, we would expect people to pay something to download it, but this will be decided after launch. We have some plans for what we'd like to do, but the game's going to be very much about the people who use it.Sharing will be allowed. People will be able to create things in their levels and can give them away to the people who play them. So they might create a costume and anyone who goes into their level will have to play through the game to win the costume. Or they might just be given it for turning up. There will be some kind of economy; you'll have to have something unique to your level which will attract people into it.How will you ensure that the content is restricted to appropriate ages and sensibilities?When you give people tools to do something creative, there's the temptation to do something childish. One of the good things with PlayStation3 is that it already has some controls. So you can set the PlayStation3 to a particular age of appropriateness. My daughter will only ever see age appropriate information. When it comes to playing other stuff on line, she'll only by able to peer to peer with other people of same age.In the UK, we'll probably adopt a system similar to YouTube and Flickr where we post-moderate. Children won't be able to see sites that haven't been moderated. Once it's been moderated they'll be bale to see. For adults, un-moderated sites might have filters which warn people that there may be content that's offensive to some people. But Media Molecule have thought long and hard about this and there are tools which allow moderation very quickly, allowing Sony to scan a level for images and other content that's appropriate or inappropriate. You don't wan to nip someone's creativity, but by the same token when you're involved in publisher of any sort, you've got to be conscious of all the users. Sony will obviously do everything they can to protect the users.Expect more on the user-generated gaming revolution next week in an interview with Dave Perry about hisuser-generated Massively Multiplayer Online Game.
Is the exploding self-help publishing market coming to games? Ubisoft has announced a new series for the DS and Wii entitled My Coach.Accordingto Gamasutra:"The first title, My Word Coach, will see release on the Wii and DS in fall of 2007, and is meant to help players with their verbal communication and vocabulary.Following that, Ubisoft is preparing a second DS title for Christmas release called My Life Coach, being developed, says the publisher, with the help of a behaviorist, meant to give "anybody concerned about their well being the willpower they need to change their habits the way they want in a motivating and fun way."Oh dear lord, we all thought brain training games were a good idea but now look what's happened. Game publishers aren't going to stop at mere arithmetic and memory challenges - not when there's an enormous market of neurotics out there who might be prepared to re-align their lives on the advice of a videogame.How long before publishers are vying for the rights to key self-help brands? How long beforeThe Secretmakes its Wii debut?
CNET (I'm reading it a lot these days) ran aninteresting articleon Friday aboutSimExchangea website that seeks to simulate a predictions market for videogames. Users simply log on and use a virtual currency called DKP to predict the units they reckon a current game or console will shift in the near-future. These predictions are fed into a stock market-style display, which is actually coming up with rather accurate data on how things will pan out in the industry."In the exchange's best results from its predictions for April, members had bet that sales of the PlayStation Portable would come out at around 190,400 units. In fact, NPD reported Thursday, Sony sold 183,000 PSPs. So SimExchange members were off by just over 4 percent. But by comparison, Pachter had predicted sales of 200,000 PSPs, a miss of 9.29 percent."The site's 4000 users earn nothing 'real' from making accurate predictions, but DO acculmulate points when they get things right. It's this competitive element that ensures forecasters attempt to be as accurate as possible. As the site's founder Brian Shiau explains, "People are (expressing) opinions by putting a resource on the line. They only make them strongly when they put something at risk. People care about accumulating the virtual currency. They're competing in global rankings, or with their friends."So how do the pooled predictions on SimExhange fare against supposed industry forecast experts like theNPD Group?Surprisingly well. Recently, Shiau sent out an email predicting what the NPD Group would report following the publication of console sales figures in April. His predictions were based on SimExchange figures:"It turned out that Shiau's predictions weren't perfect--on average he was about 15 percent off on the sales of Nintendo's DS and Wii, Sony's PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable and Microsoft's Xbox 360. But he also wasn't that far off predictions from Wedbush Morgan's Michael Pachter, one of the most quoted industry analysts, who himself had been about 10.6 percent off sales on the same consoles.And a month earlier, Shiau's predictions had actually been better than Pachter's. Shiau had been off by about 15.8 percent, while Pachter had missed by 34.9 percent."This, of course, will come as no surprise to those who've read James Surowiecki's zeigeisty bookThe Wisdom of Crowds, which argues that decisions made by groups of people are often more effective than those offered by an elite few. SimExchange would appear to be the perfect example.Which leads me to believe that Wii Vote should stop asking people about their favourite biscuits and start polling gamers on weightier issues. This could be the start of a whole new form of democracy: "Hmmm, shall I play Wario Ware or vote on the re-introduction of grammar schools?"
TechCrunchreports that "Google may be preparing to launch its own branded mobile network in the UK in the next few weeks". Google will be a Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) using O2's infrastructure.However, Michael Arrington warns: "This is highly speculative at this point and is based on a single source. A lot of Google mobile phone rumors have turned out to be false."MNVOs include or have included Virgin Mobile, Tesco, Disney Mobile, Amp'd and ESPN Mobile in the USA.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Stanford'sFolding@Homedistributed cluster computing technology received a boost when it wasannouncedthat theSony PlayStation processorswould contribute to some of the massive crunching necessary to deconstruct mega statistical analyses. The project has already witnessed somepositive outcomes, making it worthwhile for both science and the public's perception of Sony Corp.But rumours and innuendo spreading around the blogosphere suggest thatSony's not so happythat Microsoft have intimated that they want to get in on the charitable console act by joining up withFolding@Homeoranother distributed computing projectRosetta@Home.Much of this PR nightmare may have been taken out of context, but as many commentators have argued, if Xbox wants to play, let 'em!
The failure of big political figures to get a handle on new technology has been revealed by a parliamentary report.Top of the technophobes appears to be Charles Clarke, the former home secretary, who admits that he had never been able to connect his laptop in parliament because he did not know he should use a fax line.He discloses that while he was home secretary he could not access his diary, appointments or update his address book in parliament and had to rely on his Home Office secure computer in nearby Marsham Street to make sure he didn't miss anything.He describes the situation of switching between his home and the office as "a constant juggling between my two systems so that diary, addresses, word processing and so on have to be constantly emailed between my two systems".Grumpiest entry of the lot comes from Ann Widdecombe, the former shadow home secretary and a regular in the TV series Grumpy Old Women."I am less than satisfied with the general service [in parliament]," she says."If parliament were a company it would not have the technological finesse to compete with the third world."Ms Widdecombe is joined by her fellow Tory James Arbuthnot, the chair of the defence committee, whose list of self-confessed whinges includes "sub-standard computers and printers", "an old fashioned, slow and obstructive" attitude to Wi-Fi technology and the fact that his laptop is "too heavy".Peter Luff, the Tory chair of the trade and industry committee, says that his printer "is unable to cope with large volumes of correspondence and stages a mutiny every time I attempt to feed it more than a single envelope".He says that MPs' inboxes are "ridiculously small" - at 200 megabytes - and admits to losing material when he sends it from his laptop outside parliament because it never tells him when it is full.Some MPs however find a public mailbox too much.Nick Harvey, the Liberal Democrat MP for Devon North, wants an additional private mailbox for every MP because "our inboxes are clogged with every bit of nonsense anyone in the world chooses to send".The report concludes that there is an "significant undertone of dissatisfaction" with IT services and makes a series of recommendations - including a private email address for every MP who wants one.
Tonight, in the UK, a BBC Panorama programme (Wi-Fi: a warning signal) is promising an "investigation shows that radio frequency radiation levels in some schools are up to three times the level found in the main beam of intensity from mobile phone masts,"reports BBC News.The Guardian also has a story about the programme in today's paper,Scientists reject Panorama's claims on Wi-Fi radiation risks, by James Randerson.It's a topic we've covered numerous times already, of course. Examples includeIs Wi-Fi bad for you?,Are mobile phones and Wi-Fi to blame for the world's ills?,Is there any proof that Wi-Fi networks can make you sick?and, last August, anAsk Jackquery. There was also a piece from Kate Figes,A wireless warning, on the Comment is Free blog, which was discussed here underWireless technology made me sick, claims author Kate Figes.No doubt this one will run for a while longer....At least the BBC story manages to get Wi-Fi right -- it's a registered certification mark of the Wi-Fi Alliance, ie Wi-Fi® -- which the Guardian can't always manage.Update: The BBC how now published something that reads somewhat like a rebuttal of its earlier Panorama story:Wi-fi health fears are 'unproven'. (Sadly it uses wi-fi for Wi-Fi, but at least wifi is avoided.)Charles Arthur adds:we were going to try to offer a crystal healing Wi-Fi base station, which would come with crystals (durr) that would absorb the waves. But having hunted around (20 minutes on Google) we can't find anything that has an absorption spectrum around the 12-centimetre wavelength (for that's what a 2.4GHz signal is).But we did come across this reminder that if Wi-Fi does make us ill, then the universe must be quite poorly: the universe hascosmic background radiationat, yes, the 12-centimetre wavelength (which is proof, in a roundabout way, of the Big Bang).If there are alien races out there, might they have determined already whether Wi-Fi is harmful?
No, not a major surprise, but Blizzard's unveiling ofStarcraft 2is big news, especially in Korea where the game is practically a national sport. The original game - a space themed RTS - was released on PC in 1998, although work on the sequel started in 2003. But as usual with a Blizzard developed title the game will only be released, "when it's ready". So expect to be battling with the Protoss, Zerg and Terrans sometime in the next two years. Personally I'd have preferred a World of Starcraft MMO, but then not everyone is as tired of RTS games as I am. Excited by Starcraft 2 then?
A class action lawsuit against Apple (PDF) accuses the company of false advertising over its MacBook and MacBook Pro screen displays, following user complaints.Apple claims its notebook displays support "millions of colors" and offer views "simply unavailable on other portables," reportsApple Insider. And asArs Technica explains:one could achieve millions of colors, 16,777,216 to be exact, by using an 8-bit LCD, but what would you have if you used a cheaper 6-bit LCD plus dithering?This is what Apple does, so you're only getting a 256K colour screen with the dithering making up the difference. And while most people might not notice and even fewer might care, it does affect people using MacBooks in the creative industries, including photography.Apple Insider continues:In addition to false advertising and misrepresentation, Apple is also charged with violating the Unfair Competition Law and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act with its failure to address and rectify the situation.Due to the large number of customer complaints, including complaints on the company's own website, it's apparent that Apple is well aware of the problems, the suit claims. It adds, however, that the Mac maker has taken it upon itself to heavily redact many of the posted complaints, and has even gone to the lengths of "taking down" entire threads devoted to the subject.Ars Technica links toThe colorblind Macbook Pros (another Apple dirty little secret?)which covers screen checking.I'm not sure how common these screens are, but I regard LG Philips as a good LCD supplier.Clicking on its productsfor notebook PCs, they all seem so state: Number of Colors: 262,144 (6bit).Incidentally -- probably thanks to technological illiteracy in the mobile phone business -- there seems to be some confusion between K (as in 1024) and k (as in 1000). A computer screen has 256K colours, which is 262,144. You can make this sound bigger by using 262k instead: well, a bigger numbermustbe better, right? However, claiming a screen has 262K colours is simply wrong.
The power of internet gossip makes Chinese whispers seem tame. Last week a prank email wiped &pound;1.4bn off Apple's share price after spreading rumours about the company's eagerly awaited sequel to the iPod music player, the iPhone. Shortly before 10am last Wednesday, a hoax email, posing as an internal news alert, was sent to Apple staff claiming that the iPhone's US launch was being delayed by a few months, along with that of Leopard, the next version of the Apple Mac operating system.At 11.47am, Apple sent a real email to employees, explaining that the first message was bogus, but it was too late. The 'announcement' was on the blogosphere, and at 11.49am news of the alleged delays appeared on Engadget, a technology blog owned by AOL, which felt confident in the source of the information. A trading frenzy of Apple stock broke out on Wall Street, and the company's market value plunged 3 per cent, &pound;1.4bn, in six minutes. By the end of the day, though, the stock had largely recovered. Sighs of relief all round.
Dell is usually one of the last PC manufacturers to enter new markets -- it waits for volumes to reach levels that can sustain its cost-cutting approach -- so the news that it finally plans to enter the Tablet PC market is probably a good sign. And the new Windows Vista convertible, which is briefly exposed ina Flash video on the Direct2Dell blog, does look good.However, the Tablet PC form factor is still a long way from mass market acceptance. Dell says its machine is specifically aimed at the education, healthcare and corporate markets, which are essentially "fleet sales". Buyers frequently order them in batches of hundreds or sometimes thousands: they are not one-off sales to consumers, which is precisely the new market that Microsoft hoped the Tablet PC form factor would reach.In other words, Dell's market entry doesn't mean the Tablet PC has finally become a success. It just means that Dell thinks it can sell enough systems to make money in the niche areas where tablet-style computing has had known advantages (and a provable ROI or "return on investment") for decades.
For the week's blog posts on one page, clickhere.Highlights include:Fear of GoogleWhat's happened to innovation at the BBC?Microsoft takes on the free worldWill Microsoft manufacture Zunes in China?How many British PC manufacturers are there left?Google nudes win on appeal
Test Drive UnlimitedPSP, Xbox 360, PS2, PCMarkedly different from traditional racing games, Test Drive has you trawling the motorways, towns and twisty mountain roads of the Hawaiian island of Oahu, earning new challenges not only by beating old ones, but by actually driving to them on the map, a process
that will either charm or infuriate depending on your disposition. Taking its cues from the PS2 version, this retains the Project Gotham Racingstyle points system that doles out rewards for power slides and time spent airborne. The game also displays a strong
leaning towards driving simulation rather than instant thrills, a decision that doesn't entirely lend itself to the time limits of portable entertainment or the PSP's dismal battery life. Online racing is as gripping as ever, if you're regularly near a wi-fi connection, although it's not always easy finding opponents on a number of the multiplayer tracks.&#183;Atari, &pound;30Wario: Master Of DisguiseDSWario, Nintendo's corpulent anti-mascot, returns for another round of mildly puzzle-orientated platform action, this time with the assistance of interchangeable disguises, donned by drawing little symbols over Wario on the touch screen. Each outfit confers new powers, with Cosmic Wario floating in near-zero G and firing lasers and Arty Wario painting new stone blocks or warp gates, while another six clothing-based power-ups make themselves available as you explore. Wario's platform games never quite have the magic of those starring Mario and this is no exception, with the gesture-based control of Wario's costumes becoming an immediate boss fight-ruining annoyance and trying to perform the frequently necessary pixel-accurate jumps just as prone to random failure. Although not a complete bust, this is weak at best and not what we've grown up to expect from Nintendo.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30
Doing linesClassic free web game Line Rider gets you to draw a line and then send a tiny man on a sledge down it. Jarring bumps unseat him, curves don't, but it's deceptively difficult to get the path drawn smoothly enough using something as unwieldy as a mouse. Take this simple concept and add what must be multiple man-years of painstaking effort and you get a series of short films displaying an unexpected crossover from Line Rider into art, with the sledging really just a way of leading your eye around the loops, drops and crazy jumps of entire miniature Line Rider-created tableaux.If you're short of time, visitwww.iridethelines.comfor the detailed work of Tech Dawg, the undoubted master of the craft. But you might want to try experimenting with the game itself - it's free and very good - before utterly demoralising yourself by watching these unattainably intricately drawn and engineered four-minute masterpieces.official-linerider.com
A very interesting and deep post over at New Scientist, which has taken on more climate change myths (and refutations of claims of myths) than you can shake a hockey stick at. A total of 26, in fact.Read it all on theirenvironment blog.(And here's the list:)Human CO2 emissions are too tiny to matterWe can't do anything about climate changeThe 'hockey stick' graph has been proven wrongChaotic systems are not predictableWe can't trust computer models of climateThey predicted global cooling in the 1970sIt's been far warmer in the past, what's the big deal?It's too cold where I live - warming will be greatGlobal warming is down to the Sun, not humansIt's all down to cosmic raysCO2 isn't the most important greenhouse gasThe lower atmosphere is cooling, not warmingAntarctica is getting cooler, not warmer, disproving global warmingThe oceans are coolingThe cooling after 1940 shows CO2 does not cause warmingIt was warmer during the Medieval period, with vineyards in EnglandWe are simply recovering from the Little Ice AgeWarming will cause an ice age in EuropeIce cores show CO2 increases lag behind temperature rises, disproving the link to global warmingIce cores show CO2 rising as temperatures fellMars and Pluto are warming tooMany leading scientists question climate changeIt's all a conspiracyHurricane Katrina was caused by global warmingHigher CO2 levels will boost plant growth and food productionPolar bear numbers are increasing
SundayComputer gaming and public policy workshopMondayThe ugly gameGoogle's watchingTuesdayAmbiently gaminggames 07: Games and Media eventKonami sticks to GluEngland is Europe's development powerhouseWednesdayHalo dayLumines Plus give-awayDelta offers DS downloadsThursdayDream casting for zombies and innovationSony: bad year, bright future?Guitar Heroes become ZerosFridayGame addiction and aggressionSony Gamer DayCaught by the Buzz
Microsoft has released an alpha version (invitation-only) of Popfly, which lets mere mortals create mashups, live Web pages, gadgets/widgets etc using simple drag-and-drop programming.Mashups are built using little red blocks that can be linked together. They can also be opened up to display, for example, JavaScript code, that can be tweaked manually. However, it's assumed that most users will simply re-use shared blocks. (And users can rate blocks to make it easier to find the good stuff.)Microsoft's demos use blocks called things like Twitter, Flickr, Virtual Earth, GeoNames, Timer and so on, linked together. So, you can take text from Twitter every 10 seconds, get the location from the user's place name, and plot it on Virtual Earth with pictures. Something that complicated takes a couple of minutes.If you think in programming terms, there are content blocks (eg Flickr, Digg, World of Warcraft), transformational blocks (eg timer) and output blocks (eg Virtual Earth). But ordinary users don't need to know that.If you want to do something more original, you can load the project into Visual Studio, for example. In fact, if you really like Ajax coding, you don't have to use any blocks at all -- but you can still use the storage, publishing and sharing infrastructure. Programmers will also be able to create blocks and encapsulate services and charge for them.Popfly includes an HTML Web page creator adapted from Office Live. This lets you select themes, do the usual drag-and-drop page layout, add your mashups and save the result as a Microsoft Space page.The point of doing a private alpha is to assemble a couple of thousand users who will feed back enough info to expand the system, and also help create lots of new blocks.Popfly runs wherever Silverlight runs, which means IE6/IE7 and Firefox 2.0.AtTechcrunch, Nik Cubrilovic says: "Popfly is a big leap forward from the competitors ... because it lets you do so much more, and it is one of the nicest web application interfaces I have ever seen." It certainly looks a lot nicer than Yahoo Pipes, and the demo makes it seem easier to use -- but don't bank on that until you try it.CNet has a news story,Microsoft Popfly service does mashups.There's avideo on Channel 9, for developers, andhttp://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=91175should pop up a video demo. Or if not, use this one:http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/media/en/popfly/PopFlyin15.wvx
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
We wrote earlier about Thomas Hawk writing about an Icelandic photographer, Rebekka Guoleifsdottir [I give up on the accents], whose discovery of her photos on a photo printing site led to an angry lawyer's letter from her to them, then an angry blog post by her on Flickr, then the post's deletion by Flickr.Now the Plagiarism Today blog hasgot the story in more depth: the infringing site,Only Dreemin, whichclaims that it was scammedby a different company - Wild Aspects and Panoramics Ltd - which offered the photos and reprinting rights to them for about £3,000. When Only Dreemin got her letter, it took down the photos; but the company that it says had sold the rights had meanwhile disappeared untraceably.Trouble is, Only Dreemin hasn't come up either with any evidence of the transaction with the disappeared company - which has left some people unsatisfied about the explanation.However as we recall you're not allowed to profit from stolen goods; if you sold a stolen car, the money would be recoverable to the owner. But of course it's a digitised photo, this time. Are the costs recoverable? Where's it all going to end?In the meantime the Plagiarism Today blog recommends that if you're in a similar situation, there are five rules to remember, including that "going public is risky" and "beware your own power":even if you don't think you have a lot of clout, something on your blog or site can quickly attract tens of thousands of readers. That is important to keep in mind when venting about frustrations with content theft.In the meantime, of course, if you have come across Wild Aspects and Panoramics Ltd, then we'd be interested to hear about it.
Once upon a time, the only things that mattered in the games console business were the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) and the Game Boy handheld. And it looks as though things are rapidly going the same way with two more Nintendo products, the Wii and the DS handheld.Look, for example, at the NPD Sales Numbers April 07 for the US market onBeyond 3D. The Nintendo Wii (360,000) outsold the Sony PlayStation 3 (82,000) by four to one, while the DS (471,000) outsold the PSP (183,000) by around 2.5:1.The difference would be even bigger if Nintendo could make enough of the things to supply demand. Sony, by contrast, has piles of PlayStation 3 consoles sitting unsold on shelves.With PlayStation 3 sales falling by another 37% compared to last month, the Xbox 360 (174,000) also outsold it by two to one. Heck, even the Game Boy Advance (84,000) is doing better than the PS3.According to Reuters: "In 2006/7, [Sony] shipped 5.5 million PS3s, which fell below the company's initial target, and of those about 3.6 million units were actually sold.As a result of the huge cost of the PS3, Sony's game division lost 232 billion yen (£971m or $1.9 billion) in 2006-7, in spite of massive profits from the continuing success of the PlayStation 2. According to senior vice president Takao Yuhara, it expects to lose only 50 billion yen ($415 million) in the year to next March.It's too early to call the result of the latest round in the console wars, but not too soon to recognise that Sony's decade of total dominance is over. At least for now.
Forget the Halo 3 beta, the most gaming fun I've had this week has been withBuzz: The Mega Quiz. Ok, that's mainly because we've had friends over for most of the week, and of course you can't compare the two games, but the latest Buzz is a reminder, along with the Wii, that "casual" gaming is increasingly important for the consoles.The Buzz games - think TV quiz show format, Jason Donovan and unique controllers - have sold over 4 million copies, and along with Singstar have quietly made the PS2 the party console of choice. Mega Quiz adds just enough - new characters, round formats etc - to fend off cash-in accusations. But most players will be happy enough to finally have some new questions to answer. The only real disappointment is the final round, which can go on forever as players win or lose points.The Wii may hog the casual gaming headlines, but Buzz: The Mega Quiz shows that the PlayStation 2 isn't ready to hang up the party frock just yet.
They are the masters of the online universe - the wealthiest, most powerful and influential duo in the internet business. But Google's two founders do seem a tad on the lugubrious side.Sergey Brin, 33, and Larry Page, 34, both put in appearances this week during a media day at the "Googleplex" - the company's sprawling campus in the affluent Silicon Valley town of Mountain View.Brin dressed down for the occasion - he turned up wild-haired, straight off his bicycle in a sweaty red sports top and a disconcertingly tight pair of black cycling trousers.But during a question and answer session, he was immediately on guard when a female reporter congratulated him on his recent nuptials on an off-shore sandbar in the Bahamas &ndash; which, until recently, were a closely guarded secret."First of all, I'd like to say 'mazel tov' to Sergey on his recent wedding to Anne," the reporter chirped cheerfully.An awkward pause ensued before Brin, without cracking a smile, replied: "Let's just stick toquestions about search."Clearly, you don't need to act like a chat-show host to build the world's most successful internet enterprise.Brin and Page made their fortunes, which presently stand at about $16bn each, by spending endless hours slumped in front of computer screens, perfecting complex algorithms for online searches.Over lunch in the staff canteen (an impressive spread including seared rabbit), Page wandered in and sat down at a table with Google footsoldiers and a few reporters. Picking disinterestedly at his food, he looked like a man who hadn't slept for days and his repartee was, shall we say, monosyllabic.How much time, I asked, did he think it would take for Google to fine tune its much vaunted new "universal search" which ranks video results in among blogs, books and text?Page looked at me in between fork-fulls with an expression of baffled incomprehension."Infinite," he replied, declining to elaborate. Perhaps it was a stupid question.He was similarly tight-lipped, though, to other enquiries, becoming briefly animated only when he accidentally dropped his cellphone on the floor.The Google story is a familiar Silicon Valley tale - the company originated in 1998 as a research project established by Brin and Page during their student days at Stanford University.The company's technical director, Craig Silverstein, offered some poignant recollections about being the first paid employee. Space was limited, he recounted: Brin's dorm room was the business centre used for programming and phone calls. The nascent enterprise used Page's room as a machine space for its increasingly large collection of computers and servers."That worked until Larry's room-mate came back and complained that the big computers were keeping him awake," Silverstein recalled.In June 2000, they hit the big time by completing "giga Google" - a project to accumulate a search "crawl" of more than a billion pages. Silverstein recounts: "We celebrated with a McDonald's."Today, Google has just over 12,200 staff. With annual revenue of $10.6bn, that means the average income per employee is almost $1m.Google is arguably the hottest company in the world - and its sheer clout extends to political circles. The firm recently extended invitations to all candidates for the 2008 presidential elections to address its staff. So far, three have made the trip to Mountain View - Hillary Clinton, John McCain and Bill Richardson. Not bad for a company with a workforce barely above the capacity of a New Hampshire town hall meeting.Richardson, incidentally, didn't do too well. The New Mexico governor failed to mug up on Google-ology and spoke on tax breaks to encourage companies to harness solar energy - something which, employees pointed out, Google was already doing without fiscal incentives. He also irritated communications chief Elliot Schrage by looking around and suggesting Google didn't seem to have many Latino staff."Of course we do," snapped Schrage, who was hosting the speaker meeting.Although Google has branched into ventures such as office applications and radio, its internet search offering remains its core mission.At regular sessions, volunteers come into perform searches under close scientific observation. The company even rigs up "eye print" cameras to analyse where these guinea pigs' glance falls on each page. The typical "eye print" is an F shape in the top left corner of the screen, as users read the first couple of results fully before glancing briefly at those lower down.Google points out that it constantly refines its search page. Recent features include automatic maps which pop up for any query about a specific business - or an instant weather forecast offered for any search term relating to climatic conditions. Then there are subtleties - such as Google's ability to correct users' spelling or to suggest alternative search terms.Kerry Rodden, a Scottish-born Cambridge graduate who runs Google's "usability" unit aimed at making the search engine constantly easier to use, laments that these gradual improvements create a "loop of laziness" as people barely notice changes and assume that Google will correct their syntax mistakes."When I tell my friends I work on the usability of the search page, they say 'that page never changes - what do you do all day?'" she complains.Google offers a simple example on how the net has changed the world. A person wanting to test their typing speed might tap "typing words per minutes test" into Google and will be directed to an array of pages offering instant on-line assessments. Within minutes, they will get an approximate speed.A decade ago, testing typing speed would probably have involved buying a special piece of software. Two decades ago, it would have meant going through the Yellow Pages, finding a testing centre and making an appointment - taking, all told, perhaps a week.On the shady, tree-lined streets of Mountain View, there are black Google sweatshirts everywhere. The town's main drag, Castro Street, is alive with upmarket eateries, bookshops and bars. Google has gone from a dormroom to giga and to global. This Silicon Valley town can justifiably claim to be the epicentre of the internet.
If someone is new to the web, where are they going to go? It's pretty obvious that they are going to start with the most popular places -- Google, YouTube, MySpace, Wikipedia, or whatever -- because those are the ones their friends use. They're the ones most often written about in newspapers, and so on. They are also among the sites most linked-to online.In other words, as the Web's audience gets bigger, the big sites will get disproportionately bigger. The smaller sites will get more users too, of course, but there are many more of them, and they are harder to find. Google might get 9 out of 10 new users but a small blog might only get one in a million.This leads to a very well known phenomenon known as a power law distribution, or Zipf's Law, or thePareto Principleor 80:20 rule. It results in theLong Tail.Lots ofresearchhas gone into this area, but the quickest readable guide is Clay Shirky's 2003 article,Power Laws, Weblogs, and Inequality, which I've linked to before. Shirky says:What matters is this: Diversity plus freedom of choice creates inequality, and the greater the diversity, the more extreme the inequality.Whether that's good or bad is another issue. You can worry about the concentration -- whichNicholas Carrdid yesterday in Guardian Technology, inThe net is being carved up into information plantations-- or celebrate the fact that there's also greater diversity to choose from, as Chris Anderson does in his Long Tail writings.But let's start by recognising that the unequal distribution of attention is a reality, and that it's theresultof democracy, not a distortion of it. Life's not fair. Deal with it.
Just a quick heads-up. Sony has revealed a few fresh titles at its big showcase event in San Diego - including 30 PS3 games. The full press release ishere, but newcomers include a PS3 version of SOCOM, subtitled Confrontation, God of War: Chains of Olympus on PSP and a PSN title namedPAIN, which looks like a cross between Tony Hawk's Pro Skater and jackass, with the player having to put his character through as much physical torture as possible. I do that with my GRAW characters anyway - though rarely intentionally.More later.
An article in last month'sCyberPsychology and Behavioroffers some evidence for gaming "addiction". According to the abstract (the article's content is locked to journal subscribers), the authors ofExcessive Computer Game Playing: Evidence for Addiction and Aggression?, based out of Charité-University Medicine Berlin and Nottingham Trent University, surveyed over 7,000 online gamers using online questionnaires. Results indicate that 11.9% of them "fulfilled diagnostic criteria of addiction concerning their gaming behavior". Unfortunately, I can't access the article for another month from my University's e-subscription so can't tell you what the diagnostic criteria are, or how they were measured, or even what is considered "excessive".The good news is that there was only "weak evidence" for a link between "excessive" gaming and aggression.94% of the sample was male, and they averaged 21.11 years of age.
Could magnetic tapes, hard drives and optical disc formats like Blu-ray be replaced by a data storage format that uses holograms? The world's first commercial holographic storage system is launched this autumn, with the product able to store the equivalent of 64 DVD movies on a disc about the size of a CD.Holographic storage has been talked about since the 1960s, but it's taken more than 40 years for technology to catch up.InPhase Technologies, based in Longmont, Colorado, is the latest company to get behind holographic storage. InPhase has spent 13 years developing materials, systems and processes. Its first products - marketed under the Tapestry brand - will be a 600GB write-once disc and a drive.Biggest challengeWolfgang Schlichting, a research director at IDC, the analysis group, says: "The biggest challenge was developing the media. There was a lot of work on complex crystalline rewritable media, but the success of CD-R showed that write-once media could succeed, so then there was a switch to photopolymer materials. The cost and complexity of the optics has also decreased - you're now talking of technology that's similar to a digital camera."The increasing demand for data storage makes it necessary to look beyond conventional forms of storage technology, such as optical discs or magnetic tape. The storage capacity of optical discs has increased over successive generations, from CD-Roms, which store around 700MB of data, to DVDs (18GB), and now next-gen formats such as Blu-ray and HD-DVD, which each hold upwards of 25GB. And there are plans for even larger capacity discs.But despite this, optical disc technology has struggled to keep up with our insatiable appetite for data. That's why many archival systems still use magnetic tape, which offers large storage capacities at a cost-effective price. However, tape has its problems. Wlondek Mischke, director of research at technology company DaTARIUS, says: "Magnetic tape is very difficult to handle and very expensive [and] is waiting for something to replace it. Holographic storage could be the one."But how successful will holographics be? Jim Porter, president of market research company Disk/Trend, says: "Any holographic storage system will have to be reliable, easy to use and be sold at a price that is considered by prospective buyers to be appropriate for the application."The first holographic products are certainly not mass-market - a 600GB disc will cost around $180 (&pound;90), and the drive costs about $18,000. Potential users include banks, libraries, government agencies and corporations.Kevin Curtis, InPhase's chief technology officer, says: "Very large companies are showing the most interest, which is interesting, because large companies tend to be technology laggards. The amount of data they're getting through is becoming unmanageable." However, Bill Foster of consultancy Understanding &amp; Solutions, says: "Tape technology is well established. It will be difficult to sweep aside."What's more, tape technology is still evolving. Last year, IBM and Fuji Photo Film showed that it was possible to pack data on to magnetic tape with a density of 6.67bn bits per square inch - or 15 times the data density of standard tape. And magnetic hard disk capacity is also increasing thanks to perpendicular recording.Nor does holographic storage look like replacing optical disc formats any time soon. "Any storage system with the capability to supersede today's optical discs will have to have rewritable versions and be offered at more attractive prices. Holographic products will not reach these objectives in the foreseeable future," says Porter. Jean-Paul Eekhout, TDK's corporate strategy director, adds: "Holographic storage will be complementary to formats like Blu-ray. It's more a B2B [business-to-business] technology and will find a place in the archival market. But I don't expect holographics in its current shape or form to cross over to the commercial market."Even InPhase acknowledges that we are unlikely to see pre-recorded videos on holographic discs for a long time - if ever. "We're not looking at [packaged] content," admits Curtis. Conventional optical discs and drives are cheaper to produce and there is a huge hardware and software infrastructure based around them.But Walden says: "We believe the technology lends itself to both business and consumer applications. Almost every company involved in optical storage is also looking at holographics as a potential candidate for the next generation of optical disc." IDC thinks that by 2011, the holographics drive market will worth around $200m globally, a small portion of the multibillion-dollar data storage market.David Mercer, principal analyst at research group StrategyAnalytics, says: "The challenges will revolve around production economics and industry standards, and these alone are likely to delay the emergence of significant consumer volume opportunities."Consumer applicationsMercer believes holographic technology will play some role in storage devices aimed at consumer applications, such as content archiving and creation, but adds that: "It will be more challenging to develop a video distribution and publishing standard around holography, as this will involve the coordination of interests in content ownership and protection, device manufacturers and others. By the time these pieces fall into place, video distribution will have migrated to some degree towards online models so the need for a physical media platform may be in doubt."Indeed, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates thinks that formats such as Blu-ray and HD-DVD represent the last generation of physical video formats, with future generations downloading videos on demand.But Foster says that holographic storage might stand a better chance at challenging another storage medium - flash memory. "Holographic storage doesn't have to be on a disc - it can also be on solid state medium," he says. So perhaps holographic storage's day has finally come.&#183; How holograms workThe source material (such as a photographic image or video footage) is encoded with error correction and channel data, but instead of the encoding being carried out on a bit-by-bit basis (as with say, CD or DVD), around 1m bits are generated at one time, which are recorded as a single page. The process uses light from a single laser split into two - a signal beam, which carries the data, and a reference beam. Where the two beams intersect, the interference pattern (hologram) is recorded within a photosensitive storage medium. Note "within" - because holographic storage is a 3D process that uses the entire recording layer and not just the surface of the medium.The data is recorded throughout the depth of the media uniformly, and multiple pages of information can be recorded in the same volume by changing the angle of one of the two beams. To read the data, a reference beam with the same characteristics used during the recording process is shone on to the holographic disc and the deflected beam is read by a digital camera detector.Holographic storage offers extremely fast data transfer rates - currently up to 160Mbit/sec, though there are plans to increase this.An alternative system uses micro-holograms to record discrete recording layers, like a multi-layer DVD.Liz Murphy, of InPhase, says: "You only have one opportunity to introduce a product and there's so much anticipation about this. We want holographic storage to be successful."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the US, BlackBerry style devices with full Qwerty keyboards that run the Windows Mobile operating system are among the hottest phones on sale. Among the most popular are Motorola's Q range, of which the most sophisticated is the 9h. Motorola seems to have got the basics right: the 9h not only looks good and is very slim at 11.8mm, but is very simple to use, with an excellent full Qwerty keypad with very responsive buttons. There are also seven one-click buttons so users can access staples such as browsers, the calendar and the speakerphone without having to open the main interface. If it has a weakness, it is the battery, which didn't live up to the claimed 510 hours of standby. The 2-megapixel camera is a little throwaway and a scrollwheel would have been easier to use than the rocker switch. Nevertheless, this is Motorola's best smartphone so far.motorola.co.uk
Precisely what will it take for the government to abandon its pursuit of ID cards? Last week the Home Office issued its latest estimate of the cost of implementing this vast IT boondoggle, which has risen 12% - another &pound;640m - in the past six months, while shifting &pound;510m of past and future spending over to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. That means you and I will be paying &pound;100-odd for an "e-passport" and ID card package which ... when did we ask for them again? The last Labour election manifesto called them "voluntary". Except for the cost to the country.The ID cards "debate" has been anything but. The government has in effect ignored petitions made online, while IT companies that understand its failings keep quite because they might get a juicy, cost-plus contract. "In effect, this report says that the total cost to British citizens has gone up by over &pound;1bn in six months," noted Phil Booth, the national coordinator of NO2ID, the anti-ID cards lobby. "If [the government] keep this up, the scheme will end up costing far more than even the LSE estimate."The LSE estimate, in case you've forgotten, was produced in mid-2005 by 14 authors at the London School of Economics, including Simon Davies, a lecturer who is also a strong privacy advocate. They estimated that ID cards and their associated paraphernalia would cost between &pound;10.9bn and &pound;19bn. Charles Clarke, then in charge of the Home Office, went on the offensive, in both senses. He said Davies's role as a privacy campaigner made him parti pris, disposed to find the project expensive. I wonder if the minister charged with pushing the scheme saw the irony in accusing an opponent of being biased.And now what do we find? Last October, the government put the cost of scheme at &pound;5.4bn. Now, it'sgone up to &pound;5.55bn over the next 10 years, though the government also put the October estimate down to &pound;4.9bn because that one had included "costs incurred by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in running consular services abroad ... [of] &pound;510m". Those costs now lie outside the Home Office estimate. So add on another &pound;510m. Though that might have gone up too in the meantime. Do I hear &pound;6bn?And the announcement was late, appearing on May 10 instead of April 9, as it should have under the Identity Cards Act 2006. Either it was cock-up - the Home Office had overlooked its obligations under the law - or "conspiracy", where someone realised that releasing the ballooning figures before the local government elections would give Labour's opponents a fresh target. Neither looks clever: why should we let an administration unable to follow the law administer something so invasive? Alternatively - the "conspiracy" - the government realises people aren't going to like ID cards, especially not at this price. The Home Office says April 9 fell during the Easter recess and that it "tried" to get the data out as soon as it could. Odd that it couldput out news releases through most of April. Odd how the ID card data had to wait until after the elections, to a day when the prime minister announced his departure.Tony Blair declared last August that: "If people want to track illegal migration and organised crime in this country, you've got to have ID cards." He suggested compulsory ID cards will be a Labour election manifesto pledge. Well, that's out of his hands now. The Tories and Liberal Democrats oppose ID cards; and this summer a new face will appear at 10 Downing Street's door. Will he have the sense to kill a bad project before it becomes electorally terminal?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
After reinventing the business BlackBerry with the 8800, RIM is now refreshing its consumer offering with the launch of the Curve. At first glance it isn't a very big departure from the 8800. The essentials - Qwerty keypad and rollerball navigation key - are the same, but the Curve has a slightly more rounded and aesthetically pleasing design. RIM has also added a few smartphone-style facilities. So the Curve has a 2-megapixel camera and some new multimedia functions. I doubt if they'll worry the bosses at rival smartphone makers, though, as the camera struggles in all but optimum conditions and annoyingly you can only watch video, not capture it. Oddly, the Curve features the mapping software found on the 8800, but doesn't include GPS so you can't use it for satellite navigation. The device is also GPRS rather than 3G, which means the web browser is somewhat slow in loading pages. Overall the 8300 is the prettiest BlackBerry so far, but in terms of facilities and usability the 8800 is still the jewel in the range.
