Ashlee Vance offers an interesting account of how the world's biggest computer company is trying to succeed in thelife sciencesmarket -- using what one company president describes as "ten-thousand-pound-gorilla tactics". (Thanks to The Register's star reporter Andrew Orlowski for the link.)
Wi-Fi wireless is booming but security remains a problem, says a long, informative piece in theSan Fancisco Chronicle.
IDC has produced itsannual predictionsfor next year, featuring no great surprises. Linux will continue to take market share on servers from proprietary versions of Unix, and Wi-Fi wireless, instant messaging and spam will all grow rapidly. But cyberterrorism remains a worry. "The war with Iraq will galvanize hackers," says IDC.
Apple has apparently decided not to enforce the use of its OS X NextStep/Unix operating system on new Macs from next month, "Apple has now said it will continue to sell schools some Macs capable of booting up into Mac OS 9, and will continue to sell a Power Mac G4 geared toward professionals such as graphic designers until June," according to aCNet story.
Keith McCaw, whose family helped create a cellular phone empire in the US, was found dead in a hottub in his lakeside Seattle mansion, reports AP on Yahoo News.
The arrival this month of the first batches of British-designed and made Iyonix computers represents a bold attempt to revive the Acorn computer market - and with it the embers of a once illustrious domestic personal computing industry that runs from Sinclair, through Apricot and Amstrad to Psion.The Acorn market has been in slow decline since 1999 when the company was dismembered so shareholders could cash in on its shareholding in the chipmaker Arm.Despite efforts of a group of distributors and developers to try to rescue the market - rebranded as Risc OS, after the name of the operating system - initial optimism began to fade as promised new, more powerful machines failed to materialise.Then out of the blue, Castle Technology, the Suffolk-based developer that still makes the existing Acorn range under licence, announced it would be demonstrating its all-new Iyonix at the annual Risc OS show, prior to shipping at the beginning of December. It expects to sell 500 machines at £1,299 (including VAT, but excluding monitor) to the existing user base before Christmas.At the core of the system is a new Castle-designed motherboard (also built in UK), which gets rid of the restrictions of old, slow Acorn proprietary subsystems, such as the video chip and memory data bus, giving substantial performance improvements.There is also a new Arm-compatible Intel Xscale processor, clocked at 600Mhz - twice that of the ageing StrongArm in the Risc PC, Acorn's last machine. Industry standard PCI and USB interfaces also offer a great - and cheaper - range of peripherals.One great advantage of Arm-designed chips is the low-power consumption, which means less heat and less need for noisy fans. Jack Lillingston of Castle describes the Iyonix as "virtually silent" - a key factor for some market sectors.But is it all worth it? There are almost certainly many tens of thousands of Acorn machines still in use, but the active user base - those upgrading, spending money - is probably less than 10,000.First of all it has to be said there is an element of sentiment. Many people grew up using BBC/Acorn machines and still value its genuine sense of community - and it represents two fingers up to the world domination of Microsoft.But few people spend money on sentiment. What keeps people using their machines is its user-friendly operating system. When it was introduced in the late 1980s, it was well ahead of its time. It sported a true graphical user interface, was mouse-driven, had an icon bar (Windows caught up in 95), drag and drop operation within and between programmes, and saveable desktops, so you can start with the programmes and files you want automatically loaded.There was no scripting, and as it is held in read-only memory chips on the motherboard, rather than on disc, if the system did crash it was - and is - quick and easy to reboot.In fact the operating system itself is far from under threat. It has hundreds of thousands of users worldwide. You may well be using a version of it every day without realising it, particularly if you use an Arm-based PDA or set top box from Pace. That company now owns the Risc OS rights, and has also widely licensed it in areas such as consumer electronics and telecoms.There is now even an emulator, Virtual Acorn (£29 inc VAT), which comes with several applications programmes and runs on Windows machines.It will be hard after four years treading water for the Risc OS computer market to make a comeback. But with another hardware developer, Halifax-based MicroDigital, promising another Xscale-based machine soon, and software developers queuing up to upgrade their programmes to run on Iyonix, there's great optimism among the band of enthusiasts who have stuck with it.There could still be a niche for this enterprising and innovative homegrown technology.Links:Castle TechnologyVirtual AcornMicrodigitalriscos.org portalDrobe portal
It is rare for the UK press to pay attention to a decision made by the Australian supreme court. However, the judgment in the case of Gutnick v Dow Jones has caused a stir, as it established that those publishing material on the internet could face legal liability anywhere in the world.The decision highlights the dilemma of internet publishers potentially having to concern themselves with the provisions of legal systems everywhere. Although the judgment has caused consternation among internet users, it comes as no shock to internet lawyers. Existing legal authority meant that any other outcome would have been a surprise. Nonetheless, as the Australian court itself noted, it may be time for governments to consider giving better protection to internet publishers.Joseph Gutnick is an Australian citizen who brought a libel action    against Dow Jones over allegations of money laundering and tax evasion published in its Barron's magazine. The magazine was published in hard copy form in the US, but in Australia, where Gutnick chose to sue, it was available only on the internet. Dow Jones, a US company, wanted the action heard in the US rather than Australia, not only because it would be more convenient for it, but also because US law is far more favourable to defendants in libel actions.Dow Jones sought to have the   action struck out on two grounds. First, it argued there was no publication of the article in Australia. Dow Jones said its internet server was in New Jersey and the publication was almost entirely directed at the US. Also, it said it would be potentially catastrophic if an internet publisher were to be held to publish material wherever it could be received, since it could be held liable according to the laws of any country. It was clearly impractical for internet publishers to be acquainted with all such laws.But the court held that legal authority was against Dow Jones. Defamation at its heart is about damage to reputation. Since the reputation of Gutnick was damaged wherever the defamatory material was received (most notably in this case in Australia), an action could be brought in any such place. The court recognised that this had highly unsatisfactory ramifications for the internet, but concluded that a special ad hoc exemption could not be invented for one technology.The second ground tried by Dow Jones was that the Australian court was not a sensible place for the action to be heard. There is a long standing rule of law that a court should not hear an action if it is not a convenient forum for it. This may arise if neither of the litigants reside in, and the subject matter has no real connection with, that country in which the court is located. However, in this case, not only is Gutnick an Australian, but since the allegations had regard to his business conduct it was likely that the subject matter would have a predominantly Australian element. Consequently, this ground failed too.The court's decision has no binding authority here, but because Australia shares English common law tradition the judgment is likely to be seen as highly persuasive here and elsewhere in the Commonwealth.Gutnick has not won the action outright, he has merely been allowed to continue with it. In particular, Dow Jones may seek to defend the action with a defence of qualified privilege. This developing area of law can provide a defence to a publisher in a libel   action even where the allegations complained of are wrong, if it behaved responsibly in publishing them.Last year, an English court held in a libel action against a Spanish news agency that the qualified privilege defence did apply, in part because the agency would have had a defence to any action in defamation brought in Spain. In this way, the law of the defendant's country was imported into the law of the English court. This English decision is likely to be equally persuasive in Australia and may mean that the court that finally hears Gutnick's action may give significant weight to the US defamation position.The question of where publication on the internet can be said to take place has arisen before. E-bay and Yahoo have been trouble in France and Germany over the sale of Nazi memorabilia on their sites, although both are US companies. Similarly, a Guardian journalist faced deportation from Zimbabwe earlier this year due to reports in the newspaper which the Zimbabwean prosecutor said could be said to be published in the country due to the internet.These cases demonstrate two strongly conflicting perspectives. Internet publishers say they cannot be expected to know and understand the legal position in every jurisdiction. Allowing such liability creates an unreasonable chilling effect on internet publication.By contrast, Gutnick would argue that the publication in question was, because of the internet, as available in Australia as surely as if it were handed out on a Melbourne street corner and that there is no reason that he should be robbed of the protection that Australian law provides simply because the material emanated from a computer in the US.There is no easy reconciliation of these positions. The Australian court invited the world's law-makers to consider the difficulties their decision gave to internet publishers. In the meantime, internet publishers should be wary of defaming those outside their own jurisdiction.&#183;Dan Tench is a media lawyer at Olswang
The dizzying progress of the modern world is built on many principles, but one of the most important is Moore's Law. This forecasts that the power of microprocessors will double every two years. By squeezing more and more components on to a silicon chip, computers have become more powerful and more ubiquitous. Barely a part of our lives is untouched by this trend: washing machines, car engines, personal organisers are all run off tiny circuitry. But Moore's Law is not a natural law and its physical limits, tested each time another million transistors are deposited onto a scintilla of silicon, will be reached within 20 years. The complexity of producing chips means rising costs. A state-of-the-art production plant costs $2bn, and in 2020 the bill could be $500bn. According to the Lords select committee on science and technology, Britain should view this not as a problem, but an opportunity.The logic of a distinguished group of academics and industrialists is that the coming computer age will either have to be based on new technologies or new microchip designs. Britain, which has no chip manufacturing base, has strengths in both of these fields. First, it has a lead in nanotechnology and quantum computing. More important, the country has a pool of talented microchip designers, the most successful of whom work at ARM, based in Cambridge, whose revolutionary low-power processors can be found in most mobile phones. The Lords' report last week made it clear that more scientific brilliance in Britain needs to be converted into commercial success.But the national manufacturing malaise, of low investment in research and development and short-termism, could kill off a hi-tech industry before it is born. The need for UK investors to make a quick buck means that research is not seen as an asset. British industry wants a payback in four years; IBM will wait 15. Not only does Britain spend less than Germany or France on information technology, it puts less cash into research than Intel, the chip manufacturer. Britain's historical weakness is its failure to turn inventions into industry. The country could also lose its lead in innovation if it fails to produce more science graduates and university funding is not increased. The Lords' idea of a national centre of chip design should be championed by ministers. Britain can either be part of a global growth industry or watch others overtake it.
It's no longer worth buying a PC that doesn't have a processor clocked at 2GHz or more. Intel has just announced new versions of the Celeron (cheapo Pentium 4 chip) with speeds of2.1GHz and 2.2GHzfor less than $90. With the 2GHz Celeron now priced at $83 per chip, it's really not worth fitting anything slower. The top of the range Pentium 4 now stands at 3GHz and is on the way to 4GHz.
It has not been a good week for targets. On Thursday the Joseph Rowntree Foundation revealed that the government was falling behind its 2004 poverty reduction goal. Yesterday the public accounts committee criticised the government for falling behind its target that all public services that can be transacted online should be available by 2005. There has been a lot of activity but scant results. Thanks to the Customs and Excise, for instance, traders can submit VAT returns electronically - but in practice only 2,500 out of 1.65 million eligible firms have done so. You can take a horse to the computer but you can't make it sync. It has now dawned on C and E that it is not enough just to make services available online, they must be made attractive to use as well. If companies can't see any benefit in paying their taxes through the internet, why should they do it?Part of the problem is that the government is failing to lead by example. The committee found that the Downing Street website did not have a complete up-to-date list of ministers and the flagship sitewww.ukonline.gov.ukhad as its latest "hot topic" an event (the Budget) that had happened almost two months previously. This explains the main problem with public web services: lack of take-up. The range of services provided - and the amount of information - compares well with other countries: the trouble is we don't use them so much. Only 11% of people in Britain had used an online government service compared with 18% in France and 40% in Canada. The answer is to market the services more effectively. Users should be able to access cross-departmental information from a single source. The government has not enabled this yet and nor does it have systematic data about how many people use individual services. There is no point in having more services than other countries if they are not used. The information revolution is about more than the provision of information.
It takes a cool head to go shopping for a used car. How often have you found yourself haggling with a salesman only for the negotiations to reach impasse? He wants his minimum figure, and you won't budge from your maximum spend. Just when you think the silence is about to become unbearable, he plays his trump card. Pay the higher price and he'll throw in a year's warranty, gratis.As sales techniques go, it's a pretty good one. After all, who stops to go through the small print of the warranty before they slap the salesman's hand away? In fact, this is exactly what you should do.Over the past five years, such dramas have increasingly been played out at used car lots and car supermarket sites across the UK. Thousands of us have either bought or been given warranties (in reality the cost is hidden in the price you pay) that are supposed to pay for the cost of repairs in the event of the car breaking down. The problem is that in many cases they don't.Wear &amp; tearUsed car warranties offered by retailers are nothing more than basic insurance policies. Buy a car from a main dealer and the windscreen price usually includes a warranty provided by that manufacturer's official used car warranty scheme. Purchase at a non-franchised dealer or car supermarket and it will be a stand-alone product.The problem is that the level of cover is incredibly varied. Some of the schemes offered by the best car manufacturers have almost as much protection as if you were buying a new car. Other policies, however, have so many get-out clauses that it's virtually impossible to make a claim.As with all policies, it is worth looking closely at the policy document and getting some help if you're not mechanically minded - before you buy it. The document will include exhaustive lists of components and spell out exactly what is and isn't covered, but the most important phrase is "wear and tear".   Anything that the insurer can argue has worn out naturally, such as wheels, tyres, exhausts, catalytic converters and brakes, are not covered.The truth of warranties is, if you buy a car with 50,000 miles on the clock and the clutch goes a month later, you'll pay to get it mended.The devil's in the detailEven if you are unlucky enough to break down and the fault is covered by the warranty, there are still a few tricks some companies at the cheaper end of the market use to get out of paying claims. For example, many policies limit the amount that can be claimed in the event of an engine failure.Take the classic case of damage brought about by a failed cam belt. Some policies will pay for a replacement belt (which is usually less than &#163;100) but refuse to pay more than &#163;500 for the damage its failure caused to the engine. Most engine rebuilds by main dealers cost substantially more than that, and even some of the so-called executive policies will only pay for the first &#163;1,000 of such a claim - which is absurd when you consider that repairs could cost three times that figure.Again, if a cheap rubber hose fails and the car overheats, lots of policies will not pay for any resulting damage, which could easily be &#163;1,000 in the case of a large executive brand. Some policies reserve the right to use parts not supplied by the manufacturer, others set a maximum labour rate payable to the garage doing the work at just &#163;25 per hour - around half most dealers' charges - and leave you to pick up the difference. One can go on, as the list is endless...Should you buy them at all?Earlier this year, the Consumers' Association looked at the issue of extended warranties offered by main dealers and concluded that schemes offered by just a handful of manufacturers (Volvo, Toyota, Saab, Vauxhall, Lexus, BMW and SEAT) were probably worthy of the name. If the official schemes run by some of the other car makers aren't up considered up to scratch, you have to wonder where that leaves some of the stand-alone policies.Given all of the above, perhaps the better option is to spend the money on preventative maintenance. The &#163;200-&#163;500 which most year-long policies cost will go a long way in the hands of a good mechanic. Change the oil twice a year, coolant every two years, hoses every six, and religiously observe the manufacturer's cam belt change regime, and you won't go far wrong. In fact, the god of motoring will probably smile upon you much more benevolently than the claims staff at some warranty companies.High mileage but a low level of coverOne man who feels he's been badly let down by a warranty is Mark Baxendale. The Merseyside-based web designer freely admits he didn't look too closely at the warranty documentation before buying a 1999 BMW 5.20i SE from the Car Superstore in Liverpool in September. He paid &#163;9,699 for the ex-lease car, which he was told by the salesman had a full BMW service history and had covered 84,000 miles."Because of the relatively high mileage, I was concerned to have a warranty in place and was told the car came with three months. However, 10 weeks later the car broke down and I had to call out a recovery service. I immediately contacted the Car Superstore and was told to take it to the local BMW franchise."Facing a bill of more than &#163;700, he was "disappointed, to say the least" to be told that none of the items were covered by the warranty which was supplied by Warranty Holdings.The Car Superstore's manager Michael Flinn says all customers are told of the limited nature of the three-month warranties and are offered more extensive plans. However, he has since agreed to look at Mr Baxendale's case with a view "to reaching a compromise".Ironically, Mr Baxendale may not have been covered for many of the items that went wrong (spark plugs, seized cooling fan), even if he had bought a more extensive warranty.
The demise of the Daewoo motor company has left around 150,000 Daewoo owners with a car load of troubles - and made their vehicles some of the cheapest in the second-hand market.Daewoo arrived in Britain in 1995 promising to revolutionise car selling, with all sales backed up by a promise of free servicing for three years as well as the traditional three-year warranty. But last year, the South Korean manufacturer went bankrupt under debts of &#163;12bn. Earlier this year, General Motors snapped up the main assets of the bankrupt carmaker for &#163;1.37bn.The bankruptcy was a disaster for Daewoo owners in the UK seeking routine maintenance or repairs. They found that showroom doors were locked and repair shops deserted as administrators took over the firm, in October.One Daewoo customer, Annie Ho of Milton Keynes, was stunned when she rang her local Daewoo service centre to fix faulty indicators only to be told that the garage was closed. She said that until that point she had been impressed by Daewoo's customer care: "I couldn't believe it. There wasn't any prior warning and what's worse I couldn't get through to the usual customer service department."Eventually, Daewoo's UK operation was acquired by General Motors, which owns Vauxhall Motors in the UK. They set up a helpline, which advised Ms Ho to drive the car, with dodgy indicators, to Leicester or London for repair. Since then Daewoo has set up new franchises in Northampton and Bedford.Such situations are being replayed throughout the country where existing Daewoo owners discover that the car that they bought in good faith has suddenly become untouchable. The closure of a showroom in Gloucester means that local Daewoo owners have to drive to Bristol to get their vehicles fixed.In Exeter, the showroom and service centre was also abruptly shut down, with existing customers advised to contact Daewoo in Plymouth. The mothballed showroom in Aberdeen, has left owners in Stonehaven, Peterhead and Fraserburgh fuming. They are directed to dealer Arnold Clark (Daewoo) in Dundee.A spokeswoman for the resurrected firm says: "GM Daewoo is aware that there are black holes in our geographical spread of retailers at the moment but we are only a few weeks old and are seeking new franchises."Customers should ring our helpline where they will be informed of their nearest service centre. If the lines are busy we urge customers to keep trying as we endeavour to answer all calls to provide customers with the information they require."However this is scant comfort to Sharon Dodd, an auxiliary nurse at Bletchley Community Hospital, who found that her Daewoo Nubira's electronic key would not work. Back in early September, the ignition system and the car's immobiliser started acting up. Her AA membership got her out of trouble then, through temporary roadside repair.She contacted Car Warehouse, the dealer who sold her the car plus a warranty, but the warranty did not cover the computerised key, which was faulty and needed to be re-programmed. The dealer advised her to take the car to a dedicated Daewoo service centre in Northampton for a diagnostic check. The Northampton garage charged her &#163;25 for the test which showed what she already knew, that the key had to be re-coded.The whole repair would cost around &#163;100, made up of &#163;22 for the new key, &#163;15 for reprogramming and &#163;14.72 for the new toridal coil plus labour charges at &#163;48 per hour. The really bad news was that the new key would take a couple of weeks to arrive.Two weeks later, Mrs Dodd and her two small children arrived at the Northampton garage at the appointed hour - only to find the showroom and repair shop deserted. She was greeted by a flyer on the door informing customers to contact GM Daewoo's helpline.The helpline directed her to Autolink in Leicester, where Roger Lancaster of the garage agreed to get hold of a new key by the end of the first week in November at the earliest. Bearing in mind that her car troubles started in early September, it took almost two months to solve a simple problem.Mrs Dodd is not amused, as she had to shuffle her hospital shifts, arrange for childcare for most of the day and was expected to take the car to Leicester, nearly a two-hour drive from her home.If all this isn't sad enough, Daewoos has topped the Consumers' Association's list of the worst depreciating cars on British roads.The watchdog's magazine Which? revealed that the Daewoo Leganza, a two-litre saloon, suffered the worst loss. The new car priced at &#163;14,995 three years ago is now going begging for &#163;3,600. Which? magazine surveyed 140 cars over three years and found the more expensive the car, the greater the loss.Daewoo owners with expired warranties, may have found a saviour in Motor Vehicle Repairers Association (MVRA). Managing director Mike Monaghan, says:"MVRA has a national, network of more than 700 approved garages and if any Daewoo owner phones us we will give them details of their nearest approved garage."&#183;Who to call: GM Daewoo helpline, 0800-050-607; MVRA, 01254-679-976
An influential parliamentary committee has sharply criticised the government's £1bn e-government programme for lack of co-ordination, poor uptake of services by the public and no criteria to assess cost effectiveness.The public accounts select committee's report on e-government singled out Stephen Pinder, the government's e-envoy, for particular criticism."The office of the e-envoy should be more active in the monitoring and reporting departments' progress in putting services online, their take up by the public, and the quality and use made of departments' websites," says the report.In addition, the public accounts committee criticised government websites for being out of date. The committee points out that ukonline.gov.uk, the central portal for government services, was promoting the budget as a "hot topic" in June - nearly two months after the event. It also drew attention to the Number 10 website, where the list of cabinet ministers was incorrect.Of particular concern was the poor uptake by the public of online government services. The report notes that although Customs and Excise had made it possible for VAT tax returns to be submitted online, only 2,500 out of 1.65m traders had made use of the service.The report's findings concur with other reports released recently, which suggest that, while the government is making progress in reaching its targets of all government services being online by 2005, the public is not using them.A Booz Allen Hamilton report for the e-envoy indicated that, although the range of UK government services online compares favourably with other advanced countries, the public uptake of those services is lagging behind. The report, published last month, found that only 11% of people in Britain had used an online government service, compared to over 40% in Canada, and 18% in France and GermanyThe public accounts committee blames the lack of public usage of government websites on the way those sites are structured."More websites need to be designed around specific services that cut across organisational boundaries so that people can access all the information they need," says the committee.Another study, published by the Interactive Bureau, was also highly critical of government websites' design and usability. The report looked at 20 government websites and found that three quarters of them were "in need of attention" with regard to their design.The report was especially scathing about the Number 10 website which came 19th out of 20 assessed."It scores so badly, because its navigation is inept, because of a lack of attention to detail, because it is poorly maintained ... and because it allows no provision for members of the public to contact either the prime minister or his office," the report says.The government is belatedly acknowledging that getting all services online is of limited value if the public are simply not using those services.At the e-summit two weeks ago Tony Blair conceded that British citizens "are not yet using government services online in the numbers that match the best in the world".The government is sticking to its 2005 target, but the tone appears to be shifting towards ensuring those sites are of benefit to the public.But the public accounts committee is sceptical: "People are only likely to use online services if they are easier and more cost-effective to use, more accessible and more convenient."
Christmas spending on the internet is set to top £2bn this year, according to new figures released today.The number of people shopping online in the eight weeks before Christmas Day is predicted to reach 10m, up from 7m last year, ecommerce trade body IMRG said.Its predictions are based on sales figures from its members, which include about 100 UK shopping websites.IMRG found that £1bn was spent on the net in November with companies reporting brisk business at the start of December.Nigel Moore, marketing director of the Royal Mail, which helped in the research, said: "The eight week run up to December 25 will be the first £2 billion e-Christmas and is certainly testament to the fact that many consumers have overcome their initial fears about security and the ability to deliver."The growth in internet shopping is running about 15 times faster than general retail sales, the survey found.IMRG also said that online shopping in the UK was growing three times faster than in the US.
Yahoo's cyberbegging category is still growing, reportsReuters.Websites run the gamut fromSave KaryntoDon't Save Karynviahttp://www.helpmeleavemyhusband.com. You won't get seriously rich, but it seems a bit of ingenuity is worth a few bucks. Footnote: Sorry, I checked half a dozen versions of this syndicated story and couldn't find one with hotlinks.CNet, which you might suppose would have a clue, doesn't even have the URLs in plain text.)
Google has now unveiled ashopping search site(beta test version) athttp://www.froogle.google.com/. The Merc has the storyhere. (You can avoid the rubbish on this page by heading for the bottom and clicking Print This.)
At some point in the golden, glittering, networked future all our home entertainment needs will be catered for by a solitary box that sends video, audio and whatever else the user fancies to an arsenal of screens and speakers around the home.Of course, for the majority of Britons such a wireless wonderland is little more than a - 'scuse the pun - pipe dream. Yet the products that will propel us towards that networked future are beginning to appear in the stores.The Comdex exhibition in Las Vegas late last month was awash with tablet PCs - touch/pen-operated wireless computers integrated into LCD screens. Not to be outdone, consumer electronics manufacturers have also been working on networked products.Two years after it was first announced Philips is set to release its £400Streamiuminternet hi-fi in the UK in January.  It might resemble a standard mini system with its CD player and three band radio tuner, yet hook it up it to broadband internet connection and it delivers a host of internet radio stations and also enables the user to access their music collection on a PC.Any notion that the Streamium is a "plug and play" device is instantly dispelled when the user attempts to set it up. In a straightforward installation it should connect to any Ethernet broadband router that then hooks up to an ADSL modem.Perhaps with an eye to potential problems, Philips is endorsing only one router - Alcatel's £125 Speedtouch 510 - for ADSL modems. For cable modem systems Philips suggests the £75 Netgear RP614. Users will have to be fairly PC-savvy to set the Streamium up, and I suspect Philips' helpline centre is bracing itself for plenty of calls.The Streamium doesn't actually let you type in a station's web address (although it may offer this in the future). Instead, it offers a "walled garden" of stations accessed easily via the Streamium's jog-dial control. These include Live365, the biggest internet radio network that has thousands of stations covering even the most obscure musical genres, classical music specialist Andante, and limited services from Virgin Free Radio and MP3.com.For a fee of £4 a month the user can also access MusicMatch's Radio MX service, which offers another 40 or so top quality music stations. Its key selling point is that if the user doesn't like the track, unlike - say - the stations on Live365, they can skip on to then next one. Control freaks can also create their own station using MusicMatch by listing their five favourite artists. The Streamium then plays those artists, plus others that have connection with them or sound similar.While the Streamium is clearly a very neat product, it is only a starting point. There is plenty for Philips' backroom team to get their teeth into. For starters, it really does need to be plug and play - and come with a router and simple installation instructions. There should be a larger screen showing more detailed information, and it needs to be Mac-compatible too. A wireless version is a must and the player should be compatible with Windows Media Audio files as well as MP3s.While Philips is the first high-profile manufacturer to offer a networked audio solution, other less well-known brands have had products available for a while.Turtle Beachhas the Audiotron, a £350 hi-fi separate that also hooks up to an Ethernet network and offers pretty much the same features as the Streamium. Unlike the Streamium, the Audiotron can be factored into an 802.11 network with internet radio stations streamed wirelessly to a hi-fi.Another advantage it has over the Streamium is that owners can listen to any radio station by keying in its URL. At the moment this only works with stations that use Windows Media, but an upgrade to include access to the thousands of stations using Real Audio is promised in the new year.We might also see in the UK soon an 802.11 variant of the Motorola Simplefi, which currently uses Home RF (a not very popular 2.4Ghz wireless standard) to stream MP3s and internet radio stations from your PC to your hi-fi. The British companyI-Mergealso has a network audio player, the £600 NP-200, that lets the user listen to internet radio via a wireless connection.Amid all these developments, one thing is for sure - those internet radio stations are heading out of the bedroom and study, and into your living room.
When an earnest, slightly nerdy 29-year-old called Eric Weiss applied for a job in 1994 as an administrative assistant at the law firm of Holme, Roberts and Owen in Denver, there was no reason to turn him away. He was presentable, articulate, easy to get on with; his computer skills, usefully, were second-to-none. If anybody there knew that Eric Weiss was also Houdini's real name, they saw no reason to bring it up. Certainly, nobody knew that Eric Weiss, the legal assistant, was really Kevin Mitnick, the fugitive computer hacker, target of a year's-long FBI manhunt - or that there were intelligent people in American law enforcement who believed that he had the ability to launch intercontinental nuclear missiles by whistling into a telephone.That kind of rumour was typical of the legend that had grown up around Mitnick, who vanished in 1992 after violating the terms of his probation for a hacking conviction. For years, he had been electronically breaking and entering - first the phone exchanges of his native California, then, finally, the world's biggest computer firms and branches of the US government. He wrought no damage - he just studied confidential information, then vanished without trace. He was frequently in a position to steal millions of dollars. He never did.But the internet was young, the fears it evoked still nebulous and, worst of all, Mitnick was making the FBI look stupid. So when they finally caught up with him in 1995, knocking on the door of his North Carolina apartment at 1.30am on a rainy night, after a nerve-jangling cat-and-mouse game between Mitnick and a rival hacker, whose network he had foolishly tried to crack - and who turned out to be working with the police - they made sure that prosecutors spared no effort.Mitnick got five years in jail - unprecedented for hacking - and four of them prior to his trial, including eight months in solitary confinement. When he was released, in early 2000, they slapped on a stringent term of probation, forbidding him from using a telephone or computer or connecting to the internet for three years.Which is why, on January 23 2003 - assuming he stays out of trouble - Mitnick will send his first email in eight years. "Mark your calendar," he says sardonically, sipping cranberry juice in an uptown New York hotel, a far cry from the cheap Californian motel rooms he used to rent so that he could hack, uninterrupted, for 24 hours straight. "I'll be having a party."He is 37 now, smartly groomed, no longer the stick-thin figure that emerged from jail, and not now - if he ever was - the antisocial Mitnick of media legend, all pallid skin, greasy hair and questionable personal hygiene. He has switched sides, and his new book, The Art of Deception, presents itself as a manual to help companies defeat hackers. Above all, it is about the hacker's most lethal weapon, "social engineering", or using the old-fashioned gift of the gab to get people to give you information they shouldn't: passwords, and other people's credit-card numbers, for example.But there is still the legend to contend with - the aura of limitless malevolent power that has always followed him around. According to the thousands of internet users who campaigned for his release, the justice system swallowed the myth whole, imposing a punishment out of all proportion to his crimes. Mitnick blames this almost entirely on one man, the New York Times journalist John Markoff, who adopted Mitnick's story as his personal specialism. And the myth won't go away. "People at my own publisher's IT department were afraid of me coming into the building. There's this fear that I can destroy people's credit, or find anything out about you," he says. "Or launch nuclear missiles."It started because he wanted free bus rides. "I was a bored kid," he says simply. Growing up in Los Angeles - too young to drive, his father long since vanished, his mother at work - he would study the patterns of holes the bus drivers punched in tickets to make them valid for future journeys. "Then I went over to the bus station and looked in the garbage can, and found that they would discard all these blank tickets."I talked to a bus driver - 'Where do you get those punches? I'd like to get one for school' - and I bought one and travelled the bus system for free. I don't feel sorry for it. My mom knew. She never said don't do it. The bus drivers knew. Maybe if I'd been condemned for it, I'd have thought, 'Hey, this stuff is wrong.' But I just thought it was cool."It was a bus driver who got him into CB radio, and a fellow CB ham who introduced him to phone phreaking - what hackers did before personal computers were widespread. Using numbers supposedly only known to phone company technicians, they could run wild on the network for free. "We'd mess around with each other," Mitnick says, grinning. "Like, I'd change the class of service of one of my friend's home phones, so when they tried to make a call, it would ask them to deposit a quarter."Then, in the early 80s, came the first personal computers that could be linked to phone networks, and around the same time, Mitnick's first taste of trouble: his arrest, age 17, for stealing technical manuals from a phone company. He violated the terms of his non-custodial sentence and ended up spending several months in juvenile detention. But by then it was too late: he was deeply involved with a group of hackers who met to plot strategy in an LA pizzeria called Shakey's. "I wasn't a hacker for the money, and it wasn't to cause damage," he says, when asked about his motives. "It was all about getting the information, learning more. It was all about the intoxication for the technology."On the west coast, the internet was beginning to mushroom, bringing a sense of unlimited possibility. "When you combine technical attacks with attacks against people's common sense," Mitnick says today, "it's a lethal substance. Like, for example, the attack where you set up a website that purports to offer a prize. Somebody sends out 5,000 emails to a company. Say 10% of the employees visit the website, then they have to register with their email address and a password. Let's say 10% of those people pick a password they use at work. That's 50 ways in. It's that simple."Exactly why Mitnick came to the attention of the police again is a matter of dispute - he denies Markoff's claim that he broke into the US army's high-security Norad network - but two more convictions followed, the second ending in imprisonment. His lawyer brokered his release on the then-unprecedented grounds that he was suffering from a "computer addiction", and needed treatment, not prison. "I didn't come up with that," Mitnick points out. "Was it an addiction? I know people who come home from work and stay on the internet until four in the morning. Is that addiction?" He considers the question. "Certainly, I was a little obsessive."Of course, the "treatment" - in a real Californian halfway-house for addicts - didn't work. When he started hacking again, and the FBI took note, Mitnick feared he could be looking at another long sentence. So he vanished - and Eric Weiss was born."Being on the run wasn't fun, but it was something I had to do," Mitnick says, matter-of-factly. He wasn't always Eric Weiss: sometimes he was Brian Merrill, a hospital assistant. "I was actually working in legitimate jobs. I wasn't living on people's credit cards. I was living like a character out of a movie. It was performance art."This was the philosophy that governed Mitnick's hacking, and that defined a whole generation of hackers: they weren't grifters, looking to steal money, they told themselves, nor "script kiddies", using pre-written codes to cause havoc. They were in it for the intellectual challenge. It felt noble. Mitnick simply applied the approach to the rest of his life, too. Choosing Houdini's old name, he says, "was a kind of joke to the FBI. But," he sighs, "they didn't think it was funny."Markoff's story appeared on the front page of the New York Times on July 4, Independence Day, in 1994, under the headline: "Cyberspace's Most Wanted: Hacker Eludes FBI Pursuit." From this, Mitnick claims, followed everything else. His argument smacks of bitterness and paranoia, to be sure, but, then again, it's hard to overstate that newspaper's influence on American public life."My argument is not that I shouldn't have been punished, but that the punishment didn't fit the crime," he says. "I wouldn't have sat in prison for five years, I wouldn't have been held without trial for four-and-a-half years, if it wasn't for Markoff creating this fear... When you write a story and it ends up on the front page of the New York Times, the department of justice is reading that. The director of the FBI is reading that, the director of the CIA is reading that. The government needs to send a message that they can't just have some desperado hacker on the loose who could start a nuclear war."Markoff says that Mitnick's argument that "he was in some way given a harsher sentence is both absurd and pathetic. This is a guy who didn't learn the lesson over two decades... So he claims parts of my reporting are inaccurate. I'd just ask you to think about the title of his book - this is a guy who's written a book called the Art of Deception. Caveat emptor, that's all I have to say."But the FBI, if they were newly alert, got no better at catching him. Mitnick, calling himself Glen Case, relocated to the city of Raleigh, in North Carolina. Alone on Christmas Day 1994, he found himself with little to do but hack. He chose to target the networks of a renowned security expert, who styled himself a "Good Samaritan hacker" - as well as a quintessential long-haired, west-coast surf dude - named Tsutomu Shimomura.Shimomura alerted the FBI, and over several weeks they traced Mitnick as he ranged across the phone networks, leaving taunting messages on Shimomura's answering machine. Then Mitnick made a mistake. "Every city I went to, I'd compromise their telecommunications infrastructure, so I could keep track of them trying to track me," he says. "I had control over the switches in Raleigh, but I got lazy. I used to check it every day to see if they had set a trap. I just stopped looking for a week. Just my luck: that's when they started."Shimomura and the police narrowed Mitnick's whereabouts to a single apartment block, then a single apartment. Then, with Markoff in tow - and even driving Shimomura around early in the investigation, a fact which still outrages Mitnick - they closed in. The details of the criminal charges deeply offended his intellectual hacker's pride. "Sun Microsystems," he splutters. "I looked at their source code and moved a copy of it over to a university computer so I could look at it. The government said I'd caused them over $80m &#91;&#163;51m&#93; of loss, because they'd spent $80m making the operating system - and it had been rendered useless by Kevin Mitnick looking at it."Prison was "boring. Totally boring," he says. He has little more to say on the matter; certainly, incarceration seems not to have prompted a transformative repentance. Reflecting on his crimes, he admits to "exercising extremely bad judgment", and says he only feels bad for the unsuspecting mobile phone customers who would have ended up getting billed for his exploits. (And even they wouldn't have had to pay once they had complained to the phone company, he reckons.) It is, all in all, hard to find in Mitnick a trace of real regret."If I had it to do all over again, would I do it? No. But do I actually feel sad, emotionally sad, for doing it? No. Do I regret it? In a sense, for the trouble I caused people. But not for looking at stuff that I shouldn't have looked at."He stops. Then, after a pause, he sums it up this way: "You want to know why I did it? Fun. I know it sounds crazy to you, but that's why."It hasn't escaped my notice that Mitnick has spent our conversation periodically checking a mobile phone. "According to the parole terms, I'm not allowed to use or possess any type of technology," he says cheerfully. "Like this cellphone here. Or like the computer I have upstairs that I used for writing the book."Yes, the terms are stringent, he says, and he still isn't allowed to connect to the internet. But he didn't get where he was today without developing an expertise at ferreting out pieces of information people didn't really want him to know. And what most people don't know is that probation rules, in the United States, are all at the discretion of the probation service. So Kevin had a few words - and cracked the system.
I've already mentioned in Online the string of adult games that has started to appear, including GTA: Vice City, Dave Mirra Freestyle BMXXX, and Private Dancer (warning: screenshots). Now it seems Playboy is planning to get into the act with a Civilization-style empire building game. "The world-builder simulation will allow players to walk in the slippers of Playboy founder Hugh Hefner while building the Playboy empire and living the Playboy lifestyle," it sayshere. But if this is your bag, you will have to wait until 2004. (TheLA Timeshas a slightly longer story but its page produced at least three pop-ups, which makes it seem more like a spam site.)
CERT has issued aVulnerability Noteto say that Sun's Cobalt RaQ 4 Linux servers are so insecure that a hacker can take them over -- and this is the fun part -- IF users have installed Sun's Security Hardening Package. There is no fix at the moment. Or rather, the fix that dramatically improves the security of Sun's RaQ 4 Linux boxes is to uninstall Sun's Security Hardening Package.
Footnote toJane Perrone's article: theT-Mobile Sidekickis actually a Danger HipTop, and you can try it in a Flash demohere. I covered it in my recent report from Comdex inOnline, where I mentioned that Danger "hopes to launch in the UK early next year". The Hiptop uses a server to reprocess Web pages before sending them to the handheld, which is like a British device, Ran Mokady'sPogo(also reviewed with pictureshere). Sadly, the company behind the Pogo "is to cease production of its ... device and concentrate on licensing its software to other companies" as Online also reportstoday. In other words, a British device that does much the same as an American device is going out of production just when the American device is starting to take off....Trivia point: if you are elephant with supernatural memory, you will recall that I was writing about this stuff in Online in April 1999,The world at your fingertips, but calling them Wireless Information Devices or WIDs. (I got that acronym from Psion's founder, David Potter, but it failed to catch on.) In that piece, I mentioned Ran Mokady's previous company, STNC. STNC wrote the microbrowser used by Psion/Symbian, and when Microsoft needed a microbrowser, itbought the company.
Vote and clickThere is a flaw in Dave Birch's argument (November 28) regarding e-voting. If it were possible to log on from your PC and check that your vote had been correctly recorded, it would also be possible to prove to a third party that you had voted how they requested. It is the current impossibility of proving how you actually voted that makes vote-rigging in traditional polls very unrewarding. That is, you can pay people as much as you like but you can never know how they voted.William Hudsonwhudson@syntagm.co.ukTrash scamsFurther to N M Queen's letter (November 28) regarding the National Criminal Intelligence Service's email address for 419 scams, theNCISweb page states: "Please do not send them direct to NCIS unless you have lost money. Instead, send a copy to the internet service provider from where the 419 email originated. These emails should be addressed to: abuse@ 'the ISP name' (for example abuse@yahoo.com, abuse@hotmail.com, abuse@onebox.com). By this method, the ISPs can terminate any accounts that abuse their systems."Shame, I've got a bundle here that I was about to send on to the NCIS!Antony Hawkinsa.d.hawkins@sheffield.ac.ukSpud stewWindows XP crashed at my local Tesco on the same day that Adrian Langford dismissed Unix as "ancient" and "arcane" (Feedback, November 28). The "embedded" version of XP runs the customer weigh and label scales in the fruit and veg aisles. The screen was frozen as we passed it, but flickered to a desktop with control panel followed by the familiar ritual for Microsoft's fans: "Windows XP is now restarting".As shoppers waited for this mighty operating system to recover from its fatal encounter with a pound of spuds, I weighed up the likelihood of my ever entrusting vital data to software which cannot cope with root vegetables. No, of course not.The servers which conveyed Mr Langford's e-mail to Farringdon Road probably run Unix as do the web sites on which he probably read something or other about Mac OS X, though apparently nothing which matches my reality of beauty, easy use and no restarts.For Mac users, as for all who deploy technology or live a normal life, reliability is crucial. Unix is tried and tested and undoubtedly ancient and arcane, but so are democracy and granite, both unquestionable foundations. XP or Mac/Unix? On balance: no contest.Robert Tedderrjt1@mac.comFair exchangeI find it outrageous that Jay Berman (Feedback, November 21) fails to realise that most file sharing isn't for profit, but for enjoyment. All of the artists he and the BPI claim to represent must, at some vague point, have been struggling musicians.An audience doesn't just appear, unless a record company waves a few zillion quid in their faces. Mr Berman and his ilk in the US (RIAA/ Library of Congress) appear happy enough strolling over the small fry of the music biz.The artists they actually represent (as opposed to the artists they claim to represent) are the ones who have been paid such ridiculous fees to sign up, that they have to scrape every last scrap of retail value out of them.They are the same artists whose every release is preceded by a vast wave of promotional CDs for exposure on radio and television. It appears that this works well enough to justify the enormous expense it entails.If something has been completely "rinsed" in the real world, its value usually decreases, so it's difficult to see where they think the value is on the web, considering the bins full of remaindered stock that clog their warehouses.It just looks like over-reaching greed to me. The number of artists releasing web versions of their music is increasing exponentially, and if I can pick and choose the tracks on a custom CD on the web , I will - and I'll pay for it in real money. Directly to the artist. Maybe that doesn't suit the BPI/RIAA, but it suits me just fine.It's easy to batter the little guys, especially when your own vast corporations are sliding down the Dow Jones or FTSE. It looks like action for the investors, even if it doesn't work.Derek MarshallEmail address suppliedSpeedy linkIn reply to Jon Field (Feedback, December 5) about options for broadband via satellite, there is the option of sending data via your existing ISP and landline. Data receipt is fast via a dish. Seewww.everywherebroadband.co.uk.Richard Chandlerechan@solutia.com
I just left my job running personalised email service another.com. I was there for four years, through boom and bust. I guess you could call it fun (of the special, highly stressful variety that's only possible during a crash).When we started the firm at the end of 1998, I had just left another job, running a web design agency called Webmedia. Lots of people asked me then "what's next?". I told them I was pretty sure we'd see continued growth in all the important numbers - audiences, share prices, ecommerce and advertising.I didn't anticipate the boom (or at least not the more hysterical part of it) and I certainly didn't anticipate the collapse that followed. We were sure, in crafting our gorgeous business plan with its entirely credible charts and forecasts, that we'd be able to fund a substantial free email and identity service in several countries from advertising and ecommerce.We were, of course, hopelessly wrong. Advertising nose-dived, stock markets collapsed and venture capitalists went on strike.Of course, the good news is that another.com did survive and is now making a profit - the firm is now so lean that it's probably indestructible. You might say that's how it should have been in the first place and you'd probably be right (but nobody likes a smart arse)So, given this decidedly up-and-down experience, am I qualified to answer the "what's next" question again? I think so. I think you acquire wisdom more quickly in a struggle, and I think mistakes are always the best lessons.So, what's next? Ask any entrepreneur about the mysterious process of selecting a new project and you'll hear roughly the same thing. There's no point sitting in your garret waiting for inspiration to strike - you need to get out and find out where the excitement is. What's getting people going? In no particular order here are the things that have got the grassroots talking and creating.Web servicesNot a technology - more a way of thinking. Web services (think of it as a singular noun!) is a set of methods and standards that will permit networked applications to talk to each other, to find out what each is capable of and to borrow resources and functions as needed. In many ways, web services represents the fulfilment of the net's early promise to connect everything with everything else and see what happens. If my data backup application can sidle up to Google and borrow some search logic for a specific function I won't have to code it myself. If your animation application needs to render a huge scene, it could hook up to Pixar's "render farm" and borrow some processor time without needing to learn a new protocol. Real applications, of course, will mostly be less glamorous but the promise - economic and technical - is enormous.Social softwareSince the beginning, the web was supposed to be a richly social environment. You were supposed to create the web as well as read it. Tim Berners-Lee built a web page editor into his first browser. Marc Andreesen couldn't see the point and ripped it out of Mosaic. The rest is history. The web became another one-way medium of consumption. A new generation of two-way software, whose sole function is to connect human beings and to make the web "writable" again has caught the imagination of the geek and creative elite and will soon go mainstream. Clue: if you've read a weblog lately you're using social software. What's the economic model here? Uncertain to say the least.Wi-fiYou don't need me to tell you that wireless networks are springing up like weeds. The Guardian has covered wi-fi in detail. The excitement here is palpable. In less than two years, wi-fi has gone form obscure networking standard to consumer and business phenomenon. As a way of extending the reach of the net into nooks and corners and jumping gaps in provision, wi-fi is unparalleled. Many think wi-fi will complement or even replace the telcos' 3G white elephant. All we need now is a way of making money from it.MobloggingDiscussed elsewhere on this site today, moblogging connects mobile phones and social software by allowing users of the new camphones to post pictures and words to their weblogs from wherever they are. Moblogging is an utterly new medium of expression - coming, like all the best things, out of nowhere - built on the immediacy of actual, lived experience and exploiting the ubiquity and accessibility of the mobile phone. This is blogging for the twitchy, post-web generation. It's fun, spontaneous and creative. Because it requires you to use your mobile, it might even have an economic model - you'll pay to moblog on your monthly bill. It contains the potential to become the next cult activity and a major source of revenue for the operators. It might even turn out to be bigger than blogging itself.So which of these will it be? Watchthisspace.-- In Online's first edition of the New Year, out on January 2, we will be taking a look at the 25 technologies ready for take-off in 2003.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:The story of the prime minister's wife and the conman continues, despite a personal appeal by Cherie Blair herself, with questions raised regarding the handling of Peter Foster's deportation case. Has this become a media witch hunt?Pashmina:people shoud blame the con man!!!!!!!GordonZola:MANY UNANSWERED ??? REMAINcapitalistpiglet:I think she was naive but thats allBronco:I dont trust her her mouth is too square*jenni@boughtledger has entered the NewsRoom*GordonZola:IM MORE CONCERNED ABOUT THE CON MAN SHE MARRIEDjenni@boughtledger:desperately seeking beyblades!Pashmina:leave her aloneHost_Chris2:I can't believe we're actually discussing the topicjenni@boughtledger:need beyblades ASAPcapitalistpiglet:there is no wrongdoing, just a tabloid vendettaGordonZola:THERE IS STILL THE ? OF THE BLIND TRUSTPashmina:she was blind to trust himHost_Chris2:blind trust = assets controlled by a trustee in order to avoid a conflict of interestjenni@boughtledger:looking for Driger-F, Master Draciel, GalzzlyPashmina:dont patriotise me chris2capitalistpiglet:there is no conflict of interestGordonZola:YOU WOULD SAY THAT YOU LEFT WING IDIOTHost_Chris2:no personal abuse pleasecapitalistpiglet:yr comments are the predictable rantings of a Mail readerBronco:careful piglet he knows where you liveGordonZola:BLOODY GOOD PAPER THE MAILcapitalispiglet:Gordon is a moronBronco:or he can find outHost_Chris2:I must say the level of debate has never been higher*GordonZola has left the NewsRoom*jenni@boughtledger:will pay &#163;20 each for mint Driger-F or Dracielcapitalistpiglet:he just couldn't stand the heatPashmina:jenni@ u should not buy medecin over the internet*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:yo roomHost_Chris2:we're just discussing Cherie Blair's televised appeal, LadeezMan. Any thoughts?jenni@boughtledger:i'm trying to find beybladesLadeezMan:her mouth is to squareBronco:thats what I said*GordonZola has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:jenni@ harming yrslef is not the ansewrcapitalistpiglet:back for more GordonZola?GordonZola:SLEEP WELL AT 48 MARSDEN COURT OXFORD OX3 7GH.*GordonZola has left the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:how does he do it? I NEED that softwarecapitalistpiglet:I need to moveBronco:I didconnection to server has been terminated...
Forgive the (kinda) self linking, but Steve Bowbrick has written us aninteresting piecetoday about the technologies that are getting him excited at the moment. Bowbrick is, of course, former chief executive of another.com, and he's hunting round for a new project at the moment. Web services, social software, Wifi and moblogging (which, by chance, Jane Perronewritesabout today for us as well) are all getting his juices going. Both stories are available only on the website, rather than in the printed paper.
British PDA manufacturer Pogo Technology is to cease production of its Pogo device and concentrate on licensing its software to other companies.Pogo only launched its Pogo device in February, to rave reviews. But sluggish sales - reportedly in the hundreds - forced the start-up into liquidation.Pogo has now been bought by Ran Mokady, who has been involved with mobile internet development for over ten years. Mokady has retained 15 of Pogo's core development staff, who will re-package the software platform into modules that will be licensed to other device manufacturers.The Pogo devices will remain be on sale and will continue to be supported, but the company will wind down its hardware operation as it tries to sell on its software technology. The company's name will change to Pogo Mobile Solutions to reflect its new positioning."The market is maturing to a level where it makes sense to offer a service to the industry rather than producing the devices," Mokady told Guardian Online today. "We're looking at working with partners to enable them to deliver something that costs as little as a mobile phone but delivers the user experience of a PDA."The Pogo device is an integrated package that offers Web browsing, email and PDA functions in a pocket-sized tablet format. The device uses proprietary compression software to reduce download times so that surfing the web on a standard GSM or GPRS mobile network is dramatically improved. The software also reformats the pages so they fit on the three-inch screen.Mokady sees the appeal of the Pogo in its smart, user-friendly combination of hardware and software. "You can buy the device and use it with your application and your information within two minutes," he says. "I was attracted to its usability."But many of the Pogo's selling points are now being jettisoned to focus on partnerships with larger manufacturers."Our plan is to allow other people to produce similar devices or even to use our software components on their devices," Mokady says. "We have the whole solution, or if, on the other hand, you have a Pocket PC device, you can take some of our components and put them in between the operating system and the user interface."The current device's user interface has a slick look and feel, but will face stiff competition from giants such as Microsoft, Palm and Symbian, who are slugging it out for control of the PDA market. That leaves the compression technology that links devices to networks as the main attraction for mobile operators and hardware manufacturers.Mokady, however, is not overly concerned that Pogo is simply too small to be noticed in a crowded sector."Its actually small teams that deliver good value in IP (intellectual property) licensing," he argues. "There are very few teams in the world that have experience of building hardware to doing services and everything in between. So we can very efficiently develop components and let other people use them."One potential competitor is Opera Software's new browser for mobile phones and PDAs. The browser uses "Small Screen Rendering" technology for three-inch displays, in much the same way as Pogo. But Opera's solution requires no specialised server technology, with the necessary software being installed in the handheld device.Nevertheless, Mokady claims he has already received "indications of interest" from potential partners, and promises major developments within the next twelve months.
The meeting, at an anonymous government office in south London, was by invitation only. The press were most definitely not welcome. And the host was aggressively blunt. Don't brief against me, or otherwise make trouble.Cherie Blair? Michael Jackson? No. The speaker was Richard Granger, the NHS's new director general of IT, last week making his first appearance in public since taking up his post in October. His audience was comprised of IT companies.According to accounts of the meeting, Granger read them the riot act. His message was that you're going to have to try harder if any of the £2.5 billion earmarked for the NHS IT revolution over the next three years is going to end up in your pockets.Some of the kinder words Granger had for current NHS computer systems were "crap" and "ridiculous". He singled out for incompetence two of the largest IT companies working in the public sector.Granger is the former management consultant charged with plugging the NHS into modern IT. He has already achieved brief fame as Britain's highest-paid civil servant (he told the audience last week that his £250,000 salary was a cut from his former deal at Deloitte)."Diplomacy would not, perhaps, be high on a list of his attributes," said one participant.Why so touchy? Shouldn't the IT industry be Granger's home crowd? Oddly, no. Since last summer, when after four years of dithering the government announced that it was serious about modernising NHS IT, suppliers have been the main source of informed criticism. They have been murmuring about the project's scale, the NHS's ability to implement it, the policy of cutting down the number of suppliers and, most of all, the "planning blight" that has occurred while the new arrangements are put in place.Time for that to stop, said Granger. Companies that screw up would be out of the NHS for the next 10 years.The Department of Health's press office presented a slightly different picture when it announced that: "The next steps to make the new NHS IT procurement process faster, fairer and more effective were outlined today."In fact Granger gave few specific details of the new procurement procedures: only that a new strategy will be published in January, together with the process of picking "prime service providers". These companies will take responsibility for running all IT in a geographical area, or for key national systems such as electronic appointment booking. Granger warned that to run these services, the government is looking for contractors outside the IT industry. Existing major contractors should not take this business for granted.Should the NHS's other stakeholders now brace themselves for the Granger approach? Probably not. IT suppliers are a special case: in the end, they will do what they are told. Shooting one or two to encourage the others probably makes sense. Like sledge dogs, IT companies feed on their casualties.Consultants, nurses, patients and other NHS stakeholders will no doubt receive a softer approach, presumably from Granger's titular boss Sir John Pattison, head of research at the Department of Health, or even the PM himself.On the other hand, it's courageous of Granger to risk making enemies. The private nature of last week's meeting appeared out of step with Labour's Code of Openness for the NHS - and the spirit, if not the letter, of the Public Bodies (access to meetings) Act 1960. Granger's approach also conflicts with the consensus that the way to avoid public sector IT disasters is through genuine partnerships, not adversarial relationships.For the moment, however, the healthcare IT industry, which over the past decade of bungle and bureaucracy has cultivated a masochistic streak, is enjoying the smack of firm government. At least they know that someone is in charge and that after so many false starts, the NHS IT modernisation is going to happen. And the fact that NHS IT is now receiving the full attention of the government spin machine is a good sign -  a sign that it's being taken seriously at the very top.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It is tempting the first few times, especially if you are a tad bored. "This is your lucky day!" the message in your in-box teases, addressing you by name. There are promises of money, supreme happiness, the answer to life, the universe and everything. And, of course, there is sex.I don't know why I almost daily receive emails with subjects such as "Farm Girl Delight!" and "High Class blow jobs only $1". I am, after all, a woman.At first I assumed that because Lindsay can also be a male name it was simply a matter of confusion. But friends with distinctly girlie names such as Catherine and Alice also report such porny missives in their in-boxes.The number of spam emails we receive is set to treble by 2005 - currently one in eight emails are spam. Simply deleting them is wasting more and more of our time - according to recent research 10% of the working day is spent dealing with unwanted emails.I recently taught my parents how to use the internet and they are extremely excited about their new email address. But, horrified that my mother's sensibilities will be offended, I have told her not to open any emails, unless they are from me.Even I feel rather uneasy seeing "Sex Crazed College Girls (Free)" up there on my screen underneath such innocent propositions as 50% off classic towels from The White Company and seasonal offers from Amazon. In fact, I almost feel guilty. Did I look up something a bit risque on the internet once? Did I write the f-word in an email to a friend? Is that why Hot Karly thinks I'm fair game for her alarmingly capped-up "WETNESS"? So I hastily delete without opening and leave a squeaky-clean in-box full of fluffy towels and nice novels.What concerns me is a form of cyber paranoia. If I do open up "Farm Girl Delight!" (OK, I admit it could be organic yoghurt), even if my credit card stays firmly in my wallet, then I am sure it will be on my record, on my hard drive, a message to everyone in cyberspace: "I am a perv!" I would never be able to sell my computer, or donate it to my stepson. The shame.But that said, in the interest of research (and because I am trying to put off some work I have to do) I put all fears of viruses, perv labelling and virtual extortion to the back of my mind and decide to open up some spam.Along with the "let's meet up next week" and the ever-popular "delivery failure" that are my usual personal emails, there is a smorgasbord of spam."Discover Secrets!" sounds good, but when I open it, it is a huge and baffling document: "There are specific mechanics of a photon's propagation through space time that go beyond a simple description of what space time is and yet, a photon's behaviour is completely dependent on the nature of space time... " I assume someone has cut and pasted the wrong thing.The next offer of the morning (spam usually crosses the Atlantic by night when you and your PC are asleep) is "I am so wet and juicy and only a buck" (I instinctively know this is not a special offer on Florida oranges). And sure enough when I click on the link a throbbing neon sign offers "Porn 4 a dollar". I am disappointed my cyber credentials don't merit the finer things in life. Instead I have been invited to enter the Poundstretcher of Porn.Here, there is an oval photo of two embracing women. They are posing in a G-plan-style bedroom with cheap, patterned wallpaper behind them and a twee nautical ornament on the integral bedside table. Just in case you were in any doubt, "Lezbo!" flashes above them in green luminous lettering.I click on "Lezbo!" to see if the site will reveal the pair cavorting on any more of their 70s suburban furnishings. But no, the screen goes black and an ominous messages flashes up, one word at a time: "Stop... Getting... Fucked."That's it, I am sure this is a nasty message from a virus instigator. Enough already.Instead I open the more innocent "Investigate ANYONE online". The "internet detective" tells me I can track, locate or conduct a complete background check on anyone at any time. All for $29.95. Apart from the fact that its US origins mean it probably won't cover that particular individual I am curious about in SW18, the final line announces that it is not Mac-compatible.I log off and decide that when I can be bothered I will click the "delete me from your mailing list" option. If I do that, of course, I risk an in-box full of nothing but delivery failures. And the shame of AOL's Connie telling me "you have NO new emails."
ZDNet News reckons Sony is going to release anew version of the Memory Stickwith capacities up to a gigabyte and more. It says: "One source familiar with Sony's Memory Stick overhaul said the company had planned to introduce the new format around the third quarter of this year, but pulled back after receiving negative feedback from early reviewers who panned the format's lack of compatibility with older devices." Comment: It was typical of Sony's NIH (Not Invented Here) approach to do its own proprietary thing with removable memories instead of using one of the numerous alternatives (and there are already too many of those), but you don't really expect them to make such a mess of it.
ZIOsoft has releasedAge of Empires for PocketPC.
Those who remember the great Operating System Wars of 1990-95 will be sad to hear that IBM is "sunsetting"OS/2 Warp V4. Operating System/2, launched in 1987, was originally developed jointly by IBM and Microsoft, but sales were dismal. Users voted with their wallets for the smaller, simpler and very much cheaper Microsoft Windows 3, launched in 1990. IBM's refusal to back Windows and Microsoft's desire to abandon a product it couldn't sell led to a huge battle between the two firms, which the bigger, richer, more powerful IBM lost. The last throw was Windows 95 (launched at a cost of $100m) versus OS/2 Warp 3 (launched with a $160m marketing budget.) The battle was ended by Lou Gerstner, the new CEO who arrived to save IBM. He found himself faced with what he described as a "religious war" that IBM had already lost, even though it was determined to fight to the bitter end. His decision to abandon OS/2 "created immense emotional distress in the company", he writes in his autobiography, Who Says Elephants Can't Dance? "The highest levels of IBM executives were almost obsessed with the effort to unwind the decisions of the 1980s and take back control of the operating system from Microsoft (and, to a lesser extent, gain control of the microprocessor from Intel)." IBM had had a monopoly of data processing since the 1930s, and it was a terrible blow to find that by using a Microsoft OS and an Intel processor in the IBM PC, it had handed control of part of the market to small upstarts. The failure of OS/2 marked the point at which IBM's 60 year reign of almost total dominance changed to 6 years (and counting) of Microsoft's partial dominance. Saddoes who don't have a life can send their OS/2 whinges to Gerstner c/o HarperCollins Publishers (I've already heard them all a million times, thanks). Or, more usefully, gohere.UPDATE:CNethas published a report about IBM "clarifying" its online notice. It quotes IBM spokesman Steve Eisenstadt saying: "As long as our customers want OS/2, we will support them. We don't have plans to withdraw OS/2." Apparently it means you will no longer be able to buy shrink-wrapped software, though the thought of IBM still selling shrink-wrapped copies of OS/2 has been unbelievable for years.
Having sucked millions of pounds from punters' pockets with internet gambling, the high priests of the computer age may be about to give something back.Enter the virtual tipster. True, it will not grasp your elbow in a pub and mutter a horse's name for the 3.30. So far, it does not do horses or dogs at all. But its Australian inventor claims the digital forecaster, free of drink, sentiment or inaccuracy, is good for crunching out winners about four-fifths of the time.The IT researcher who came up with the tip software, Alan McCabe, of James Cook University, in Northern Queensland, has named it McCabe's Artificially Intelligent Tipper, or Mait for short.New Scientist magazine says Mr McCabe unveiled the latest version of Mait at a conference in Canberra, Australia, last week. The device has the same technology as Mr McCabe's main research, handwriting recognition by computers. It employs a "neural network", a type of software that mimics the brain, and is capable of limited learning based on raw data.Mr McCabe has used Mait to tip the winners in the Australian National Rugby League contest, although there is no reason why the tipster could not be used for soccer or cricket.In a trial run, in 2000, Mait moved ahead of human tipsters in a competition to see who could pick the most winners over Australian rugby's 26-week season. Mr McCabe had occasion to say "thanks, Mait," in 151 of 182 matches. (Draws counted as a failure.)  The best human tipster only managed to predict the winner in 120 of 182 matches.If Mr McCabe's results are anything to go by, the bookies could be in for a skinning.But not yet satisfied, Mr McCabe notes on his website that moneywise "it would be advantageous to examine more advanced betting strategies".
There used to be a heading on the Moreover.com news website that read "dotcom boom". For some time now it has read "dotcom doom". But while many e-commerce sites have gone the way of the dodo, news of a new boom is coming from an unlikely area. According to the latest report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), e-commerce is on the up in the developing world, and it is often women making the most of the technology.Elsouk, one of the initiatives cited in the UN's E-commerce and Development Report 2002, started life as a virtual shop where women from Morocco could sell handcrafted products online. When the site was set up in 1997, with the help of World Bank funding, many of the villages that produced the goods didn't even have electricity. "The women were very happy to be on what they called the 'television'," recalls Maurice Hazan, one of the founders of Elsouk.Things have come a long way since then. Not only do the villages have electricity, but the network of artisans has extended to Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia and Lebanon.Elsouk has even outgrown its current website and has recently been moved towww.southbazar.com. The original Elsouk site will eventually be used to sell organic spices from countries such as Madagascar. Selling to other businesses, Hazan plans to use "evangelists" to spread the word.Is it easy to find a web developer in countries such as Morocco? "Definitely," says Hazan. "There is an availability of web skills in Morocco."But we also trained people from the villages and used their skills to develop some of the easier pages." Hazan decided to play it safe, and developed the websites using all Microsoft technology (SQL Server and ASP). "It's the most diffuse technology at the moment," he says."The Lebanese have now developed their own website (www.alyad.com) &#91;and&#93; the Moroccans have developed a network of villages to manufacture their products," he adds.What are the benefits? The website has helped them make some valuable contacts with retailers abroad, and most of their business is now moving into the more lucrative B2B (business to business) arena.Some artisans use Elsouk to develop more B2B direct relations, and the whole production is sold directly to shops. Or, as in the case of the Lebanese, a mixture of outlets is used: some sales direct to consumers, others to businesses. Meanwhile, in Tunisia, manufacturers have turned their network into an annual fair where 200 women artisans gather to sell their wares in Tunis.When I ask Hazan what his biggest hurdle has been, he doesn't hesitate. "Logistics and local regulations," he says. "To get these products to the final buyer, we had to use internal logistics from remote villages to send the goods to destinations such as Washington DC and Australia."Over the past few years it has become more professional, though, and things have definitely improved."Lack of commercial nous can sometimes also get in the way of making money. Hazan tells of a woman from Tunis who made exquisite Berber pottery. A shop owner visited her workshop and offered to buy the entire stock. The woman turned him down. "No you can't," she said. "We sell only on the internet."Internet use worldwide shot up another 30% last year, and a whopping third of those new users live in the developing world. Even Africa, which had previously been slow to take up net services, saw a 30% rise in data traffic last year.This boom in internet and e-commerce in the developing world is thanks, in no small part, to Linus Torvalds. Nearly a third of the world's internet servers run on the open source Linux software he helped create. And, because the system is open for users to experiment with, programmers in developing countries are able to get a better understanding of how it works. They can collaborate with others around the world to customise its code.Another benefit comes from the parallel processing capabilities of the software. Most developing countries have easy access to PCs - given that they're largely manufactured in their own back yard - but find it harder to get the capital for midrange and mainframe systems. A few PCs linked together in "farms" and running on Linux software can easily match the pace of a much more expensive system.The global expansion of IT has been a blessing for women in the developing world. In some Asian and Latin American countries, women hold more than 20% of professional jobs in software services. But it's not just in software where opportunities lie. E-retailing gives women access to whole new markets.In India, women have created an e-marketplace, IndiaShop, to sell saris, cutting out the middlemen and taking a bigger cut for themselves. Santosh, a spokesperson for IndiaShop, told me of a woman from the village of Kancheepuram, who produces hand-woven silk saris - each one taking a month to make."She used to sell them for a meagre price to a middle-man who visited the village regularly," he says. "The middleman sells these saris to shops in Madras for a much higher price. By the time someone buys one of these saris from a retail outlet, the price has gone up tenfold."We visited the woman in Kancheepuram and told her about our project. She was very enthusiastic and allowed us to take photographs of the saris she was making."We posted the details on the IndiaShop website, and within about two to three months we were able to get an order for two saris for the weaver at a very good price. The weaver is very happy and is now regularly in touch with us to provide details of the new designs she's producing."In Peru, a network of housewives have set up a confectionary site called Tortasperu that sells to consumers. The initiative allows women with children to work from home and earn.For Maria del Carmen Vucetich, the founder of TortasPeru, the hardest part of setting up an e-business was in gaining trust."A problem was the way our customers have to pay," says Vucetich. "In that time we depended on friends living in the USA that gave us a hand by receiving money orders or cheques and it didn't work."But that was in 1996. Methods of secure payment have improved and internet use has rocketed, thanks largely to the low-cost public internet booths. "Delivering cakes makes me feel like doing social work," says Vucetich. "I make people happy."But the UN report warns that some places still have a long way to go. In Africa, in spite of a big increase in internet traffic, only 1 in 118 people uses the internet. Take out the top five countries by internet use, and just 1 in 440 have access. Poor infrastructure, education and lack of capital remain big obstacles on the road to e-commerce nirvana.But none of these obstacles is insurmountable. For developing countries looking for an IT role model, they need look no further than India and Costa Rica. Instead of just being the call centres of the world, they've moved into more lucrative e-services to boost their economies - e-banking, e-tourism, and e-commerce.In Costa Rica, software service exports have grown from $16,000 in 1997 to $60m in 2000. India has almost doubled its IT services exports (mainly software and business process outsourcing) in the past two years. IT services now account for more than 16% of its exports.And, as the UNCTAD report points out, the recipe for success can be replicated. All that is needed is a generous mixture of deregulation, a lowering of tariffs, an improvement in telecommunications and standards, and better payments facilities.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
One of this year's hottest new handheld computers, the Simputer, is one gadget that no one will find waiting for them under the Christmas tree this year. That is because they're not for sale in your local computer store. In fact, they are not meant for anyone who could actually afford one.The intended customers for this $250 piece of kit are not typically targeted by technology companies: the rural, illiterate poor of the world's developing nations. It is hoped that villages will band together to buy these, but do the world's poorest 3 billion people really need a $250 handheld computer that costs more money than many people in the developing world make in an entire year?After four years on the drawing board, at one point it looked as though the Simputer would never actually make the leap from concept to production. The group that designed the Simputer, a non-profit making group of Indian academics and technologists known as the Simputer Trust, was having trouble finding hardware companies willing to take the risk and build them on a large scale. Earlier this year, two Bangalore-based companies, Encore Software and PicoPeta, licensed the reference design for a nominal fee from the Simputer Trust, and the first models should be available soon.The Simputer looks a lot like other handhelds on the market; it could easily be mistaken for a new Palm or Pocket PC. With a touch-sensitive liquid crystal display, a built-in modem, and a 200MHz Intel processor and 64 megabytes of RAM, it's just as powerful as many pocket PCs. It even runs a variant of the open source operating system, Linux. As it's assumed that most users will be not be able to read or write, the Simputer is designed to work using voice commands, and to facilitate sharing, uses inexpensive smartcards so that users can save their preferences and data. It runs on just three AAA batteries.On paper the Simputer makes plenty of sense: people in villages could use them to store their medical records on smartcards, so doctors will have accurate medical information. Farmers could check weather reports and find out which markets are offering the best prices for their crops. Ordinary people could use banking software to keep track of their finances. Children could use them to learn how to read.But wouldn't money spent on a Simputer be better used for more immediate needs, such as improving nutrition or helping to decrease infant mortality rates? Even Microsoft's Bill Gates, who one would assume would be pushing for the developing world to join the computing revolution as quickly as possible, has directed his philanthropic foundation to focus its efforts on providing vaccinations and HIV education to the world's poor.For all of the uplifting stories of Andean and African villagers using the internet to sell their handicrafts directly to stores and distributors in Europe and the US, it's relatively difficult to argue that people need a handheld computer equipped with a built-in MP3 player when they don't even have clean drinking water.Except that no one is proposing that vaccination programmes be abandoned in favour of providing computers and connectivity. The Simputer is targeted at people in rural areas, who by any measure are impoverished, but who it is thought could benefit from having improved access to information and data. It's intended as just one tool for raising living standards among many others, and ideally one that villages would decide for themselves whether they needed or not.If it is patronising to believe that you can just drop a computer in the middle of a village and that conditions will improve, isn't it equally patronising to assume that rural people couldn't possibly have any use for the internet?Just take a look at Village Phone, a programme by Bangladesh-based GrameenPhone, if you want proof the demand for access to telecommunications. Village Phone makes microloans to women in rural villages to enable them to purchase mobile phones, and they then in turn rent the phones out by the minute to other people in their village. Thousands of rural communities, which prior to this lacked access to any kind of telephone service, have already benefited from the programme.Of course, whether they'll place the same value on checking their email remains to be seen, but it stands to reason that if the benefits to doing so are clear, plenty of people will use the Simputer.Much of this depends on how easy the Simputer is to use and how practical it is for people's lives. If it is too unreliable, or the hardware too easily broken, the Simputer may turn out to be just the latest in a long line of overpriced gadgets that haven't been able to deliver on their promises.Worse yet, it will be another disappointingly abortive attempt to bridge the digital divide, a divide that someday must be crossed. For whether it is next year with the Simputer, or something else in the future, computing and the internet will come to the world's poorest 3 billion.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Both manufacturers and networks consider watching video on a mobile phone to be one of the killer applications of the third generation (3G) handsets.Nokia has already screened TV ads showing a person watching their favourite soap on the bus. Meanwhile, courtesy of a deal with the FA Premiership, Hutchison's 3G network 3 is to offer streamed football clips when it is launched in spring next year.Yet, with other networks now expected not to launch their 3G services until at least the end of 2003, several companies have been working on offering streamed video on a mobile over current GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) handsets.First to launch is Oplayo, a Finland-based company, which intends to deliver streamed video to GPRS phones starting next week.It has teamed up with a series of content providers, including Reuters, BMG and Sony to offer mainly news and music-based clips in a service called Mobile Media Club.Not all networks, and indeed not all GPRS phones, can access the service. T-Mobile and Virgin subscribers will have to wait until their networks offer GPRS. The phone uses the Symbian operating system, which at the present time pretty much limits its reach to Nokia's 7650 handset. Other Symbian-based, colour-screen models, like Sony Ericsson's much delayed P800, will go on sale early next year.To view the clips, users first have to download an Oplayer player. They send an SMS to Oplayo, then after receiving a message, download the player via GPRS. It is about 45K so takes a couple of minutes to transfer.Phone owners can then either choose clips via the handset, or browse through them and make their choice using thewww.mobilemediaclub.comwebsite. For &#163;1 they can stream a series of images over a six-hour period.Setting up an Oplayer on our Nokia 7650 using 02's GPRS service proved to be   something of a trial. Oplayo, however, insists it is ironing out the glitches and the installation will be straightforward from launch. From next year, terminals in stores like Carphone Warehouse will be able to send the player to the phone via infrared.The quality of the videos the 7650 delivers - either Reuters news clips or snippets of BMG music videos - was pretty much what I had expected from a system that uses data speeds of just 26k. Images were certainly viewable, although there was some blocking, and the clips paused to buffer a couple of times. They took me back to the days of video streaming via a PC with a 56k connection. While the Oplayer works well enough for music and video, the big challenge will be to ensure it can handle faster-moving video such as football and horse racing. There clearly is a huge potential market for both.Also likely to prove successful is adult content. Although this is not available via the Mobile Media Club, there are several content providers working on videos that are viewed via the player."How video content over GPRS develops largely depends on the networks,"   explains UK managing director Philip Bourchier O'Ferrall. "We are showing them that video can be streamed over GPRS and that there are people who will pay to view it. We think there is a real opportunity for them to make money from their own content."In addition to sports clips, Philip Bourchier O'Ferrall believes movie previews and video ringtones could prove lucrative for the networks.Oplayo is also hoping owners of Java-based phones - a large percentage of current handsets - will also want to try mobile video. It will launch a version of its player with a more limited video capability for those mobiles early next year.Come the arrival of 3G networks, Oplayo will face some serious opposition from established streamers such as Real and Microsoft. If Oplayo can sell the benefits of video streaming over GPRS to both networks and customers, it could then be ready to face that challenge.
Silicon zooProgrammers are well known for hiding things in their code. It could be something as simple as a joke, or a list of credits, or as complex as a flight simulator hidden in a spreadsheet. These hidden surprises are known as Easter eggs. Now it turns out that chip designers have been hiding things, too. For instance, there is a tiny drawing of a shepherd with a two-headed ram on an Intel chip (a dual-ported RAM controller, obviously), a medieval sword on a PowerPC 750 processor, and Tyrannosaurus rex playing the guitar on a Silicon Graphics chip. Even a T Rex is hard to spot when it's only 50 microns high. However, these drawings, cartoon characters, maps, flags and other drawings have all been revealed in photo-micrographs in a Silicon Zoo at Florida State University's Molecular Expressions site. This is also the home of Powers of Ten, which is one of the best pages on the web.http://www.eeggs.comhttp://ww.eggheaven2000.comhttp://micro.magnet.fsu.edu/creatureshttp://micro.magnet.fsu.edu/primer/java/scienceopticsu/powersof10Spam wanted"Donate your spam to science," says the Spamarchive site. It is collecting spam - unwanted email messages - at a rate of about 5,000 a day. It has already passed the 50,000 mark on the way to its 10m target. And if you need more spam, you can download the archive.Obviously you wouldn't want to read the stuff. However, you could use it to test your spam-blocking software, if that's what you happen to be developing. Not surprisingly, CipherTrust, the company behind Spamarchive, sells a corporate anti-spam system called IronMail.www.spamarchive.orgwww.ciphertrust.comBBC sharesA long time ago in a land far away - well, in December 1997 in West Hollywood, California - the Hollywood Stock Exchange was launched. It let web surfers buy and sell virtual stocks in celebrities. This was both an amusing game and a great way to do market research. This summer, the BBC launched the same sort of thing, calling it Celebdaq, after the Nasdaq. In February it is going to take the game to television, with a live half-hour show planned for its new youth channel, BBC Three.http://hsx.comwww.bbc.co.uk/celebdaqVictorianaLee Jackson reckons that his year-old personal site, Victorian Dictionary, is "one of the biggest non-commercial history sites on the web". It is certainly growing at a phenomenal rate, and could become a prime source of information about Victorian London, as well as being an entertaining place to browse. The main drawback is the design, which uses fixed frames. Far too much space is given to the index, on the left of the page, and not enough to the content. And I can't see any way to change it.Jackson, a librarian at the University of East London, is also writing a "modern penny dreadful", London Dust.www.victorianlondon.orgGreat BritonsThe success of BBC 2's Great Britons has encouraged a number of imitators. Nakedblog.com is running an online ballot for the greatest Gay Britons, and Ouch, the BBC website's magazine for the disabled, is now seeking nominations for Great Disabled Britons. A top 10 will be put to the popular vote.www.bbc.co.uk/history/programmes/greatbritonswww.nakedblog.com/greatgaybriton.htmwww.bbc.co.uk/ouch/yourspace/gdb.shtmlFlight pathAsylum seekers, refugees and other displaced peoples are having a significant impact on the life of nations, including the UK. Now there's a website, Forced Migration Online, dedicated to making specialist knowledge and expertise readily available. The site has been created by the Refugee Studies Centre at the University of Oxford with a number of international partners, including ICAR (Information Centre about Asylum and Refugees) at King's College London, Tufts University in the US, and the American University in Cairo.www.forcedmigration.orgwww.icar.org.ukNew &amp; noted&#183;Yahoo Year in Review:http://yir.yahoo.com&#183;Turner Prize 2002:www.tate.org.uk/britain/exhibitions/turnerprize&#183;Ask Jeeves Concierge:www.jeevesconcierge.co.uk&#183;Search engine optimisers:www.google.com/webmasters/seo.html&#183;Blast Billiards:www.playaholics.comSix of the best digital camerasDP ReviewSteve's DigicamsTotal guideDirect salesJessopsJohn Henshall
How entrenched is the computer in your lifestyle?Completely. I move between five locations on a fairly frequent basis and have a computer at each. My emails are broadcast to each location, and that is how I tend to communicate nowadays. You can keep it short on an email, whereas telephone calls can drag on unnecessarily.I also havee-m@ailersat my UK locations and use these for my domestic traffic.Why did Amstrad move away from home computers after the success of the CPC range and the PC1512?When we launched the CPC464 in April 1984, we introduced to the market the only home computer that looked like a computer. The Commodore, the Sinclair etc looked like pregnant calculators because they had no monitor - the children had to muscle in on the family television. However, theCPC464came with its own monitor and bundled software.But the home computer industry went into decline the following year when we introduced our first PC. Remember that in 1985, the average retail price of an IBM or Olivetti PC was over &#163;2,000. Then we came in with the &#163;399 PC that matched the big boys at a fraction of the price.Then the parents began to buyAmstrad 1512models for themselves and their children and the home game-playing market went into a shallow but terminal dive.Are the mobile and the PDA making inroads on the desktop computer?Techno-yuppies will always snap up this type of kit. But mass market? I'm not at all certain that they will ever be able to deliver the performance or work-comfort of the PC. Emailing and watching pictures on small screens is alright now and again but the PC will remain a fixture and the principal tool for many years to come.Who do you see as the current IT innovators?The current IT innovators are the people who bring technological advancements to the masses and do so in the simplest and most consumer-friendly formats: Nokia, AltaVista and Google.How did your e-m@iler evolve?We wanted to create the ultimate home communications tool. Now there are 250,000 users from every demographic using the em@ilerplus to call, email, text, play games and access the net. The library of downloadableSinclair ZX Spectrumgames has brought back classic computer games with a vengeance. Games such asJet Set Willyhave possibly offered fathers the only opportunity to beat their kids at computer games.Favourite gadgets?SKY+ digital recording deviceis brilliant - we are going to make them soon.Favourite sites?www.spurs.co.uk&#183;Visit:www.amstrad.com/default.shtml
I hate shopping at Christmas time. Aside from bargain rage you have to put up with Slade's Merry Xmas Everybody all day long. For people like me, price comparison websites can be a godsend, saving time, money and bother. But how effective are they?Well I'm in the market for a new toaster. First I go tohttp://uk.shopsmart.comsite, and look under home appliances. They have only one entry, and bizarrely it's for a Dyson DC05 vacuum cleaner. I switch to "electronics". But this time I get zero results. Hmm. Something's wrong here. No wonder Barclaycard is shutting this site at the end of the year. Time to try a different website. I go towww.priceguideuk.com, select "domestic appliances" type in "toaster" and immediately get 94 hits. Now that I have a list of products, I need to select one to compare prices against. I choose the Russell Hobbs 9376, Satin stainless steel toaster and get three results. The cheapest is from a company called Powerhouse, which is selling the toaster for &#163;33.99, including delivery. I get the same price fromwww.kelkoo.co.uk, but from a different retailer, Comet. Taking a belts-and-braces approach, I search for the same toaster on theJohn Lewiswebsite. It's cheaper, at &#163;32.45, including delivery. OK, there's not much of a difference, but that figure could be a lot more significant on, say, a washing machine.In spite of boasting a quarter of a million price comparisons, 250 retailers, and a daily price update, Priceguide.com is still not as comprehensive as it could be. Perhaps what we need is a meta-site to compare the price comparison websites.These sites work by sending out shopping robots (bots) to scour the Internet for list prices. However, not all commercial sites allow bots access, so price comparison websites can't give the full picture. Also, beware of price-comparison websites that have affiliations with retailers and manufacturers. The cheapest product may not get the same prominence as the product from an affiliated company.Most of these websites, such ashttp://uk.pricerunner.com, andwww.onlinepriceguide.co.uk, as well as the ones mentioned above, compare prices on everything from beauty products to cars, but some specialise in one or two areas, such as utilities, phones, DVDs, or books.For example,www.uswitch.comprovides a simple facility to check whether you're getting a good deal on your gas and electricity. You just enter your postcode, the amount you pay on your utilities and hey presto, you're shown a list of suppliers that can provide the same service for less. For five second's effort, I learned I could save &#163;141 per annum by switching suppliers.There is also a range of sites for comparing the price of books.Bookbrainhas a simple interface, but I found the 30-second response time excessive. Also, when I deliberately mis-typed the author's name I got zero hits, even though I'd included the title in the search.Bookcomparisonis even worse. Search options are limited and inflexible - I looked for The Corrections by Jonathan Franzen and got 18 pages of results, including, Calvin &amp; Hobbes Corrugated Flo. This is fuzzy matching gone wrong.123pricecheckdoesn't allow very sophisticated searches either, although the search is intelligent enough to offer Jonathan Franzen's The Corrections as one of its Top Matches.My son wants the new Spiderman movie on DVD for Christmas, so I givewww.dealtime.co.uka spin. I click on Movies and enter Spiderman. Results: nil. Hey? The box-office hit of the year and no one's flogging it? I refine my search by entering Tobey Maguire under Actor/Actress. As the results trickle in, I realise my mistake - I should have spelled it Spider-Man.I wonder if other websites are as unforgiving in the spelling department, so I givewww.homeshopping.co.uka go. It can't find any results for Spiderman, Spider-man or Tobey Maguire.Last-chance hotel, I go towww.easyvalue.comand click on DVD. There's Spider-Man right at the top of the Top Ten Charts I don't have to type anything. I just click on the title and get the comparison list. The list is easy to sort, and you're provided with lead-times to delivery.Price comparison websites are great if you're after big savings and don't care to see the look of gratitude in the eye of the salesperson as you fork out &#163;5,000 for a plasma screen TV. Just make sure you've researched your product thoroughly beforehand and beware of the hidden extras. You might find that your bargain is suddenly out of stock when you refuse to buy the very expensive optional extras.There isn't the space in this column to list all of the price comparison websites in the UK. For a full list, visit:www.uk.ciao.com/categories/1,14,15365,5017323.html.
The GetawayPlayStation 2 &#163;44.99 Sony ***Forty square kilometres of London streets, all accurately modelled down to the chain-store exteriors; 20 real-life interior locations; cinema-quality cut-scenes. There's no doubt that The Getaway is the most ambitious videogame ever devised. In development since 1999, The Getaway attempts to marry the videogame with a modern British gangster film. The results are mixed, with the cinematic style over-shadowing the game itself. Split into 12 missions, your aim is to free your kidnapped child by doing a few jobs for a crimelord.However, despite a variety in location, the majority of these challenges are of the "drive to target, kill bad guys" variety. Not terrible, but not the revolution we may have expected. What does work, however, is the atmosphere. This is a grittier affair than the darkly humourous Grand Theft Auto games, which, thanks to the carjacking and violence, it will be compared to.With murder, kidnapping, torture and strong language, Getaway certainly isn't for the kids. However, considering the non-gaming audience that will be attracted by the London setting, Getaway is an arduous challenge. The driving sections are good. The accurately detailed vehicles handle well, with noticeable differences between them. But it's the pedestrian parts that will cause you to curse louder than your onscreen character. A camera seemingly controlled by a child on a waltzer makes it hard to concentrate. It's tough enough dispatching adversaries as it is without the camera focusing on the ceiling.The over-fiddly controls don't help either, and during the stealthier later levels this proves particularly infuriating. In fact, less committed players will be happier simply sightseeing, although this isn't readily accessible until later in the game. Driving over Waterloo Bridge or around Trafalgar Square is satisfying but it's the less touristy areas, never seen in a game before, that really impress. Aside from the eerily small number of pedestrians this is a marvellous depiction of London in the early 21st century. The interiors are nicely done too. There aren't many, but whether it's sordid nightclub or grubby warehouse, they all look the part. The novelty of hearing cockney accents and gratuitous swearing never really wears off, although it's obvious that the developers have watched Lock Stock... one too many times.Sadly The Getaway lacks the freedom of GTA, forcing you onward to each mission with little time to explore. But it's the fiddly controls and stop-start gameplay that are ultimately disappointing. The digitising of London is a breathtaking feat, while the movie-quality production is a success. Sadly these lofty achievements mask a strictly average game. (GH)Dead To RightsXbox &#163;39.99 Namco/EA ****Electronic Arts' status as the biggest publisher in the games world usually means that it churns out games suitable for all ages. But it recently signed a distribution deal with Japanese arcade veteran Namco, and Dead To Rights, the first fruit of that deal, bucks the family-oriented EA trend. Dead To Rights is a 15-rated all-action arcade-style shoot 'em-up which should generate a serious cult following.In the time-honoured arcade fashion, it lacks sophistication, but it more than makes up for that with non-stop action and attitude. You play Jack Slate, a cop in an unnamed American city. A short and effective tutorial leads into Slate finding the dead body of his father, cueing a quest to get revenge which sees Slate beset by hoodlums and police in equal measure.A spell in prison on Death Row sets the scene for imaginative mini-games (in the outside world, at one point, you must make a stripper do her stuff by means of a Parappa the Rapper-style timed button-bashing session). The hard-boiled, Raymond Chandler-influenced voice-over and cut scenes provide the requisite atmosphere, but the game's real joy lies in Slate's array of moves.As well as Max Payne-style "bullet-time", Slate can grab villains around the neck, disarm them and either dispatch them with their own weapons or use them as human shields. All of which is triggered by a gloriously simple control system. The graphics are a bit rough around the edges, and Dead to Rights is both linear and shortish, but it will give console shoot 'em-up cognoscenti serious satisfaction. The only problem is that its release has been delayed until January. (SB)
Space saversI have two hard disks C (2GB) and D (12GB). C is full or near-full all the time. I keep all my own files on D where there is still plenty of space, but it seems that some software continues to write to C, so I keep getting "disk full" error messages and things often grind to a halt. Is there a way of making D the default disk in the way that C obviously is now?Roseanne McNameeJack Schofield replies:If you really had two drives then it would be possible to swap them over and install Windows on the larger drive. However, you only have one physical drive, divided into two logical drives. It has a primary partition of 2GB, and boots (starts up) from that.The 2GB limit is common, and came from the use of the FAT (file allocation table) indexing system introduced with Microsoft Basic in 1977. Basically, a FAT16 file system allows up to 65,525 clusters of data (ie 64K) with each cluster being up to 32K in size. FAT32 was introduced with the second release of Windows 95 (ie OSR2), and allows drives up to 2,047GB or 2TB. You can check which file system your drive uses by double-clicking My Computer, right-clicking on the drive and selecting Properties. If it is still FAT16 (which is somewhat unlikely), Windows includes a utility to convert to FAT32. Alas, this still does not allow you to increase the size of the primary partition without reformatting the drive and losing all your data. If you want to increase the 2GB partition, then the best approach is to buyPowerquest's Partition Magic. Boxed copies cost &#163;50 or less. There are cheaper alternatives for the technically skilled, but Partition Magic is known to be reliable and is relatively easy to use.Note: after FAT32 came out, some manufacturers continued to ship PCs with 2GB primary partitions because they were using BIOS (Basic input/output system) chips that could not support hard drives larger than 2GB. In this case, users can either upgrade to a BIOS that supports INT13h enhancements or use drive overlay software such as Ontrack Disk Manager or MaxBlast (search Google for Q186057. for the article How to Tell If Drive Overlay Program Is Installed in Windows).If you decide to live with your 2GB partition, try to move some programs and data to D. Unfortunately, you cannot just drag and drop applications between drives, as Windows is not clever enough to keep track of where its files are. You will have to uninstall applications from C then reinstall them on D, or move them using a utility such as Norton CleanSweep, from Symantec. You can also move Outlook Express's mail store (search Google for Q175037), Temporary Internet Files (search for Q172949), and the Windows swap-file, WIN386.SWP. Windows uses this to store data when it no longer has room in memory. To move it, right-click My Computer and select Properties, click the Performance tab, then the button for Virtual Memory. Select "Let me specify my own virtual memory settings", and change the drive to D. However, Windows can easily "forget" that you have changed the locations of these essential files and may blithely create new ones on C, causing all sorts of problems.Whatever you do, it is vitally important to keep at least 200MB free on C, preferably more. Lack of free space makes Windows slow and unstable. The Windows swap-file can change dramatically in size, depending on what you are doing, and Windows may well crash if it runs out of space.Mac firewallsI have followed the various debates about broadband security with interest over the last few weeks, but cannot seem to find any software firewall that operates on the Macintosh platform.Jack HemensJS:You can get firewalls for Macs but, sorry, I don't know of any free ones. You can find an introduction to the topic at these sites:www.firewallguide.com/macintosh.htmwww.free-firewall.org/mac-download.aspPS2 viewMy son has asked for a PlayStation 2 for Christmas but he does not have a television of his own. Can he use it with his PC monitor?Alan BarclayJS:He can, but only if it is connected via a VGA Adapter such as thePlayStation VGA Box. UK suppliers includeKanection Online. For &#163;31.64, Merconnet sells aUniversal Multi VGA Box, which apparently works with PlayStations, Xboxes, GameCubes and other consoles.Opera crashDo you know what is happening with Opera? I've regularly used Opera 6 but last week it crashed on me, and has continued not to work.Oliver BensonJS:There's a statement on the Opera site about Opera 6 crashing from December 5-12. It says: "After the recent switch from Cydoor to Advertising.com for serving ads in Opera, a problem has occurred which leads to crashes in the ad-sponsored version of Opera 6 when browsing any site. Advertising.com are looking into the problem. It should be mostly fixed."Hoax virus?I have just been sent a virus warning by a friend about the file jdbgmgr.exe. Is this just another hoax warning?Michael MillerJS:Yes, but an amazingly persistent one, to judge by the flow of letters. As mentioned here on May 16, searching for "jdbgmgr.exe virus" in Google will rapidly unmask it.Backchat&#183;Last week, I mentioned "a small program (which I have not tried) to close ports 137-9". All this does is rename the NetBios file (C:\Windows\system\VNBT.386) to VNBT-386, thus disabling it. You can do this manually, the Close139 program just makes it slightly easier.
PlayStation 2, &#163;169.99The PS2 is the best-selling console around, with 3 million sales in the UK alone. There are hundreds of games available across all genres and it will even play the majority of your old PlayStation games. Must-have titles include Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, Pro Evolution Soccer 2 and Ico. The PS2 runs DVDs without modification, unlike the Xbox, which needs a separate controller, and the Gamecube, which can't play them. However, playback is strictly average and certainly not as sharp as the Xbox. You'll also need to spend an extra &#163;20 on a multi-tap peripheral if you want to compete with more than two players. If you fancy playing against the rest of the world, and you have a broadband account, then PS2 online gaming will start in Spring 2003. The PlayStation 2 is the oldest of the three contenders but offers by far the greatest choice of games, with titles that cover the entire age range. Exclusives such as GTA: Vice City and The Getaway are perfect for mature gamers, while children and teenagers are equally well catered for. The PS2 is a classy performer with all-round appeal, and is the safest choice this Christmas.GamesHuge selection, with something for everyone.DVD?Yes.Online?Yes, broadband-only service starts in Spring 2003. Add-on needs to be purchased.Verdict: 9/10Xbox, &#163;159.99It's bulky and ugly but Microsoft's Xbox is the most powerful games console available. Its graphics and sound (Dolby 5.1) are noticeably better than its competitors, while a hard drive and broadband adaptor are built in. The selection of games is small at present, but Halo and Splinter Cell are excellent, and 2003 looks promising with some big titles, like Fable, in the offing. Then there is online gaming. Xbox Live, a broadband-only service, is launching in Britain on March 14 next year, offering gamers the chance to compete against opponents across the globe. After launching at a price of &#163;299, the Xbox is now available for around &#163;160. However, you will need to pay &#163;20 for the controller needed to play DVDs. Playback of these is certainly better than PS2, although neither can match a similarly priced standalone player. The Xbox is a good bet for the older gamer, with titles like Splinter Cell pitched towards this demographic. But a lack of variety means younger players would be better off with Gamecube or PS2. Now firmly established in second place to PS2, the Xbox is a good Christmas buy for the more experienced gamer, especially if you have broadband.GamesMainly aimed at older gamers (Halo and Splinter Cell) but more variety promised next year.DVD?Yes, but need to purchase remote control.Online?Yes, broadband only -Xbox Liveservice launches March 14 2003.Verdict: 9/10GameCube, &#163;129.99It's dinky, cute and the cheapest of the three, but the GameCube still packs a powerful punch. Only released in May, the console is already home to must-have titles, Luigi's Mansion, Pikmin and Super Mario Sunshine. Technologically, the Cube is not as powerful as the Xbox, but capable of more graphical trickery than the PS2. It doesn't play DVDs and if you are looking to double up your games console as a DVD player then you'll need to look elsewhere. Although there's no doubt that Nintendo creates marvellous games, there is little new out this Christmas. Nintendo has always been popular with younger age groups and the GameCube continues that appeal. However, releases like Eternal Darkness have helped extend the age range, while games like Mario are good enough to be appreciated by all ages. Next year looks better for releases, with eagerly awaited titles such as Metroid Prime and Zelda coming out exclusively on the console. Despite being the least expensive of the three, a small, albeit potent, pool of games, and a disappointing current release schedule, combined with the lack of DVD playback, makes GameCube the outsider this Christmas.GamesSmallest selection but some of the best games around, including Super Mario Sunshine and Eternal Darkness.DVD?No.Online?Nothing confirmed for UK, not likely either.Verdict: 8/10PlayStation 1, &#163;49.99The PS1 is still an option, especially for parents looking for a cheap games machine for the under-10s. The games may be graphically dated but a huge selection makes PSOne a good choice for the cash-conscious gamer.Verdict: 7/10GameBoy Advance, &#163;69.99The Game Boy Advance is the latest version of the venerable handheld machine. There are plenty of titles available, with retro gaming particularly well catered for. A link cable enables multiplayer action, while connecting a GBA to a GameCube will add new features to future releases. The screen is still ridiculously dim but for portable gaming there is nothing better.Verdict: 8/10Reviewers' 2002 top five gamesGreg Howson1. Ico (PS2)2. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PS2)3. Luigi's Mansion (GameCube)4. Splinter Cell (Xbox)5. Morrowind (PC)Steve Boxer1. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PS2)2. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 (PS2/Xbox/GameCube)3. Splinter Cell (Xbox)4. Colin McRae Rally 3 (Xbox/PS2)5. TimeSplitters 2 (PS2/Xbox/Gamecube)Nick Gillett1. Halo (Xbox)2. Super Mario Sunshine (Gamecube)3. Advance Wars (GBA)4. Metal Gear Solid 2 (PS2)5. Ico (PS2)Mike Anderiesz1. Halo (Xbox)2. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault (PC)3. Dungeon Siege (PC)4. Splinter Cell (Xbox)5. The Gladiators (PC)Rhianna Pratchett1. Neverwinter Nights (PC)2. Age of Mythology (PC)3. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault (PC)4. Morrowind (Xbox/PC)5. Freedom Force (PC)
1."Protect Your Computer Against Viruses for $9.95"2."Verification Department" (credit card scam)3."Refinancing?  Get a FREE quote on any mortgage loan program"4."Printer Cartridges - Save up to 80% - free shipping offer"5."Miniature Remote Control Car. Great Gift!"6."$100 FREE, Please Play Now!" - online casinos7."Online Auction Marketing Secrets!" - online auction marketing scam8."Important news Kuira" - advertising septic systems9."URGENT &amp; CONFIDENTIAL" - Nigerian scam spam asking millions of email users to help free up usurped government coffers10."GET A FREE PASS TO THOUSANDS OF XXX SITES!" pornography
The government is to launch an investigation into the BBC's online services in January to establish if the £100m it spends annually on its websites is justified.It comes as commercial rivals brand BBC managers as "brazen hussies" who are "blatantly" abusing their licence fee.A spokesman for the Department of Culture, Media and Sport said the terms of reference for the inquiry had not yet been decided, but it is likely to focus on whether the BBC is spending too much money providing web services in areas that are already catered for by commercial competitors.Competitors in areas such as sports and entertainment have long complained that the BBC's dominance on the web hampers their own prospects.The British Internet Publishers Alliance, which has been lobbying on this issue for the past three years, has welcomed the move.There has also been criticism from the rest of the industry that the BBC has been slow to involve outside companies in its online activities."They have been brazen hussies and they need to be brought to book. You normally couldn't get a cigarette paper between the views of the BBC and the DCMS but in this case its disregard for its promises in terms of budget and remit is so blatant that it can't be ignored any longer," said Hugo Drayton, managing director of Hollinger Telegraph New Media and head of BIPA.The Alliance, which is also backed by the Guardian, publisher of MediaGuardian.co.uk said that the review was long overdue."The biggest single flaw is its abuse of cross-promotion," added Mr Drayton, who oversees Telegraph.co.uk as well as Handbag.com, a joint venture with Boots.Commercial rivals want to see the corporation's new media arm, under new media chief Ashley Highfield, commissioning more of its interactive television and digital projects out to the independent sector.According to the BBC annual report, the corporation spent £100.4m on the internet in the last financial year, compared with £54.2m the year before.If interactive television projects such as the successful split screen Wimbledon coverage and Walking With Dinosaurs are taken into account the total expenditure rises to £111.6m.At the time Mr Highfield told MediaGuardian.co.uk that the level of spending would increase again this year but vowed it would not go up by more than 3%.Culture secretary Tessa Jowell announced the review in parliament in February this year in response to question from then shadow culture secretary Tim Yeo."A review of BBC online will be undertaken as part of the rolling programme of reviews of the new digital services, announced as part of the licence fee settlement in February 2000. The terms of reference for the review will be announced in due course," she said.Richard Lambert's report into BBC News 24, published last week, attacked the corporation for failing to provide a distinctive enough service and compared it unfavourably with rival Sky News.
(This from guest bloggerAlistair Alexander, who is on work experience with the Online desk this week): "Web filters used in American schools and libraries are screening out health information sites as well as porn, according to a study reported in theWashington Post. Tests using six popular software filters on 3,500 computers found that 24 per cent of health information sites were blocked if the filters were on their most restrictive setting.But the researchers also found that filters were not the only barriers teenagers faced when searching the internet. "These kids can't spell," one of the authors said. "Thirty out of 132 search terms they used were misspelled. If you don't spell it correctly, you won't find anything like what you are looking for."
Private Media is planning to put hard and soft-core porn on SD/MMC cards for PocketPCs. (This is apress release.)
Next year you could get e-mail messages that start "I'm on a plane....", thanks to Lufhansa's forthcomingin-flight broadband Internet service. There will be 50 Fujitsu Lifebooks available for hire to passengers. It's not clear if you'll be able to use your own PC....
Interesting times for followers of the third generation mobile saga. Hutchison 3G finally unveiled itspricingfor services and handsets yesterday. It's all pretty expensive at the moment, although we can expect prices to fall quickly as the other players get involved. They will all try to attract a mass market soon enough - they need consumers to pay off the vast bills incurred in building the networks.Meanwhile, Nokia haswarnedits colour and camera handsets will fail to meet targets this quarter. Predictably, the new handsets are failing to cause us all to replace perfectly good black and white phones, because you don't talk in colour.Interesting services and content (terrible word) helps a lot. Vodafone Live! is meeting with a some success because it offers things to do with those colour screens and cameras. And sales of camera phones will be boosted when the networks finally get their acts together and allow us to send picture messages from one network to another.Unfortunately for Nokia, they don't make phones for Vodafone Live!, and the networks are taking their time to sort out the cross-network message thing, so sales could stay disappointing for a wee while yet. But they, and others, are stillpredictingthe global mobile phone market will grow by near 10% next year.Question is: will that growth go to Nokia? Some of the 2.5G phones arriving from the far east look much more attractive than Nokia's comparable offerings, and Nokia has upset some in the industry by carefully protecting its own brand, on its phones and through online services like Club Nokia.
Once it was heralded as the last bastion of freedom of speech, a realm which transcended national law and the whims of the courts. But last night the internet was facing up to a harsh new reality after Australia's supreme court ruled that a local businessman could sue a website for libel in Melbourne even though it was based in the United States.In a case which opens up a legal minefield for web publishers across the English-speaking world, the high court judges decided that an internet article is published wherever it is read, rather than where the publisher is based. The landmark ruling is the first instance in the developed world of a libel trial being admitted in a foreign jurisdiction purely because of the possibility of an article being downloaded from the internet.Media companies and internet campaigners immediately denounced the decision amid fears that it would open the floodgates for a wave of libel actions from around the world. They said the "chilling" ruling would seriously undermine the internet's much-cherished reputation for freedom of speech and raised the threat of "forum-shopping" by wealthy litigants looking for the easiest jurisdiction to ensure their victory in libel proceedings.The case centres on a two-year-old article about Melbourne gold mining magnate Joe Gutnick, published in the American business magazine Barron's.The article, entitled Unholy Gains, alleged that Mr Gutnick - a multimillionaire rabbi nicknamed Diamond Joe who became a local hero in Melbourne after he saved the local Australian Rules football club with a A$3m (&#163;1.1m) cash injection - was involved in tax evasion and money laundering.Most significantly, it claimed that he was the biggest customer of Nachum Goldberg, a Melbourne money launderer jailed in 2000 for washing A$42m (&#163;15.5m) in used notes through a bogus Israeli charity. Mr Gutnick is suing the American business information company Dow Jones, which owns Barron's as well as the Wall St Journal. He has brought the case in Victoria, where libel laws give him a better chance of winning than in the US, where 98% of Barron's' readers live.The magazine has 14 subscribers in Australia, of which five are in Victoria. But 1,700 of its internet subscribers had paid their bills using Australian credit cards, and the court ruled yesterday that this was enough to admit the case in Victoria."Publishers are not obliged to publish on the internet," the ruling stated. "If the potential reach is uncontrollable then the greater the need to exercise care in publication."Barron's offices are in New York, and Dow Jones had argued that the place of internet publication was New Jersey, where the magazine's web servers are based. The company's defence even at one point floated the suggestion of declaring the internet a libel-free zone, based on a 1928 legal decision about the meaning of "publication".In a clear indication of how serious the   implications of the ruling may be, 18 of the world's biggest media organisations - including AOL Time Warner, Amazon and Yahoo! - made submissions to the court urging the judges to dimiss Mr Gutnick's action.Mr Gutnick said after yesterday's verdict that the case had been a David and Goliath battle against "all the strongest media in the world"."You have to be careful what you write, and if you offend somebody or write malicious statements about people, like what was done in my case, you can be subject to being prosecuted," he told the Nine Network. Dow Jones issued a statement expressing "disappointment" at the verdict. "The result means that Dow Jones will defend those proceedings in a juris diction which is far removed from the country in which the article was prepared and where the vast bulk of Barron's readership resides."The court made it clear that they were not ruling whether Mr Gutnick had been libelled, merely that the case could now go ahead.Crucially, however, the court made clear that a claim could only be brought in Australia if the person claiming libel had a reputation there that could be defamed. This will make it difficult for many foreign nationals to use the Australian courts to pursue internet libel actions.But the ruling has thrown internet publishers into disarray and left them facing a choice between two equally costly and undesirable options: restricting access to   their websites to prevent people in potentially difficult legal jurisdictions reading them; or employing international legal teams to vet all content to ensure that it complies with the libel laws in each of the countries it is likely to be read.Andrew Kenyon, an expert on internet media law at the University of Melbourne, said the case could lead to media organisations having to use software to impose geographic restrictions on where their content could be viewed."This is going to make the biggest difference in the US, and I think we will see American media organisations now factoring in the possibility of defamation in other countries. It's important because it's the highest court in the country saying this, but I think a lot of media lawyers had   been expecting something like this for some time."Lance Taylor, founder of the UK web design association, said: "It's quite ludicrous. This decision will open up a minefield of potential litigation against web-based publishers. In the rush to regulate the internet with ill-conceived laws, countries like Australia will put a stranglehold on the future development of the internet and its associated technologies."Ian Brown, director of the London-based internet thinktank, the Foundation for Information Policy Research, also voiced dismay. "This type of ruling will simply result in many US websites blocking access to non-American readers, destroying a rich resource for the rest of the world."
Newsplayer, the AIM-listed supplier of internet content which counts Sir David Frost among its directors, looks to be headed for a cash crunch after warning yesterday that profitability will be delayed.The news sent its shares down a staggering 75% to just 3.5p.The company has just &#163;438,000 in the bank and is burning &#163;160,000 a month.Originally it forecast profits this year but yesterday admitted that results will be significantly below expectations and next year the company will merely break even.While talks continue with banks and individuals willing to help plug the gap, Sir David has loaned the firm one month's worth of working capital and has deferred a &#163;150,000 royalty payment he is due in January.Shareholders are likely to be annoyed with Newsplayer's management who sold stock in July.Chief executive Paul Duffen and fellow director Barry Llewellyn each sold 975,000 shares at 37p, both making &#163;360,000.
Hutchison has revealed detailed plans for the UK's first third-generation mobile phone service, which will enable users to send video messages, download music and watch football and film clips on their phones.The delayed launch date for the service, called 3, has yet to be confirmed. However, Hutchison today gave details of two subscription plans for UK customers.Analysts and rival mobile operators have been keeping a close eye on Hutchison's plans for 3 to see how the market takes to the new services.The two subscription offers are aimed at heavy users - who are likely to drive the early adoption of 3G phones - and will come suitably heavy price tags.A bundle of voice calls, video calls, picture messages and internet content such as instant goal highlights will be available for either £59.99 or £99.99 a month.Only 20,000 of the packages will available initially. Hutchison is phasing in the launch of the network gradually in the hope of avoiding technical difficulties.Those signing up to the service will also have to buy a new handset, costing from £399.99, although these are likely to come down in price as new packages become available.Hutchison refused to confirm the number of call minutes that would be included in the offer.However, subscribers to one of Hutchison's Italian 3G plans will pay £54 a month for 40 hours of voice calls, 40 hours of video calls and about 400 content downloads.This is still far more than most contract customers now pay for conventional mobile services and analysts are sceptical as to whether Hutchison will be able to persuade users to switch networks.The company planned to launch 3 before the end of the year but a series of delays have forced it to push back the date.Hutchison, whose businesses span sports, property and retail, said it was only weeks away from launching 3 commercially in the UK and Italy but analysts believe it may wait until March to introduce the services.Vodafone and Orange recently admitted they were unlikely to launch 3G services before the end of next year, despite spending £22.5bn on licences between them.Hutchison has also revamped its three websites to offer examples of the services and handsets on offer.
