More LaraTonight, Tomb Raider the movie is scheduled to peek out from behind its cloak of secrecy, or start cranking up the hype machine, whichever    you prefer. At 7.30pm there will be a live webcast from Pinewood Studios, with "Interviews, Chats And More!" The website is atwww.tombraidermovie.com.More ZeldaThe next game in the Zelda series, Majora's Mask, is scheduled to arrive next Friday for the Nintendo 64. You play Link, and the novel bit is that you can turn into different characters by putting on different masks, Nintendo says. However, there's no time for sightseeing, because you   have only 72 hours to save the world. Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask will cost &#163;45 and needs an Expansion Pak.PS2 updateAmerican gamers exhibited "PS2 hysteria" when the Sony PlayStation 2 went on sale last month, according to Matt Gravett, game analyst for PC Data in Reston, Virginia. He says they were buying $50 games even though they weren't sure of getting any hardware to play them on. Two PS2 games made the top 10 games chart (see below). Other PS2 best sellers   included SSX (Electronic Arts), Armoured Core 2 (Agetec) and Smuggler's Run (Take 2 Interactive/Rockstar). Fortunately nothing like that could happen in the UK, where Future is launching the 180-page Official PlayStation 2 magazine tomorrow.MinesweepingIf you get caught playing Minesweeper in class, now you can claim to be working on a significant maths problem. At least, that's the implication you could draw from Richard Kaye, a maths   lecturer at the University of Birmingham. Kaye reckons that if someone were to figure out an algorithm for determining all combinations of mine placement in a large-scale version of Minesweeper, they would have solved the "P versus NP" problem.Unfortunately you'd have to do some real maths homework to be able to answer the inevitable question: And what's that? Still, you can always start at Kaye's Minesweeper page atwww.mat.bham.ac.uk/R.W.Kaye/minesw/minesw.htm.
Groovin'Groove.netis a new peer-to-peer software system that, like Napster and Gnutella, allows users to share computer files over the   net. But Groove promises to add instant messaging, either with text or voice, video and threaded discussions. And what's more, Groove is opening up its source code so that the platform can be integrated into most networks, and so that coders can build software packages to work off Groove.Which all sounds great, in theory. But Groove is the brainchild of Ray Ozzie, who previously gave the world Lotus Notes, one of the most maligned pieces of office software. Also, the beta version will work only on PCs, which rules out a lot of design agencies, newspapers and publishing houses. Still, it is a brave attempt, and an interesting piece of software that might beat Napster and become the first commercial file-sharing protocol on the net.Hot to trot?If you want to look at the daftest idea for a website this year, turn your browser tohttp://amihotornot.com. But be warned, it is incredibly addictive. The idea is to get people to upload pictures of themselves and then everyone else gives them a rating out of 10. Now, either some people are incredibly brave, or they have some very cruel "friends". Lots of fun, especially if you decide to be kind and give all the ugly ones 10 out of 10.Meet hereThe web is so full of listings sites that a listing site listing them all is probably long over due. But what about a listings site that actually arranges like-minded people to go along to events together? Step forwardwww.dobe.com, a brave attempt by the UK-based Institute for Social Inventions. The site, which provides free bulletin boards, is still in beta. The events themselves range from walks in the country to picnics, and the site has even branched out with a US version.Indy IsraelAn Independent Media Centre (IMC) has been launched to cover the Arab-Israeli conflict. IMC-Israel describes itself as "a democratic website where anybody can publish news/views, pictures, audio and video without being censored". It has been active since October 8 and is claiming more than 6,500 hits per day.A number of independent media centres (IMCs) exist across the globe. One was established in the UK to cover theMay Day demonstrationsand, more recently, an IMC was set up to cover the events around the IMF meeting inPrague.Unfiltered reporting from Israel has been done before. Sites such aswww.palestine-info.net(Palestinian) andwww.virtualjerusalem.com/israelwire(Israeli) have been covering Arab-Israeli politics. But the Israeli IMC is the first to include material from both sides. Seewww.indymedia.org.il.iBeaconsAvery Architects, the firm responsible for the London Imax cinema, has designed an internet beacon for 21st century village life. Every village, town and city would be encouraged to erect a beacon to mark the millennium, says Avery. These should be sponsored locally, and could be variable in size and material to suit local conditions, but the standard version would be 9.27m high. Every beacon has one or more phone card operated interactive screens, which give local environmental read-outs from the sensors and global ecological data from land lines or satellites. Seewww.avery-architects.co.uk/beacon.htmlfor details.Unseen JamControversial comic Chris Morris has released a skit that was originally included in the first series of the radio show Blue Jam in 1997. After "intense editorial discussions", the sketch was deemed unacceptable but was smuggled into programme six at the last minute and broadcast almost in its entirety before being faded by a transmission engineer. Seewww.warprecords.com/warpfor another look.New and noted&#149;  To mark the release of their new Best of album, Blur have launched their own net radio station atwww.blur-radio.com.&#149;  The International Fund for Animal Welfare has launched a new anti-blood sports website atwww.banhunting.com.&#149;  Whittard, the tea and coffee shop has gone online atwww.whittard.com.&#149;Durex.comis hoping to promote safe sex with an online Egg Invaders game.&#149;TheRumour.comis a new celebrity and gossip site aimed at 18-24 year olds.&#149;  Bargain hunters may likewww.halfpriceorless.com, which sells beauty products, toys and games, and clothes.Six of the bestHuman rightsBritain and Irelandhttp://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/rapporteurScotlandhttp://dspace.dial.pipex.com/shrcRecently relaunchedwww.amnesty.org.ukUK Helsinki groupwww.bhhrg.orgInternational Alliancehttp://hria.netCyber Rightswww.cyber-rights.org
It took four years to develop, with production costs of $70million and 337 actors, but this isn't the latest Kevin Costner epic. It is a videogame called Shenmue.Yes, the industry that is displaying increasingly celluloid tendencies - sequels, formulaic retreads and star vehicles - is beginning to match Hollywood's expensive production costs.   Shenmue is released for the Sega Dreamcast in December and is the most costly game ever produced.The $70million includes R&amp;D for the planned sequels. However, even a cursory glance reveals where the money was spent. The sumptuous visuals are the most impressive on any games console to date, but it's the interaction that is most   striking. Set in a realistically realised Japan of 1986 your aim is to investigate the murder of your father by speaking to everyone that you can.Time ticks (a game day corresponds to roughly one hour real time) as you converse with more than 300 characters, each with their own foibles and daily routines, and it soon becomes clear that this is no ordinary Dreamcast title. Stewart Turner of Sega explains why the game cost so much: "Basically it's down to the sheer size of the game with 330 actors and a quality script, plus the ability to interact with almost anything."But Shenmue is only the most extreme example of these rapidly increasing videogame production costs. Tony Beckwith of developers Climax Brighton, remembers   how things have changed: "In 1987 the most expensive ZX Spectrum games cost &#163;10,000 to make. By 1992 the first SNES games cost about $100,000-$150,000 and the development costs of a multi-format game (PlayStation and PC) in 1997 were around $2,000,000". These figures are set to rocket with the imminent launch of new consoles like PlayStation 2 and Microsoft's Xbox, and Beckwith estimates the average game for these machines will cost at least $5 million to develop.Even the handheld Game Boy has been affected. Cameron Sheppard of GB developers Crawfish, has seen costs rise: "Prices on the new Game Boy Advance are looking likely to be between &#163;170,000 and &#163;340,000 - double what people were paying for a Game Boy   product two years ago."So why have development costs risen so fast? The reason is partly down to the increasingly mainstream nature of the videogame industry. Over 70 million PlayStations have been sold worldwide and characters like Lara Croft have become household names. This, along with the increased graphical power of the new consoles, has raised consumer expectations.Sheppard explains: "The development process of each game, regardless of format, is akin to producing a movie with a lot of similar skills applied - producer, scriptwriter, musician, artist - and budgets have grown in order to produce the polished product that the players have come to expect."As production costs spiral, many smaller developers have been looking at other cheaper,   yet potentially lucrative, platforms such as Wap and interactive TV. And, with companies like Motorola exhibiting at the recent ECTS games trade show, it is clear that wireless gaming has a future even if these titles will initially be simplistic affairs that are more Blair Witch than Waterworld.However, for the main players in the market, it seems as if the cost of producing videogames will continue to rise, with the attendant threat of risk-aversion and dull sequels. Shenmue shows that a big budget game can succeed on a creative level, although whether the stylish yet slow-paced title will ever recoup its costs remains to be seen. But, with movie-like production values becoming the norm, it is certain that Shenmue will not be the last multi-million pound game.
MadonnlineMadonna - pictured performing an acoustic set on US television last week - is playing her first live online concert later this month.There has already been a stampede for the limited number of tickets for the non-virtual gig at the Brixton Academy, London.But the thousands locked out on November 28 could find some consolation online - especially if they can find a super-fast net connection - as Microsoft Network has secured the webcast rights for the show.Users who have "extremely fast internet connections" (read: are using the computer at work) will be able to tap in to a 700kbps stream, which MSN claims will offer "near-DVD-quality" pictures and sound.Other streams will be available at a "near-VHS-quality" 300 kbps, and 128, 80 and 56 kbps. A 28k sound-only link will also be available.MSN will also be running a series of features and competitions in the run-up to the gig.Fans will be able to chat online with Madonna on November 24 at 7pm, and enter a competition to win signed merchandise.MSN already holds the world record for the most viewed webcast, when 3 million net users tuned in to watch Paul McCartney's return to the Cavern in Liverpool last year.  Seewww.msn.co.uk/madonna(NM)CDs grow upTDK and Calimetrics have announced what they believe should become the next generation high capacity CD-R/RW format.Scheduled to debut at the Comdex exhibition in Las Vegas next week is Multilevel high-density CD hardware and media. The companies claim that this new system ups the storage capacity of a CD-R/CD-RW disc from 700MB to 2 gigabytes. It can also download data three times faster than a conventional drive.It achieves this through a combination of new chip technology for the drives and an innovative method of burning data on to the media.The downside is that the new discs are completely incompatible with all existing CD drives.The Multilevel drives are expected to reach the US market in the third quarter of 2001, where they will face fierce competition from other new high-density storage systems including DVD-RAM and DVD+RW.Wap-asonicPanasonic has become the last of the major mobile phone players to deliver a Wap phone. Its GD-93 model, which becomes available this month on the BT Cellnet and Vodafone networks, apparently uses software culled from the   company's Japanese i-mode models.Like its sibling, the GD-92, its headline feature is the ability to send and receive emails through an existing account, although setting this up is rather involved.The model also shares its predecessor's other trump card - a built-in recorder to record your favourites tune as a ring tone. It also has a built-in modem and voice recorder.Finished in silver, the GD-93 weighs 80g, has a talk time of around 210 minutes and a battery standby of up to 170 hours. It is on sale now for around &#163;80.Surf your cameraWorking on the premise that its big 3.5inch LCD screen is ideal for examining websites and emails, Ricoh has grafted web-browsing software to its RDC-7 digital camera. The new model, re-christened the RDC-i700, goes on sale later this month for around &#163;1,000.By inserting a modem card into the camera   users can send and receive data and image emails, surf the net and even create HTML files and upload them to a website.The camera is a top-end 3.3 mega pixel model that also sports a 3x optical zoom, video facilities, 8MB of internal memory and a slot for a CompactFlash card. It's on sale later this month via Johnson's Photopia.   (AN)
Is the internet still exciting?The net is still just beginning. A lot of the things that annoy us about it - the slow downloads and search problems - demonstrate what an early phase we are in. The main problem is our inability to conceive the web as a medium in its own right. We seem to focus on forcing traditional media models into the web format.So you think we're not utilising the net to its full potential?No. And not only on an individual level, but on a global level, too. A lot of people still see the net in terms of commerce, but increasingly we're using it more for entertainment and education. One of our clients, Elan Technologies, a medical software company, is going to make electronic patient records available internationally through the web. If you think of the impact that will have on the NHS, it makes you think about all the different areas that the web could affect.How would you rate the standard of design on the net?It is so diverse - kids with their own homepages right through to professional companies dedicated to exploring the medium. Saying that, there is a lot of bad design. It's great that anyone can get online relatively cheaply and communicate with the rest of the world, as that helps keep the web weird and wonderful. But in our market, the DIY attitude can also really damage carefully maintained brands.So what do you think constitutes a good website?Usability, content, attractive design, intuitive navigation and functionality. The key thing is that the people who are building the site take the client's needs into consideration. If users get the experience they want, then they'll come back. What is often lacking is the quality of copy on websites.Any personal favourite sites?I like any site that tries to push the medium and do something different. I like the site we've just done for Jah Wobble atwww.molamdub.combecause it forces the user to interact with the music. I thinkwww.heavy.comis a great site, too. It's quite irreverent but it uses some very cool technology. Even though I'm biased, I think theArsenal siteis one of the best football club sites. Another cool site is theAtom Films site.Do you like gadgets?Definitely. I've got a Compaq iPac, which is brilliant, and I have a Sony VAIO laptop, which is still my favourite gadget. I'm also looking forward to the PlayStation 2, which is about to replace one of my favourite gadgets ever!How important is broadband going to be?It will make a huge difference. As soon you can browse the net through the television, we are going to see the internet explode. You are then reaching the non-computer-using consumer. There is no longer the barrier of the technology preventing people from experiencing the net. Also, for the first time, television is no longer going to be a passive medium. Even less excuse to get off the couch!Visitwww.hildebrandinteractive.com
MP3 charityWouldn't it be nice if Napster  et al provided the means for voluntary donations to be given directly to those artists currently having their music downloaded free? I would be more than happy to donate a few quid in the knowledge that my failure do so might contribute to their demise.If implemented, this proposal would help people think more deeply about their responsibilities as consumers, and, who knows, may even lead to more charitable giving generally. It should also serve to stave off any further civil action if it can be shown that artists have not suffered substantial monetary loss. As for record companies, who cares?Tony Troytony.troy@virgin.netRights wrongEvery click you make (Online, November 2) made the usual noises about human rights being violated by employers accessing their employees' emails, phone calls and so on. I want to confess to being a violator.Before retirement, I ran a hi-tech company. I bought the kit, paid the mortgage, the electricity and the phone bills. I offered work in a congenial, sociable atmosphere. I deliberately paid 25% over the going rate. In return, I expected our employees to work hard, and allowed them free use of email, phone lines and internet.Mostly this situation of trust worked. Sometimes it didn't and I had to violate some human rights. On one occasion, a woman who started "work" early (we ran a trust-based flexitime system) was found to be on the phone to her boyfriend for an hour every day, before the rest of us got in. I abused her rights by shouting at her.On another, a man who wanted to work into the nights on a "personal" project (I told you we were soft) ran up a &#163;150 phone bill downloading hardcore porn from foreign phone numbers. I abused his rights by taking   the money off his wages. Oh, I am also an entirely unreconstructed (whatever that means) Marxist, and was the only paid-up union member in the company.Allen Ivestony.troy@virgin.net(Un)civil rightsYet another story about nasty employers snooping on their employees' emails.Using internet resources provided for work for personal reasons costs money - in wasted time that could be spent actually working - in ISDN dial-up charges and/or bandwidth. It would be difficult to hide a 30-minute personal phone call but someone can easily surf the web or send out tens of megabytes in email attachments through a central server and incur the same, or greater, costs without drawing any attention.An off-colour message sent to the wrong person can expose a company to legal action and cost thousands of pounds in damages. These are real costs and real risks.If people are concerned about their civil liberties being infringed, they should send their (un)civil emails from home. There should be no expectation of privacy on their employers' premises, using their employers' computers and running up their employers' phone bill.Robert Lawrencemonged@ntlworld.comDesperate bidI am surprised nobody has suggested the obvious reason for hacking into Microsoft's source code. Desperate users trying to de-bug it!Richard Pagerichardpage@veg-edible.clara.co.ukEqual battleThe article Battle to be Equal (Online November 2), needs to be framed in the broader context of the recognition of the rights of people with disabilities under disabilities legislation in Australia.The Online Council of Australian Ministers has agreed to the adoption of internationally recognised standards such as those developed by the world wide web consortium accessibility initiative (www.w3.org/wai). At a Commonwealth level, there is a requirement that websites meet standards by December.One of the difficulties in meeting these standards is the lack of a good knowledge   base about the practicalities of such standards, which at first sight appear abstruse.With the disability charity Vision Australia, Vicnet is one of the few organisations providing training workshops for government webmasters, and many webmasters have now been offered training and support. Workshops have also been offered in New Zealand.It would be useful if the practical training sessions such as those we have developed were also held in the UK and other countries, or else the standards will continue to seem theoretical, and excuses for non-implementation of even basic accessibility techniques will still be made.Larry Stillmanlarrys@vicnet.net.auVital vettingIn response to Dr Mark Griffiths' letter expressing his concerns about pre-paid debit cards allowing children access to unsuitable goods and services on the net, while I cannot speak for other providers, I can point out that reputable card providers make it a priority to accept only e-retailers that provide suitable products to that particular demographic group. As each retailer has to be individually configured to accept our card system it is a simple matter of ensuring that only carefully researched and vetted online stores have access to the payment system and the children who use it.Matt JohnsonEurospend Ltdseanstewart30@hotmail.comBiggles creditTo give credit where due, the Biggles illustration in Online (November 2) was drawn by Mike Western, taken from the Biggles strip which he drew in 1961 for the weekly comic paper TV Express.David A Simpsondavid-a-simpson@beeb.netGeneration XIn What's New (Online, November 2) you say "UK phones are at the 1G (first generation) level with the first 2G systems based on GPRS just coming in to use". In fact GSM, which is widely used today, is a 2G standard. First generation cellular networks employed analog transmission. 2G networks are digital. GPRS is a 2.5G standard, an intermediate standard to 3G.Philip Walshphiliprwalsh@supanet.com
While the internet is taking over the earth, Dr Vinton Gray Cerf - Vint, for short - is working to extend it to the rest of the solar system. And while Cerf is known for his sense of humour, this is not a joke. He's working with Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory to make it a reality."We've designed a whole new set of protocols to augment the existing internet protocols, so we could effectively build a network of internets," says Cerf. "We put interplanetary gateways in orbit around the planets and satellites, and we run these new interplanetary networks through deep space. That's a very practical way of reducing costs in the interplanetary research effort."And the UK has a critical role in this," he adds. "It is going to be launching the STRV 1D research satellite in the middle of November, and it will be carrying our interplanetary protocols. We've just finished implementing the prototypes, and they work!"Then there's a moon launch that is possible at the end of 2001, with a lander on it, and that's going to carry the interplanetary internet protocols. Then we are scheduled to be on two Nasa missions to Mars, to land on the planet."After that we have missions to launch satellites around Mars: those will become the backbone of a two-planet internet. From there we expand outwards: as each mission goes to the outer planets, they'll carry a little bit of the internet with them. It's like living in a science fiction novel!   There's a practical reason for doing all this, but it's also just plain fun."Being the father of the internet, founding president of the Internet Society, recipient of the US National Medal of Technology and other awards, and senior vice president of internet architecture and technology for WorldCom, has never stopped Cerf having fun. For example, when taking part in a "shoot-out" with Bob Metcalfe, the inventor of Ethernet networking, at an industry trade show in 1998, he donned a cowboy hat and a couple of (holstered) six-guns.During a heated argument at an Internet Engineering Task Force meeting about the future of the Internet Protocol (IP), the basis of internet communications, in 1992, Cerf stripped down to a T-shirt bearing the words "IP on Everything". He's serious about what the   slogan means, but he still chuckles about the pun. "Now everyone wants to put whatever they have on top of the internet, I should have a new T-shirt made that says 'IP Under Everything'," he says.Not even posing for the Guardian's photographer, for this article, dented his good humour. When he saw I was suffering some strain from holding Frank Baron's light, he suggested that if I did a good job I might be promoted to a hat stand. Anyone with a fraction of Cerf's achievements could easily have become self-important, but he has down-to-earth ways of defusing tension and generating camaraderie that must have been priceless in the net's early days.Which is not to say the early days have gone, because Cerf is still building the future. In the 1990s, for example, he was promoting the expansion of the number of internet addresses &#91;IP numbers&#93; available. When most people still didn't know what the internet was, he wanted an internet address for every electron on the planet. Now people are finally catching on to the idea of the internet being everywhere, he's pushing into space.This is not just to solve Nasa's communications problems, but to answer the question Cerf asked himself: "What should I be doing now, that we'll need 20 years from now? One answer is that maybe some day we will need a commercial backbone that is interplanetary in scope, and we'd better be ready, technologically," he   says. "We don't have to build all of it right away, but I want to know how to build it."As he points out, the internet also started as a long-term research project with practical near-term goals. It began in 1969 when Arpanet, the Advanced Research Projects Agency network, was set up by the US Defence Department as a way of sharing expensive computing facilities between universities. Cerf helped to develop it when he was a graduate student at the University of California at Los Angeles, and then at Stanford University, after he joined the faculty in 1972.The Arpanet was innovative, being based on a packet-switching system conceived earlier by Paul Baran (ie, it works like the postal service, except the packets are computer data rather than physical letters and parcels). But not everyone could be on the Arpanet, and there was the   bigger problem of connecting different networks together. The world needed an internetworking system, or internet. That's what Cerf and Arpa's Bob Kahn described in a paper published in 1974, and their TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol) system made the internet what it is today.Cerf joined Arpa in 1976 to manage the various research projects involved in implementing TCP/IP, and in 1983, it finally became mandatory as a way of moving internet data. This made Cerf, by popular acclaim, "the Father of the Internet".Cerf has sometimes resisted what he calls "this figurehead notion", and he is always ready to put forward the names of other people who helped create the internet. "Things with this scale don't happen unless thousands of people are involved, and something that makes the internet valuable is that it makes it easy for people to contribute," he says. "That collaborative aspect of the net is what contributes to its power."On the other hand, Cerf has also used his position to influence users, researchers, companies and governments, and at MCI WorldCom, where he works, to build high-speed internet backbones. Things that could have sounded outrageous coming from others were taken   seriously by the US Defence Department, and by politicians such as Al Gore, because Cerf said them."Yes, there's a bully pulpit element to all this," Cerf says, borrowing a phrase President Theodore Roosevelt used about the White House. "For almost 30 years I've done everything I could to promote the internet. I feel simultaneously privileged to have had so many opportunities to speak to so many people about the internet, but what I honestly hope, and truly believe is the case, is that people have decided for themselves. If the internet is widely accepted, it's simply the recognition of an idea whose time has come. For that you can't take credit."The IT industries are so quick to align behind winners that those not involved usually remain blissfully ignorant of the bloody battles that precede any standardisation. However, the internet's acceptance has been a long time coming, and it has been a struggle.Cerf nods. "It's true, many people resisted it," he says. "Its predecessor, the Arpanet, was considered a silly idea that wouldn't work, and it was ridiculed by people who grew up in the telephone tradition. Most of the computer science communities also rejected the idea of connecting up, and Arpa had to insist."When it came time to convert from the old Arpanet   protocols to the new internet protocols, in January 1983, there was tremendous resistance. Finally, we had to force it on people by turning off the old protocols, so we jammed it down their throats. Then came the lengthy debate between the OSI and internet protocols, and again, that was a 10-year battle."Far from promoting the internet, most governments - including the US, the UK and the EC - adopted OSI (Open Systems Interconnect) networking in the 1980s, partly to block the advance of IBM's SNA (Systems Network Architecture). The far simpler IP, which had taken root in academe and the research community, was rarely considered, and almost always rejected for commercial use.The irony is that not only has IP triumphed over rival networking systems, it is also being used to carry voice traffic (Online, October 26)   by the telephone companies who used to disparage it."It is a delicious irony, but we certainly didn't set out to upset the applecart," says Cerf. "Looking back, we were so thoroughly rejected by the telephony community, we were left to our own resources to build our own private network, unregulated and unmanaged: we were outside their purview completely. But we could see the potential for upset, because we were experimenting with voice on the net as far back as 1975, when the backbone was only &#91;running at&#93; 50kbits/ sec. We used to transmit voice using a form of coding that made everyone sound like a drunken Norwegian: it was a lovely lilting sound."As far back as 1979, we were doing studies analysing which would be most cost-effective: two separate networks for voice and data, a hybrid network, or one which was all packets. Even then, the analysis said that an all-packet network, if it were big enough, would be more cost-effective. And guess what: that's what's starting to emerge!"It has taken the world 20 years to catch up with Cerf, and it may be more than 20 before the interplanetary internet makes much of an impact. But if you start getting email from Martians, you'll know who to blame.
My home page took five years to publish. That's not an idle boast, and don't think for a second that if you pop over to it you'll find anything that justifies such a long gestation. It's not even really working properly yet.Worse, it is said that every year on the web is worth seven in the "real" world, which makes the wait around 35 web years. And that does one's already tatty web-savvy, working-at-the-speed-of-the-net credentials no good at all.What's the problem been? Apart from a near fatal dose of procrastination, and laziness, there have been the shifting sands of web page fashion.Back in 1995, when I first started out on this foolhardy project, the web was already established and growing at a frightening pace. New tricks, bells and whistles seemed to appear almost daily.During long winter evenings, my little website, isolated on my Mac's hard drive, grew, mutated and shrank in the face of these fashions. It sprouted - and shed - bright coloured backgrounds, giant graphics, animated gifs flashing and winking all over the place, frames dividing and sub dividing the screen,   fancy Javascript routines that ... well, they just crashed your computer.But every time I would sit back and say: that looks bloody awful. Everything I created looked as bad as the first examples of desktop-published parish magazines that appeared 15 years ago, which blended an orgy of bad clip-art with an ugly rash of typefaces.If only someone had uttered the magic words - "keep it simple, stupid" a bit earlier.There are lots of disciples to the "keep it simple" gospel, but the one true prophet is Jakob Nielsen, the web design guru who charges astronomical fees to companies wanting to hear his straightforward message. You can find his words of wisdom atwww.useit.org, and it was these pages (remarkably un-designed, funnily enough) that were my road to a virtual Damascus.Out went nearly all of the fancy stuff. Instead of futile attempts to look clever by using all the tricks of this dubious trade, I decided to go for simplicity. And that extended to much more than the design.The right packageI'd been intending, for instance, to learn HTML to a   standard which would allow me to build the way-cool website I had in my mind's eye. I bought the books, I printed out the websites. I swallowed all the techy propaganda which states that the only way you will ever build a proper website is to learn the programming languages which run it.This simply ain't so. It might once have been useful to know HTML, a bit in the same way that it was probably once useful for car drivers to understand how their cars worked.And, to be fair, it's still worth looking into the HTML of pages just to see how they are structured, a bit like it's a good idea to know where the bonnet release lever is on your Ford.But, in the same way most of us would pop down to our local garage to buy a car ready built, rather than order the parts ourselves, knowing the language inside out simply   doesn't make sense, unless you plan to make this your career.Instead, I bought a web design package. There are lots of these about for Macs and PCs - two years ago I opted for what was, then, called Golive Cyberstudio Personal Edition, which cost &#163;100.Nowadays, it's called Adobe Golive 5.0 and has doubled in price. But cheaper alternatives - such as Microsoft's Frontpage 2000 (&#163;130) - exist, and do the job well.The job of these packages is to make building web pages almost as easy as putting together magazine pages in a desktop publishing program. They allow you to drag and drop elements for the page - images, text and the rest - anywhere you want, with all the difficult coding bit being done by the program in the background. The software will even help you organise your site, and put all the resources you need in the right places.Having taken delivery of your page make-up program, it's a good idea to take a little time to mess around with it, putting together sample pages and testing what they look like in various browsers by loading them up from your hard drive (just go to the file   menu in Explorer or Navigator and choose "open file" to look at files on your hard drive).Browser compatibility remains a sticky part of web weaving, no matter how you design your page - different browsers handle pages in different ways. That's not helped by using a design package, rather than typing in raw HTML, as machine-generated code is often not as efficient as the best human programmer's.But with a little experimentation, you should find that you can get your pages looking acceptable in the major browsers. Microsoft's Internet Explorer is the dominant browser, according to web research from Websidestory, with 86% of the market, followed by Netscape's Navigator with 13.9%, so these are the ones which really matter.It is surprisingly easy to lock users out of your site. Already, some parts of my pages simply do not work on older browsers, and I've hit the need for a compromise between functionality and compatibility, which has floored many a dot.com.As a rule of thumb, the more complex a site, the less compatible it is likely to be. If you want to include lots of tricks and compatibility is important to you, consider producing a plain vanilla, text-only version as well.First: Stop!Having experimented a little, the best thing you can do next is move away from your computer and sit down and plan your site. You'll need to decide on a few things before you get going, or life will be much more difficult later on.First, what are you going to   put on your site? It's easy to be far too ambitious at first, so try and err on the side of caution - it's demoralising if you make plans you subsequently can't follow. Obviously, you'll start with the home page itself, but it makes sense to divide the rest of your content up so that the first page is not too big (you should be able to hold your breath, without blacking out, for the time it takes for a page to download using a standard 56k modem). Create submenus for, say, family snaps, a page of links, an online diary or your personal details. You could then use your front page simply to say what's new on your site, or point to the most important bits.Second, bear in mind that you don't want your site to go too deep. This means users should not have to click on more than two or three links to see anything on your site: users tire of sites which force them to burrow too deep.Third, decide what your site's name is going to be. With domain names now so cheap, it's easy to buy your own domain name, which will make your site easier for people to find, and give you a cooler email address too.I bought my domain name fromGet Dottedfor around &#163;30, and the company also threw in unlimited web space and forwarding through the Freeola ISP.Freeola's web servers might not be the fastest, but otherwise the service is excellent (with useful step-by-step instructions for uploading pages), and there are plenty of other low-cost domain name registrars who offer great value, low cost deals, too.Costs and value for money can vary wildly: I bought an address as a present from NetNames, a London registrar, and it cost more than &#163;100. Yet, despite the premium price, NetNames took days, several phone calls, and a flurry of angry emails to get the address "pointing" at the right website. Even they beat Demon Internet, who didn't return my calls .Finally, with your new name in mind, think up a template for your page design which will be used for all, or at least the majority, of your   pages. Doing this before you start gives you a number of advantages. Your site will look much more slick and download faster if the pages use the same basic graphics and layout, and the process of creating the site will be made much faster by having ready made pages to use. A typical template page will have your site's logo or name, and links to the main sub-menus at the top (and bottom, perhaps), so that users always know where to go to navigate around.Once you've made your template, insert a picture and some random text, and try uploading it (your ISP or webspace provider should give instructions on what you need to do. Your web building software's manual will tell you how to do it). By putting it on the web, you can get some practice in the sometimes fiddly process of uploading, and you also get to test the design on other machines.Getting on with itAfter all this planning comes the most important bit: producing the pages. And here, alas, there's no hi-tech substitute for a large pot of coffee, a free weekend and a bit of hard work.Try to keep to your plans, and avoid being distracted by   the temptation to insert any fancy gimmicks. If, like me, you've looked around the web for tips on designing web pages, you will have found lots of bits of code you can paste in to do fancy tricks: avoid them. One disadvantage of not knowing HTML is that pasting these into the computer-generated code that your web editing software has written can be very tricky. It can be very demoralising to upload everything for the first time to find that a hit counter inserted on every page, for instance, has messed up the whole thing. You can always experiment later when you want to update the site.Which brings us back to the last important point: updating. The web changes all the time, yet so many sites - personal and corporate - are created then forgotten.Nobody expects a home page to update every hour, or even every day. But it doesn't matter if your audience is the world, or just your mates: if it's clear you haven't done anything in months, everyone will stop bothering to look.And after all your planning and effort, that would be a shame, wouldn't it?Can you cheat?Does all this look like like a little too much effort? Many websites now help you build your pages online, making the process even simpler. The best known includeAngelfireandHomesteadat, but even the likes of Handbag, the UK women's portal, is getting in on the act atwww.handbag.com.You put together the pages   through your web browser, using a series of templates and forms and uploading pictures from your hard disk. Most of the services have additional features which you can add to your pages, from animated graphics, through scripts and games - even digital video.There are downsides. Some people would argue that if you use these services to their fullest extent, it could    be simpler to buy a web design program. Others would argue that these services encourage you to build over-complex, gimmick-laden pages, while restricting those people who have a specific idea of how their pages should turn out. And, of course, it could be easy to run up a big phone bill as you build the site online, unless you have one of the new "always on"   broadband connections.But these sites and their ever-popular gimmicks are growing in popularity, and the services are becoming more and more sophisticated and flexible.The only downside is that banner adverts may pop up as people browse your site - that's how they make their money. But, for millions, that's a price worth paying.Born of frustration: 10 tips from five years1Consider buying a web 		design package2Plan your site carefully3Don't be too ambitious4Always think of the user5Avoid graphical gimmicks6Build a template7Keep your site's design as 	consistent as you can8Shop around for domain 		names and web space9Make sure pages don't 		take too long to download10Set a deadline for 			finishing your site...&#149; Neil McIntosh's site is atwww.neilmc.net
Jose Suarez used to run a Moscow-based trading company which exported leather hides around the world. Now, based in Barcelona, he has foundedLeatherXchange.comwhich he hopes will become the leading B2B (business to business) marketplace for the global leather industry.The exchange has about 500 member companies and lets buyers and sellers trade online in raw and semi-processed hides and skins. Claiming to be receiving about 60 requests for quotes a month, Suarez's exchange has been held back by the fact that customers cannot physically see the animal hides they are ordering.So next January it will launch an inspection service. There will be four inspectors operating out of Barcelona and Kiev and three out of Moscow who, based on agreed online specifications, will travel across Europe to physically inspect orders of pig, sheep and cattle skins before they are shipped to the exchange's customers.Suarez says: "The internet is a great communications channel but in itself a virtual marketplace is not going to work. You find someone online and all you have are some cold forms. You need to set up with people who are able to augment the information which exists on the cold forms."The task of guaranteeing and delivering on virtual handshakes is one of the biggest headaches afflicting   ambitious founders of B2B exchanges across Europe. It is a huge market. Recently Forrester Research announced that transactions on B2B exchanges in Europe are set to rise to &#163;534bn by 2005.Evangelists for this pioneering way of trading are talking about buyers being able to make better-informed purchasing decisions and they say suppliers will have a cheaper sales channel which will be invaluable in fragmented markets. While few people doubt the potential of the internet to transform B2B transactions, the reality is that the industry is struggling to successfully meet very high expectations."I think right now it's all hype," says Gartner Group's research director, Petra Gartzen. "In terms of actual transactions going through marketplaces in Europe, there is little going on. It's really minute."The low level of activity can be explained by the fact that the industry is still very much in its infancy but Gartzen argues that a lot of new B2B exchanges are shooting themselves in the foot by being too buyer-biased and suppliers fear they are losing control of the pricing of their products and services. "The marketplaces need to be focusing on how they can help suppliers maintain their brand in an internet world. They do not have a proper understanding of how to put a value proposition to a supplier," she says, adding   that too often exchanges rank suppliers simply on price and do not promote other factors such as quality of service.Rouzbeh Pirouz, chief executive of Mondus.co.uk, which runs e-marketplaces for IT and office services across Europe and in the US, believes online exchanges do offer benefits to buyers and suppliers. "It's a very easy and targeted way to meetcustomers. Just having a shop front on the internet is not enough to pull in the customers."Mondus, with 175,000 registered users, recently organised roadshows with the British Chamber of Commerce to promote online B2B transactions. Pirouz will not reveal the actual number of transactions carried out through Mondus but he says he is confident about the state of the market."I think a lot of transactions are occurring. Obviously the challenge that B2B marketplaces have is to track and account for as many transactions as possible. A lot of transactions do occur through the contacts that are made."He adds that an independent third party assessment of Mondus recently found that about 12% of the relationships   established through Mondus had resulted in transactions online and offline.Many exchanges have online feedback mechanisms which are usually geared to buyers reporting on experiences they have had with particular suppliers. Pirouz points out that feedback does not generally focus solely on pricing. Ratings can cover anything from customer service through to delivery times, and buyers can use these online tools to build long term relationships with new suppliers.All pan-European exchanges know their virtual marketplaces have to be trusted if they are to succeed and they are exploring ways to instil greater trust in potential buyers and suppliers. Intelligo.cz, a new Prague-based B2B e-marketplace for office products in central and eastern Europe is insisting that all customers of its new exchange sign contracts covering the quality of product information they offer. The exchange owners also want to use the contracts to reassure users that any data they submit online will be secure and not passed on to any competitors.Chief executive Dalibor Wijas says that anyone in breach of their contract will be banned from the exchange. Using credit checks is another way of building trust in an e-marketplace. But so far this has not been possible forIntelligo.cz."It's not easy to get that information about small companies in the Czech republic   and the small ones are the ones doing business in the marketplace."The emerging B2B e-marketplaces are also having to deal with some of the thorniest problems plaguing dot.coms. For example credit card transactions are regarded with the same levels of apprehension in B2B exchanges. So much so that UK-based Ace-quote.com, an exchange for IT services, does not offer an online transaction facility for its customers who include corporates, public sector authorities and small businesses. Instead the site generates income from subscriptions and lets buyers and sellers identify each other online before meeting offline to sign deals. However co-founder Helga St Blaize wants to introduce online payments soon."I think it's only a question of time. There is not a great deal of confidence in the security aspects of the internet in business transactions where we are talking about a great deal of money. And we are certainly looking at ways of ensuring that both the buyers and sellers are in a secure environment to transact online."She believes that as buyers begin to know each other it will get to a point where they want to automate the process and she hopes they will do that through the online marketplace.Many buyers and suppliers who plan to use B2B exchanges face a dilemma. With so many setting up, it is difficult to know which they   should integrate with. Mondus feels this will create pressure on exchanges to distinguish themselves and build market share quickly. Pirouz says: "People are not going to be able to integrate themselves with an infinite number of marketplaces which is why I think there will be considerable consolidation within the industry and that should make life simpler for suppliers."Some suppliers may feel they have little choice but to integrate with exchanges run by their large corporate paymasters. For example a major supplier to the car industry will find it hard to ignore Covisint.com, a B2B exchange which is being developed by General Motors, Ford and DaimslerChrysler.As the hype for B2B intensifies, plenty of new software vendors have moved into the market. Leaders in the space include Commerce One and Ariba but not a single software company is yet able to provide a complete solution for B2B exchanges covering everything from payments to fulfilment.What is tending to happen is that large software companies are forging alliances with   niche players to try to provide a full range of services. But integrating a series of different packages can be a nightmare for technical directors.To try to assist B2B players select the right partners and to help tackle technical problems in the fledgling industry, a new B2B trading community has launched in the UK called NetmarketsEurope.com . Based in London, the organisation runs regular workshops where European B2B practitioners meet with leading software sellers and brainstorm issues and problems such as how to scale quickly and find the right people.Chief executive Simon Torrance says the aim is to try to clear the fog which is engulfing sections of the emerging B2B industry. "We give them an opportunity to huddle together in little wagon circles and share best practice so they feel better about the long journey they are undertaking."The frenzied B2B hype seems to suggest that these new marketplaces will develop easily and in a tidy way as they successfully follow a straight path to hugely impressive levels of profitability.But it is clear that most B2B exchanges across Europe still have steep mountains to climb and not all are going to make it.
In the wake of Napster's surprise tie-up with German media giant Bertelsmann, Britain's independent music labels are set to annouce their own plans to deliver their artists' work digitally.The Association of Independent Music's digital music trial stole a huge march on the major record labels in July when it opened up a huge catalogue of music for online content providers.Now the association, known as AIM, intends to use its greatest asset - its hundreds of member labels' collective bargaining power - to revolutionise music industry e-commerce even more.AIM's commercial wing,Musicindie, has announced an e-commerce partnership with digital content infrastructure experts,DigMedia, in what they say is the biggest venture of its kind in the UK.Every one of AIM's 450 member-labels will be offered a specialised state-of-the-art e-commerce web platform. This is technology so powerful that the labels could possibly afford it only if they worked together, and it is expected it will help pull together the scattered and disparate independent sector   in other ways as well.This is having your cake and eating it.In many ways, these labels - representing 26% of the music market - are the creative lifeblood of the buoyant British music industry. To retain that creativity, they say, it is essential that they remain independent.Now, through Musicindie, they can act with the power - and technology - of a multinational company.While the labels will all retain their individual websites, they will all use the same DigMedia kit - the "back end" - which will process transactions through one central point."This model is unique. There isn't a similar one anywhere," said Dr Malcolm Thomson, DigMedia's Chief Operations Officer. "Labels maintain both their independence and their own websites - they basically run as normal - but benefit by having this centralised e-business engine that each would never have been able to afford as a small label."DigMedia plans to empower the independent sector in three phases. Initially, participating labels will have stand-alone technology installed in their websites.This will mean that they can start e-commerce almost immediately, using DigMedia's shopping carts and credit card payment gateways.Then participating labels will have their sites linked through one central e-  business application.Finally this will be linked into AIM's database.Gavin Robertson has been the managing director of Musicindie since it launched this spring. The firm's key objective is to find ways to raise the market share of all the independents, without interfering with their businesses."There are far too many people saying to labels 'hey, come and do this', when what they really mean is 'hey, give me all your business'. This &#91;DigMedia deal&#93; is the first part of the jigsaw," he says.Indeed, he is currently raising funding for further secret projects that, it is claimed, are set to make the current announcement look like just the tip of the iceberg for the industry."We'll be   dealing with how to communicate between the people who want the content and people who own the content. It's all about how to make that communication seamless ."What gets me about the internet is this need to be evolutionary. It assumes what   we've done before can evolve into where we're going."At some point you need to start at scratch again and say 'backwards compatibility just doesn't work anymore.'"If someone had just invented music and all this technology was out there, how would you use it?"What we're addressing is how it should all work in an ideal world, with the assumption that the new processes, the new 'value chains' that come out of this, will work properly."DigMedia, based in Edinburgh and San Diego, has a history of providing services supporting the music and media industry. It has been building back-end infrastructures for the sale of digital content since it was founded in 1998 by former executives of Intel, Memory Corp and Datrontech.Having launched an MP3 player, Soulmate and MusicStore, allowing up to 200 CDs worth of music to be stored, the deal with Musicindie represents a major coup.
Sony's latest Vaio is the first notebook PC with a power-saving Transmeta processor to be sold in the UK, with the promise of a dramatic improvement in battery life. The PCG-C1VE also has several innovations not usually found in Windows PCs: a built-in Motion Eye camera, a Sony Jog Dial, and a slot for Sony Memory Sticks. However, I suspect most people would find it more attractive if only it were a bit more ordinary.But the main attraction is Transmeta's Crusoe chip - presumably named after Robinson Crusoe. This wholly new design that uses "code morphing" to provide compatibility with Intel Pentium-style processors. In other words, it translates the x86 instructions intended for Intel chips into Transmeta instructions before running   them. This allows a low-power Crusoe to replace an Intel chip, extending the computer's battery life. It also means no cooling fan is needed.Other manufacturers are also using the chip, and both Sony and Compaq are Transmeta shareholders. However, after experimenting with ThinkPad 240 subnotebooks using Crusoe chips, IBM has decided not to go ahead at the moment. This shook the market just before Transmeta's public share offering on Monday, because IBM is making Crusoe chips on Transmeta's behalf.Transmeta's approach has drawbacks, too, to judge by Sony's implementation. First, the C1VE sometimes seems very slow, particularly when starting new programs. Transmeta says the chip runs at 600MHz and, to save power, 300MHz, but it does   not feel as fast as a 300MHz Intel Celeron.Second, you lose 16 megabytes of memory, which the Crusoe uses to optimise and store its translations. This means performance improves while you use a program, but you have only 112MB of usable memory, not 128MB.As for battery life, the previous version of this Sony Vaio, the PCG-C1, was a bit of a disaster: the battery lasted about 90 minutes, depending on use. The C1VE lasted about three hours, when used mainly for email and word processing. This is a long way from the eight hours that would make a big difference to mobile notebook PC users.But if the C1VE fails to sell, it will not be fair to blame Transmeta. Most problems are due to Sony's design. Yes, the C1VE is really small (248 x 152 x 27mm), really light   (1kg), and it looks terrific. It has a built-in microphone, stereo speakers, and an impressive 12GB hard drive. The main problems are the screen size, and the lack of either a floppy drive or CD-rom or Ethernet networking as standard.The screen has a letterbox shape and you are more or less forced to use the standard resolution of 1024 by 480 pixels, so you have to do a lot of scrolling. Where the Sony screen is less than 10cm deep, the IBM ThinkPad 240 is 16cm while the Toshiba Port&eacute;g&eacute; 3480 measures 17.5cm.The small screen comes with small fonts that make texts hard to read - and you   cannot choose large fonts because that option is greyed out in Windows. I would have liked to increase the screen contrast, but this option is also unavailable.Then there is the problem of getting software on to the C1VE. Sony has pre-installed Smart Capture and PictureGear programs to use the built-in camera, which can capture still images or moving video. There's also DVgate for capturing digital video streams piped in through the high-speed i.Link (1394 standard) port, and Movie Shaker, for editing them. But the only word processor is Windows WordPad. To do anything else, you may have to download programs from the net   using a dial-up connection.It's bizarre. Mark Hanson, vice president and general manager of Sony's PC product line, told the AP news bureau that the machine "is tailored toward the travelling business professional". Sony must have a very odd idea of what business professionals do for a living. They certainly don't sit on planes editing videos, and if they did, they wouldn't use a machine with such a limited letterbox screen.For business professionals, the Jog Dial is a waste of time, the i.Link port is an insult, and the Motion Eye camera is at best an amusing diversion. The machine would have much more business cred if all three were junked (dropping the camera would give room for a bigger screen) in favour of a built-in Ethernet port. All the video software could be replaced with Microsoft Office.Of course, the truth is that the C1VE is a wonderful toy. It could be particularly attractive to teenagers, especially if they already have a Sony Memory Stick Walkman, and a Sony digital video camera with an i.Link port. There probably aren't enough of them around with &#163;1,499 (inc VAT) to spare, but it is nearly Christmas and a good time to be nice to very rich relations, if you have any.
The website of the Republican National Committee has been defaced by a Thomas Paine-quoting hacker who urges Americans to vote for Al Gore.The hack, reported by press news agency Reuters to be in place late on Monday night in the US, is still visible this afternoon as US voters go to the polls.At the top of a 1,000-word tirade, the hacker claims his hack "has not been sanctioned by a political party or candidate".But a Republican official has claimed it as an example of Democrat 'dirty tricks', Reuters said.The tirade itself - a lyrical yet brutal assault on the values of Southern states of the US - could hardly be backed by Democrat candidate Al Gore."As my dear friend Thomas Paine once said, these are the times that try mens' souls," it begins."There is no sense of human camaraderie amongst those who live south of the Mason-Dixon line," it continues. "At least, no camaraderie for those whose appearance is not completely and utterly similar to one's own self."After urging voters to vote Gore, the hack ends with the words "Want more? Here's more" and a link to Al Gore's website.Useful links:Republican National CommitteeThe net election: links
Fortnum &amp; Mason is to take its famous Christmas hampers onto the net with a new website dedicated to the upmarket London food store.The site, atwww.fortnumandmason.com, launches this week and will feature over 400 Fortnum &amp; Mason products as well as the trademark hampers.The site, created by the branding consultancy Bamber Forsyth, also offers a gift list service that allows Christmas shoppers to create a list of recipients and have their gifts delivered to them.Stuart Gates, managing director of Fortnum &amp; Mason, said: "We wanted to maintain the quality of service for which we are renowned and if anything we have enhanced it to give online customers the complete Fortnum &amp; Mason service."The service allows Fortnum &amp; Mason to act as a local speciality store wherever the customer may be."Fortnum &amp; Mason offered a limited online shopping service last Christmas.Bamber Forsyth's director of interactive media, Mark Wilson, said: "Last year the site was heavily used in the run-up to Christmas. This year customers will enjoy more choice, a streamlined shopping process and much better performance than last year."
Last Christmas, online shopping was a disaster.The sector was plagued by broken promises, websites that crashed and presents - even turkeys - that weren't delivered in time for Christmas Day.But after pumping millions of pounds all year into foolproof transactional websites, e-retailers are keeping fingers crossed that they'll make it through the coming holiday shopping season and reap grand rewards.A flurry of e-Christmas activity will kick off in the next few weeks.Already, gardening website e-garden.co.uk has thrown its hand into the ring by taking orders for Christmas trees and decorations online. Portals are starting to talk about their Christmas schedules. Freeserve plans to run The Twelve Days of Christmas promotion, kicking off on December 1, with 12 retail partners over 12 days, giving away Christmas prizes every day.Boys toys website Firebox  - one of the retailers involved in the Freeserve promotion - expects sales to rise by five times normal levels over the Christmas period. It is running other promotions with Maxim and LineOne and Blue Carrots, and giving away a free Zap Cap (a bottle opener) for orders over 50.This year, more than any before, much is being wagered on a good e-Christmas. For some retailers a bumper Christmas could mean the difference between survival or liquidation, with those that fail to make a profit during the season the unfortunate ones facing closure in the new year.Despite the unavoidable shake-out of dot.com retailers in the new year, the odds are in favour of consumers flocking to the internet to do their Christmas shopping.Jo Tucker, managing director at the Interactive Media in Retail Group thinks this year will be a successful e-Christmas and expects online shopping revenues to soar to 500m, half that the IMRG says has been made in all the first ten months of this year."We're all time-poor at the moment and the thought of going to a busy high street to do Christmas shopping is a nightmare," says Ms Tucker.Part of the reason why it will work this year, adds Ms Tucker, is that all the important factors are now in place, such as fulfilment and choice.The fact that all the big high-street retailers, including Debenhams, Argos, Marks & Spencer, Kingfisher, Next, WHSmith, Arcadia and Boots, are now heavily involved in e-commerce should go some way to eroding consumer security fears about shopping online.But unless retailers start breaking clever marketing campaigns in the next few weeks, they may not have the time to prove their mettle in the e-Christmas rush.E-commerce may no longer be in its infancy, but few retailers have had much success with selling over the web.The first e-Christmas in 1998 is now just a bad memory for those involved, especially Microsoft, that sunk millions into the project to get people buying Christmas presents online.And last year not only were retailers far too concerned by the y2k bug to invest too much in e-commerce systems but, by and large, they rushed to market too quickly and were simply unable to cope with demand.According to Continental Research, UK consumers, in the last year, spent a grand total of 175m on buying Christmas presents online - an average of 97 each - with 69% saying they were satisfied with the process.Retailers that failed consumers back then, have now spent millions trying to win them back this year. That's why this year - the next 56 days - will be a crucial period for everyone in the online retail game.
Internet pornographers face hasher sentences, a judge said today as he jailed one for 30 months.Judge Stephen Robins said that longer prison sentences might be needed to wipe out the "channels to depravity" that were now available, London's Southwark crown court was told.He told Stephane Perrin, a 29-year-old French national from Hove, East Sussex, that the sentence he would have to serve was just six months short of the maximum the law currently provided for this type of offence.But he said that the tariff was set before internet porn became a serious issue and "that things have moved on".Judge Robins said that documents found in his home showed the profits from the online porn business were substantial and may be far greater than courts have had to deal with up until now."This may be one of the early cases where the court has to determine the appropriate tariff of sentence for internet porn ... it may be that the court of appeal may see fit to give further guidance to sentences for internet porn," he said."But in the meantime the message must go out that those responsible for the publication of internet porn can expect to be dealt with severely by the courts in this country," he added.Perrin's operation came to light after a detective found the site, hosted in US, while surfing the internet in October last year.When his home was searched, documents were recovered revealing the identity and addresses of hundreds of customers from "all corners of the world", said Gareth Patterson, prosecuting.Detectives also travelled to the US as part of their investigation. Outside court, case officer Constable Jim Pearce said: "Although this site was hosted in the United States, operators need not think they are safe because we have the power to go there, serve subpoenas on the web hosts and seize their records for use in proceedings in this country."Police financial investigator Detective Constable Gerry Panter said that, while he was happy with the sentence, it was "unfortunate" that as the law currently stood Perrin could keep the 26,000 he had made from his operation."We need a minimum of two convictions before this money could be confiscated," he explained.However, while Perrin's internet operation is still running and making him money, it will be some time before he can enjoy any of it.Useful linksIndex on CensorshipBlue Ribbon Campaign for free speech onlineNet NannyThe Law and the Internet
BBC Online takes advertising on EastEnders site. Shock, horror! According to some politicians, it signals the end of the licence fee, for others it's another betrayal of the civilised society by Roland Rat's dad.At one level it's all nonsense, of course. The sums involved are tiny, and the BBC, far from being the domineering force that it is in TV and radio, has a strong, but not overwhelming audience on the web. Its weekly reach of UK surfers stands at around 20%, dwarfed by portals such as Yahoo and commercial sites such as Amazon.On the other hand, there are important forces at work here. For a director-general of the BBC to open the curtains slightly and let us peek into the debates bubbling in the open-plan offices of the third floor of Broadcasting House is a bit like watching the first chip fall from the Berlin Wall. One has to hope it presages an era of openness from the corporation about the way forward for the BBC when analogue is finally switched off.Although the launch of BBC Online was a bit of a kick, bollock and scramble affair (I should know, the team running it reported to me, and my already grey hair was shot white by the end), it quickly established itself as a presence in the market. It came in top among the European content sites, and the news site was widely admired around the world. Mind you, we were spending more than anyone else in Europe on content, and we had the massive cross-promotion power of our networks. It would have been a disastrous result if we had not taken a strong position.The strategic backdrop to the launch throws some light on the importance of Greg Dyke's rethink on online advertising. In 96/97, the BBC was deeply worried about the implications of the internet, particularly as it emerged as a platform that could support interactive TV and audio downloads. We had endless arguments, for example, about the transition between watching Gardeners' World on TV, clicking through to the GW interactive public service site and then on to a GW commercial site. Any sane commercial broadcaster would have the ads and the commercial fulfilment one flick of a button away, but many of us argued for a protective cordon sanitaire, that would insulate licence-funded services from commercial ones. It wasn't that we were afraid of grubby little ads:   most of the people involved in the debate understood that the licence fee was not enough to fund our aspirations, and we were afraid of jeopardising the 2bn a year we received from the public.Also, as ever, corporate politics played their part. The public-sector wing launched a jihad on Worldwide's sites, forcing it away from content and into commerce. Not that there was anything wrong with any of this. Peering into the future, beyond the period when scheduled networks would roam the earth, we simply did not see how the BBC could survive as a licence-funded broadcaster if we had given away the birthright on the web. If you could watch streamed or downloaded GW on a website supported by ads, why couldn't you on TV? What's the difference?As it happens, I think I was wrong to be such an adamant supporter of a total licence-fee solution to online. It wasn't just the wall of irrational VC money pouring in to support MBA wet dreams that made me change my mind in '98: I couldn't in the end believe that online was like broadcasting. The market failure arguments did not hold, there is nothing that the BBC is doing online that someone else can't or won't do; the barriers to entry are not as excruciating as they are in TV and radio. Also, given that 80% of the population did not use the service and possibly never would, there was a basic issue of social justice. Should pensioners be forced to pay for well-heeled webbies? This was a classic example of taking from the poor and giving to the rich and, as such, was deeply problematic.The solution, it seemed to me then, as it does now, is to move the vast bulk of BBC Online into an accountable commercial business, and to keep a beady eye on the volume and type of cross-promotion to prevent unfair advantage. And therein lies the problem. If you are a specialist car website, how happy are you going to be that at the end of Top Gear the url flashes up and the presenter tells the viewer to speed to a commercially funded TG site? Aren't you going to be thinking, "I want a bit of that?" Or, "Hello Mr OFT, this bully is kicking sand in my face."The government wrestled with a similar issue once before, with the Sadler committee of inquiry into advertising BBC magazines, and concluded that the BBC should not be allowed moving image advertising to support its mags, and all references should be editorially justified. It's not beyond the wit of either civil servant or BBC mandarin to draw up a similar guidelines. The real issue is not whether the GW site or EastEnders should be allowed to dip their beaks into the tiny but growing online advertising market, but how the BBC should be funded when analogue is switched off.David Docherty is head of broadband content at Telewest
I had been hassling BT Openworld's press office for an ADSL connection since August (allegedly they are so popular with journalists that there's a waiting list stretching up to Christmas). So when, two weeks ago, a phone call came out of the blue from a BT engineer, saying he was round the corner and was ready to fit me up, I didn't even mind that it was 8am and I was still dreaming. After all, I was about to be initiated in the joys of always-on, flat-rate, super-fast broadband access - the internet as God (or Microsoft) had always intended it.In the UK, ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) is supplied by BT, HomeChoice and a few ISPs, although from next year 14 other companies, including Cable and   Wireless, Easynet, Telewest, NTL and MCI Worldcom, will begin installing their equipment in BT's local exchanges and rolling out retail services. The central benefits of BT's IPStream include speeds up to 10 times faster than a good modem, with 500 kbps downstream and 250 kbps upstream, and the ability to use the phone simultaneously, as well as enabling the use of rich media such as webcasts and video clips.The jury is still out on whether ADSL is the most suitable connection for small businesses, let alone domestic use. It has major drawbacks, say its detractors: it's clunky for two-way communications such as video-conferencing; it makes systems highly vulnerable to malicious hacking and as yet BT doesn't offer a Firewall protection plan; it suffers   frequently from "Crosstalk" (when telecom signals interfere with each other) and "brownouts" (when there are bandwidth "log jams"), although BT claims these problems will disappear this month when it switches all internet connections to a new network. There are even doubts that BT wants ADSL to become mass market since, as the various "surftime" packages have proven, it will put an enormous strain on the network. In some central areas, connection speeds have already dropped by 25% because of broadband, which is "bandwidth competitive".Since my surfing habits have been doubling my quarterly phone bill, I worked out that even with the &#163;150 installation fee and the &#163;39.99 a month USB-type subscription, ADSL would be worth it. Conven tional surftime packages just don't work for freelancers who use the net heavily in the day.One week, six hour-long phone calls to Openworld's support line and several technology-induced tantrums later, having still failed to find anyone who could tell me how I could pick up my email from my existing Demon account through my new BTClick ISP (one even suggested there was a software clash), and having enjoyed only 20 minutes of spontaneous, free-flowing access before the connection disappeared altogether, I was starting to feel like a long-suffering rail commuter in the comfort of my own home.Apparently the local area server was down and it took engineers three days to rectify the problem. It was restored on Monday, only to be replaced by another BT recorded message saying it was "experiencing network connection problems" and if I was calling about anything else, I should hang on (what for - a chat?) - at which point, I reverted to using my old 56k modem, which at least I knew I could trust.Admittedly, it is early days for BT, which promises to have overcome all teething problems by the time it hard launches early next year. And you can't really blame the poor techies stuck in a low-rent call centre in Aberdeen. One of them confessed that he had never seen an ADSL connection in his life (they are too remote) and wasn't allowed to surf at work any more since the Orange-  gate staff porn scandal - he had nothing but a manual to work from! I am still hugely grateful to Jamie who taught me handy PC-rage tips such as wrapping it in bubble wrap before punching the life out of it and putting a rope around the base of the terminal before throttling it.Technical grouches aside, how did broadband actually enhance my experience of the internet? Ironically, one of the first rich media delights I got to sample (once the servers were up again, and I had downloaded RealPlayer Plus) was a Reuters video news broadcast about how Openworld would "dramatically influence the way people work", with secure environments for online transactions, video conferencing, and so on. BT is marketing the business package hard at &#163;99.99 a month.The first noticeable improvement is speed. I am connected at 576,000 bps (10 times faster than usual, although it can drop to 56,000 at certain times of day), and have been for seven hours and 30 minutes. I am listening to an ABC news broadcast about the US election as I type, and simultaneously searching the archives of newspapers. Which is pretty cool. My email problem now resolved, messages flow in and out as easily as water from a tap. There's another one now - probably more spam from sites such as Shockwave, AtomFilms and MP3,   to which I now feel obliged to subscribe.The problem with most UK media sites is that they are still stuck in the 20th century - functional, html-based and pretty shallow. I can now listen to any BBC radio channel as I work, which is great, except that ADSL can be disabled by interference from AM signals. I tried in vain to find the promised broadband offerings from the likes of Channel 4, Carlton Interactive and Granada Broadband, but they appear to be months behind schedule. Virtual newscaster Ananova, however, is a total switch-off - like listening to the synthetic female voice of the speaking clock reading a bedtime story, and her green hair and relentless bulletins about the Beckhams make one feel quite queasy. Reuters video news andwww.ITN.comwere exciting for live-action breaking news, with storm reports from around the country, but it has more impact when you watch it on TV.Yet again, you have to look to American sites for a more satisfying streaming media experience. The US has had broadband for a couple of years and there is already a good range of channels such as CNN and ABC news, the Discovery Channel (with live coverage of the Ebola crisis in Africa) and Space.com (the latest transmissions from Mars) and, best of all, Comedy Central, where you can get South Park on tap and Jon Stewart's Daily Show, satirical coverage of the presidential election which has become cult viewing. Download times are 15 times faster - quick enough for you to hang on rather than give up, making the whole experience dangerously addictive.Street.TV, a style and culture channel, is one of the UK's first tentative broadband offerings. But with low-grade live interviews with the likes of singer Sophie Ellis- Bextor and Sadie Frost (yet again) on how great it is being married to Jude, and some non-event fashion show coverage, it's hardly the kind of must-see viewing that would drag you away from Jerry Springer even. Lack of quality control will continue to be a problem with internet media.What the net now does really well is comedy, underground film and satire, as evidenced by the rash of online film and media clubs. There are hours of fun to be had checking out the spoof trailers inwww.trailervision.com,such as American Booty (Man Falls Madly in Love with Fat Ass), the Hollywood spoofs onwww.Ifilm.com(the Oz Witch Project, in which DVD-toting Dorothy gets Toto, Tinman, Lion and Scarecrow into a spot of bother in the woods, is a brilliant foil to Blair Witch 2), andwww.Shockwave.comandwww.MediaTrip.comare great for pop video spoofs and new animation. There is no doubt that the new South Park is out there somewhere.Good British sites such aswww.thejunkies.comandwww.madcowTV.comare beginning to sprout, but it will be another six months before broadband content is good enough to justify an ADSL connection in the home (and before the prices become competitive). In the short term, the most obvious consumer benefit would be multi- terminal connections for libraries and schools, but at the current price it is unlikely to happen.
&#149; Early favourite for internet celebrity of the month is Curry at Rubberburner.com, probably the most handsome man on the web. Well, that's what he reckons anyway. Bold, confident, and good-looking are the words he uses to describe himself, but he doesn't stop there, oh no, 80s throwback Curry boasts that he is gorgeous, sexy, tender and brave. The rules of internet celebritydom are strict indeed: contenders have to be completely self-obsessed, have no concept of their real shortcomings and have an obsession with sex. Past winners - cyber stud Mahir Cagri who wants to kiss everyone and Seska of Seska.com fame - have finally been upstaged. Gives "fancy a curry" a new meaning.&#149; Hasbro could be making the biggest mistake of its life by jumping on the internet bandwagon with a dot.com Monopoly board. Given the current climate, in which no dot.com is safe, the Old Kent Road contenders - Priceline, Oxygen, About.com and Weather.com - could end up causing Hasbro more headaches than it was banking on. Who's to say that any of these internet properties will still be around next year when the boardgame eventually makes it to the UK?&#149; Andy Mitchell, the man who made AltaVista into a household name for all the wrong reasons, is back. Dan Wagner of Bright Station - the man who makes a habit of picking up scraps - is behind the comeback. Three   months after the AltaVista unmetered fiasco, dynamo Mitchell is now running new search engine Webtop and says it's nice to be in the driving seat. Is he be implying that he never had full control of AltaVista's UK strategy? Stand up and say what you think, hero fallguy.&#149; Famous names do not maketh success. Celebrity chefs had their fingers burned last week when their big dot.com venture, Foodoo.com, went bellypork up. Sunday Business, the paper that gave Foodoo.com a regular column, is left with egg on its face. Clearly Foodoo.com just couldn't find the right ingredients, namely advertising revenues. Or was it just a case of too many celebrity chefs spoiling the broth?&#149; Those of you that haven't got hold of a copy of The Net Effect by Richard Lord, editor of Revolution, and would desperately like a copy, get in touch as Random House kindly sent more copies than I know what to do with. I'm sure Richard would be devastated to think his works of literary genius are now being used by a fellow new media hack as a desk steadier. Be warned though, regular readers of Richard's column expecting to hear his mum's erudite words will be gutted to find not a single mention of what she feels about the latest new media development. Apparently, they've had creative differences.Amy.vickers@guardian.co.uk&#149; Amy Vickers is new media editor of mediaguardian.co.uk
Favourite sites?Obviously boo.com is my favourite. At the moment, I tend to spend a lot of time in our community area, chatting to other users. I always loved the original boo.com when I could get full access to it. Beyond visiting boo, I spend a lot of time on news sites. In terms of where I spend my money, there's Expedia for my travel and Amazon for my books. And I've been surfing sex sites because we're looking to bring sex content onto boo.Last online purchase?A jacket from Ted Baker. I shop online for clothing quite a lot.Most recent technological faux pas?I came to London with a new cell phone but I couldn't get international service so I was unreachable for a few days. Prior to that, I spilt water on my keyboard.Main news sources on the web?BBC Online because it covers the world fairly well, and provides deep coverage of the UK. Wall Street Journal online has different editions, European as well as American. And the New York Times, which is my homepage.Most persistent spam emailer?I've done a good job of keeping that out of my work mail. But skiareas.com targets my personal   aol mailbox quite a lot, although I don't mind. It reminds me of the days when I had time to go skiing.Time spent on web?I'm online all day. It's just a function of my job. Even in meetings, I tend to end up in front of some site or another.Next boo.com/clickmango?I strongly believe that this Christmas season is going to be the last great wave of cleansing on the internet. There are people hanging on, but post-holiday you're going to see an enormous amount of people that don't survive. But I think it's good. It's very Darwinian, if you will.Least useful site/s on web?People's personal websites.Most useful site/s?Any site that is providing you information on what you're about to buy in addition to giving you the opportunity to purchase. Amazon is great for that.What screensaver do you use?It's a quote from the original Miss Boo: "I can work 24 hours a day without getting bored. I can be everywhere at once and not confuse myself with God."Most irritating thing about the web?The vastness of it.Do you bother with old media?Oh yeah. I read newspapers and books, and I go to see films. I'm very much a tactile person. I adore having people around me. I don't think the web replaces that.Kate Buggeln is president of the recently relaunched boo.com
Ask Lis Howell, a woman who has devoted her life to television, why she made the leap into the uncharted waters of the internet at the age of almost 50, and you'll get a decisive answer that could warm the cockles of many a disenchanted old TV exec's heart. "It's good for the soul," she says.She's not sure her family would agree, however. She has worked flat out, spending weekends in the office, to get the website, bowlofcherries.com, up and running on time. The website, a community-focused magazine site for over-35s with something of a celebrity edge, made its debut, as planned, last Tuesday.The five partners in the company - Ola Steinsrud, David Hurst, Jane McCormick, Alyson Pearce and Howell herself - each stumped up cash to get the venture off the ground, and a private investor, a friend Howell declines to name, managed to ramp up the total launch fund to 500,000.Howell is chief executive; Hurst, previously publishing director of Financial Times Business, is managing director. McCormick, who has worked as a journalist for the Sun, the Sunday Mirror, the Sunday Express, GMTV and Reuters, is editor-in-chief. Pearce, who has experience in showbusiness, the media and the hospitality industry, is events director. Steinsrud, the founder of TVNorge, Norway's first commercial TV station, will be new media   consultant.Given the option of being backed by Howell's former company Flextech, where she was senior vice-president of Flextech Channels, the five partners didn't think what was on the table was worthwhile, even though it would have had PR value and involved support marketing. They also decided to avoid the complex venture capital route. Instead, with gritty determination, they opted to go it alone.Will it work? Not even Howell seems 100% certain. She says that the project is safe until Christmas, by which time it needs to have established a good revenue model.Howell may have a strong record in TV but, as everyone has learned from the past year, the internet is a whole different ball game, and top teams don't necessarily equal automatic success. However, if energy and enthusiasm could guarantee success in the cut-throat world of the internet, bowlofcherries would be an instant success story.But who's to say it won't be a success? With a strong, experienced management team behind it, a good well-researched niche market to target and no malevolent venture capitalist on its back, it perhaps stands a better chance than many. It has already got off to a springing start, with, according to Howell, almost 100 pre-launch subscriptions taken out. At 100 a pop for a year's members' benefits, that's a nice 10,000 in the bank after its first week."The site has hit a nerve already and we're starting off with no debt because we've covered all the start-up costs with our own money. We've done our research and we know there is a market out there for us," says Howell, reeling off some research bowlofcherries commissioned from BMRB in the summer. More than 10.5m people over 35 now use the internet for pleasure; 7% said they would pay a subscription if they thought it gave them something; they constitute the fastest growing sector of the internet; and they know what they want - mainly relevant information and good conversation. To this end, bowlofcherries aims to provide users with information about everything from decorating and gardening to cooking and travel, top-and-tailed with a bit of celebrity opinion.   The company is entering a market that has yet to be tapped. While the number of websites for people over 45 or under 25 has spiralled, no one has yet developed a website targeted at both sexes over 35.Other revenues from advertising and e-commerce will kick in later, but the subscription-based model should give bowlofcherries a good foundation on which to build. Additionally, the  site has signed e-commerce and content deals with Tesco, the RAC and Crabtree &amp;   Evelyn, the upmarket gift shop.For their 100, bowlofcherries club members will get a free gift from Crabtree &amp; Evelyn and an organised social calendar, including wine tastings, tennis tournaments and  weekly cocktail parties where club members can meet the 50 personalities who write for the site. Members also have access to experts (such as a personal celebrity shopper) and get discounts on some  goods.Club members will even be encouraged to strike up personal email conversations with the stars - a list that includes Toyah Wilcox, Michael Cole, Fern Britton, Edwina Currie and Jilly Johnson - who will be writing for the website.The rest of the website and all the content are free, but Howell says that the celebrity involvement and the weekly parties are its unique selling point. "It's not about glamour, it's about conversations," she says.Howell says she's having the time of her life and now sees the TV industry as stale and unwilling to change with the times. She's glad she made the move and likes the new-found sense of control over the whole project - a far cry from the enveloping bureaucracy at her former employers, Flextech, GMTV and BSkyB.More than anything, and not just because she and her partners have money riding on the success of bowlofcherries.com, she is determined that this new venture is one of the few dot.com start-ups that survive. Could she be trying to prove a point to her former colleagues?
An eerie complacency stalks the land, or at any rate the saloon bars. It is seen mainly in the sneer which nowadays invariably accompanies the phrase 'dotcom'.The collapse of the internet stocks bubble is viewed with vindictive satisfaction by those who had neither the inclination nor funds to gamble on technology stocks. The apparently inexorable decline of the Nasdaq index is taken as a sign that sanity is returning, that we can all go back to business as usual.Alas, no. Anyone who believes the internet phenomenon has peaked is not paying attention to what is actually going on. The dotcom frenzy was fun while it lasted, but it diverted attention from the underlying reality - which is that the penetration of the net into every area of life and economic activity continues apace.Since the phenomenon is most advanced in the US, and the data from there is better, let us examine what's happening across the Atlantic. Half of all US households now have internet access. In the first quarter of 2000 more than five million Americans joined the online world. That's about 55,000 new users - the population of a sizeable town - each day; or 2,289 new users every hour; or 38 every minute.And then there's email. Of the two-thirds of American citizens who now use the internet, over 80 per cent have email, and 76 per cent of email users check their electronic mailboxes at least once each day. This means that something like 42 per cent of all Americans use email every day.As far as the web is concerned, the number of indexable web pages has long passed the one billion mark.   (Google, the pre-eminent search engine, now claims to index 1.25 billion pages).Every 24 hours, the content of the web increases by more than 3.2 million new pages and more than 715,000 images. That's 133,000 new pages an hour, or 2,200 per minute. Or, to put it another way, something like 2,700 pages have been added to the web since you started reading this article.Some of these statistics come from a remarkable survey of US internet use which has just been published by the Center for Communication Policy at the University of California in Los Angeles. The study is based on an extensive sample of net users and non-users who will be re- interviewed at regular intervals and so will enable researchers to track changes over time.It paints a fascinating picture of how Americans are using the internet, and appears to refute many of the more lurid media fantasies about the impact of the network on people and society.The UCLA researchers found no evidence, for example, that internet use undermines family life (au contraire, in fact) or that it produces more socially dysfunctional or depressive behaviour than other media.What they  were able to confirm, however, is the growing suspicion that internet users watch significantly less television than unwired folks - which may help to explain the television industry's ambivalent attitudes towards the internet.A similar ambivalence has been observed in the attitude of turkeys towards Christmas.The metrics of internet penetration in Europe and elsewhere may be less spectacular than those gathered by the UCLA researchers but they nevertheless point in the same direction. Stock markets may still be baffled by the internet, but hundreds of millions of 'ordinary' people all over the world apparently are not.The fact that they continue to come online in such huge numbers suggests that the net provides facilities or possibilities that they value highly. Far from having peaked, the boom has only just begun. Stock markets please note.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Only in cyberspace. Pop icon Madonna wakes up one morning to find her name is being used as a web address for a hardcore porn site. The material girl, livid at the outrageous idea of her name being linked to sex, starts legal action to retrieve the address - only to find that the budding pornographer who owns it, in a fit of pique at losing something that cost him $20,000, is offering it for gratis to the Madonna Rehabilitation Hospital, Lincoln, Nebraska.But last month, after a series of legal manoeuvres, the singer retrieved the domain name after arguing that she had been using the Madonna name professionally since 1979. A spokesman for the hospital said: 'We are devastated. We wanted the name because it would have meant people could find us easily and for its religious connotations.'The Madonna case highlights the legal complexities at the heart of the internet. Addresses are arranged hierarchically by the Domain Name System (DNS) - the global database established to facilitate navigation around the web. But the problem is that as the web expands, the DNS is finding it increasingly difficult to cope. All the good dotcom domain name addresses have been bought, and there is an urgent need to create more.There are more than 30 million registered domain names in the world, of which more than half end in the '.com' - denoting that they are commercial sites. By 2002 this number will have doubled on current projections. Some experts even go as high as 75m. But a failure to address this problem will have a profoundly negative impact on the way the web develops.David Post, Associate Professor of Law at Temple University Law School in the US, argues that sorting out this problem is a 'life-or-death' matter for internet companies. 'If your name and address cannot be found... you simply do not exist - at least, not on the internet.'Sorting out the problem is the job of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), formed two years ago by the US   Department of Commerce. Icann has been praised for dealing effectively with problems involving so-called 'cyber-squatting' - when individuals attempt to profit from a company or personal trademark by buying up related domain names (such as in the Madonna case). Since the arbitration system set up to resolve such issues was established last December, Icann has been inundated with more than 1,800 complaints.'It's doing a difficult job as fast as it can. I think the US government must be pretty pleased,' said Philip Atkinson, head of intellectual property at Eversheds law firm.But this is where the plaudits stop.In a bid to satisfy soaring demand for domain names, Icann has pledged to release a new batch, which will perhaps - and the emphasis is on perhaps - include endings such as '.web', '.firm', '.info' and '.shop', allowing for greater differentiation between addresses.There is only one hitch. The whole system is in chaos. Icann has been pledging such a move for most of this year and has consistently postponed making a decision. News was expected this summer. Then in the autumn. Educated guesses now say it won't be until early next year before there is any progress.The escalating delay has caused some companies that   specialise in selling domain names to start the process without Icann. They are already allowing people to sign up, speculatively, for new names, despite the fact that no one knows what these will be. Punters are handing over non-refundable fees of &#163;10 or &#163;20 simply to register their interest in a new top-level domain name such as ones which end in '.bank' or '.eu.' 'It's a complete scam', was the verdict of one domain name expert.Last month, in a case that smacked very much of closing the stable door after the horse had bolted, Icann put   out a statement warning speculators of the pitfalls associated with their actions. This was seen as symptomatic of the way Icann now functions.'The perception is that the industry has moved on and Icann hasn't. It's been inactive with regards to a lot of policy concerns. It's more of a think-tank with no real bite,' said Nik Imrie, marketing and web development manager with Domains.com, one of the world's largest domain name registries.Some Icann supporters say the reason the release of the new batch of domain names was delayed was due to technical fears - there would be too many new names swamping the system for a roll-out to work effectively.Icann is now talking about operating something called a 'sunrise policy', which will allow the largest companies (such as FTSE 100 firms) to buy up the domain names relating to them first, in a bid to smooth the path and avoid further cyber-squatting wrangles.But this will also bring problems. Icann is already considered public enemy number one by many internet aficionados who see it as an oligarchy hell-bent on regulating cyberspace to ensure its own preservation. 'How can we be assured that Icann will be able to resist pressures to stray beyond &#91;its&#93; "technical" mandate? Where are the   checks on the new corporation's exercise of power?' Post asked in a scathing article posted on the internet.Indeed, the whole Icann structure is seen by many as representing the antithesis of the internet. 'We really must ask whether we really want or need this kind of global internet policy,' states a stern press release on the website for the pressure group Icann Watch.In addition to Icann's perceived powers there is a concern that it is merely a mouthpiece for the US government. 'There is a real fear that Icann places American law over other countries' laws - even for many operations entirely within these countries,' said Simon Moores of the Research Group, an internet consultancy.In a bid to answer its critics Icann recently tried to make   itself more democratic and accountable. In March the organisation stated that its board of nine unelected directors was to be replaced by an 18-member elected council.But this process has degenerated into high farce. Only five elected members are so far on board and four of the original directors are refusing to quit. Now Icann is being torn apart by infighting. One of the recently elected appointees, Karl Auerbach, wants Icann's president, Mike Roberts, sacked. Auerbach says he finds it impossible to say 'anything positive about' Roberts. Another elected Icann director, Andy M&uuml;ller-Maguhn, a German hacker who belongs to the famous Chaos Computer Club, has also been scathing about the way Icann is run.The organisation's failure   to deliver on its promise to be more accountable prompted Michael Froomkin, a Miami University law professor who specialises in analysing the legality of government agencies, to declare that Icann is 'an essentially unaccountable private body that many feel has already abused its authority in at least small ways and is indisputably capable of abusing it in big ways'.It seems that, while Icann might be successful in sorting out the minor problems - such as getting Madonna her domain name back - it faces tremendous problems grappling with the bigger issues and is in danger of falling apart. Icann chairwoman Esther Dyson, one of Silicon Valley's most famous entrepreneurs, is set to quit this month. Expect further pyrotechnics soon.
Microsoft boss Bill Gates has renounced the machine that has made him the world's richest man. In a startling proclamation, Gates has announced that computers can do little to solve the planet's gravest social ills.'The world's poorest two billion people desperately need healthcare, not laptops,' he said.The declaration represents a major personal transformation for Gates, and has sent shockwaves through America's high-tech business community. Had the Pope renounced Catholicism, the surprise would not have been greater.Speaking in Seattle at a conference on using computers to help the Third World, Gates said he still had faith in the ideal that technology   could bring about a better world, but added that he doubted that computers - or global capitalism - could solve the most immediate catastrophes facing the world's poorest people.People who thought that developing countries could benefit from the e-economy had no idea what it meant to live on $1 a day with no electricity, said Gates. 'You're just buying food; you're trying to stay alive.'The billionaire technologist became positively vitriolic about the idea of using computers in the Third World: 'Mothers are going to walk right up to that computer and say, "My children are dying, what can you do?" They're not going to sit there and, like, browse eBay or something.'What they want is for their children to live. Do you really have to put in computers to figure that out?'For a man who has benefited more than anyone from the IT revolution, this reappraisal is extraordinary and comes after several months of growing disillusionment in Gates about the state of the planet, and the potential for   technology to help it out of its current crisis.He confessed he had been 'naive - very naive' when he began giving away his fortune six years ago. At that time, he said, he expected that computers and information technology would make up the bulk of his philanthropic donations. 'Computers are amazing in what they can do, but they have to be put into the perspective of human values,' he said.Having visited Africa and    other Third World countries his priorities had now shifted, he said. At least two-thirds of the grants offered by the $21 billion Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation would now be devoted to Third World healthcare and   the development and distribution of vaccines.In the past year the Gates Foundation has given more than $200 million to health-related causes, including $25m for the International Aids Vaccine Initiative, $50m   to prevent maternal and child mortality, $20m for international family planning efforts and $100m towards children's vaccines. 'As a father of two children, thinking about the medicines that I take for granted which are not available elsewhere, that sort of rises to the top of the list.'These remarks have angered many of Gates's wealthy, hi-tech philanthropist counterparts. They say he has unfairly placed computers at odds with providing food and healthcare in developing countries. Others argue that Gates is wrong to think that technology cannot help improve even the poorest people's lives.'After listening to three days of serious analysis and work, and then to have Gates rather flippantly say, "You've got to have clean water and food" - that wasn't exactly furthering the point of the entire meeting,' said Sun Microsystems chief research officer John Gage, who heads Netday, a charity committed to wiring the world's classrooms to the internet.
One thing nobody foresaw in the 50s was  the extraordinary omnipresence of the screen in modern culture. Some of this ubiquity is more humdrum than dumb: consider that what does exist within the computer screen's boundaries is perforce arranged in a fantastically bureaucratic pattern. The metaphor of the computer "desktop" was useful in that it furnished   spatial metaphors with which to arrange our work: putting this file over there, or in that folder,  helps us by replacing the computer's obscure mathematical operations with an approximation of how we work with paper in real life. The computer "desktop" is an approximation of clerking and filing cabinets; it immediately skews the valency of the computer screen away from concepts of leisure or play and towards bureaucratic duty.It is in direct rebellion to such an affront that the rise of the video game has deliberately re-engineered the screen as a zone of pure play. Britain saw its first video-gaming boom in the 80s, largely among children. In  the last ?ve years, however, the success of Sony's Play-Station has repositioned the video game as a cultural form acceptable to a discriminating adult audience, and  especially to a new generation of techno-savvy young British adults who are rightly sceptical of passive acquiescence to what the television screen autocratically delivers.   With the advent of the riotously imaginative  aesthetics of three-dimensional video games such as Tomb Raider or Quake, the screen is stripped of its opacity and deceit. The entire screen becomes a fully transparent window on to imagined worlds that the player can   navigate and explore on his or her own terms.The video game is the cultural form that aims not to transfer some pre-existing process on to a screen - as early cinema and early television, for instance, both sought merely to furnish a proscenium arch for the transmission of theatrical plays - but is designed so as to exploit the virtues of the screen's plasticity and infinite representational possibilities, while avoiding its vices of partial revelation.It is the video game, too, that reverses the pernicious, isolating effect of screen culture - the dressing-gowned internet addict at 3am, the silent family comatised by an evening of soaps - and conceives of the screen as an arena of sociable play. For most video-gaming is pursued among groups of friends, who gather around the television and console as previous generations gathered around the whist table or Monopoly board.To survive, the old art forms must certainly abandon their hobbling sense of paranoid competition with screen-based entertainment. It is them, not video games, which seem dumb.&#149; Steven Poole is the author of Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Video Games (Fourth Estate, 12)
British Telecom reports second quarter results on Thursday and, according to Mike Williams, telecoms analyst at Deutsche Bank, the figures will mark a pivotal moment in the group's history.Although news on the dividend is likely to grab the headlines - Mr Williams feels there is a 30% chance that BT will signal plans to reduce the payment - it will be the conclusions of the long-awaited strategic review that will determine the direction of BT's shares.Mr Williams reckons BT will reveal plans to sell a number of non-core assets (non-core being classified as anything outside Japan and Europe). High on the hit list is LG in Korea and Binariang in Malaysia. Alongside the disposals he says there will be strategic initiatives including a demerger of domestic retail and wholesale operations and a commitment to float BT Cellnet.BT shares closed 12p weaker at 750p last night.
A large number of MPs' personal websites - including that of e-minister Patricia Hewitt - are "sloppy" and "bland", according to a new report.And only a handful have seized the opportunities presented by the internet to put a message to voters and get in touch with constituents.Researchers at public policy think-tank, the Institute of Economic Affairs, looked at the personal web sites of 97 MPs and found a "mildly comic ineptitude" in the construction of the sites.And Ms Hewitt's own site is one of the most horrid, it claims, going so far as to suggest that constituents contact her by post rather than email.The compiler of the research, Tom Steinberg, said: "To misquote Microsoft, this is business at the speed of politics."The report, MPs' Websites, which was published in a recent Parliamentary IT briefing paper, goes on to state that Ms Hewitt is not alone in her apparent inability to utilise the internet as a political tool."Labour MP Gwyneth Dunwoody's site is typical, with its inept design, smattering of broken links and absolute lack of character."Normally, the party machines leap at the chance to put across a message to voters. In the field of MPs' websites, they have been curiously hesitant."Of the sites studied for the article, few members are singled out for praise.Labour MP Paul Flynn is "a triumph of irreverent style" and is "kept lovingly up to date", the report says - although at the time of writing, the site is down.Shadow Home Secretary Ann Widdecombe's 'Widdy Web' features "a regular and fearsome stream of attacks on the government, plus a unique children's section".The article argues that those who are less dedicated are missing a huge opportunity."The opportunity for a backbench MP to build up a good impression with constituents has never been as good as that presented by the internet today."A sitting MP who uses his or her site to educate and communicate with constituents, like Paul Flynn or Liberal Democrat Edward Davey, can build a better relationship and so hope for a degree of local loyalty at the following election."In the future, the article argues, MPs' websites will give "a sense that the MP is an interesting, intelligent, likeable person who is more important than just a tiny cog in a huge political machine."No wonder the political parties are so loath to get involved."Useful linksOriginal storyParliament unpluggedMPs' websites:Patricia Hewitt (Lab, e-minister)Gwyneth Dunwoody (Lab)Peter Luff (Con)Paul Flynn (Lab)Ann Widdecombe (Con)Edward Davey (Lib Dem)Ernie Ross (Lab)Michael Connarty (Lab)
Rival operators of free song-swapping services are expected to benefit from the outrage provoked by the decision of Napster - the most popular service - to do a deal with one of the world's largest media companies.Music analysts said yesterday that the outpouring of online emotion from former Napster fans about this week's agreement with Bertelsmann opened the way for other software programmers to develop rival "free" systems.A plethora of other systems, including Gnutella and Freenet, have failed to attract as many users as Napster as they are considered more unwieldy and difficult to use.Eric Scheirer, analyst at Forrester Research, said yesterday that the Napster decision had now provided these free sites   with a greater impetus to improve their service. "The alternatives &#91;to Napster&#93; have been very fragmented and difficult to use, but the kinds of people who use the software now have a great interest in seeing these technologies develop."His views were echoed by hundreds of messages to online chat rooms yesterday denouncing the year-old Napster service for selling out to big business. Former Napster supporters promised to use free alternative services.The users' outrage comes in spite of the fact that many details of the alliance between the two companies have been left unclear.The firms have said they plan a two-tier service with a free component similar to the present Napster service and a fee-based membership scheme offering more features.Neither would explain how   they intend to charge for this peer to peer service.Napster rivals doubted the company's ability to continue in anything like its present form after signing the agreement. Michael Robertson, the chief executive of MP3.com, which has also signed agreements with the recording industry, said: "This is the end of Napster. There's simply no way to start charging and have a secure music system and right next door have all the music in the world for free."The negotiations are being played out against the music industry's continuing legal action against Napster. Doug Currie, a spokesman for the Recording Industry Association of America, said Bertelsmann had not officially withdrawn from the legal action in spite of its groundbreaking agreement with the defendant.The German group has indicated that it will do so once the business model for its alliance has been developed. This model will depend to some extent on Napster's ability to reach similar agreements with other large record labels involved in the lawsuit.A decision is due regarding whether to award a temporary injunction against Napster. In July, the company won a stay of execution so it could continue operating while legal action is pending.Industry analysts said that the most significant part of this week's announcement was that a media group was willing, for the first time, to work with a file-sharing outfit.Mr Scheirer at Forrester said: "One of the largest packaged media companies in the world has said 'we realise that file sharing will play an important role in media distribution' - that's a major shift."Napster
Prepare to work and reap the rewardsFerrari F355Sega Dreamcast 	&#163;39.99 AM2/Acclaim	*****And there I was thinking that videogames were meant to be fun. Sure, some PC games necessitate hours of manual revision, but console titles, and especially those on the Dreamcast, usually let you dive straight in without even a cursory glance at the instructions.But Ferrari F355 is different: very, very different. Putting it simply, this is one of the most prohibitively tough driving simulators   ever. It may be an accurate arcade version (with one, rather than three, screens) but there is no immediate gratification here.Instead, you must practise until you can visualise the track in your sleep.Normally untouched, the training mode is crucial for your success. A line is drawn for you to attempt to follow and you can (and should) take computer assistance with your braking and traction.If console racing fans are dismayed at actually having to use brakes, they will be mortified by the standard of the computer opposition.Unlike the moving scenery of other games, these drivers will block and cut you up, making tactics even more important.Thankfully the rewards for   all this perseverance soon become apparent.There may be only one car to drive, but the satisfaction of finishing, let alone winning, a race makes up for any lack of variety.The six main tracks are all realistically depicted and the game itself looks stunning.Likewise, the cars themselves are accurately modelled - even though they remain the same when damaged.Of course, the Ferrari name still exerts a pull over most car enthusiasts and there is little doubt that F355 will appeal to them, and anyone else who is willing to put in the necessary hours of practice.However, if this all sounds like too much hard work, then it probably is.  (GH)Thrills get left behind in stylish raceMetropolis Street RacerSega Dreamcast 	&#163;39.99 Bizarre Creations/ Sega	***How about this - a driving game where sheer speed isn't paramount? I know, it sounds like a beat-'em-up where you have to throw little squares of bubblewrap at your opponent instead of kicking his head in, but hear me out.Here's the deal: in order to progress through MSR, you have to accumulate "kudos" points by winning races stylishly: burning rubber or pumping the handbrake. Drive really fast but boring   laps and you are going nowhere.Penalty points are deducted, however, if you hit the side of the road or another car. The latter rule is diabolical: you lose kudos when the enemy cars ram into you from behind, and they are happy to do this at every opportunity.At first, the game looks beautiful. You get to race around several carefully digitised square miles of "real" central London, San Francisco and Tokyo. The neon lights of Piccadilly Circus or the pink gravel of Horse Guards' Parade flash past with ultrasmooth rapidity and zero pop-ups. It is exhilarating. Some day, you think, all games will be made this way.And then a bit later, you think some day, but not right now. Because the first time   you are asked to race against other cars, rather than in a solo time trial, the graphics engine gets out its pipe and slippers and starts to peruse the gardening pages of the Daily Telegraph.More than one other car on screen and the frame-rate wheezes and chugs. Oh dear.Given that MSR has finally arrived a year late, hotly anticipated by game-starved Dreamcast owners, this is just an insult. And the overall game structure is flawed too. It doesn't offer the instant, designer arcade thrills of, say, Ridge Racer V on the PlayStation2, yet the pointless punishing of minor collisions prevents it from being a really nail-biting hardcore revver like Gran Turismo. MSR does boast a fine two-player mode and it's very pretty, but really - kudos schmudos.  (SP)Make the wrong choice and it's all overPresident for the DayPC CD-Rom 	&#163;11.75 Damaris	***Tired of playing against miniature demons or zombies? Try being president for a day, where the bad guys are gun-toting war lords, power-crazed neighbouring countries and the IMF. But cruelly, you are the worst guy of all. In   two hours, I managed to start a coup, get shot at my desk, and cripple the economy. Hospitals and schools closed, the people rebelled and no government would lend us anything.All going well so far?President for the Day is aimed at sixth formers and first-year university students, but could be played at home.It is produced by Damaris Publishing, which specialises in late-teen books and websites, in its first link-up with the development agency Tearfund.The game's notion is simple: you are president of an   emerging African nation for one day and the choices you make affect your country.Advisers put their point of view and an increasingly irate chief of staff fills you in on the status quo. This you can follow with high-quality news footage on your screen.So, when the coup begins, you can see the men with rocket launchers coming and also watch your people die.The use of news footage is strong and the problems cause you to think. Click this button and oops, everyone's starving. Make that choice and oh sorry, we've been invaded by our next-door   neighbour. Opt to do nothing, and you've got a revolt on your hands. Buy arms to fight back and here comes the IMF.Floods, droughts, famines, corruption - this game's got the lot and it makes its point.But it doesn't have strong graphics. Improving a rather static backdrop would have increased my sense of doom as the warlords approached.Apple Mac owners will have to borrow a friend's PC to play as no Mac version is planned.Schools can get a licence for 10 CDs for a knock-down rate of &#163;11.75.  (HS)
Bill Gates's woes made easy as ABCMicrosoft Encarta DVD Reference Suite 2001 (UK and Ireland edition)CD-rom &#163;99.99 DVD-rom &#163;69.99 Windows 95 or later; 32MB Ram (64MB recommended)A is for _ "antitrust &#91;&aacute;nti tr&uacute;st&#93; adjective US; opposing business monopoly: intended to oppose trusts and cartels, for example from using monopolistic business practices to make unfair profits."Not a bad place to start looking at the latest edition of Microsoft's Encarta series, combining dictionaries, encyclopaedia, atlas, thesaurus and quotations on one DVD. And to be fair to   Microsoft, it has not tried to duck the big issues.Looking up "antitrust" in Encarta's dictionary links smoothly to informative examples in the companion encyclopedia. "In a rapidly expanding software market, Microsoft has been subject to allegations of monopolistic business practices," it reads, before going into a detailed exposition of the various charges Microsoft has faced over the years, starting with the first investigations by the Federal Trade Commission back in 1990.Encarta 2001 also remains bang up to date with current affairs: "In April 2000, the judge ruled that the company had violated antitrust laws by engaging in tactics that discouraged competition. Less than two months later, in June 2000, the judge ordered the company to be broken up into two."B is for _ "Bill Gates is the chairman, chief executive officer, and co-founder (with Paul Allen) of Microsoft Corporation, the world's leading computer-software development company_. In 1986 Microsoft stock, of which Gates retained 45%, was offered for public sale. With the stock's subsequent growth in value, Gates became one of the wealthiest people in American history."It is thanks to products like   Encarta that Mr Gates has so much money.In many respects Encarta is a typical Microsoft product: it takes up a heap of memory and offers more options than most people ever contemplate using. It even requires the company's Internet Explorer web browser to be used - it was Microsoft's integrating Internet Explorer with its Windows operating systems that led to the latest damaging round of antitrust actions.Its parentage aside, Encarta has some nifty features, the most interesting being the "talking" dictionary's ability to pronounce words aloud, and the chance to download monthly encyclopedia updates over the net for free until the end of 2001.The whole package is easy to use, although it can become slightly baffling when switching between the different features.The addition of a multiplicity of resources (photographs, sound and video clips) makes the encyclopedia rather more useful in dealing with modern subjects. But this is not the Encyclopedia Britannica: the entries are less than definitive, even if they are comprehensive.Z is for _ "Zyzomys, genus containing five species of rodents characterized by thick, long tails."  (RA)Dump the discs, keep the wisdomEncyclopaedia Britannica 2001CD-rom &#163;49.99 DVD-rom &#163;69.99 Windows 95 or later; 32MB Ram (64MB recommended)Maybe we've grown too finicky, but it does get boring finding and loading all those CD and DVD-roms every time we want to use them. Now one of the dreams of the information age has arrived - a full Britannica that you can install in memory and open at a click.If, that is, you have 2.4 gigabytes of spare hard disk space, or can clear it. If not, this facility alone will be, for some people, almost worth upgrading a hard drive for. Otherwise, you can get away with 1.5GB by inserting one CD during use, or take up only 170MB if you use two.Encyclopaedia Britannica was - and to a large extent still is - the world's greatest reference, self-education and self-improvement work for young people and grown-ups. Owning its 32 handsome book volumes, which once cost &#163;2,000, has been a tan talisingly impossible dream for millions for 200 years.The full installation facility makes these new editions the first plausible rivals to the exemplary Britannica.com website made free last year. Compared to the website, they are drably designed. But consulting them doesn't clock up online costs and their extra tools are invaluable.Using the Analyst tool for work, I was able very rapidly to draw up tables comparing individual GDP, literacy and tourist revenue statistics for   Maine with those of other US states and other countries. A general search told me the methods by which the artists Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Camille Claudel destroyed their works in grief.My first full installation confused some background programs and hurled Windows 98 into standby mode. But Hugh on Britannica's free helpline unscrambled that. It's still not quite as satisfying as having the books - but why cry for the moon?  (JE)
We have all done it. At the end of a particularly irritating meeting we send off an email to our close friends at the office telling them exactly what we think of the new manager's dress sense, nasal hair growth and corporate vision. Or we come across a particularly juicy photograph of two people locked in an embrace, one of whom just happens to look like the new photocopier engineer, and email a copy to one or two select colleagues.It is part of the net culture in many offices. But, as 40 people fired from mobile phone company Orange in September for exchanging 'inappropriate' material over the internal email system found out, it can also get you into a lot of trouble.It has always been possible to monitor staff email. Now, regulations which came into force on October 24 permit your employer to read your email and monitor which websites you have been visiting. And they can use that information against you.The Telecommunications (Lawful Business Practice) (Interception of Communications) Regulations have been drawn up by the Department of Trade and Industry under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Act mean that employers can also listen in to and record phone calls, check who you are calling on your mobile phone and search the hard drive of your laptop, if these items are provided through work. And they can do all of this without asking or telling you they are doing it, if they think you are committing a crime or doing something 'unauthorised', like sending personal emails or booking your holiday online.According to e-minister Patricia Hewitt, the new rules   must "strike the right balance between protecting the privacy of individuals and enabling industry and business to get the maximum benefit from new communications technology". They have been welcomed by employers' organisations such as the Confederation of British Industry, which believes that routine monitoring of email is both normal and acceptable.But for trades unions or civil liberties organisations, the main concern is the imbalance between the rights   of employers and those being monitored. "We have been calling for the regulation of surveillance for some time now,"said John Wadham, director of human rights group Liberty, "but these regulations do not go far enough to protect people's privacy."Yaman Akdeniz, director of online civil liberties pressure group Cyber-Rights and Cyber-Liberties, calls the regulations "very vague" and fears "anything is justified under them". Caspar Bowden, director of the Foundation for Internet Policy Research, says: "The DTI has given bullying bosses carte blanche to pry and exploit knowledge of the private lives of employees."But, there is a general acceptance that some degree of monitoring of email and web use is legitimate. If an employee is on holiday, ill, on a delayed train or away at a conference, it is important that email is dealt with and working documents can be accessed. In these cases, says Akdeniz, employers should be obliged to tell staff what they are doing, since "whatever policy they use it should be open and transparent to the employees". Wadham wants employees to ensure that "everyone knows that their communications are going to be under surveillance and under what circumstances".The new regulations state clearly that only "communications relevant to the system controller's business" can be monitored and recorded. Yet people may send and receive emails which reveal office affairs or health problems, and these could be being read by managers and systems administrators.One solution is for staff to be told that personal use of the system is not allowed, although this would be hard to enforce. Wadham believes workers should be provided with guaranteed privacy in   some areas, perhaps through a separate personal email account for non-work matters. Employers could also agree not to restrict staff use of web-based email, limiting their interest to communications from work email addresses.Even with an agreed policy, there are still problems when monitoring is secret, perhaps because an employee is suspected of criminal activity or breaking their contract. It is also highly likely that monitoring will uncover personal information which is not relevant to the job.Nigel Wildish, an expert in IT law at London law firm Field Fisher Waterhouse, thinks "the issue is to what extent an employer can intercept or block employee email that is not to do with the business". He cites the need to stop viruses or block obscene material as legitimate.Journalists are worried because many have confidential sources who use email from their workplaces. Milverton Wallace, organiser of the annual NetMedia conference for online journalists, has arranged a seminar on legal ways around the regulations. He says: "Unless we can find ways of guaranteeing that our communications with sources are really confidential, we will not be able to expose wrongdoing or investigate government or business effectively."The new regulations do not address the issue of how an employer uses the information   obtained. If personal data is being read then the Data Protection Act (DPA) comes into force. This requires that personal data should be obtained legally and used fairly - a provision absent from RIPA.The Data Protection Registrar has just published a draft code of conduct on the use of personal data in employer/ employee relationships which deals with monitoring email. It accepts that "not all monitoring necessarily falls within the scope of the Act", but argues that "systems that   involve the interception of personal electronic communications such as email will almost certainly be covered". Employers would have to ensure "monitoring operates in such a way that it does not intrude unnecessarily on employees' privacy or autonomy".Phil Jones, assistant commissioner in the registrar's office, says this could mean an employer who acquires personal information by surveillance under the RIPA regulations could still be   prosecuted by the DPR. "We are saying that when there is going to be any form of monitoring of email or phone calls then the fair thing to do is to be open with individuals. There should be clear policies", he says.Rod Armitage, head of legal affairs at the Confederation of British Industry, has criticised the draft code for not acknowledging the needs of employers. "It has failed to recognise the context in which business email systems work," he says. However, Jones feels   that the possible conflict has been rather overstated. "The code is a draft that covers lots of employee and personnel issues", he said, "and interception is a minor part." But he admits that "we may see legal challenges to how interception is carried out, although not to the fact of doing it".Wildish says that "the RIPA powers are wider and more helpful to employers than the Data Protection Registrar's code of practice", and he is critical of the DTI and the DPR for "not talking   together before they launched this".Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which became part of UK law on October 1, guarantees respect for private life, while Article 10 gives a right to freedom of expression. Judges are now bound to consider all legislation within the context of this act. This means that intrusive, excessive or unreasonable surveillance could be illegal, despite the RIPA regulations.Wildish says: "it is difficult to see how the Human Rights Act will be interpreted. For one thing, companies have human rights too, including the right not to have viruses infect systems". When employers do not clearly state their policies, employees will be forced to act on the basis that their email is being read and their web visits logged.The only hope for those concerned for civil liberties comes from Nigel Wildish, who points out that "an employer needs a system that complies with all three acts, so the one most favourable to employees will determine how much employers can intercept". At present that means that the Data Protection Registrar's draft code of conduct offers the best way of stopping snooping employers. We can therefore expect to see intensive lobbying of the Registrar before the code is finalised in January, as employers attempt to make it easier to monitor their staff.What employees can doPerhaps the most useful thing you can do is to try to make your employers issue guidelines on how and why they will monitor email and internet use. If they refuse, assume the worst -they are reading everything.There are limits to how secure you can make yourself when using a work computer on a work network, simply because whoever owns the hardware and internet connection controls almost everything. They can read cached web pages, look at your mail boxes, log messages at the server, tap into the physical network, grab all data passing through the router or firewall and even log every key press and mouse click you make.Use your own mobile phone   at work for personal calls (assuming your desk is not wired for sound) and your own laptop for all personal files or emails. You could even bring a laptop and modem into work and dial up your own ISP - although you may get into trouble for making 'personal' calls.The latest handheld computers or top of the range mobile phones will let you surf the web and send email - and you don't have to limit yourself to the low-tech Wap services.If this is not possible, stop using work computers for private email or Web surfing. Find the local cybercafe and head there at lunchtimes instead of having a sandwich at your desk.If you really have to be online   for your friends while you are at work, think carefully about what you are doing.Web-based email services such as HotMail may seem secure because your messages are stored on their computers and sent over their connections, but the web pages you are looking at still have to come into (and go out of) your work network and this means they can be monitored. Since you are using the work computer and internet connection, this is even allowed under RIPA.You can get secure web email - Hushmail.com offers the best-known service and the British campaigning group Cyber Rights and Cyber Liberties has just set up its own Hushmail service atwww.cyber-rights.netThis will give you private email, although the fact that you are using an encrypted mail service may attract attention.So you also need to use Anonymiser to hide the web pages you are visiting from any curious systems administrator.Unfortunately if your employers have installed keystroke logging software not even this will help as they will still be able to find out what you are typing.And if MI5 or the police want to monitor your activities in cyberspace, you stand very little chance of keeping things from them unless you invest significant time and effort in it.Posting hand-written letters may be your only option.See also...For the DTI's Lawful Business Practice Regulationswww.dti.gov.uk/ciiFor secure web-based emailwww.cyber-rights.netwww.liberty-human-rights.org.ukwww.cbi.org.ukwww.anonymiser.comhttp://freenet.sourceforge.netFor online privacy advicewww.hmso.gov.uk/acts/acts1998/19980042.htmFor the Human Rights Actwww.ffwlaw.comFor Orange sackings storyOrange sacks staff for net porn - reported atwww.zdnet.co.uk/news/2000/34/ns-17649.htmlLiving with the RIP Act, a journalist's guide to surviving cyber regulation, is on November 16 in London. Seemsw@net-media.co.ukData Protection Registrar's draft guidance athttp://wood.ccta.gov.uk/dpr/dpdoc.nsf
&#149;  If you want to surf on your Wap (wireless application protocol) phone without typing in all the web addresses - it takes two or three key strokes per letter - there are easier ways.Try bookmarking a site such as wap.gelon.net which has 2,000 Wap sites assembled in directory form ranging from Art to Travel. It includes a gateway to Wap portals like Yahoo , Wap.com , Excite , 123.com (financial news and analysis), Looksmart and numerous others. There is an awful lot of dross to wade through - like Ally McBeal's Wap site - but if you are lost in the Wap jungle, this is not a bad place to start finding your way out.&#149;  Another way to surf without straining your thumbs is to get a search engine to do the work for you. Wap search engines are hampered by the fact that they can't be let   loose on the real web because the pages are too big. But they are getting better. AltaVista's search engine, called Raging Search, is one of the best 	I have come across. The more unusual the site you are looking for (especially if it has two words joined together), the easier it is.&#149; Type in Guardian Unlimited and you can read most of the contents of the Guardian (including Online) plus all the burgeoning attractions on our website. It is cheaper, of course, to buy the paper, but don't let that deter you from a bit of experimentation.&#149;  When you have nearly exhausted yourself, type in john-keats.com and relax in the company of some of our best poets. It includes an index of first lines to Shakespeare's sonnets.
What does your role as e-minister involve?One is to pull together all the different actions relating to the development of electronic services and co-ordinate our investments. If we're about to procure services from telecoms companies or procure more basic telecoms infrastructure, we have to do so in a joined-up way. One of the main things is to be an evangelist for electronic government and electronic service delivery, to try to encourage people to embrace the technology because, if we fail to do so, the public sector and the economy as a whole will fall behind.Is Scotland embracing the internet and new technologies?We are as far advanced, if not further, than other parts of the world in terms of thinking about how we get people connected. However, we're not as far ahead as some of the Scandinavian countries or North America in terms of internet connections. One difficulty has been how to ensure all the small and medium-size enterprises enjoy the benefits of electronic business. The signs are that we're making real progress.How important is the idea of online government?The executive is committed to delivering the majority of our services electronically by 2005. Doing this in conjunction with the local authorities, we believe you can co-ordinate these actions closely. The executive is embracing the internet, websites etc and widening it out to transactions with the public. The parliament is, in some ways, more advanced than most. Every MSP - Member of the Scottish Parliament -has a laptop computer and the vast majority use them. Email is a regular form of communication and the new building will be at the cutting edge of recent technologies. Parliament has developed an effective website and is webcasting the day's business. Certain social services will have to be delivered by traditional methods but we will soon see the vast majority of transactions - council tax, benefits, planning permission etc - done electronically. This will be more satisfactory as people can conduct their transactions when it suits them. Another challenge is to ensure there are no social or geographical barriers to accessing the technology so all can benefit from change.Do viruses etc make the internet vulnerable?For everybody that invents a virus there's someone inventing cures. As for security, that's a key. People send confidential things in the post so I am sure we'll get the same level of confidence in electronic services soon.Where would you like to see the net going?I think we're going to see more time spent organising services and systems to suit people's circumstances. We'll also see a huge development of learning on the net. A challenge is to ensure that broadband will be available whether you're in Shetland, Angus or the Borders and that is a priority.Are you a fan of gadgets?Gadgets are only a means to access something. It's what lies behind that's really important.Visit:www.scottish.parliament.uk
As the Paralympics closed this week amid widespread acclaim that they, like their sister Olympics, had been the best in history, not all disabled people were celebrating.Bruce Maguire, a blind internet user from Sydney, is bringing a damages claim next week against the Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (Socog) for "humiliation and loss of opportunity to participate" by failing to make its web site (www.olympics.com) accessible to him.Visually impaired internet users and some physically disabled people access information online by converting text into speech or Braille. These methods require accessible web design such as descriptive "tags" for images or the provision of text alternatives to graphics files (see panel).Maguire's case will be heard on Monday by theAustralian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission. At a preliminary hearing earlier this year, the commission found that Socog and its technology partner IBM had breached section 24 of the country's disability discrimination act, and should take immediate action to make the Olympics and Paralympics sites accessible.Under advice from IBM, Socog argued that to make the site accessible would cost $A2.2m (&#163;800,000) and take a year. This was refuted by two web design professionals, brought in by Maguire, who estimated that the site could be fixed in just a few weeks at a fraction of the cost.In the intervening weeks   and throughout the games, Socog refused to comply with the ruling, leading to Maguire's new action. Although the commission is not a court, any damages award will be legally enforceable, and Maguire says he is prepared to take the battle all the way to the Federal Court. There is also a possibility that a class action could eventually be brought on behalf of all blind people in Australia."I don't think of myself as an activist, but when I encounter this kind of discrimination, I feel I have a responsibility to do something," Maguire says."I use the web every day - it's a vital tool for many visually impaired people. I tried using the Olympics site several times, without much success, but the worst time was when my son and I had planned to see the fencing. I ended up feeling frustrated and humiliated. In particular, I felt angry and hurt that I was not able to interact with my son in the same way as any sighted parent."Both IBM and Socog - a committee of grandees including the lord mayor of Sydney - blame each other for the inaccessibility of the site.At the August hearing, Socog argued that it was IBM's job, as designer and builder of the site, to tackle   such issues. This week it was unwilling to comment ahead of the new hearing, but it is understood to be disappointed with the way IBM has sought to divest itself of responsibility.IBM sees it differently. A spokesperson said this week: "We designed the sites to tight specifications set out by Socog: there was no leeway. All questions of accessibility are down to them."But Paul Davis, a web accessibility expert who runs the UK disability portal Ten-20.com , says IBM's assertion is ridiculous. "Of course they should be advising Socog on accessibility, as they were the technical experts hired to do the job. They'll probably spend more money fighting the case than it would have cost to make the site accessible in the first place."And despite some basic   remedial work carried out belatedly by IBM, Davis confirmed that the Paralympics site was still entirely inaccessible to blind people. "It is missing text tags for images, and the Javascript will probably crash any older text readers or speech browsers. Plus the frames may pose problems."The case could set an important precedent: recent UK research into the accessibility of online shopping sites by the Royal National Institute for the Blind found that high street names from NatWest bank to Safeway supermarkets were guilty of "lazy web design and ignorance", which excluded a potential 8.5 million disabled customers.The charity is now warning UK web designers to take heed of the Australian case or risk similar actions against   them under this country's disability discrimination act.The institute's campaigns officer Julie Howell says: "For the first time, a country has demonstrated that inaccessible web services are discriminatory. Web designers here should think very carefully before making an inaccessible site, as they could find themselves on the wrong side of the law."&#149; The author writes for E-Access Bulletin, a free email newsletter on technology and vision impairment. To subscribe, emailaccess@headstar.comAccess to all areas?1.Accessible web sites avoid displaying any text as graphical images only.2.When using photos and images, include descriptive text tags using the "ALT"  attribute of HTML.3.Make sure forms work with text-only browsers such asLynx.4.Avoid multi-column text displays, as many types of access software read  across columns, resulting in gibberish.5.Provide alternative formats to non-character based files such as Adobe PDF, or provide links to converters.
Microsoft is in talks with several wireless companies in Britain about developing new internet services for mobile phones.The software group is understood to have held talks with British Telecom and Vodafone about offering mobile services. The initiative is part of its strategy described in September by Paul Gross, senior vice president of Microsoft Mobility, as "investing in relationships with leading operators, so that together we can enable users to access customised corporate services at any time, any place and from any device".Rick Belluzzo, group vice president, said that the company was actively pursuing partnerships around the world with mobile phone companies."We need to do more in wireless and we need partnerships," he told the Guardian. "We're talking to everybody."Microsoft claims to have the biggest internet network in the world with more than 200m users a month in 33 countries, but its services attract just a few million subscribers compared with 25m who pay to use America Online services.In June, Microsoft announced a new internet strategy based on offering integrated services online, which it hopes consumers will subscribe to. To kickstart the consumer end of this strategy, the company launched a global marketing effort expected to cost $1bn over the next year.Its new services will be offered as part of MSN, its consumer website.Wall Street analysts have been sceptical of Microsoft's efforts given the entrenched subscriber base on AOL, but the company has made it clear that it intends to compete aggressively in every web-based market.Mr Belluzzo, who carries two web-enabled phones, said: "We will take on AOL in every service." The Microsoft executive spoke to an audience of investors in Monterey this week to "underscore the significant transformation of Microsoft" announced in June.The company is also talking with News Corporation about a possible $1bn investment in Sky Global, the media group's satellite television division. These talks come after Microsoft has spent billions on investing in cable television companies in Europe which compete with Sky for viewers.Mr Belluzzo said this apparently contradictory behaviour made sense in the fledgling market for interactive services as few people knew how the industry was going to develop. "Everyone is placing bets everywhere," he admitted.Mr Belluzzo's presentations to fund managers and analysts in Monterey sought to explain why the company felt that .NET was so important. Microsoft has built its business from selling packaged software from retail shelves.The new strategy will see a shift towards its customers buying such services, from the Office set of calendars and spreadsheets to Encarta, online.The company launched its marketing drive after reaching alliances with content providers such as Disney's children's channel."The next few months are going to be about taking our brand and awareness to the next level across the globe."His emphasis on the global nature of MSN was designed to underscore the fact that AOL "is a US play". AOL Europe's efforts have been thwarted by the difficulty of reaching agreements with telecommunications carriers.
Internet sites that arranged vote trading between supporters of presidential candidates Al Gore and Ralph Nader have been closed down following pressure from election officials and the offices of state attorney generals.But some sites are still offering the chance to swap votes so that Mr Gore benefits in close-run contests while Mr Nader is assured of votes in states where the result is a foregone conclusion.The vote-swap plan emerged earlier this week. Under the scheme, a Nader voter in a state such as Oregon, where Mr Gore desperately needs votes, would be paired with a Gore voter in Texas where Bush is a certain winner.This would benefit both sides in that Mr Gore would profit in Oregon while Mr Nader would still move towards his goal of 5% of the vote nationally. Reaching that figure would guarantee him electoral funding at the next election and elevate the Green party, for whom he is running, to a much higher national profile.The flaw in the plan is that it is entirely dependent on mutual trust, as there is no guarantee that either side will do as they have promised.Dave Stewart of the Pacific Green party in Portland, Oregon, said yesterday that he believed the vote-swap idea was part of a Gore "dirty tricks" campaign."The numbers they are talking about are trivial, I don't even know who the people are who are organising this," said Mr Stewart. The Gore campaign has denied any involvement with the sites.Three sites offering such swaps closed yesterday after the legality of the operation was challenged. It emerged that a White House staff member supporting Mr Gore had already used his government email address to arrange a swap.Californian officials warned that the site violated state law.Two other websites, called votexchange.org and votexchange2000.com have also voluntarily closed their sites. Three other sites are still operating but are also likely to come under pressure to shut down.Last month, a site offering to buy absentee ballots in Illinois and sell them to the highest bidder was ordered by a Chicago judge to suspend operations after suggestions that such an offer might constitute a felony.The site subsequently withdrew its offer for similar purchases in California and New York.
While the media industries have come a long, long way over the last couple of centuries, computer publishing has, arguably, moved just as far within a significantly shorter timespell. There are, however, also signs that for some firms it may not be moving fast enough.Adobe Systems has had to evolve through several seismic technological shifts since opening its first office in Silicon Valley in 1982.First came its pioneering desktop publishing product, Postscript, which enabled anyone with a personal computer and a printer to publish a magazine or newsletter from their home.The arrival of the internet then forced Adobe to adapt its software to the demands of customers who wanted to spread their corporate message on to the web.Now the proliferation of internet-enabled devices that allow content to be delivered any time to any place has forced the San Jose company to shift its focus once again to the "third wave" of publishing: network publishing. Chief executive and co-founder John Warnock, 52, claims it will dramatically change the way content is created, managed and delivered."Leveraging the internet, Network Publishing represents the third wave of publishing - following desktop and web publishing," he said. "It's the era of creating visually rich, meaningful content that is managed and delivered reliably wherever the user wants, whether it's a web page, printer, cellphone, handheld device, PC or internet appliance."Mr Warnock said customers were no longer prepared to make do with a simple website. They want their corporate messages delivered to customers and mobile workforces regardless of when or where they are in the world.Adobe has struck the first of what it says will be several partnership agreements with distributors like Nokia, Hewlett Packard and RealNetworks. Its role will be to automatically repurpose content to fit televisions, PCs, or far smaller mobile phone screens before it is sent or streamed direct to the user.Adobe estimates that the whole business of the "paperless network publishing space" will be worth $64bn per year by 2004.Through products including Photoshop and Acrobat it currently generates annual revenues of around $1bn and is America's third largest software firm. Its shares have risen 10 times in the past two years.The last year has seen concerted moves into electronic books where it is going head to head with Microsoft and several smaller specialist firms."We don't believe students and professionals should have to carry 20lb of books and documents," said Mr Warnock.Acrobat, which allows documents to be electronically transmitted in PDF (portable document format), is fast becoming a standard application for business. Cutting out print, paper, design and mail costs also makes economic sense.Adobe is banking on ambitious forecasts for the take up of internet-enabled mobile phones and broadband services to the home.Mr Warnock is forced to admit that the 300m internet-enabled mobile phones that Nokia believes it will ship next year is an "unrealistic figure".Last year Adobe managed a new professional publishing tool to take on market leader Quark, but first-year revenues were 40% below projections.The company has found to its cost what happens when products run late. In 1998 a key piece of software was delayed and, combined with cooling market conditions in Japan, revenues and the share price tumbled. Several senior executives had to be cleared out before stability returned.The pitfalls of failing to deal with "disruptive technologies" are plain to see just a few miles north of Adobe's headquarters where Xerox, one of the great firms of the 1980s, is struggling to stay afloat. "We'll keep on throwing technology at it until we get it right," said Mr Warnock.
The internet bubble might have burst on both sides of the Atlantic. In the US, the Nasdaq, where many technology companies are listed, has slumped 40% this year, while e-retailers on this side of the Atlantic, including Boo.com and the most recent casualty, CD retailer Boxman, have gone to the wall. You could be forgiven for thinking that the notion of e-tycoons is as unrealistic as the hope of dot.com profits.Not so. The internet has made millions for some, like newbie millionaires Charlie Muirhead and Neil Bradford. Muirhead is the 24-year-old founder of Orchestream, a software developer which has raised $32m in venture capital, while Bradford, 28, has seen his wealth take a quantum leap after his firm, Fletcher Research, was acquired by Forrester, the Boston-based internet technology research house, in May last year.Both have made a pile of money, albeit mostly on paper, and can afford to take time off and indulge in an extended cruise in the Caribbean. But they are still hard at work and seem to have undergone little change in their lifestyle. In that sense, Muirhead and Bradford are no different from tycoons past and present. Rupert Murdoch trundles on, despite his advanced years. America's most controversial tycoon, John D Rockefeller, beavered away despite amassing colossal fortunes.But why do they show so   little inclination to pack it all in and become lotus-eaters? It seems that, besides enjoying what they do, the desire to keep on working or to stick to ventures in the field they know is probably a way of keeping grounded.Bradford, who works out of an office on Charlotte Street in central London, still sports the classic new economy attire - Gap trousers and open-necked shirt. And he is clearly a man more at ease in talking about the future of the internet than about any lifestyle changes precipitated by his new-found wealth. Yes, he has bought a house, he says, but his interest in analysis of the internet revolution remains undimmed.He appears lost for words when asked if he thinks he deserves his new-found wealth. After a pause, he says: "I don't want to say it was due to luck, because that would sound like false modesty. We had to work very hard."But he does admit to occasionally waking up and feeling that the Fletcher Research success story is all a bit unreal. "Two years ago we were working in a converted warehouse in Ladbroke Grove on a shoestring, with a couple of computers, some phone lines, and relying on credit card funding," he says. "My friends had great jobs at great companies and we asked ourselves how long we could keep going, how long we could flog a dead horse."Now it is probably their friends who are casting envious glances at Bradford and Will Reeve, Fletcher   Research co-founder. They struck gold when Forrester, one of the world's most respected internet research firms, decided to buy Fletcher. The two now have Forrester shares by the bucket-load and enjoy a degree of security most people can only dream of. The biggest impact on Bradford, however, seems to be that he can concentrate on research, his forte."The job's changed," he said. "We used to muck in and do everything: writing, editing, researching. As you grow, your roles become more defined. People can concentrate on what they are best at."While his professional world has been transformed, Bradford maintains that his personal life has changed little. "It's not as if I've dumped my old friends and party in Soho with glamorous models," he says. "I still hang out with my university friends, and people I've known for ever see no differences."At Orchestream, Muirhead falls into the same category of new economy millionaires who prefer to keep their noses to the grindstone.Orchestream developed a piece of software designed to ensure the reliable transmission of data along computer   companies' networks and the internet, using the basic internet protocol (IP) technology that allows computers to communicate with each other over the net.After that success, instead of resting on his laurels, Muirhead has started Igabriel, a network of angel investors that can help start-ups. The network builds on the extensive network Muirhead built up in his previous company's brief but rapid rise. Capped at about 100 movers and shakers - Brent Hoberman of Lastminute.com is part of the inner circle - Igabriel focuses on wireless and mobile commerce opportunities. The network says it has backing from a prominent private equity firm and intends to take on around 25 to 30 business plans a year.Asked why he doesn't just stop to enjoy his money, Muirhead insists that he is not in it for the money.'I want to do something for the people who are starting out now because I know what it was like for me when I started Orchestream without any contacts," says Muirhead. His ambition is to remain a "perpetual entrepreneur". Like Forrester, Muirhead makes the point that his ilk are driven by challenges rather than financial rewards. Money is clearly secondary to the buzz of being trailblazers in this hot but volatile sector.Because fortunes in the UK internet sector are a recent phenomenon, these new   millionaires have yet to lift their eyes beyond their immediate world. In the US, where new money is quickly acquiring the status of old money, internet millionaires have branched out.At Cisco, the internet infrastructure company, quite a few of the new rich have started private family foundations with funds that range between $1m and &#163;100m. Some foundations are designed to address specific issues such as cancer research or education. Others accept grant requests from any qualified non-profit organisation.The biggest foundation, of course, is that of Microsoft's Bill Gates, who has turned philanthropist with a vengeance. Major donations to date include $250m to international vaccine projects through the Gates Foundation and a further $209m to endow the Gates Cambridge Scholarship Trust.Given the way trends migrate here from America, it is likely that the new British e-tycoons will embark on philanthropic activities in their turn, especially as the chancellor, Gordon Brown, is giving them tax breaks.Leading the way is one of Britain's earliest internet tycoons, QXL founder Tim Jackson. He has recently stepped down as a non-executive director at the online auction house to concentrate on his new venture capital role at Carlyle Internet Partners Europe and at a charitable foundation he is setting up.
The first wave of internet retailers taught us many lessons about new ways of doing business online. They didn't really teach us much about new business models, however, because their central business model was well known. It has been described as mail order on steroids, which is a reasonable description of the fundamental operation of most business-to-consumer sites.Of course, companies can interact with their customers via the internet in ways that are not feasible in physical environments. Realistically, though, there's nothing much different about ordering some pants from Lands' End on the web or over the phone while looking at the catalogue -except that looking at the catalogue is quicker and easier.I think online businesses based on the person-to- person model have more to teach us in terms of future business. Auctions are the prime case in point: by allowing people to trade with people that they wouldn't generally be in touch with, they enable transactions that wouldn't otherwise take place. The efficiency of those transactions meant that small businesses soon moved in.Take a look at eBay. It isn't simply a global car boot sale: it is an entire sub-economy of individuals and small businesses. Some of the businesses aren't so small, either. On any one day, the top 20 sellers account for 72,000 of the 4 million items listed and the top 38,000 sellers account for 2.7 million.I've used eBay to buy a few things. In general, when I'm looking for something very specific, price is not the determining factor. Nor is location. It doesn't really matter whether the item I'm buying is being shipped from Edinburgh or Cardiff because the postage is the same.   Compared with driving around looking for items, both in terms of the time taken and the expense, paying postage is a better alternative.In fact, if I do a search on eBay and find the item that I'm looking for, then my first action is to check not the price, not the location and generally not the date of the auction but the seller's reputation. With a single click I can see who has been buying from that seller and I can also see the buyers' feedback about the seller.The issue of reputation soon becomes sophisticated. If you're buying items of a certain kind, then you will soon learn who are the other reputable dealers in that field. Consequently, when you look at a seller's reputation, positive comments from people you know to be reputable count for far more than positive comments from strangers. In other words, in a relatively short time, a sophisticated reputation hierarchy develops and it is in everyone's interest to maintain it in order to minimise overall transaction costs. All of this takes place without external reputation "regulation": government ratings agencies and the like.The system isn't perfect, of course. Until the technology for managing digital credentials and digital reputation is widespread (public key infrastructure, one of this year's hot technologies) then reputations are managed only on the basis of email addresses. This means that the upper limit on transactions must remain limited since it is too easy to obtain and forge email addresses, leading to "schill" auctions where the sellers bid for their own items (to ramp the price) from multiple email addresses. In time, however, the arrival of more secure digital identity mechanisms will help lift the limit. These technologies provide a means to manage persistent identity and credentials (and therefore reputation) in a consistent way.Here is a lesson for the future of online commerce that is worth studying. In a global, low transaction cost marketplace, reputation could become the pivot on which transactions depend. Note also that knowledge of reputation is quite distinct from absolute knowledge of the seller's identity.If I find a seller labelled as John Doe, I really have no interest in discovering their underlying identity: that takes time and effort. If there are positive comments about them from people whose opinion I value then I will do business with John Doe. If there are negative comments, then I won't. And it won't matter to me whether John Doe has a badge from the local council, the government or some other body's approval. My decision will be based not on what anyone thinks, but on what everyone thinks.
It has taken a while, but the slumbering giants of the world's major record labels are finally waking up to the digital music distribution revolution.On Tuesday, media giant Bertelsmann announced it was teaming up with Napster, the controversial music swapping company, to develop a secure music service.The move, which caught the industry by surprise, comes despite the fact one part of the Bertelsmann empire is suing Napster for copyright infringement. Bertelsmann will now withdraw that lawsuit once Napster introduces the new members-only service.Meanwhile Universal, the biggest of the five labels that dominate the world's music industry, has announced an online trial, offering "all you can eat" music for a monthly subscription. Listeners in the US will be able to stream unlimited amounts of Universal's back catalogue for a flat monthly fee, although they will not be able to store the music themselves.But, while Napster fans download pirated tracks faster than you can say "what copyright?" the question now facing the industry is simple: is there any point to these experiments?The paralysis of the major labels in the face of developments in internet distribution of music has done little to help the industry advance. Caught between the horror of giving their valuable back   catalogues away free over the net, and the possibility that the net could depress sales, labels have preferred - until now - to go to court.There, they have pursued those upstarts benefiting from the gap in the marketplace, such as Napster and myMP3.com, which they say have helped users download illegally copied music.But with labels losing out as their material is pirated, and the startups facing ruin if the courts find against them, only the lawyers looked likely to win until this week.But Bertelsmann's tie- up with Napster could signal a shift in the majors' attitudes - not least because the record company says it wants to help establish Napster as a service accepted by all the big labels.That Universal is trialling subscription-model based access to its online vaults is also regarded as a step, albeit a smaller one, in the right direction. Sources at the company say it is something they had been considering for some time, having witnessed the huge success of Napster over the past year.Sam Shemtob of the British Association of Independent Music says that the key to a success for a legitimate rival to Napster will be getting a good choice of artists for consumers."Napster has shown there is great potential for the right type of service, and Universal's plans are a significant step forward," he says. "But factors like pricing and com prehensiveness of repertoire are likely to play an important part in determining how popular different services will be."AIM spotted the potential of the internet ahead of all the majors, and is now carrying out online trials with 95% of Britain's independent labels. These are designed to assess the value of streamed digital music by discussion between the labels and the websites offering them to users."The key is to provide a one stop shop for accessing repertoire from across AIM's 450 member labels, enabling new services to offer music from all these labels simultaneously," says Shemtob.Despite the Bertelsmann tie-up with Napster, downloads - for the time being - will not appear from the big labels, who want to retain control of the music files themselves. They still see today's MP3 files as a big threat to their core business - selling CDs. That is why Bertelsmann will not drop its lawsuit until Napster has shown it can create a secure, revenue-creating version of its service.Should Napster succeed and gain support from other   labels, it will have a big advantage over the likes of Universal's go-it-alone streaming service. A secure Napster, aside from offering the convenience of downloadable sound files, which can be stored on disks or MP3 players, would stand a chance of sporting something like the same broad repertoire it has today.To Napster fans today, any Napuser's hard drive is their resource. Thousands of those hard drives exist around the globe, offering tracks culled from all labels, from all eras. With Universal's tentative effort, users can access only Universal's virtual vaults. They are being asked to pay more for less.A third problem exists for UK music lovers. Because of the slow arrival of "always on" broadband net connections, streaming media still costs UK users an arm and a leg. Streaming music will not take off here while most of Britain's internet users are still paying by the minute for slow 56k connections, which also limit the quality of any streaming audio they receive to AM radio quality.Other net giants with their eyes on the musical prize include America Online (AOL). Since it announced its multi-billion dollar merger with Time Warner, it has been looking to exploit its unique position to marry content with customers. Last week it, too, announced plans to stream music to customers, bringing Warner material to   AOL's 24 million subscribers.The cult of MP3 is not unassailable. Many MP3 fans feel that the files are free because they're not worth paying for: the data compression which makes the files manageable also diminishes sound quality.What they feel would be worth paying for would be a comprehensive, high quality, broadband streaming service. Millions of tracks are languishing in record company vaults. Digitise them once, make them as easily accessed as Napster allows MP3s to be found today, and people could   stream vast swathes of usually lost music to their speakers. You could have the world's best stocked music library for a simple monthly license fee - a music lover's dream.Peter Quick, label manager for the net-progressive independent Ninja Tune Records, explains: "People use Napster because it provides a service the record companies do not. If you had a broadband subscription service that helped you listen to everything you wanted in the format you wanted, that's something people would pay for. That's why it will work."
The revelations that hackers had been rummaging around Microsoft's precious source code for some time, almost drowned its launch of an effort to win a larger share of the portal business.This has long been   considered a battle that had been won hands down by AOL. But Microsoft said it would spend up to $1bn to promote its new, improved MSN subscriber service.The massive expenditure marks an escalation of the portal wars and one that underscores just how threat ened Microsoft feels by the AOL-Time-Warner merger.While the company has made considerable strides with its MSN subscriber base over the past year, adding 1.5 million new users and becoming one of the most visited portals on the web, it still lags far behind AOL.After signing 2 million subscribers five years ago, MSN stalled while AOL climbed to become the industry Goliath with 25 million users. Then it purchased the world's largest entertainment company, Time-Warner.Moreover, AOL trounced its rival by introducing or taking over consumer-friendly applications, such as chat and instant messaging, and services, such as exclusive content and commerce, leaving MSN to play catch-up.The timing of Microsoft's web push is no accident: it comes on the same day that AOL launched a drive to push its new version 6 software, focusing on integrating features such as HTML-based mail and a media player. Users can also access their email by phone.Microsoft's new MSN Explorer software also aims to relieve users of the need for separate browsers, media players, and email applications. It includes a colourful interface with cartoon-like icons and a built-in media player for watching video or listening to music on a computer.Along with changes aimed at making MSN's finance, shopping and search features simpler, Microsoft's new browser takes square aim at the area on which AOL has built its reputation - ease of use, said Deanna Sanford, product manager for MSN.Part of Microsoft's $1bn battle plan is not just to seduce new computer users (specifically women, the fastest growing sector of new internet accounts) but to steal away AOL's customers.US computer retailer Best Buy made a deal with Microsoft to offer a rebate on its computers for purchasers who signed up for the service. That alone has added 1m new users since last December, though many have since left.Microsoft is also focused on selling services such as music subscriptions or digital photography services and regards web access, according to MSN's Yusef Mehdi, as a commodity.The implication is that the internet is no longer about reading or looking at things, nor is it about buying things. Rather, it is utilitarian in function whether that's paying bills online, working away from the office, making free long distance calls or playing chess with someone on another continent.The $1bn Microsoft has earmarked for the MSN push has raised eyebrows in the industry. On a simple maths basis, the cost approaches nearly $700 dollars a head to match the previous year's gain in subscribers. Set against the   210 million unique visitors to MSN.com the figure computes at $5 to $10 a-head. "I think we're on to something here," said MSN product manager Mike Nichols. "We're going to be building on the tremendous momentum we've established in the past 12 months."But the collapse of internet advertising may make MSN's recruitment drive more costly still. Many of the web businesses that advertised on AOL and MSN have already shut down or are struggling for life. In August, online advertising declined by 7.6% and is likely to keep falling. Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodgett said in a recent report that the market in dot.com advertising "is likely to decelerate as dramatically as it accelerated".Though Microsoft does not break down its MSN revenues, 40% of Yahoo's revenue comes from other internet companies. Though advertisers consider subscribers to paid online services like AOL and MSN more valuable than visitors to portals like Yahoo, the implication is clear. Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said last week that the revamped MSN portal could be profitable in a relatively short time, "substantially less" than the four years some have suggested.Ballmer emphasised that MSN was committed to helping users to customise their content as opposed to using the content provided to them on AOL. "AOL and Time-Warner want to produce content and give it to everybody," he said, whereas Microsoft wants "to help people with their own financial information, their own pictures, their own movies_"The differences in approach may go a long way to defining what broadband internet will look like. Will MSN and others remain routing points or be forced to become content purveyors like AOL?And as the internet becomes accessible to handheld organisers, cellphones, pagers and television sets, what role will proprietory services and portals play?It's a gamble, and Microsoft is willing to pay $1bn to stay in the game.&#149; MSN Explorer can be downloaded free fromhttp://explorer.msn.com
Last year, a litter of pet supplies sites set out to be the fat cats of the online world, creaming in huge profits from the &#163;3bn market for pet products and services created by Britain's millions of pet owners. As recently as the start of this year, investors still nursed hopes that they would soon be purring with delight at the scale of their newly made fortunes. All the site owners had to do was to persuade pet lovers to shop online.But it has proved to be a lot harder than it sounds. Despite spending millions on advertising, pet web supply sites on both sides of the Atlantic have failed to generate the revenues they expected. San Francisco-based Petopia.com recently laid off 120 people - 60% of its workforce - as it continued to struggle in its hunt for new finance. Its difficulties began in February, when Pets.com went public but then saw its shares plummet in value. In the wake of the disappointing flotation, Petopia and Petsmart.com both pulled their plans for public shore offerings and began a hunt for money from elsewhere.In the UK, the mood has changed too. Venture capitalists are running scared, and the main talk is of mergers and acquisitions. Rumours are rife of pet sites putting themselves up for sale so investors can make some kind of return on their money. If you were once considered smart to be investing in a pet web site, in the current climate you are likely to be considered barking mad.Petspark.com's chief   executive, Adrian Marrullier, explains: "When the business plans were originally composed, they did not take into account the level of uptake from the British public, and they did not take into account the cost of delivery."Petspark's site is heavily dependent on pet food sales, and Marrullier is attempting to appeal to customers to help him make the business more profitable. At the moment he has to subsidise the postage of cat and dog food to the tune of about &#163;5 a delivery. "Most dot.coms are profitable before they have to pay for postage," he says. "We are about to embark on a campaign where we will explain this to our customers and we will give them the option to pay full postage."Not only has it been difficult asking online pet customers to fork out for the cost of deliveries, but it has also been hard to get them to break with traditional shopping habits. "Pets have a unique position in a family. The pet is a member of the family and not a possession. A pet can be a surrogate husband for a widow or be treated like a child," Marrullier says.Because of that, a pet's food is usually bought as part of the main family shopping at a supermarket. While he argues that specialist pet sites can offer greater choice than supermarkets, it has proved hard to migrate traditional pet shoppers online.Some pet site owners argue that smart marketing is the key to the revival of the sector. Kevin Hague, founder of PetPlanet.co.uk, hopes his   site will become profitable early next year. He says it is important to identify a segment of the pet market that can be reached effectively without burning up huge amounts of cash in an advertising blitz."There is a core market of pet obsessives and these are the guys we want to get online. It's about targeting breed charities," says Hague. Niche pet groups are seen as a good way of building up the credibility of an online pet service. In the early stages, they can even be used to fine tune site content offerings.But the fall-out in the UK pet sector is starting. Petplanet recently snapped up Petz.co.uk, and other acquisitions are tipped to follow. Speculation is intense over who is going to be the next to be bought out.Charles Fallon, chief executive of PetsPyjamas, claims that his rivals are jealous of the size of his pan-European business, but refuses to confirm strong industry speculation that it is up for sale. "We have people approaching us all the time and we always look at the options," he says.PetsPyjamas, which has a traditional catalogue business as well, claims that online orders are up by about 30% on last year. Nevertheless, he concedes that it is tough making money in the online pet sector. "It is very hard for an internet business to make money solely as an internet business. More and more dot.coms are introducing traditional catalogue businesses as part of their propositions."Knowing that investors in the pet sector are not going to reap the handsome profits   they originally anticipated, pet site owners realise that from now on it is important to manage their expectations."I don't think we will be profitable until about 2002. But we have to manage expectations. Some people in this market will just be happy   to get their money back," reckons Petspark's Marrullier, who organises monthly meeting with his investors to keep them up to date with progress against agreed targets.In many ways, the pet sector has become a   miniature version of the problems afflicting the broader dot.com world. Having spent heavily on advertising, plenty of them failed to put together a business model that could deliver sufficient returns to sustain their phenomenal cash burn rate. Now they are either facing liquidation or the prospect of being swallowed up by an online rival or a bricks and mortar company."To an extent, the venture capitalists are to blame," says Jacqui Hendriks, a senior analyst for the Gartner Research Group. Many venture capitalists were hypnotised by new ideas, she says, and failed to thoroughly scrutinise the business models that were supposed to deliver the dreams.Ironically, there are even reports of some venture capitalists sending away some pet site owners in the early days because they were not being ambitious enough. "Now dot.coms are having to become more realistic," adds Hendriks. "They have to be like bricks and mortar companies."From an investor's point of view, a lot of pet sites are now in the dog house. Investors feel they have been let down and hope to recoup their losses from different sectors.But analysts tend to see this falling out of love with the pet sector as an over-emotional reaction and believe that the online market still holds potential, if sites can get their strategies right.With uncompromising financial realities starting to bite, pet sites are learning to fight tooth and nail to survive.
Play upUK sales of computer and video games have grown by 17% so far this year, even before the launch of the Sony PlayStation 2, according to the European Leisure Soft ware Publishers Association (Elspa). Five titles have sold more than 300,000 copies through more than 5,000 retailers monitored by Chart-Track Ltd. Top titles are James Bond: Tomorrow Never Dies, Gran Turismo 2, and Pok&eacute;mons Red, Blue and Yellow.Elspa says more than 19.2 million units of interactive leisure software sold in the year's first three quarters, compared with 16.4m in 1999. The value of games sales grew by 4% to &#163;453m.The market has benefited from the Pok&eacute;mon craze, with almost three times as many Nintendo Game Boy cartridges sold this year.EA downElectronic Arts, the world's largest independent games publisher, has reported poor second-quarter financial results. Sales slumped to $220m compared with $339m for the same quarter last year, and the American company made a loss of $35m compared with a $20m profit. Larry Probst, EA's chairman and chief executive, blamed "the seasonally slow summer prior to the introduction of PlayStation 2".But Activision, a US-based rival, did well: its second-quarter sales grew by 25% from $115m to $144 m, and   net profits jumped from $1.1m to $4.3m. The figures were boosted by sales of three hit games: Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2, Spiderman, and X-Men Mutant Academy.KO bidVirgin Interactive is offering a &#163;2,000 reward for the capture of the "Lewisham kangaroo". The competition is to publicise Titus Interactive's comedy boxing game, Kao The Kangaroo, to be published for the Sega Dreamcast and PC in November. In the original game, developed in the US by X-Ray Interactive, Kao was called Denis.Blam!!!Sky One will break a record at 12.30pm on Saturday when it broadcasts the first in a 13-part series of lifestyle-oriented games programmes, Blam!!! - a record number of exclamation marks for the title of a British TV series. Sky Open subscribers will be able to buy featured games immediately using Gameplay's Idtv store. Non-subscribers can buy atwww.gameplay.com/blam .BBC2 is producing an eight-part series based on the Unreal Tournament game. Bleeding Thumbs is expected to show around 6pm on Fridays.
Ericsson is making an unashamed bid for the booming 18 to 25 year old mobile market with the T20, its new Wap (wireless application protocol) phone.Launched this week with the help of members of the All Saints pop group, it boasts "real-time" Wap-to-Wap chat, the ability to send e-cards, horoscopes, news of clubs and gigs, plus compatibility with Ericsson's MP3 and keyboard add-ons.The T20 has been   designed in a choice of gaudy colours and can be worn as a fashion accessory on the arm or even leg .To prove how global it is, the phone mimics Swatch's global internet time (a day is divided into 1,000 beats starting at 000 beats and ending at 999).Weighing in at 124 grams, it is expected to hit the shops before Christmas selling at &#163;19.99 on contract -a pre-paid version will follow later.
In the postMore than 18,000 post offices are going online following a deal between the Post Office and UK Villages, offering free websites to all 26,272 cities,    suburbs, towns and villages in the UK. If it means more original local content, that would certainly help, since there seems to be a dearth of it atwww.ukvillages.co.uk.Surf safelyAnonymizeris known for letting users browse anonymously, but for best results, you need to pay for its premium rate service.SafeWeboffers a similar service free. SafeWeb "always encrypts and protects content &#91;and&#93; sanitizes dangerous scripts", it   says, so presumably it will defeat most net censorship and monitoring programs.Double visionAuthors, webmasters, press officers and teachers should enjoy the new service atFindSame. Paste in or upload a whole article or press release, or enter a website address. FindSame will search the web for anything containing at least one line the same, and you can view what it finds side by side with the original. It could find out which phrases in a press release appeared in print,   where famous quotations have been used, and which authors are guilty of plagiarism.Focus on thisHewlett-Packard sent cameras to 100 people in various walks of life, and is putting on a show atwww.hp.com/100cameras. So far, 80 photographers are online. The results are interesting, but the site is slow.All in oneXOIP, pronounced "zoip", is another company providing a unified messaging service, and it is free. XOIP lets you send and receive faxes, hear and reply to your email by mobile phone, send SMS messages and receive voice messages. The service has been running in the Netherlands for about 18 months and is available here atwww.xoip.co.ukGet a buzzWhat's the buzz today? Or more accurately, what was the buzz two days ago? Yahoo has launched a Buzz Index that doesn't just add up the most popular search terms but looks at the terms that have seen the biggest increase in searches compared with the previous day. The movers and leaders can be found athttp://buzz.yahoo.com.Side guideAllyoguide is a browser add-on that pops up a side-panel in Microsoft's internet explorer for Windows, just like search, favorites or history. Allyoguide searches a directory of websites and shows a selection appropriate to the site you are viewing.www.allyoguide.comuses data from theOpen Directory Project. It could use Yahoo, but Allyoguide's Steve Hanlon says the goal is for the service to build its own.New and noted&#149;  The Great Ormond Street Hospital for children has launched a charity site atwww.gosh.org/homepage.htm&#149;  The UK's waste management industry now has a portal atwww.letsrecycle.com&#149;  If you fancy being sherlock@bakerstreetw1.com , Streetnames is offering place-based email addresses atwww.streetnames.comfor &#163;70.50. UK addresses (.co.uk ) cost &#163;35.25 a year, inc VAT.&#149;  The fight against age discrimination is championed atwww.fifthmoon.com
Future shock?I, too, feel sorry about the old man Douglas Rushkoff saw being humiliated when he tried to use a computer mouse like a TV remote control, and I have no sympathy for anyone who mocked him. But it's not because we're insecure that we find such things funny. The bloke who thought his CD tray was a cup holder remains funny, as does the one who tried to use the computer mouse like a sewing-machine foot control.There has always been a difference between different types of technology. You couldn't use a seaport like a railway station, or a sewing machine like a knitting machine, or a fountain pen like a piece of chalk or a typewriter like a wax cylinder recorder.Technologies have to be simple, amenable, not uncomfortable to use, not totally incomprehensible, I agree. But I'm sure that once it was all explained, the old man too would have given a wry smile.Just because we're modern, we don't have to make everything like everything else. Standardisation is boring and life's rich tapestry would be that bit more fat-free if every type of technology had so carefully been "brought to the human", in Rushkoff's words, that there was not even the difference between a palm-top and a lap-top to divert us.Very few of us are totally useless when faced with the shock of the new. Give us all credit for a bit of learning ability, Douglas.Martin Hillmanmartin@hillman.demon.co.ukBetting worryYour article about children being able to engage in pre-pay commerce on the internet (Online, October 26) is of concern for those of us trying to protect the vulnerable from gambling on the internet.In a survey last year, 4% of teenagers claimed they would like to use their parent's credit card to gamble online.   Innovations such as Splash Plastic will ultimately make it easier for those who are vulnerable to gambling to lose all their disposable income.Innovations will almost certainly require a continuous review of gambling laws to take into account the rise of internet gambling.Dr Mark GriffithsHead of Psychology, Nottingham Trent Universitymark.griffiths@ntu.ac.ukE-everywhereRoddy Forrest (Online 26 Oct) asked if it is possible to send and receive emails from multiple ISPs through one connection. Jack Schofield replied that it wasn't. I think that Jack may be wrong.Most ISP mailboxes are POP3 compliant, so you can pick up your email from any net connection as long as you know the server name, user name and password. Three solutions I use frequently are:&#149;  Under Linux, fetchmail will deliver mail from any POP account into my local mailbox. My email program of choice, mutt, allows me to change the "From:" header to any values that I want.&#149;  Under Windows the email program Eudora allows you do define "personalities". Each of these has its own POP connection parameters and associated email address to use on outgoing mail.&##149;  When travelling and reading/sending emails from cyber-cafes, I use Webbox, which allows me to read mail from up to five POP sccounts and send mail which appears to come from these accounts.Dave Crossdave@dave.org.ukNot friendlyThanks to Nigel Wilmott for a refreshingly honest appraisal of Linux's chances of taking over from Windows in general usage. It may well be a great OS but at the moment it's just too user unfriendly for the average home user.Distributors such as Corel and Red Hat are doing their best to overcome this, by making the installation process smoother, and installing a GUI (graphical user interface) by default, but this is all just window dressing. In Linux the command line still rules.Steve JefferySteve.Jeffery@catalystuk.comNigel Willmott might consider buying a boxed set of a Linux distribution. If he wants to get Redhat he can, for a tenth   of the price of a copy of Windows 95, buy a box which as well as CDs contains an installation manual and 60 days unlimited installation support.As to network problems - networks tend to just work, so long as you're using an open protocol. If he is trying to get a closed Microsoft protocol to work, this can still be done, but he will have to install Samba, which, indeed, will be a lot of work. He might like to consider getting Linux to be his server (and he won't have to pay a penny more) and get Microsoft to fit in to its choices. That way Windows doesn't get a chance to scupper any other operating system interactions. Modems, again, should be no problem -so long as it is ISA, since no protocol has been settled on for PCI modems.Perhaps he might also like to look in the many Linux newsgroups, where he'll find hundreds of people ready to help him out. Just a thought.Ben Rossguardianunlimited@house-hill.demon.co.uk.it's a jokeWhat is Richard Heller on about (Online, October 26)? The whole point of regional-specific top level domains (like .uk, .au, .tv, .it) is surely for companies, organisations and individuals to allow the rest of the internet world to know where they hang out - not so some parasite can try to make up (not very) amusing names.How intensely hypocritical, too, for him to brag about his own pointless and irrelevant registrations (why would a Lithuanian company be interested in "heartfe"?) then react with "fury" when someone else has beaten him at his own game or claim that such registrations are "for no good reason". Sorry? I fail to see a good reason for Mr Heller to register "makemoreca" anywhere at all.And as for those pesky Italians - how dare they make it difficult for non-Italian companies to register a ".it" domain name! I suspect the embassy could have told him how but wisely chose not to. Next he'll be complaining he's finding it difficult to register a .gov.uk domain.I suggest than when the state of Ontario gets its own top level domain, Richard registers "mor" before anyone beats him to the name that is rightfully his.Antony HawkinsA.D.Hawkins@sheffield.ac.uk
Son of MP3Watch out MP3. AAC (Advanced Audio Coding), widely tipped as its successor, will be coming to the UK early next year. Two manufacturers have announced that their new MP3 players will also be compatible with the new format developed by Dolby andSony, which offers higher quality music reproduction at lower bit rates. Its backers claim it is 30% more efficient than MP3.Due in the stores in December is the AAC/MP3 Aiwa MM-EX300. The tiny &#163;200 player features 32MB flash memory, sports a Multi Media Card upgrade slot and comes with rechargeable batteries, a neck strap and a USB connector.Aiwa is also promising MP3 enabled CD players, ghetto blasters and in-car products for early next year.S3 is also readying its range of players for the new format. Its Rio 600, which is on sale now, and the Rio 800, which is due in January, can both be upgraded to playback files encoded in AAC.Late callPhilips is finally ready to join its rivals in offering Wap-endowed mobile phones. Due on sale next week is the Az@lis 238 pay-as-you-go model, while a contract model the Xenium 9@9 Wap will follow later in the month.Pitched at business users, the Xenium 9@9 is a small dual band model with a talk time of seven hours and standby of 600 hours.The phone features Philips' voice command function which can be used to access Wap sites as well as call numbers stored in the phone's address book.Other facilities include a vibra alert, personal organiser options and emotion icons (smiley faces, beer glasses etc) which can be sent to other Philips phone owners as short text messages.The phone will cost &#163;100 and is available via BT Cellnet.The pre-pay Az@lis 238 shares many of the Xenium 909 facilities, notably voice activated dialling and Wap connection, emotion icons and vibra alert. It has a talk time of up to six hours and 500 hours standby time.Also new from Philips is a digital cordless phone sporting many features traditionally associated with mobiles. The &#163;180 Zenia has a 200 name phone book, voice dialling and vibra call.Snap and printCanon unveiled its secret weapon in its campaign to dominate the digital camera market last week - a digital camera with an integral bubble jet printer.Due in Japan next year and the rest of the world the year after, the Micro Bubble Jet Camera prints credit card sized images in under 60 seconds. It can store up to 300 images on its accompanying 48MB CompactFlash card and has a picture resolution of around 2 million pixels.Snappers can also record sound with the image which is then stored on the actual print. The camera's UK price is expected to be in the region of &#163;400.At its expo in Paris, Canon also demonstrated a host of Bluetooth enabled products including a digital camera, PC card and printer, but refused to give any details of prices and availability.Other prototypes on display included a 3D scanner, which features software that can take 12 2D images and re-configure them as a 3D colour image. Canon also highlighted its UCanTalk voice recognition software by showing voice-activated fax machines and PCs.  (AN)Macster ahoyApple Mac-toting music fans can now download a test version of the controversial music sharing program, Napster, and experience the MP3 phoenomenon first hand.Napster is a catalogue of MP3 music files held in individuals' hard drives around the world. The service makes it easy to "share" music files between computers, putting a vast   catalogue of music within a few mouse clicks.But much of the music available via Napster is illegally copied from CDs, and that has lead to major record companies' continuing attempts to have the service closed down for copyright violation.Mac users had, offically, been denied the pleasures of of Napster, although a clone called Macster did give them access to the service.Macster has now been adopted as the official Mac client for Napster, meaning faster updates for Mac users.You can download the Mac software fromwww.napster.com/mac. (NM)Bluetooth arrivesToshiba claims it is the first vendor to make Bluetooth wireless products commercially available In the UK - it has certainly been the first to   ship working samples to Online.The Bluetooth PC Card is a network card that enables a notebook PC to be linked wirelessly to other Bluetooth devices, including computers, mobile phones, handheld organisers and printers, when these become available.It costs &#163;125 plus VAT.Toshiba was a founder member of the multi-vendor group that developed Bluetooth as an industry standard.Chips choppedIntel has slashed the price of its top-end processors to prepare the way for the Pentium 4, which is expected to appear later this month.The price of Pentium III chips running at 800MHz to 1GHz has been slashed by more than 30%. Prices of low-end Celeron processors have also been dropped, the 700MHz Celeron version falling by 36% to $88, so now all Celerons cost less than $100 in quantities of 1,000 or more.However, the prices of some low end chips were only cut by 5-7%. Intel is expected to announce 1.4GHz and 1.5GHz Pentium 4 chips costing $625 and $795 on November 20.Lower processor prices should result in cheaper PCs in the shops.First video cellphoneGeo Interactive Media, from Israel, and Samsung Electronics, from Korea, have announced the world's first commercial MPEG4 streaming video cellphone.The phone uses Geo's Emblaze A2 video chip to play video streamed over GSM and CDMA mobile phone networks.The speed, image size and quality depend on the network bandwidth available but Geo says the phone will work with "2G, 2.5G and 3G technologies". UK mobile phone networks are at the 1G (first generation) level with the first 2G systems based on GPRS (general packet radio service) just coming into use.Notebook cameraSony has launched a 45g video camera that will enable notebook PC users to take up videoconferencing, if they can plug it into a USB serial port.The CMR-PC1 camera is designed to slot on to the top of the LCD screen and can be swivelled through 210 degrees to face away from the user.It offers VGA resolution (640 by 480 pixels) and delivers up to 30 frames per second for only &#163;99.99 including VAT.Seewww.sony-cp.com/camera(JS)
Kingfisher, the retailing group, yesterday strengthened its online presence by forging links with internet business Freeserve and announcing that it is to buy Streets Online, the entertainment retailer.Kingfisher, whose store brands include Woolworths, MVC, the music and video retailer, and Superdrug, will pay &#163;15.7m to gain a 85% majority stake in Streets Online. This, the company says, will complement its 87-store MVC retail business.Ian Cheshire, e-Kingfisher's chief executive, said: "The acquisition of Streets Online with its well developed e-commerce infrastructure is another example of Kingfisher's 'bricks and clicks' strategy to offer customers multi-channel access to its products."Kingfisher, which is due to split into two groups, a DIY and electricals retailer and a general merchandise operation, will buy Streets Online from shareholders, including a 14% stake from Freeserve for &#163;2.6m.The remaining 15% of the company will be kept by Sky New Media Ventures, part of Rupert Murdoch's British Sky Broadcasting. Kingfisher, which launched an e-Kingfisher arm in June, has also entered into an advertising deal with Freeserve. Under the agreement Kingfisher will distribute CDs that give users access to Freeserve, through its MVC stores, and Freeserve will provide Kingfisher brands with advertising space on its portal. Streets Online will become part of Kingfisher's new General Merchandise Company following the proposed demerger.Martin Toogood, chief executive of General Merchandise said: "The purchase of Streets Online will give General Merchandise a substantial share of the online market and will reinforce our position as one of the UK's leading entertainment retailers."A Kingfisher spokesperson said the company expected Streets Online to be profitable by 2002. Streets Online has more than 300,000 customers and it was projected to have annual sales of about &#163;10m in 2000, Kingfisher said.News of the link with Freeserve comes as speculation suggests Kingfisher will sell its 35% stake in Liberty Surf, one of France's largest internet service providers.
Only three European internet portals will manage to compete effectively against the leading US portals such as AOL and Yahoo!, according to a report published yesterday.The Forrester Research report says that leading British portals such as Freeserve will not survive as independent entities.It says the European winners will be Telefonica of Spain's Terra Networks, France Telecom's Wanadoo and Deutsche Telekom's T-Online.The three businesses, all dominant national portals backed by "deep-pocketed" telecom companies, would triumph on a pan-European level.The next 10 European internet portals, including Freeserve, World Online and CMGI-owned Altavista, will all lose out in the battle for customers and revenue. The report says they suffer from undifferentiated offerings and lack first-mover advantages.Hellen Omwando, the Forrester analyst who prepared the report, said: "Freeserve is a perfect target for acquisition, possibly by someone like T-Online or Wanadoo."
If customer care and the old-fashioned virtue of common courtesy become the key battleground between retailers and e-tailers, then many web companies may lack the necessary weapons, according to a survey published yesterday.Ovum consultancy said that when its researchers went undercover as eager, high spending e-shoppers and contacted some 114 retailers, the results were disappointing and at times depressing.The survey, conducted in September, found:&#149;Only one third of companies which invited customers to submit inquiries by email or by completing a form on the website responded at all;&#149;Of those which did respond, a third took more than 24 hours to do so;&#149;More than a quarter of high street companies had no phone number listed at their website;&#149;Of the 97 companies inviting emails or providing a web form, only eight were able to find the initial inquiry when the researcher phoned to follow it up.Forty four of the companies were dot.com start-ups and the rest were "bricks and clicks" retailers - high street names with a web presence. "In most areas, performance was universally poor, across the dot.com and 'bricks and clicks' categories," the report said.It warned that this was damaging to the reputation of a trusted brand and pointed to a bleak future for those which did not change their ways."Moving online but giving customers slow or non-existent service which is completely inconsistent with their experiences offline will seriously damage the customers' view of the company," the consultancy warned.Computing experts say a big part of the problem lies in the software available for customer support online - an industry that is still in its infancy and where glitches are common.Reuters
Cable &amp; Wireless yesterday unveiled plans to invest &#165;150bn (&#163;1bn) over five years and create 1,000 jobs in Japan by building a state of the art fibre optic network there.Britain's second largest telephone company will create networks in Tokyo and Osaka offering high speed internet access to companies. It will then roll out the service to 80 other locations.The biggest investment by a British company in Japan's telecoms industry will be used as a platform for further expansion into Asia. Chief executive Graham Wallace hopes to increase turnover from &#163;300m to &#163;1bn by 2005 and turn the local Cable &amp; Wireless IDC subsidiary into a fully-fledged telecoms company offering voice and data services. It has already applied for a licence to provide long-distance phone calls.City analysts fear it will be competing head-on with domestic heavyweights such as Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT). In London, C&amp;W's battered share price dropped a further 16p to 964p.Mr Wallace said the company could secure up to 6% of the Japanese market for business telecoms. He had not given up hopes of joining up with a local partner."Today's announcement reinforces the importance of Japan as one of the three key markets for Cable &amp; Wireless' global IP (internet protocol) and data strategy, together with the US and Europe."Mr Wallace added that Japan was the second largest market in the world for telecoms services and would be a "strategic hub" for the rest of Asia. His group had a stronger position than AT&amp;T and British Telecom because it had majority control of its business and a healthy balance sheet. AT&amp;T and BT each own 15% stakes in Japan Telecom.The Japanese international market was deregulated more than a decade ago, but it was only last year that the domestic network began to open up to outside players.C&amp;W cemented its reputation as a resourceful foreign competitor when it beat off fierce competition from NTT to win full control of international call operator IDC.The C&amp;W chief executive yesterday ruled out a flotation of Cable &amp; Wireless IDC, the Japanese business where it controls 98% of the equity.Mr Wallace said the chaos surrounding the Italian mobile phone auction last week reinforced his belief that subsidiaries should be kept under total control.C&amp;W dismissed suggestions that the sale of its 54% holding in Hong Kong Telecom to Richard Li was wrongheaded given the fall in the share price of Pacific Century CyberWorks. The company said it was assured of receiving &#163;5bn in cash which would be used for expansion in Japan. It dismissed allegations that the rest of the proceeds, paid for in shares from Pacific Century, were only worth &#163;2bn compared to &#163;5bn at the time of completion in September.A spokesman said C&amp;W could sell some of the shares next February. By then the Pacific Century's price could be different.
