MIT is offering itsonline courseware, worth $107,840, free, reports MSNBC. "This material is out there for the good of mankind," said Jon Paul Potts, an MIT spokesperson. "There is no attempt to charge for this. There is no revenue model." However, you cannot get a free degree.
The New York Times [free registration required] has a big feature onHacktivismand attempts to avoid the Chinese government's censorship of the net. Illustrations include a picture of Freenet's Irish* inventor, "Ian Clarke, now of Santa Monica, Calif." * Corrected from "British" following a comment from Karlin Lillington :-)
Jim Seymour-- whose columns will be remembered by PC Magazine readers -- has died aged 60.
Hewlett-Packard has announced its Media Center PC, based on Microsoft's Windows XP Media Center Edition software, reportsReuters. Other manufacturers will follow. Of course, this is not the first attempt to combine TV and DVD functionality with a PC to create a home entertainment system. It could be the first one to succeed in the marketplace ... but I wouldn't bet on that, either.
I went to theLinux Expo 2002exhibition at Olympia 2 in London this morning, which was probably a mistake. It was so small and boring I went round all the stands three times in half an hour. Never mind,Digital Arts Worldwas being held in the Grand Hall, so I went to that instead. What a shock. I expected to see wall-to-wall Macs, but something like 75-80% of the computers there were PCs, mostly running Windows 2000. I asked Bruce Steele, Director of Visual Effects at Glassworks, where all the Macs went. "Macintosh is charging twice the price for half the computer," he said.Exhibitorsare not the same asusers, of course, but it will be interesting to see how the market plays out.
Apple may be trying to stick the boot into Microsoft, with its feeble Switcher campaign, but Microsoft is about to launch an ad campaign that shows PCs and Macs getting along just fine. The ads shown byMacMinuteare from Microsoft's Macintosh Business Unit, which sells Office for the Mac, and may not necessarily represent the corporate view. However, Microsoft has already rescued Apple once, financially, and for anti-trust reasons, may well want to keep the struggling company alive.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:As the Tories meet for their annual conference in Bournemouth, the party is still unpopular, perceived as out of touch and beset by old scandals. Can Iain Duncan Smith begin the long climb back this week, or is it time the Conservatives sought a new leader? What do you think?Bronco:soho house where the floors is paved with EPashmina:it is not funny that baby coud of diedHost_Chris2:Bronco what do you think of IDS?Bronco:not much. some1 put some in me drink onceHost_Chris2:I meant Iain Duncan SmithBronco:well ask him thenHost_Chris2:he's the Tory leaderPashmina:then he shoudnt be takin drugsHost_Chris2:he isn'tBronco:but how do you knowPashmina:he should go to jailHost_Chris2:stay with the topicPashmina:this IS the topicBronco:you started it Chris2*Osama_bin_Laden has entered the NewsRoom*Osama_bin_Laden:i'm aliveBronco:good 4 u m8Pashmina:that is soooo not funny ladeezman is that uOsama_bin_Laden:mullah omar been in yetHost_Chris2:I agree, I think the joke is in very poor tasteBronco:I think its funnyOsama_bin_Laden:mullah omar you in erePashmina:who is itBronco:maybe its relly himHost_Chris2:I doubt thatOsama_bin_Laden:mullah omar u thereBronco:but how do you knowmullah'omar:hi osama hows uPashmina:OMIGODBronco:hes just been lurkin here listening 2 eveything!Osama_bin_Laden:fine still in hiding umullah'omar:same. are we going to kill anyone soonPashmina:KICK THEM OUTOsama_bin_Laden:yes v soonHost_Chris2:I'm not sure they're breaching any rules, to be honestPashmina:well there not discussing the topicHost_Chris2:Osama and Omar please confine your comments to the topicPashmina:where were weBronco:drugsHost_Chris2:we were discussing the Tory Party. Who has a comment about their new policy initiatives?Bronco:not mePashmina:are those 2 still in here?Host_Chris2:please, let's stick with the topic for once...mullah'omar:osama did u see fame academy last niteOsama_bin_Laden:no too blasphemous&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Out in the coldYou rightly draw attention to the problems faced by rural dwellers and others in obtaining access to broadband connections. However, you focus on two types of communities. First, where there are no technical difficulties involved, but BT considers the demand insufficient to upgrade the local exchange; and, second, areas such as the Eden Valley where there are genuine technical difficulties in providing broadband connections through the existing BT circuits. In time, both these types of communities will be offered access.There is a further group of users who are denied broadband access at a reasonable cost and who are unlikely to be offered it in the foreseeable future: users in semi-rural areas, connected to BT exchanges in the nearest town by copper wires of a length greater than that regarded by BT as acceptable for ADSL. I live on the fringes of Greater Manchester and only a few miles from a sizeable town.That exchange has been upgraded to broadband, but my application for this service was refused because the connecting wires are too long. Because people in this situation are a small proportion of the local population, it is unlikely any reasonable alternative service will be provided.Mike Leemikelee@mikelee.co.uk&#183;There are a number of sites campaigning to bring broadband to rural areas. How about publishing a list so we can share ideas and compare alternate solutions, etc. Two for the list are:www.broadbandAlton.co.ukandwww.broadbandMedstead.co.uk.  Is your link to broadband forbritain incorrect? Should it be broadband4britain?Richard Carercare@dial.pipex.comGates for PMI was horrified to learn that the government's e-envoy believes the technology is there to allow online voting. The biggest advantage of the manual system is that any one observer can point to a vote and say, "That vote has been placed on the wrong pile." Andrew Pinder should consider who will be qualified to make the same statement when the software declaresthe next prime minister of Britain is Bill Gates.Dave Nealedave.neale@btinternet.comSearch powerJack Schofield's Working the Web on Google (October 3) was helpful as ever. Here's another useful tip from Terry Kendrick, writing inFreepint, who suggests using phrases to find answers to specific questions. Using part sentences such as "is the smallest church in England" also harnesses the power of grammar.Bryan Preadybryan@merseymail.comPort problemDave Birch (Second Sight, October 3) seems sold on the AirPort device, but for a novice user of iMac on OS X, things are not so easy. Most ISPs don't support OS X and run for cover when asked about AirPort problems. Apple Helpline is generally useless. BT broadband is not available. Also, the AirPort manual states: "Important: Do not plug the base station into a digital telephone line." I took this to include an ADSL line from BT/broadband. Was I being over cautious?David JonesOut of syncHow does Dave Birch do it? I have been trying to sync my phone with my computer for some time. I looked at a Sim card reader with SimMate 2000 software (no Mac com  patability) and I have just been on the Sony/Ericsson site (I have a J7 Sony phone similar to Birch's T68i) and again it seems as though the sync software for my phone is only Wintel compatible AND a hefty &#163;42. Can you help me find a way through this problem?Chas Bankscsbanks@ntlworld.comDave Birch replies:I use Apple's freeiSync softwarewhich syncs iCal and Address Book with both the T68i and my Handspring Visor.True providersRegarding an ethical ISP (Feedback, October 3). My ISP gives me unlimited email addresses, 20MB of free webspace and free 24-hour technical support. It also donates money raised to four charities. The wonder-ISP? Waitrose.com!Teresa Wilsontwilson@waitrose.com* Trywww.cooptel.net, run by the co-operative ISP, Poptel.Graham Guestgraham@guest.name* GreenNet Internet Services is a non-profit organisation, part of the global APC network committed to reducing the gap between the information-poor and information-rich throughout the world. Their support    service is second to none.Margaret Burrtrebur@gn.apc.org* Fish is an ISP run by Christian Aid Ltd, with a percentage of phone revenues and all profit from thewww.fish.co.uksite going to help fund the charity's development work.Michael Wignall
Onimusha 2: Samurai's DestinyPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Capcom 	****Onimusha 2 gets off to a mixed start. The voice acting, part of an otherwise excellent opening sequence, is perhaps the worst in a videogame. The hero, Jubei, sounds like he'd be happier reading the shipping forecast than fighting for honour in ancient Japan. But, despite the ludicrous vocals, the plot is better than the norm and, combined with the attractive visuals, drives you on to complete the game.Anyone who played the original Onimusha will know what to expect - slick samu  rai combat with intermittent conundrums. But this sequel is more than a mere retread. A motley bunch of fellow fighters have been added, bringing some additional firepower, while there are strategical decisions to consider when upgrading your armour and weapons.However, the main meat remains the fighting and the puzzle solving, this time with even better graphics.  The game is set in medieval Japan and the controls are similarly archaic, mimicking the rigid Resident Evil template. Luckily, a decent targeting system lets you lock on to enemies without too much difficulty, for which you'll be mightily grateful in the heat of the regular battles.Combat is simple but satisfying, although people who cover their eyes during Casualty may be unhappy with the amount of claret spilt. If you tire of putting the undead to the sword, there is a comprehensive sidequest. By offering the right gift to the right person, you can get money and weapon upgrades.  Onimusha 2 takes the core of the original game and adds a number of improvements. What more could you ask for in a sequel? (GH)Ratchet &amp; ClankPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Insomniac/Sony	****Well-executed platform games invariably chalk up huge sales, as the genre is one of the few that has almost universal appeal, particularly for casual gamers. But Sony has not had a big-hitting platform game since the days of Crash Bandicoot. Ratchet &amp; Clank   fills that gap in its portfolio very impressively, however.It's a very polished effort indeed, which stars Ratchet, an anthropomorphic cat, and Clank, a tiny robot who sits like a rucksack on his back. Ratchet is a mechanic, whose enormous spanner functions as weapon and puzzle-solving implement. Clank, meanwhile, adds various abilities, such as hovering and gliding, and, because he is a robot, can tackle solo missions in space. Ratchet &amp; Clank's gameplay is a judicious mix of typical platform-style jumping, solving puzzles and dispatching enemies.By collecting nuts and bolts, Ratchet can buy new weapons and ammunition. The game is glued together by the best video sequences seen in a game since Munch's Oddysee. It brims with quirky, off-beat humour, with an excellent storyline about   the evil Chairman Drek assembling a new planet from chunks of other planets, and avoids platform game problems such as unhelpful camera-work. All in all, a triumph - albeit one you will have to wait for until November. (SB)The Sims UnleashedPC £19.99 Maxis/EA ****The release of a new Sims expansion pack has become as regular as changing      the clocks or the latest voyeuristic reality TV offering. Unleashed is the fifth in the hugely successful virtual dollhouse      series, where you build and maintain a family home, catering for all the needs of your occupants, from entertainment to      hygiene.This particular expansion revolves around the central premise that your sim family can now buy and look after pets. These range from cats and dogs to more exotic offerings such as turtles and iguanas, who will all need to be cared for      properly if you want to maintain a sweet smelling and harmonious household. The pack also introduces gardening, 30 new      community and residential areas, new items and five new career paths.The pets have their own demands and personality. There are realistic touches in the way the animals are animated, and a doting pet will follow his sim everywhere, sleeping next to his bed at night and even staring at the shower while his master takes morning ablutions. The sims expansions have always been games for the fans, rather than designed to attract the notoriously fickle hardcore audience.And since the      packs have always done well, there's no doubt that Unleashed will fly off the shelves. While the packs have differed in      quality and value for money, Unleashed is the best of the bunch, with more genuine innovation and gameplay value. (RP)
Broadband access dominated discussions of IT among the Conservatives at Bournemouth, as it had at both the Liberal Democrat and Labour conferences.However, John Whittingdale, shadow minister for culture, media and sport, had some specific ideas to spice up the discussion, at the parliamentary IT committee fringe meeting on Monday."It's fair to say that local loop unbundling has been a disappointment," said the MP for Maldon &amp; East Chelmsford, referring to the underused process through which rival telecoms firms can install equipment allowing BT exchange users to get fast internet access from another supplier."We've had a very large company with an overwhelming share of the market, network and supply," he said of BT. "I think it's at least worth thinking about whether there is a case for separation.""It's very 1999, John," replied Sandy Walkington, BT's director of public affairs. He said that separating the network and the customer services may have worked reasonably for "non-switched" networks, where the product is homogenous, such as gas or water.But splitting BT in this way was more likely to follow that great success of network-service separation, the railways - except it is even more complicated. And anyway, what about the cable companies? Was it fair that they could continue to own both network and services?Walkington had an equally smart response to Whittingdale's other bright idea, that BT's universal service provision be extended to ADSL broadband."Of course it's got to happen. But who funds it?" Walkington asked, before answering his own question: pension fundholders and BT's 2.5 million individual share holders. Walkington helpfully pointed out that many are Conservatives.The fact that BT's man could so smoothly respond to John Whittingdale's criticisms demonstrates the problems the Tories have in IT: a shortage of new ideas and a lack of experienced people. Whittingdale was moved from trade and industry in the July reshuffle, although he will still be dealing with IT through discussion of the communications bill.The August reshuffle also saw the e-commerce shadow job going to Andrew   Robathan, MP for Blaby. By his own admission, he is still learning about the subject. "It's an exciting brief," he says, expressing concern about the slow introduction of third-generation mobile phone services and, of course, the lack of rural access to broadband.As with John Whittingdale, Robathan represents a rural constituency that lacks access to affordable broadband. "Lutterworth &#91;in his constituency&#93; is starting a campaign, for which I've already registered," he says. "At a time when the countryside is in crisis, it seems   perverse that small rural businesses are not able to access the latest technology."As with his Labour equivalent Stephen Timms, who he describes as "a very decent man", Robathan gets animated by the need to help new technology reach the developing world, as well as the British countryside."A lot of the developing world may be able to jump a lot of things we've been used to, such as the national grid or landlines," he says: when there is little existing infrastructure, it can be cheaper and better to install mobile   networks and renewable energy sources.Back at the meeting, Ian Taylor, minister for technology in the last Conservative government, pointed out ideas that Labour had pinched. "Tony Blair saw my speeches, and has given them at prime ministerial level," he said, pointing out that the sell-off of third generation mobile licences was his idea.However, Mr Taylor expected it to raise &#163;1.5 billion, rather than the &#163;22 billion it brought in. "I wrote to Gordon Brown, saying wouldn't it be a good idea to put 10% back into broadband through bonds?"Instead, Brown used the 3G money to pay back some of the government's long-term debts, and Labour is spending just &#163;30m on experiments in broadband provision. "This government is letting the country down," Taylor said.Given its strength in rural areas, the Conservatives are well placed to fight for rural broadband access. But if BT's shareholders aren't going to pay, that means the taxpayer will. In broadband policy at least, Labour is largely letting the market decide; it is the Conservatives who are talking, at least obliquely, about taxing and spending.
You might not have noticed, but the first third-generation mobile phones were being handed out in the United Kingdom this week, heralding the arrival of a bold new mobile age. Don't worry if you missed the news. You didn't see the multimillion advertising campaign because there wasn't one.Hutchison 3G, the company behind the move, has not been making much of the development. And you're unlikely to see the new phones popping up on the train. Only around 500 handsets will be issued in the UK, to "friends" of the company. They will not pay for the privilege of using 3G, but simply provide feedback on services and their quality.  Those users should see some interesting stuff,    however. Hutchison plans to offer full motion video clips (it owns mobile rights to Premiership football), person-to-person video calls, news and financial information and high-resolution gaming. There will also be some content from partners including the BBC and Emap, the magazine publisher."These are not telephones. They are powerful multimedia handsets that focus on the eye as well as the ear," says Hutchison 3G spokesman Edward Brewster. "There's nothing like 3G on the market at the moment. 3G is fusing together two of the most powerful consumer technologies in history - the internet and the mobile phone." The company also confirmed this week that its brand will be known as "3". But that is as much hype as you will get from Hutchison.Other than that, the message is one of wait and see. "You're not going to see a big bang launch from us this year," says Brewster. "It's a step by step, incremental process for us. You'll see us roll our service out in stages."Why the caution? It's a far cry, after all, from the excitement that accompanied the frenzied bidding war for licences back in 2000. Then, operators splashed out &#163;22bn in the UK - &euro;100bn across Europe - and promised to bring us video, streaming music, m-commerce and networked gaming through a new generation of mobile devices. The answer is that mobile operators, and phone manufacturers, are wrestling with a series of serious problems that have placed a dark cloud over the dawn of 3G services in Europe. Some came buried in the small print of those expensive new licences.As well as paying the huge fees, operators were obliged to use the same technology - a new, untried standard called W-CDMA - to ensure cross-border compatibility.W-CDMA has been plagued with teething troubles. Operators have had to sit on their licences while they conduct experiments to get trial 3G networks to run properly. And it is not about fine-tuning: problems have surrounded such fundamental things as the ability to cope with mobile users who make calls while on the move.Early on, phone calls were being lost as users moved within areas covered by blanket 3G coverage. That was solved, but fears remain about maintaining calls as users move out of the small areas served by the new networks. Today's 2G networks are far more widespread than the new system, and hard-up networks cannot afford to build proper nationwide 3G networks straight away. So handsets will have to handle moving from 3G to 2G, and back again, for some time yet, and do it seamlessly during calls.Thus far, they have struggled to do that. Ben Wood, senior telecoms analyst at Gartner, says Nokia - a big supplier of 3G network equipment and handsets - now has it fixed. "They've told me it is not a problem," he says. But, publicly, Nokia is staying coy about any breakthrough. At the launch in Helsinki of their first 3G handset two weeks ago, senior Nokia executives refused to confirm they had the seamless switching issue resolved.The problem could explain the long wait for its new phone to go on sale. Adding to the concerns, battery life has turned out to be much shorter for the new phones. They boast colour screens and more powerful innards, both of which run down batteries very quickly. That frustration is already being blamed for the disappointing 3G launch in Japan. There, NTT DoCoMo's Foma service, also based on the W-CDMA standard, has managed to sign up only 134,000 users in its first year - against an expectation of 1.38m users by next April.Batteries last just 55 hours on a charge - against 460 hours for 2G handsets - and data speeds are much lower than early 3G hype promised. Worse still, there is a rising threat from new, previously unseen technology: the Wi-Fi 802.11b wireless standard. It is bringing data services at far higher speeds than 3G, at a fraction of the cost, albeit only to "hotspots" of coverage such as airports and hotel lobbies."This is going to be a very tough two years while 3G is deployed," says Ben Wood. "They &#91;the networks&#93; need 3G to deliver the goods - GPRS has been a big letdown, and 3G will deliver what 2.5G &#91;services such as GPRS&#93; should have been delivering."Expectations have to be managed, and only now is the industry starting to face reality as regards what these services can offer," he adds. "Nokia were quite honest in saying their phone would work at around 128kbps &#91;against 56kbps for a standard fixed telephone modem&#93;  and not saying 'here's a 2Mbps phone', which I think is what they would have done two years ago. The problem for me, however, is that I still want to see it working."But even if working technology were available for the public to see today, it would still be unclear as to what we - the customers - would use it for. It is assumed we will leap at video teleconferencing, news and sport video clips and gaming. But, according to one commentator, the technological struggle has overshadowed the big issue of what services to sell to customers, and how 3G is marketed."I think the real damage of 3G has not been the obvious financial damage, or the reputational damage," Richard Kramer, managing director of London-based Arete Research, told the UMTS Congress, a 3G trade show, last week in Paris. "It has been the distraction away from just delivering all the potential - tiny bits and pieces that ordinary people want in their everyday lives - to the customers that we have."I think we've all gone down a technology rat hole, and lost sight of what is staring us in the face." Kramer says the wrong people were in charge of the mobile networks: "They are being run by investment bankers when mass market retailers should be brought in."He is urging the industry to start exploring more imaginative ways to sell services. "Let's imagine 3G did not exist," he says. "We would all be thinking about how to get MMS &#91;multimedia messaging&#93; into the hands of as close to 100% of our customers as we could, and figure out how to get every snippet of content - every family photo, you name it - out to those people on a regular basis."If we just imagine for a second that 3G was never invented, we'd all be sitting here discussing what is, I'm sure everyone would agree, an enormous business opportunity."Kramer's suggestion that the mobile giants have taken their eye off the ball is certainly backed by statistics showing how much consumers are spending on their mobile phone services. Research company EMC has found that, at the very time networks want us to be spending more, the average revenue per user around the world is falling. In June last year it sat at US$32 per month; this June it was $28. It's an alarming trend, and one that has likely helped to prompt pleas from some operators across Europe to delay, or even abandon, the rollout of their 3G networks.Spanish operators are even asking for a refund of their licence deposits. Huge hopes are being pinned on multimedia messaging to bring the average revenue back up again, and pave the way for other more advanced services. The mobile industry is slowly moving to selling services, rather than a technology. At the UTMS Congress, chairman Thomas Sidenbladh was attempting a rallying cry for his beleaguered industry."They say the 3G industry has no future, that 3G plans should be shelved at   once," said Sidenbladh of the technology's growing band of critics. "They say there is no demand for multimedia services," he continued, "but this is a very brave statement given none of them have seen those services."Remember the railways," he said. "That was seen as a futile exercise, too."Sidenbladh, the Ericsson man who is vice chairman of the UTMS Forum, was doubtless meaning that after initial scepticism about the need for railways, things got much better. A speculative frenzy saw new routes appear rapidly, and the railway became one of the defining technological advances of its age.He and his colleagues would certainly settle for that kind of future for 3G. But it could not have been lost on some in the audience that the railway boom of the mid-19th century also saw hugely over-ambitious plans create a bubble, the bursting of which saw many companies and investors go bankrupt. Some early players were sunk by the costs of building their networks, and only a few big fish survived. Even today, few railway network operators in the world - if any - manage without government subsidy. They will be hoping that only Sidenbladh's intended analogy proves to be apt.Korea shows the waySouth Korea took an early lead in the 3G market by demonstrating video-conferencing phones during the official opening show of the World Cup on May 31. KT Icom, the mobile part of the state-run company formerly known as Korea Telecom, made its point internationally, but this is not what the locals are using. They have a souped-up CDMA2000 service, which, at 144kbps, is three times faster than a 56k (V.90) computer modem - but still some way from the 2Mbps potential of "real" 3G.They are just about to get another interim step, a high-speed data version of CDMA2000 called 1x EV-DO (Evolution - Data Only). The wideband W-CDMA form of 3G is scheduled for a full launch in the second quarter of next year. Three phone companies will have 3G offerings: KT Icom, SK Icom, and LG Telecom.One of Korea's advantages is that it has strong indigenous manufacturers such as Samsung and LG Electronics. For example, LGE is supplying KT Icom with CDMA2000 1x EV-DO networking equipment and is about to launch a very small colour phone with a built-in camera for the service. The government says mobile phone exports have grown by 41.5% this year, and should be worth $10bn in 2002. Samsung Electronics is now the world's third largest handset supplier, after Nokia and Motorola, while LGE is in sixth place. Handsets are already the country's fifth largest export item.To remove "excessive competition", the government has forbidden service operators from subsidising their sale, but sales of handsets have held up surprisingly well.Another of Korea's advantages is that its big phone companies are also profitable enough to be able to invest. The three winning 3G suppliers did not pay unsustainable amounts for spectrum: each paid less than $1bn. British phone companies are paying $34.5bn.Jack SchofieldComments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
First, the good news. The number of Britons who claim to use e-government services jumped by more than a quarter last year. The bad news is that the rise was from 11% to 14%.E-government in the UK is very much a minority activity. An embarrassingly large number of nations do better. Last year, these included not just technocratic Singapore (50% of citizens) and mobile telecom paradise Finland (45%), but Spain (17%), Hungary (18%) and Japan (16%). In fact, according to the publisher of these figures, market research firm Taylor Nelson Sofres, the UK is distinctly in the fourth division when it comes to e-government."The majority of citizens have yet to take up the offer," the company's Susannah Quick said. International comparisons of e-government progress are two a penny these days. Mostly, however, they look at the supply side - the number and sophistication of e-services available. For example, a European Commission benchmarking study of e-government last year counted the availability of only 20 services in each member state.The UK government politely dismissed its resulting poor showing as about as relevant as its ranking in the Eurovision song contest. What makes the Taylor Nelson Sofres figures harder to ignore is that it looks at useage of e-government. The figures quoted are the percentage of people claiming to have used an online government service in the past 12 months.When the question was asked only of internet users, the national rankings were roughly similar, suggesting that low internet take-up is not to blame. Another possibility is that the survey's methodology is flawed - perhaps Britons are less likely than, say, Hungarians, to recall dealings with government. Or perhaps we don't associate some public bodies, like the Office for National Statistics, with being government at all.But it's also possible that the survey is correct, and that Britons really are unusually slow in taking up e-government services. This is a blow to the man in charge of the programme, e-envoy Andrew Pinder, who has repeatedly said that getting people to use e-government is much more important than putting 100% of services online.There is plenty of interna tional evidence to show that an e-service aimed at the right target, and which genuinely makes life easier, will be used by citizens. The City of Stockholm, for example, allows people to apply online for places in secondary schools.Within a year of launching the service, 90% of applicants were using it. No UK e-government service has achieved anything like that level of take-up. What are we doing wrong? According to Quick, the usual barriers are that people don't know e-services are available and they don't trust government with electronic information.This suggests that the government is going to have to work much harder at selling e-services if they are to build a critical mass of users. And another international study published last week suggests another factor. The report, into local e-government initiatives around the world, found that countries approach e-government for very different reasons and achieve different results.Some "national flavours" are almost stereotypes. In the US, for example, the drive is to cut the cost of government, whereas in the Netherlands, the focus is on "community planning and development".Germany's flavour is "secure, controlled access". And Britain? According to a survey published last week by the government's Improvement and Development Agency   and Socitm, an organisation representing local government IT managers, the flavour is "standards, national infrastructure  and support to local government".Perhaps the real reason Britons are so apathetic about e-government is that we make it sound so boring.
An email warning children of a serial rapist was sent out yesterday by Surrey's chief constable, Denis O'Connor.The rapist has attacked nine women - eight in the past three months - in south-east England. His victims include girls of 10 and 12.Detectives are concerned because the rapist has eluded an investigation now employing 200 officers from four forces.He has attacked in daylight, near public areas, and has not been deterred by women walking dogs or riding bicycles.On each occasion, he has grabbed his victim from behind.Mr O'Connor's email has been circulated within the force so officers can forward it to any children they know. The message has also been sent to Surrey county council, secondary schools and youth groups. It says: "In Surrey &#91;the rapist&#93; has committed offences in Epsom, Redhill, and the Woking area."The offender takes considerable risks, attacking his victims on well used public footpaths or common land adjacent to nearby wooded areas, mostly in daylight hours."Police are asking everyone to be vigilant and not put themselves in unnecessary danger by walking alone in the type of locations that the rapist uses."Mr O'Connor said yesterday: "I am aware of the potential for alarm, but feel that I have a duty to give them as much specific information about the offences as possible in order they can take steps to ensure their own personal safety."The rapist is white, aged between 30 and 50, with short dark hair. He is of medium height with a muscular build and tanned skin. Anyone with information should call 0845 601 8109.
At a time when personal digital assistants (PDAs) are morphing into mobile phones (and vice versa), it is particularly difficult to choose what device to buy - especially as you know that whatever you choose will be superseded within months.Six weeks ago, I bit the bullet and purchased a Jornada 928, with (detachable) camera. I followed the golden rule: don't leave the shop until all the settings (especially for GPRS which provides "always on" internet access) are working properly. I went on holiday to France delighted with my choice. The GPRS connection was the best I had experienced, with speedy access to Google and Yahoo mail. I became a convert to Microsoft's Pocket Word, and the "Transcriber" handwriting recognition softward.Pocket Excel worked well, as did the calendar/contacts book, and the easy-to-use camera attachment produced colour pictures of reasonable quality.  The only drawback was its clunkiness when used as a phone, and poor reception unless you used the earphones. But you can't expect everything from a device whose computing power would have needed a building the size of the Albert Hall 40 years ago.Yet it fitted comfortably in my shirt pocket and cost only &#163;450 with camera (on a Vodafone contract). Soon, however, things started happening. The screen froze trying to access the web and a soft reset erased the GPRS settings. Warnings of low battery life kept appearing. Some were false alarms but the battery power was soon insufficient to keep it going for a day even when use was restricted to occasional text messages and phone calls. (It has a claimed life of three hours' talk time or 12 hours' PDA usage.)Back home, the power deteriorated to the stage where I was only switching it on to make calls and then switching it off again.  When I took it back to the shop, they didn't take long to refund my money. I clearly wasn't the only customer with this problem. Shame.One day, it will be a great phone - but by then, it will no longer be one of the first on the block. I have since tried a few others, including the Nokia 7650 camera-phone, the Ericsson T68 and the Treo 270. The T68 is a wonder of miniaturisation. It fits GPRS and Wap (which can download emails), Bluetooth    (short distance wireless), colour, multimedia messaging and Triband into a phone weighing 88g.A tiny camera slots on as an extra. It has rightly become the phone of choice for early adopters. Its main limitations are its small keypads, and lack of Java (for those wanting game downloads from the web).Nokia's 7650, though heavier at 154g because of its built-in phone has a good-sized screen, with much better definition than the T68, and produces fair quality photos that can be sent to a website or to a compatible phone - though inputting the settings can be very tedious. After being unsuccessfully talked through them by Nokia over the phone I was told the phone may be faulty. Navigation is by a tiny thumb-operated joystick which is a joy to use making it easy to use the diary, the best I have come across.It supports Java downloads (untested), though Bluetooth is more limited than the T68. I was impressed by the Treo 180 earlier in the year despite its mono screen and lack of GPRS. This was because it was compact and light enough (147g) to be a PDA and shirt-pocket phone. The new (similar) Treo 270 has colour with a downloadable patch for GRPS.It comes with a tiny qwerty keyboard, which takes some getting used to. But it is good for anyone wanting a phone and PDA in a compact form. It may be worth waiting to see the new range of Pocket-PC devices that look like phones but are also PDAs, weighing less than 100g. But if everyone waited for the phone around the corner, the industry would be in an even worse state than it is now.
Virtual AdaShe calls herself Ada1852. She claims to be the online, laudanum-addicted ghost of Ada Byron Lovelace. In fact, she is a bot (software robot) and virtual museum guide for the digital art magazine, Rhizome.org. Visitors to the site can ask this virtual Ada questions. She replies with oblique answers, and asks her own. She eventually suggests online works of art and provides links to the pieces.Ada was the daughter of the poet Lord Byron, and became Countess of Lovelace. She is often credited with being the first computer programmer, and worked with the engineer Charles Babbage, who developed the idea of the Analytical Engine in 1832-34.Ada1852 is the creation of Christopher Fahey, a New York artist who became    interested in artificial intelligence programs. Finding most of them a little dull, he rewrote one to create a more "complicated" personality. The result is an AI that is both prone to digressions and full of confessions. "What if the   artificial intelligence character had its own story to tell, its own interests and hang ups - just like real people do?" asks Fahey on the site. "What if the AI had an agenda of its own?" As a guide, Ada1852 provides a good introduction to the Rhizome art base, and she's often as engaging as the work she directs you to.Rhizome is five years old, contains more than 700 online works, and has links to many more. Much of the content comes from its community. The site's name refers to plants with underground stems that send out horizontal roots and shoots from its nodes.www.rhizome.org/ada1852Cheap thrills"No frills" airlines are among the most successful businesses on the net. Budget airlines have put great cities such as Gothenburg, Graz and Grenoble on the budget traveller's radar by cutting their costs and selling directly to customers via their websites. There are so many airlines, finding the cheapest fare can be a time-consuming business. But now, a new website allows you to search most of the major budget airlines at once. You simply choose your destination from a menu and it returns the three cheapest fares. You can search by specific date or choose the month you want to fly. It is a simple, no-frills site for no-frills flights.www.skyscanner.netYour voteThe choice of Booker Prize winner usually sets literary tongues wagging. This year, you can have your say by voting online for a "people's choice" that will be announced alongside the judges' choice at next week's prize ceremony. If you simply want to know more about the books, then Guardian Unlimited is offering a special report on this year's competition, including author profiles, book reviews and links.www.bookerprize.co.ukwww.guardian.co.uk/bookerWord clashWhat is the most popular word on the internet? To find out, you could simply search Google, or go to a new French site - in English - that has found an amusing way to compare how many times a given word appears on the world's favourite search engine. All you do is type two keywords and compare the results in a fight. On one level, Google Fight is a bit of fun, but comparing carefully selected words can help reveal the contours of the internet. For example, the word sex - often seen as the most searched for word on the internet - brings up more than 61 million hits on Google, whereas art finds 67m. Jesus proves 14 times more popular than  Mohammed, and Hitler almost three times more notorious than Stalin. Blair is four times more popular than Thatcher. Take that!www.googlefight.comOS RevolutionRevolution OS is a new documentary film about the groups of hackers who rebelled against proprietary software and created the free software movement - Richard Stallman's Free Software Foundation - which eventually led to the "open source" GNU/Linux operating system. The 85-minute film is touring film festivals around the world, but this week, a trailer and the first eight minutes are online. Stallman is featured at the start of the trailer.www.revolution-os.comWhat it's all forAre we so immersed in technologies that we take them for granted? This is the question at a site that reveals how things such as CD players, computers and televisions work, via the use of comic strips.info.web.cern.ch/info/scitech/TopTech/TopTech.htmlBlogarithmSo many blogs, so little time. Now a new service offers to email you when your new postings appear on your favourite weblogs. Strictly for information junkies only.www.blogarithm.comNew &amp; noted&#183;The London Review of Books offers online subscriptions:www.lrb.co.uk&#183;Fun nutrition site for kids:www.coolmeals.co.uk&#183;Listen to spam:spamradio.com/html&#183;Online design maestros Hi-Res! return with their latest site:www.dirtyvegas.com&#183;Create messages for the streets of New York:www.creativetime.org&#183;Trainspotting team returns with Zombie-flick:www.28dayslaterthemovie.comSix of the bestAfter NapsterBlubsterwww.blubster.comLime wirewww.limewire.comGnutellahttp://gnutella.wego.comKaZaAwww.kazaa.comwww.kazaalite.comeDonkeywww.edonkey2000.comThe beat goes onwww.afternapster.com
In the September issue of Red Herring there was a correction. A previous issue had stated that in 2001, the revenue of CentreSpan Communications was $51m. In fact, it was $51,000. This could serve as a metaphor for the fortunes of e-commerce, except that there is no need for metaphors when the facts speak strongly on their own.The correction made to CentreSpan has also been made to the whole dotcom industry in a more brutal way. It was recently announced that the German Neuer market, a stock exchange custom built for hi-tech shares, is to close. The market value of the shares traded there had collapsed by 96% since its peak.Now it is lesson-learning time. The experience of the past two years ought to bury, once and for all, some of the central myths that Eldorado-seeking protagonists shamelessly propagated.The first is that there existed a first mover advantage about which many articles and books, especially in America, were written. The idea was that the world wide web, with its low costs of distribution, was so different from what went before that those who got to the market first and built up a big customer base would triumph. The winner takes all.Tell that to Napster, the system that enabled internet users to swap music files. Once it claimed tens of millions of users: now it has sunk almost without trace. Tell it to Boo.com, Pets.com, eToys, Webvan, Netscape or the myriad fallen idols on both sides of the Atlantic. Tell it to the casualties of the Neuer market, for most of them had one thing in common. They were first movers.Watch out now for the second movers. Whether learning from the mistakes of the    first movers, or simply buying up their bankrupted assets at bargain basement prices, they will eventually clean up. Napster is dead but peer-to-peer is here to stay. What remains unexplained is why web entrepreneurs, and their followers in the media, should have thought the lessons of business history should be re-written for them.Second movers have always had an advantage, otherwise Atari would still dominate computer games, Apple the market for personal digital assistants with hand writing recognition (remember the Newton) and Napster the peer-to-peer world.None of the companies that now dominate the manufacture of personal computers (including Dell, Gateway and Compaq) were first movers.The second big myth of the internet that has been shattered is that it somehow removed the need for the middle-person or intermediary. In fact, in nearly all cases, it merely replaced one intermediary with another and often a more expensive one. The most dramatic example was the US company Webvan. It spent $1.2bn building a new network of warehouses to deliver groceries and other goods that were expected to be ordered on the web. This flopped because the existing business model - where customers drive their own vehicles to supermarkets, carry their goods to the check-out and then drive home - is difficult to undercut.Amazon, one of the great success stories, has yet to earn enough profit to justify its business model. It has been kept afloat by the huge capital sums it raised at the height of the mania. It has become another middleman. With luck it will carry on until book publishers and others get their own system together, or some new peer-to-peer operation springs up to cut out the new middle guy on the block.EBay, the online auction house and Google, the fashionable search engine, are different, because neither is merely repackaging old economy goods. Both offer new services not possible before the internet arrived.EBay takes a commission on operating a peer-to-peer system in which buyers and sellers do the deals among themselves. Google makes real profits by offering free universal access to information. Among other first movers, the online electronic markets for industrial commodities have also come a cropper. But none of this means that the internet has failed.Like all previous phases of revolutionary innovation, it has merely moved from the first stage of creative destruction into stage two - consolidation. Corporations have been transformed by the opportunities of the web by adopting technologies that are appropriate to them.For General Electric of America that means putting all its activities online. For a corner shop in Burnley, it might mean having a website as a notice board. For all the bad news about the web during the past year, it may have escaped notice that online retail sales have increased by 130%. This trend is bound to continue now that easy-to-use online payments systems are arriving, including transactions by mobile phone. Don't go away - the revolution is only just beginning. It's just you won't notice it so much in future.&#183;Comments tofeedback.online@guardian.co.uk
No sooner do you finish a cover on 3G, than the promises startgetting madefor 4G. They say it'll do 100Mb a second by 2010...
It's Thursday, so Online is inside today's Guardian (55p, all good newsagents) oron the web. I'm writing about the faltering roll-out of 3G mobile phones, and Jack updates us on 3G in South Korea, while Rhianna Pratchett writes about the amazing success of The Sims, and Victor Keegan says it's time to bury those internet myths. And there's more...
BugbearI am using Windows XP Pro and Internet Explorer 6. Am I safe against Bugbear? If not, what can I do about it?Frank DwyerJack Schofield replies:You are safe from Bugbear arriving as an email attachment, unless you double-click and run the attachment. Of course, it is never a good idea to run unsolicited attachments, but in any event, (a) don't run any attachments with double filename extensions such as Resume.doc.scr; and (b) don't run any attachments that are 50,688 bytes long. Unfortunately, Windows usually hides file extensions. To see them, go to Windows Explorer, select Tools|Folder Options and click on the tab marked View. Untick the box next to Hide file extensions for known file types.However, users running IE 5 may be at risk unless they installed a Mime security patch that Microsoft issued in March 2001. Searching Google for MS01-020 will find it. But obviously, all Ask Jack readers installed this patch on one of its previous appearances in this column concerning the Nimda, Badtrans and Klez viruses.It is possible for a Bugbear infection to pass unnoticed, so everyone should visit a virus security website to check for the symptoms and, if necessary, download a free removal tool. Examples includeSophosandSymantec. Bugbear does not affect Mac, Unix, Linux or Spectrum users.Wireless homeI would like to have broadband at home. Unfortunately, BT says the cables to my house are more than 3.5km long from the exchange, and Telewest needs to upgrade its equip ment, but has no plans to do so. Liberty Broadband offers wireless broadband at higher, but affordable, cost. Do you have any information on how successful this is, and whether it is likely to be reliable?Andy JenkinsonJS:Liberty Broadband underwent a restructuring this summer, shed staff, and changed its name fromTele2. Its service requires a roof-mounted aerial within sight of the local transmitter.Technically, there is no reason why it should not work, and the website says: "every solution we deliver is covered by a comprehensive Service Level Agreement, guaranteeing 99.9% uptime with pro-active monitoring and support." We have not tried the service, but we would be interested in hearing from readers who have.Ads addedA friend has just pointed out that my emails carry a textual addition reading: "Check out all the latest outrageous email attachments on the Outrageous Email Chart! -http://viral.lycos.co.uk." The website leads to some appalling pornography.I received no warning that this was being attached to   all my out-going emails. How can I ensure such things are never attached again?Jerry GiltrowJS:You cannot stop the people who provide "free" email services from attaching adverts to the bottom of your emails. That is, in essence, their payment. You could add your own "sig" (signature file) saying "Anything below this sig is not my responsibility" or whatever, or switch to a service that adds adverts you do not find objectionable.Windows proI am about to buy a new PC and I would be most obliged if you could give me some idea of the advantages of XP Home over Windows 98, which I use at present.Tony SullivanJS:Windows XP is by far the best choice for a new PC. It is much more robust and reliable: it is based on a proper multi-tasking, multi-user, multi-processor operating system, Windows NT (New Technology), introduced in 1993. The Windows 95/98/Me variants are ultimately based on the shaky foundations of Microsoft MS-DOS, introduced in 1981, and are being phased out. XP is also faster and easier to use. There's a good guide to the features of XP Home on Microsoft's site atwww.microsoft.com/windowsxp. XP Professional is better but much more expensive.XP offI have attempted to install and dual-boot Windows XP and find that my PC's internal modem and soundcard "disappear" and cannot be set up. I have reverted to using Windows 98, which fortunately still appears as an option on booting up.However, I have hit the classic catch-22 of not being able to uninstall XP because I have not registered it, but I am unable to register it on the internet as it can't find my modem. I've tried getting the registration info over the phone from Microsoft but still get the same message.Roger McCarthyJS:Removing Windows XP is a messy business but there is a good guide online atTweak Home PC. Be sure to read Notes 1 and Notes 2 before you start.Backchat&#183;A query from Phil Clarke (September 26) prompted a discussion of cheap ways to    convert documents into Adobe PDF (Portable Document Format) files that preserve the original layout and typefaces. Ian Winship points out that "Adobe offers a free conversion service from various formats into PDF suitable for the occasional user athttp://createpdf.adobe.com".Alan Polak and Jonathan Chong both mention pdf995, a free program that createsPDF files. Phil Coughlin adds that it is also a feature of Serif PagePlus 8 PDF Edition. "If you already have a previous version of PagePlus, you could probably take advantage of the upgrade price of &#163;9.95 (P&amp;P extra)". Finally, Mac users can tryPrintToPDF, a shareware printer driver.
Cod degrees "requiring no tests, classes or books" are offered daily in your junk mail - but logging on to learn is becoming a serious alternative. There was a time when distance learning meant getting up at 5am to see a bearded trainspotter on BBC2 explain molecular biology using a blackboard and chalk. The pain of studying came with none of the redeeming pub-crawls and character-building social stuff.Now, even teeny tots are comfortable logging on at their workstations and some great resources are atDiscoveryand at theBBC site, which has school stuff alongside a handful of leisurely adult courses, including languages and gardening. The Guardian's e-learning website, atwww.learn.co.uk/is another useful resource.Schools' own sites are gathered at theNational Grid for Learning portal, where, under "What are you looking for?" are hundreds of sites for all school ages. Many are kid-friendly brainwork disguised as fun. There are quick multiple-choice type tests that are easy to complete and can be marked by machine.As pupils and teachers demand more interactivity, remote access and curriculum-focused materials, companies are vying to sell their brand through annual or longer-term licences.The Digital Brain,BlackboardandVirtual Campusare private sector initiatives providing media to link pupils and teachers through institutions and educational authorities.Teachers can upload their best classes and contribute to a site tailored to local needs. They can also check if a pupil has looked at the homework text - and even access a record of how long it was perused. The City of Nottingham and London Grid for Learning have adopted Digital Brain as the engine for community-wide educational sites.Individuals are the other big market and busy, homebound adults are natural targets. Atwww.learndirect.co.uk, 750 courses ranging from internet and IT skills to maths and car mechanics are offered, some with an offline component.Video, animation and sound are used to liven up the classes, though some are for PC only. The site is also a handy place to skim 500,000 non-virtual courses across the regions. In the US, Mexico and Catalunya, several universities are wholly virtual but in the UK, virtuality is still an extension of the real thing, aimed mainly at mature students.The cost and complexity of providing educational technologies to service tens of thousands of 18-year-olds has so far beaten the e-dreams of dons and administrators, but there are a number of courses combining new media and traditional printed matter.The Open University is the main player in distance technologies, with 160,000 staff and students online and 178 online-dependent courses. Atwww3.open.ac.ukis a list of broad subject headings that link to everything from day courses to higher degrees.Dean Taylor, the Open University's assistant secretary for technology development and an online tutor, says the benefits of computer-based learning include "electronic asynchronous conferencing - you needn't all be there at the same time - with 100% participation, easy modification and delivery of course materials and stimulating media, such as the CD-Rom we use to model the environment and simulate the effects of acid rain."The university is also looking into programmes based on model answers and an application known as "latent semantic analysis", which screens the words used    in an essay and helps students pre-mark work before submitting it. The OU site hosts theInternational Centre for Distance Learning, a database of 5,000 courses from around the globe, from NVQS certificates to PhDs.Just about all the major UK universities and further education centres are represented. In January,UK eUniversitieslaunches three online postgraduate courses - learning in the connected economy, information technology, and public policy &amp; management - aimed at overseas students who want a British qualification.The UKeU, given &#163;62m by the department for education when David Blunkett was in charge, works as a broker, representing three well-known UK universities with proposals from 53 others being reviewed. How far wires will eventually replace spires is an open question. New technologies have so far been more meaningful in the non-academic areas of administration and fees.Just as OU and the renaming of polytechnics have sought to democratise learning and dissolve the old hierarchies, virtual learning strips brainwork of its traditional trappings - the hall of residence, the quad, the silly clothes and the champagne breakfasts. Loans, housing costs and the sheer volume of undergrads already impact on the teenage dream of leaving home for three years of intelligent fun. Such basic economic factors may hasten the drive by institutions for virtual classes.
You dedicated a book to Id Software?It was A Big Boy Did It And Ran Away, by means of an acknowledgement to the inspiration of the online 3D games. They can all be traced back to Doom and Quake, and, ultimately,Id Software. Counter-Strike is arguably the biggest online game in the world but it's just like Half-Life, which runs on theQuake engine)! I've lost about three years of my life playing Quake! The more I got into online gaming, the more I wanted to explore the subculture that had grown up around it. With A Big Boy..., I created a scenario that would allow me to take the conventions of these games and turn them into a story.Do e-books interest you?Not really. The actual novel or paperback book will remain the unrivalled convenient delivery system for literature. Anyone who talks about e-books replacing the printed word has obviously been reading from the same smudged hymn-sheet as the people who believe there can be a paperless office!Has the literary world anything to fear from file-sharing software?No - for the same reason! When I finish a book, I often email it to certain friends. They always complain about how cumbersome printing it out is compared with handling a book. I don't think we're in danger of having some form of MP3-style file for books just yet!Have you used peer-to-peer?I used Napster a wee bit, for tracking down slightly tipsy nostalgia - downloading an old song from the 80s. I should have more techy stuff linked up but I've spent a lot of money building a hi-fi system, so I'd rather listen to music coming out of that than my computer speakers!Broadband?I wish I could get it. Telewest apparently has a cable running right past my house but I'm on the corner of the street so, according to their plans, I don't exist! For the time being it'sHome Highway. I've been renting for the past six months so I've been stuck with a 56k modem, which is no fun for online gaming_ you're a "high ping whiner"!Chatrooms?I usedICQfairly early. It got annoying as I work from home and a lot of the people I played with worked in the computer industry and clearly didn't have a lot to do! I had to switch it off a lot of the time.Favourite gadgets?I bought aRio MP3 playerfor the gym so I don't have to listen to MTV! In Neal Stephenson's bookSnow Crashthe hero has a pair of glasses that project information on to the retina. If they ever make those, I'll sign up!Favourite sites?www.play.com;www.somethingawful.com;www.blackandwhitearmy.com;www.scottishfootballonline.co.uk/first.Visit:www.brookmyre.co.uk
When the bespectacled gaming entrepreneur Will Wright tentatively announced to Wired magazine in 1994 his plans to build a game based around the architectural creation of an average family home, no one, save perhaps Wright himself, thought that such a game would take off. As the years passed, technology caught up with the dream and, in 2000, that embryo of an idea was released by Wright's development house, Maxis, in the form of The Sims, a real-time strategy game where players created and furnished a house, while looking after the needs of a virtual family.Two years and five expansion packs later, the Sims fran chise has become one of the great gaming success stories, selling more than 17 million copies worldwide, achieving massive praise and yet widely berated by the hardcore gaming community."There was something about seeing those little people walking around on the computer screen," says Maxis software engineer Patrick Barrett, who went on to work on all the Sims titles. "Even with the handful of objects that we had at the start, it was very addictive. I knew when people tried it they'd be addicted. But getting them to try a game like this would be the big challenge because there wasn't really much to compare it to."In fact, the only game that had come close to what the Sims was trying to achieve was Activison's Little Computer People on the Commodore 64 in 1985. Widely recognised as being the first "virtual pet" game, you became the caretaker of a little person inside your computer, whose every need you would have to accommodate. The character would even write letters to players, updating them on their lives or inviting them for a game of cards.For all its addictiveness and innovation, LCP was still marred by the limitations of technology, a problem that would continue to hamper Maxis for many years. Wright's vision of an architecture game was still very much the focus of the Sims through the bulk of its seven-year development process during the 90s. "But explaining to executives that it's all about architecture and actually a game, was very difficult," continues Barrett. "So we started pushing it as a people simulator. A lot of work went into the people and we added a lot more objects. The executives understood the people game a little better, but they still didn't think we could do it."In fact, the game was to undergo an extremely turbulent birth. Forever chugging away in the background of Maxis, sucking away the funds the company had creamed from its extremely successful SimCity series, the Sims often caused friction, not least because of the issue of their bathroom activities. "The toilet was always on the cut list," laughs Barrett. "We kept fighting that one. They wanted it like the Brady Bunch, where there is no toilet!"Eventually, a cursory blurred screen was adopted to preserve the modesty of the sim people and the game was released, amid widespread praise. From then, there was no stopping the Sims. Five expansion packs followed, allowing players to take their families on holiday, on dates, let them throw parties or, in the case of the most recent instalment - Sims Unleashed - own pets.But the initial warm reception failed to last, with claims from hardcore gamers that the bland, all-American ethos of the game had lost all originality and become a continuously milked cash cow for Maxis. "Once you've built a few houses and toyed with some mindless sims, there is very little depth to the actual gameplay," claims Andrew, an 18-year-old student from Manchester who, despite enjoying the original game, is now a vehement anti-Simer.However, with at least three of the top 10 slots in the PC charts regularly occupied by Sims titles, its success obviously hasn't been dampened by such criticisms.Millions of Sims fans are still passionately loyal. "The idea of running a family's life was not the most appealing at first, " admits 24-year-old civil servant and Sims' fan Alan Catlin. "But I was proved wrong. The ability to basically toy with their lives is addictive and I like the fact that ultimate creativity is in the hands of the player."With fans such as Catlin and an online release due for Christmas, the future of the Sims seems assured. Undoubtedly, the games have helped create a huge arena of casual gamers, which will always be a bitter pill for the hardcore gamers to swallow. But for the derision from the gaming elite, the Sims has become a computer game fairytale of how one man's doll's house became a worldwide gaming phenomenon.
With the hot Christmas selling season just weeks away, MP3 personal player manufacturers have been parading their latest models. The company that started it all, SonicBlue, whose Rio player was the first mass-market success, has unveiled two new models, one of which is aimed at sports/fitness enthusiasts.Designed to be strapped to the arm during exercise, the S30S is a small circular player housed in rugged plastic casing. It will play both MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) files that are stored on its internal memory of 64MB. This can be upgraded using MMC Flash memory cards. Other features include a stopwatch and an FM radio   tuner. SonicBlue is also launching the Rio S50, a more conventionally styled player that has 128MB of internal memory, a clock and stopwatch and an FM tuner.Both models will go on sale at the end of next month. Prices haven't been confirmed but the models will sell for $179 (S50) and $149 (S30S) viawww.sonicblue.com.Nike is also making a play for sporty types who like to listen to music while they exercise. The first fruit of a collaboration with Philips, the &#163;129 ACT200 and &#163;179 ACT210 MP3 players are part of a new audio range that also features personal CD players and FM radios. The MP3 players feature 64 and 128MB of storage respectively, are small, circular and apparently splash and shock-proof. They play back both MP3 and WMA files and deliver 10 hours of playback   from one AAA battery. The models go on sale next month.The first MP3 player featuring a new kind of music storage media has just reached the UK. The i-River IDP-100 features the DataPlay storage system. Its trump card is that it offers 250 and 500MB of storage in a small disc (about the size of three 10p pieces stuck together), which retails for around &#163;5-&#163;8 - a fraction of the cost of storage cards such as the Memory Stick and SmartMedia. A re-writeable 500MB DataPlay disc can store up to nine hours of music. The unusually shaped  player is compatible with MP3 and AAC (Advanced Acoustic Coding) music files and playback time is rated as 10 hours from the included rechargeable batteries. More details fromwww.mp3players.co.uk.The same website is also offering one of only a handful of the tiny personal players that have 256MB of storage. Styled like a personal cassette player, the &#163;229 UltraSlim stores MP3 and WMA files and can also be used as a voice recorder. It is one of the few MP3 personals to include an encoder to record music direct from a hi-fi system.Innogear has launched what it is billing as one of the smallest MP3 players. Designed to hang from a key chain, the Duex mp302 is also one of the first players to feature an integrated USB   socket that connects directly to any USB-equipped PC. As most PCs automatically recognise the player as a portable storage device, the Duex mp302 can also be used as a mini hard drive for archiving data, video or image files as well as music.The device will play both MP3 and WMA files, which are stored on its integrated 128MB memory. As it features an integrated microphone, it can also be used for archiving voice files. It is available fromwww.innogear.comfor $179.MP3 has also given the MiniDisc format a new lease of life, with recent personal recorders from Sony and Sharp able to transfer music files from a PC to a mini disc.Alpha Micro has unveiled the MD-Port DG2, a &#163;49.99 interface that enables owners of older MiniDisc personals to save MP3 files on their discs. The unit will also store streamed audio and internet radio tracks as well as standard MP3s. More details fromwww.alphamicro.net.
The long-awaited Microsoft smartphone software, code-namedStinger, will finally make its appearance in anOrange phone, reports CNet. Last year, it looked as thoughSendowould be first with the Z100. Stinger is based on Windows CE/PocketPC software. Incidentally, a smartGeek Newsreader (surprisingly, they aren't all lamers) fished out theFCC reportson the phone.
Microsoft isreducing the levelof copy protection in its Media Center Edition version of Windows XP. This is the version with built-in TiVo-style video recording. The original plan was that users would only be able to play back their recordings of TV programmes and movies on the PC used to record them, which is what the content owners -- Hollywood et al -- want.
A hacker managed to sneak abackdoorinto some copies of the Sendmail code.
Wired Newsreviews Howard Rheingold's Smart Mobs - a book that claims "Mobile communications and pervasive computing technologies, together with social contracts that were never possible before, are already beginning to change the way people meet, mate, work, war, buy, sell, govern and create." War and govern? That's quite a claim. He even goes one step further, and suggests being on time is no longer important to a Japanese youth generation that values connectedness above all.
More than a million households are now using broadband, according to the Telecoms watchdog Oftel. I take my hat off to them. My forays into the world of ADSL have resulted in curses and confusion, rather than an always-on superfast internet link in my own home.Broadband offers an "always-on" connection to the internet which does what it says on the tin - you don't have to spend ages twiddling your thumbs while your computer tries (and in my case, repeatedly fails) to log on to the net. Broadband's other major boon is that it is roughly 10 times faster than a standard internet connection.Hurrah! No more world wide wait, I thought. A couple of months on, and my 56k modem is still doddering along as I try to work out how the hell I am going to reach broadband heaven. I am not alone. The UK's broadband roll-out has been fraught with controversy, confusion, and frustration for web users, as a glance at the numerous forums for angry ADSL customers testify.I'm not exactly a newbie to the net - I've been online since 1993 and I work online. But attempting to plough through the reams of options, advice and equipment offered by the 100 or so companies offering broadband has left me bothered and bewildered.I naively thought that getting broadband would be a simple operation, but potential broadband customers need stamina, perseverance and at least a spare £150 to spend. And even if you have all that, you could fall at the first fence if you live in an area where your telephone exchange has not been broadband-enabled.I went toBT's websiteto check my number. Around 60% of the country is OK - if you're unfortunate enough to be in the other 40%, you can  register your interest in broadband with BT in the hope that a critical mass of residents in your area will push your town up the list of exchanges due to be upgraded first. You can also register your discontent by signing a petition atbroadband4britain.co.ukBut don't get too excited yet. You also need to check that your home is within 3.5 to 5.5km of the exchange; that your computer has the correct specifications (including a USB port and a four-speed CD player), your phone line is suitable or you are using BT services that are compatible with broadband. Confused yet? I know I was.Now you have to choose a broadband supplier. There are many companies willing to provide you with ADSL (ADSL guide has auseful list, offering a myriad of options). Prices range from about £25 and up, depending on the kind of service you're looking for: levels of technical support vary. Many providers also insist on a 12-month contract, which ties you into a year-long commitment for a service you may not be happy with.Most residential users aren't going to want to shell out hundreds of pounds for the full service connection, where an engineer comes to your house to set up your broadband (BT's costs just over £200). Hence the do it yourself option is increasingly popular. But do it yourself means just that - you'll need to buy a new modem or router and microfilters to fit on your phone sockets, which you can either buy as a self-install package from your chosen broadband provider, or buy separately if you go for the line-only option.Broadband could revolutionise my home internet usage. But being an early adopter is still too time-consuming  and expensive, so I am clinging to my weedy 56k connection until the muddied waters clear.
The government's much vaunted plans to wire the nation came a step closer to reality today after the number of households taking broadband connections to the internet passed the 1 million barrier.Telecoms watchdog Oftel revealed that the number of broadband subscribers had trebled since the turn of the year, when BT slashed its wholesale prices. Around 20,000 homes and businesses are being connected every week.The chief executive of BT, Ben Verwaayen, has promised to have 5 million broadband customers in the UK by 2006 and the company embarked recently on a £10m advertising campaign to push the benefits of the technology.Broadband provides an "always on", high speed connection that allows consumers to surf the web 10 times faster than a traditional connection, allowing them to watch high quality video clips and download music."This is great news for the UK. Today's figures show that people are really beginning to appreciate the benefits of broadband," said Stephen Timms, the e-commerce minister."It took five years for the UK to see 1 million people using mobile phones. At this pace the UK is well on its way to being the most extensive and competitive market for broadband in the world," he added.UK Online for Business, the Department of Trade &amp; Industry's partnership between government and industry, has published a broadband guide to coincide with today's announcement, promoting the benefits of broadband for business.US giant AOL has also chosen today to step up the broadband price war, cutting the monthly subscription to its service from £34.99 to £27.99, the same price as BT's 'no frills' service.It hopes it will be able to convince more of its 2 million subscribers to switch to broadband by offering a range of exclusive content, exploiting its ties with AOL Time Warner properties such as Harry Potter, Madonna and The Lord of the Rings."We know from having 2 million members that the majority of UK consumers want more than just a basic broadband internet connection. They want a full range of content, fun entertainment, communication tools, ease of use and quality service in a single simple package," said the AOL UK chief executive, Karen Thomson.The decision to retain its 'walled garden' approach puts AOL directly at odds with BT's 'no frills' service, which offers a direct broadband connection together with links to a variety of partner sites.
Plenty print journalists who maintain weblogs must be tempted to scoop themselves by blogging something before writing about it for their paper. There's a good example of the conundrum in today's Sunday Times, in Danny O'Brien's Virtual Life column.Those of us who read Danny'sweblogas well as his (excellent) column would certainly recognise the subject matter for his piece in the Sunday Times today - it was covered in his blog a few weeks ago. See for yourself - here is this week'scolumn(free registration required), and here are the two blog entries(1)and(2)from last month.It's an interesting problem for those of us who write for a living, but also maintain weblogs that are much better vehicles for rapid fire, instant publishing. What should go where? Should we assume that our weblog's audience is different from our printed readership? Or should the "good stuff" be saved for first use in one particular medium? I know, as a print editor, what I'd want the answer to be - but it's easy to see the temptation for writers as well.
There's plenty of angry reaction to a recent change in the way Google looks at sites, neatly summed up inthis postfrom Mark Pilgrim's diveintomark.org. There are claims the weblogging community has been hit hard, although it seems they could just be collateral damage from Google's attack on the real target, "Google spammers". These are the people who exploit the way Google does it indexing to push irrelevant sites to the top of certain Google searches. The fact that many webloggers indulged in this practice could explain why this community has been particularly hard hit, if that is the case. As far as I know, Onlineblog's position in the Google index remains unchanged.
A devastating new computer virus is causing havoc around the world as it crashes computers, distributes confidential e-mails and steals credit card details.The Bugbear virus is seen by computer safety firms as the most serious bug yet. It began spreading last week and has now reached hundreds of thousands of computers in more than 100 countries. It targets computers used at home that lack updated anti-virus protection. In some instances, the virus activates printers to churn out pages of meaningless text.Bugbear arrives via an email and can be activated even if the user does not open the attached file that comes with the message. The hunt for the programmers behind the virus is now on with attention focusing on Korea or Singapore.'This virus is having a particularly harsh effect on home PC users,' said Paul Wood, an anti-virus manager at the British technology firm MessageLabs. 'People who use computers from home traditionally don't check out the latest viruses very often. Where as they might look at anti-virus websites once a month, they should be checking them every week for the latest news. This hugely increases the chances their machines will get infected. It's why the Bugbear has all the capability of becoming one of the most dangerous viruses of all time.'Wood said other viruses, such as the Love Bug in 2000, which caused billions of pounds of damage worldwide, have tended to peak after infecting one in 30 emails.The Bugbear's rate of spread is already speeding up rapidly. On Thursday, the virus was infecting computers at a rate of one email in 200. By Friday afternoon, it was one in 160.One infected user, Mathew White, 32, said the Bugbear virus rendered his computer useless. 'It sent my printer mad,' he said. 'It was printing out reams of junk and there was no way of stopping it. It also meant I couldn't email anyone either. Basically, everything stopped.'Computers can be easily equipped to detect viruses. A weekly check on websites such aswww.symantec.comusually indicates what new viruses are targeting computer users. A downloadable programme - called a patch - normally helps the computer to detect new viruses before they are received.
Hundreds of thousands of computer users faced dire warnings yesterday about the potential effects of the latest email-borne virus to spread itself rapidly round the world.As propogation of the virus, named BugBear, accelerated, experts said the outbreak was likely to be the biggest computer security threat of the year. Bugbear has been difficult to contain because it uses sophisticated techniques to disguise itself, coming with any of more than 50 headings.The British virus filtering firm MessageLabs intercepted more than 80,000 infected emails yesterday alone, compared with about 40,000 on Thursday. Users in more than 100 countries had been infected, with Britain, the US and Australia suffering most.BugBear, which is thought to have originated in Malaysia, embeds itself in a computer and attempts to disable anti-virus protection. It then has the power to log users' keystrokes, potentially sending confidential information such as passwords and credit card details back to the virus writer.It is also able to open up backdoor ports on the computer, which could allow hackers to access it, and can transmit itself on to other machines using the victim's email account and address book.MessageLabs set up infected computers to "listen" for attempts by hackers to scan cyberspace for machines with the security hole but found nothing.Critics of the anti-virus industry accuse some companies of exaggerating outbreaks to market their security products. BugBear's main impact so far has been minor and nothing compared with the havoc caused by previous viruses such as the Love Bug.
Grunge band Nirvana's hotly anticipated greatest hits album is being released two weeks early due to fears that stolen copies are about to be posted on the internet, where they can be illegally downloaded by fans.The album, entitled Nirvana, was to have gone on sale around November 12, but it will now come out on October 28.The recording company, Universal Music, is being forced to rush what may be one of the biggest albums of the year into the shops within three weeks of its release being announced.Earlier this year Universal was forced to bring forward the release of Eminem's latest album after copies leaked on to the net and dealers began selling pirate CD versions for &#163;5.A slump in CD sales this year is being blamed largely on the proliferation of internet piracy. Last week leading singers including Eminem, Britney Spears, Madonna and Missy Elliott joined a big advertising campaign to stop online piracy.The Nirvana album was only given the go ahead this week, following settlement of a long-term legal dispute between Courtney Love, widow of the band's lead singer Kurt Cobain, and the surviving members of the band, Dave Grohl and Krist Novoselic.Courtney Love agreed a deal permitting the release of a CD featuring the last recording Cobain made before his death, entitled You Know You're Right. She also settled a dispute with Universal that has freed up her band, Hole, to record again.Grohl and Novoselic wanted to release a greatest hits package to coincide with the 10th anniversary of the group's seminal album Nevermind.Cobain committed suicide in 1994.
An email virus that opens up credit card and banking details to potential hackers while deleting computer security software continued its rapid worldwide spread today.Bugbear, a mass mailing worm, appears in a user's inbox with randomly chosen subject headings, making it difficult to identify.The attachments have double file name extensions that end in .exe, .scr, or .pif. For users with email systems older than Windows Outlook 6, simply reading the message, without opening the attachment, will infect a machine."Bugbear is a double-edged worm which spreads by sending itself in emails and by copying itself around a network," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos Anti-Virus.  "In this respect, it is much like Klez and Elkern, which are the chart-topping viruses of 2002."Anti-virus firm Messagelabs said it has stopped 130,000 infected emails since the virus first appeared, traced from a PC in Malaysia on September 29.The virus is spreading most rapidly in the Asia/Pacific region, particularly Australia and New Zealand. Messagelabs said the rate of infection in the UK has continued to increase. Yesterday the company stopped 35,000 infected emails; by 11am today it had already stopped 21,000.The virus logs all keystrokes and stores them in a file on the user's PC, meaning a hacker could find passwords, bank or credit card details and personal information by accessing the file.However, the virus's writer has coded Bugbear to ensure the file is accessible only to those with specific knowledge of the virus, said Messagelabs."We've seen no evidence of anyone trying to search the internet for Bugbear-infected PCs," said Alex Shipp, an anti-virus technologist at Messagelabs. "But anti-virus researchers have reverse-engineered Bugbear and found out how to exploit it, so there's no saying others could not do the same thing."Bugbear also seeks out and destroys computer security software, leaving users vulnerable to all other viruses as well.The virus exploits a flaw in the Microsoft Windows operating systems. Bugbear contains it own email engine, so it can infect and spread from machines not running Microsoft Outlook.Home users infected with Bugbear should contact their anti-virus software provider and download the necessary protection. As Bugbear deletes personal firewalls and anti-virus software, users need to protect against Bugbear first before re-installing the anti-virus package.Most home users fail to install updates to their anti-virus software in time to protect against the latest bugs, in this case Bugbear. However, Mr Shipp encouraged home users who find the updating process confusing to consider switching to an internet service provider (ISP) that gives anti-virus protection."Most home users aren't technology experts, and most viruses come from the internet, so you should be looking to your ISP to give you protection," he said. "It will cost £1 to £2 a month extra, so you have to be prepared to pay for protection."
The rise and fall of music download site Napster, which brought the music industry to its knees and made a star of its young founder Shawn Fanning, is to be turned into a film.MTV has confirmed it plans to make the film, having acquired the exclusive rights to the life story of Mr Fanning, who created Napster on a laptop in his uncle's house when still a 19-year-old student.Alex Winter, who starred in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure with Keanu Reeves, has been signed up to direct the film and MTV said Mr Fanning may play himself.The service, dubbed Napster after his own nickname, became an overnight success attracting over 60 million users at its peak and sparking a revolution in online music.But the controversial site was loathed by the major record labels, which launched a high profile court case aimed at stopping fans downloading free music.After a long spell offline, it ultimately collapsed earlier this year under the weight of its legal battles and is currently being sold in the bankruptcy court.Mr Fanning became something of a star in his own right, appearing on the cover of Time magazine and being characterised as the epitome of the dotcom era's entrepreneurial spirit.Earlier this week restructuring expert Hobey Truesdell was named the trustee in the Napster bankruptcy.The song-swapping service recently fetched an estimated £7m bid from an undisclosed bidder after German media giant Bertelsmann, a former investor in the service, had been banned from acquiring the assets by a US court.
A year is a long time in executive pay. Twelve months ago the top echelons of the directors' pay league were dominated by dotcom businessmen who had cashed in on the new economy bubble.Their rewards were far larger than the &#163;9m earned by this year's top chief executive Bart Becht; last year Martin Read of software group Logica took home &#163;27m.This year Mr Read is nowhere to be seen. Logica has declined so far and so fast that it is no longer even in the FTSE 100 club of the country's most valuable companies.Colt Telecom and the cable company Telewest, top payers last year, have also fallen out of the FTSE 100. Telewest - whose chief executive Tony Illsley took home &#163;5.8m in 2001 - is now little more than a penny share after teetering on the edge of bankruptcy.Colt was bailed out by its biggest shareholder and this week cut more jobs, in stark contrast to last year, when its chief executive Paul Chisholm earned &#163;6.6m.There are a few survivors from last year's survey. This year's number one earner, Bart Becht of Reckitt Benckiser was in sixth place last year. Others to retain a top ten ranking are Lord Browne of BP, Sir Christopher Gent of Vodafone and Jean-Pierre Garnier of GlaxoSmithKline.Among this year's debut appearances are Stanley Fink, chief executive of Man Group, a commodity broking firm that has been transformed into a fund management operation. George Iacobescu of the once bankrupt Canary Wharf features, along with Sir Terry Leahy who is turning Tesco into an international retailers.The public-private partnership is also generating huge personal fortunes. Four executives from Capita, which runs projects ranging from the criminal records bureau to London's planned congestion charging, took home almost &#163;11m between them last year.Among the highest paid chairman, Charles Allen of Granada Media stands out as a survivor. Mr Allen took home &#163;2.6m this year - half of which is his basic salary. He is now associated with presiding over the demise of ITV Digital and firing his chief executive Steve Morrison, who was also in the top earners league last year. However, there are still Granada Media executives earning more than &#163;1m in this year's survey.Financial services companies continue to keep their places as the top payers, particularly Royal Bank of Scotland, Amvescap, Schroders HSBC and Barclays.A number of executives escape the scope of the survey this year who would otherwise have been prominent. The most notable are the Marconi executives who took a &#163;35bn stock market giant and turned it into a company which fails to make the list of the country's 250 biggest. As such they are not included in this year's analysis.Its chief executive Lord Simpson and finance director John Mayo, architects of the ambitious transformation which backfired, left the company with a combined &#163;3.7m.Such payoffs are still one of the most contentious issues in the City. Shareholders object to "rewards for failure" but companies have so far been reluctant to challenge water-tight contracts in court.
Tablet hype?If the predictions of Forrester Research's Frank Gillet regarding the Tablet PC are anything to go by (Keep taking the tablets, Online September 26) the parties involved are in for a shock. The majority of the fundamental technologies involved are not new, so only the practical benefits of being able to make notes and handwrite directly on to screen are of any immediate advantage. Anything else is hyperbole.The majority of the case examples given were somewhat woolly, to say the least. How many students struggling on pitiful loans will splash out a grand and a half on a device that, overall, is of less use to them than a traditional &#163;800 PC? And where is the advantage for a company with accurate data stores to regress to the pen and paper approach? How does one catalogue or search such inherently freeform data?Most worrying to me, however, was the suggestion that we might all start writing emails with tablet PCs and then send the handwritten version as the message. The notion of email where the attachment  is the message I find even more ghastly than the proliferation of HTML messages which we see today.I'm left wondering if Bill Gates has borrowed Steve Jobs' reality distortion field if he really does think that the Tablet PC will be the best-selling type of PC on the market in five years' time. I can't personally see how, in a world where the majority of new PC purchases are now replacements/upgrades, in global economic recession, we will suddenly find all that extra money to be buying such devices. Does he think we're all as rich as him?Ben Darlowben@kapowaz.netMuch missedNice feature on tablets, but what about the eMate? Beautiful, award-winning design, an indestructible green box that was allegedly for school kids but actually worked really well for all of us. It had an OK pen system, plus the nicest keyboard of any notebook. And then Apple abandoned i ... bastards!Julian Lewisjlewremote@yahoo.co.ukNot neededJack Schofield's piece on the new Tablet PC perfectly illustrated the foibles of the IT industry. While this new product is undoubtedly exciting, the question should always be, how can IT do the best job for yourself or your business? The latest technology is not always needed. You don't always need to be an early adopter. Remember, when the Americans spent millions developing a ballpoint pen that wrote in space, the Russians simply turned to something they had already: the pencil.Ben JohnsonMD, Satsumas.comben.johnson@satsumas.comOpera showRe All present and correct (Business Solutions, September 26): you missed a presentation tool some readers may find useful. The "third browser",Opera, has implemented an innovative part of the World Wide Web Consortium's cascading style sheets (CSS) standard: support for a "Projection mode". This means that any web page can be turned into a presentation by adding a few simple lines of CSS, and run as a presenta tion in Opera's Full Screen mode. It means that if your presentation content is a web page already, it is very simple to turn it into a presentation. Alternatively, after creating a presentation, the content can be published on any website straightaway.Hallvord Reiarhallvors@online.noAn ethical ISPYou have been discussing green issues, and some of the suggested websites have been extremely helpful. However, I have a query I can't find an answer to anywhere.I signed on with the care4free internet service provider but have found it has ceased to pay any money over to my charity of choice, as it did to begin with.Is there any other ISP that is ethically and environmentally friendly, cooperative, charitable or in any way preferable to the usual run of ISPs? Can anyone help me? I use other services such as the Phone Co-op when using the internet: but no one has been able to tell me about an alternative ISP.Susan Gibbsc.gibb@care4free.netEuro wrongRe the Working the Web on Genealogy (Online, September 26), you refer to the costs of subscribing to Ancestry.co. uk in pounds sterling, but they are actually in euros.  I quote from their website: "Unlimited access to the complete collection is available to subscribers for 69.95 euro as an annual subscription or 29.95 euro as a quarterly subscription."I do not know the current rate of exchange, but these figures will obviously be lower when quoted in sterling.I find it bizarre that a site aimed mainly at British users should give its fees in euros.Chris Driverkit@fengspace.co.uk
Super Mario SunshineGameCube £39.99 Nintendo *****He's back. After a six-year wait, and a host of golfing, karting and      tennis-based offshoots, Mario is finally back doing what he does best - platform jumping. But this time, the rotund plumber      has some new tricks up his sleeves, most noticeably a water-spraying backpack that lets Mario clean up the island he finds      himself trapped on.This water pump provides many of the game's best moments as you jump, bounce and climb your way      around a gorgeous environment. Your main task is to collect objects called Shines, and it's how you do this that is so much      fun. Whether it's riding dinosaur chum Yoshi or battling baddies on a rollercoaster, the action always seems fresh.The      bright, primary colour-based graphics help, too, with an enchanting style that makes it look like an interactive cartoon.      Despite the cheery visuals, the game is not easy, and getting hold of all 120 Shines will tax even the most committed Mario      veteran. Some of the levels stray too close to "throw controller out of window" territory, and then there is the erratic      camera.Considering the version on Mario 64 was perfect, the camera here does its best to make the challenge even harder,      pulling away at the wrong moments and veering unhelpfully. Luckily, manual intervention with the joypad makes it calm down      and you'll soon be concentrating on the sublime gameplay again. It isn't the 3D revolution that Mario 64 was, but Super Mario      Sunshine is just as enjoyable and reason alone to buy a Gamecube. (GH)Frontline AttackPC 	&#163;29.99 Zuxxez/Eidos 	****Although king of several genres, Eidos has yet to conquer the realtime strategy (RTS) brigade. Frontline Attack may not change that but, in many respects, it is one of the more polished RTS's of the year. Taking its model from Sudden Strike, Frontline is a second world war game of soldiers and tactics. Base-building plays only a small part in the game's four military campaigns.It is presumably included to make the skirmish and multiplayerlevels more exciting.  Frontline has full 3D maps, easy point-and-click gameplay and a wicked line in AI. Even at the easiest difficulty setting, the enemy will swarm all over you, usually while you are struggling to get your base up and running. This is especially true of its ability to locate and control resource points (mines, factories etc) far more quickly than you.As more resources mean a larger pot of money from which to build new units and structures, the early part of each level becomes a mad scramble for territory. The AI also seems immune to the trick of luring armies of enemy soldiers into the same trap, although it displays an alarming reluctance to deploy air-strikes.  In fairness, the four single-player campaigns are too short and too similar to compete with the big boys in this genre. However, Frontline includes a map editor and throws a further 15 skirmish levels at you, allowing you to fine-tune tactics. All in all, an ambitious, fun game, and far superior to Sudden Strike 2. (MA)TimeSplitters 2PS2/Xbox/ GameCube £39.99 Free Radical/Eidos ****The first TimeSplitters generated an enormous      amount of credibility for Sony: it arrived during the first wave of PlayStation 2 games and proved that first-person      shoot-'em-ups could work on the PS2.Created by the team that made the legendary GoldenEye, it was technically excellent      but flawed: a short development cycle left the single-player side of the game flimsy, although in multiplayer mode it shone.      This time around, Free Radical has had time to create a compelling single-player experience, and has adapted the game for      the full set of next-generation consoles, proving that the GameCube, too, is not incompatible with first-person shooters.TimeSplitters 2, like its predecessor, is devoid of nonsense: action prevails. Free Radical has eschewed a storyline in favour      of pastiche. Thus, one level, set in Notre Dame, casts you as a friend of Quasimodo, another blatantly pastiches Halo, while      a third brings together Metal Gear Solid and Blade Runner. Only Halo, aided by the ability to network Xboxes and play      cooperatively, offers a better console multiplayer FPS experience. While not quite the all-time classic that is GoldenEye, it      is still a must buy. (SB)
The British recording industry today launches its latest attempt to stem the flood of consumers who are abandoning the legitimate CD market and turning to pirate internet services to download music for free.Rocked by plummeting global sales and the growing realisation that previous anti-piracy efforts have proved woefully inadequate, labels and distributors will try to tempt back customers with an initiative dubbed the "biggest ever official giveaway of digital music".Digital Download Day, masterminded by the rock musician Peter Gabriel's distribution company OD2, will today offer consumers &#163;5 worth of free downloads from one of five official music sites.More than 100,000 tracks will be available, ranging from Elvis and Coldplay to Kylie and Gareth Gates.For &#163;5, users will be able to listen to 500 tracks online, download 50 tracks on to their hard disk or burn five tracks on to a CD.The launch of the scheme illustrates the depth of concern in the industry about the threat to sales posed by file sharing services such as Kazaa and Bear Share, which allow music and other files to be swapped between computers.Digital piracy has hit hardest in the US, the world's biggest music market.The British market has bucked the global trend and shown slight growth, but even here the first signs of crisis are emerging.Music sales in Britain fell by more than 15% in the second   quarter of this year, according to the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), the trade body, which described the outlook as gloomy.While attempts to establish a market in legitimate music download sites have failed, the illicit sites have continued to rack up millions of customers.A report by the independent consultants OC&amp;C earlier this year found that almost 3 million people were logging on to free file swapping services at any one time. In contrast, legitimate downloads brought in only about $1m (&#163;660,000) last year.But yesterday the backers of the scheme insisted it would succeed. Gabriel said: "It is time for the record industry to come out fighting. This heralds the end of the beginning for the digital music industry as we move out of the pirate stage and into something more workable."Charles Grimsdale, chairman of OD2, said consumers could be convinced to pay for music they could get for free elsewhere if they could be shown it was more convenient and of a higher quality."File sharing services are becoming more and more time consuming to use, it's getting more and more difficult to find the recording you really want. We have to offer a better service."He said that it had taken so long for a scheme such as this to come along because labels had been reluctant to release their catalogues.Andrew Yeates, director general of the BPI, also welcomed the move."Put simply, paying for music has to be a better option than stealing it. Any initiative that helps create that atmosphere is to be welcomed," he said.The latest initiative also represents a change of tack by the industry, which had concentrated its anti-piracy efforts on setting their lawyers on the offending music sites in   an attempt to put them out of business.Stuart Rowe, HMV's e-commerce director, said cracking down on pirate services was not enough. "It's increasingly apparent that along with the stick we need to offer a carrot so that over time we develop a new culture where music consumers come to recognise the value of paid-for downloads and don't automatically expect to get them for free."Victims of the digital piratesTop pirated artists of last year, according to BPI1S Club 7LabelPolydorWith three number one singles and the release of their third   album, Sunshine,the group proved irresistible to the predominantly teenage download market2David BowieLabelColumbiaThe release of a compilation CD followed by a new studio album made Bowie by far the most in-demand   serious rock artist on the file swapping sites3Britney SpearsLabelJiveThe princess of pop also dominates the US pirate download market. Her single I'm a Slave 4U was downloaded 200,000 times from one service alone before its official release
Forget Snake, the mobile phone game, new games based on Java could be wriggling through the airwaves to a phone near you. Orange and Vodafone plan to launch Java downloadable games this month; O2 and T-Mobile already offer them.Instead of just playing the games that come with your handset, you can download new ones created with the Java programming language.  Orange is going a step further and offering a mobile that is halfway to being a games machine.The Sagem my G-5 has a cross-shaped key like those on games consoles for moving quickly around the screen, 3D colour graphics and polyphonic sound. As a result, games such as Mission 3D, the first mobile game reminiscent of Doom draw the player in much more.By contrast, Kung Fu Legend has graphics in the style of a miniature Sonic the Hedgehog. The Sagem my G-5 will be &#163;39.99 for Orange contract customers and &#163;149.99 for those on pay- as-you go, while the games themselves will cost &#163;1.50 for several levels. Additional levels will be another 50p.Titles will include Roller Kid, a roller-blading game, IF Racing for would-be Grand Prix drivers, Football Fans and Malibu Ride (manoeuvring a jet ski) as well as the usual arcade-style games. It will also be possible to download the games on to monochrome Java handsets such as the Nokia 3410.The simplicity of finding and downloading games varies according to the handset. On the my G-5, you press down the 9 key. You will then be presented with a list of games. Choose one to get a screenshot and description of the game. Select "download" to be told how much it costs, click on "Yes" and, after three or four minutes, you will be able to play the game.On some handsets, it can be difficult to find the game again once you have downloaded it. For example, on a Nokia Java handset such as the 3410, there are several menu options for games where you might think games would be stored.  Tim Raby, head of games at 02, says 86,000 users on its network began to use Nokia 3410 Java phones in the first three weeks following the launch of the O2 Games Arcade in September.Of these, 12%, or 10,700, downloaded 50,000 games. O2 users with Java phones can reach the games arcade by pressing and holding down the 0 key.  This gives a choice of 14 games to download, though this will increase to 20-40 over time. 02 will start charging &#163;1.50 per game later this month, so now is the time to experiment. By next year, it hopes to be generating &#163;2m a month gross from Java downloads.You can keep the games for 30 days and the data charge for downloading costs around 30p. Games, including Boarder Fun (steering a snowboarder through obstacles), are free on    rival network T-Mobile, though it charges around &euro;1-&euro;3 in Germany, where 10,000 Java games a month are bought from T-Mobile Online. It plans to charge from &#163;1 to &#163;2.50 in the UK plus about 30p for the downloading.But shopping around for Java games is not nearly as easy as shopping around for ringtones. According to James Kaye, games manager at Orange: "That's because though the Java language is a standard, it hasn't been optimised for mobile games and each mobile handset is different; some have vibration, some colour, some different screen sizes and so on."He says: "Our users can't download Java games from third parties at present because we're worried about them corrupting their phones." Even a Virgin Mobile user, theoretically on the same network as a T-Mobile one, cannot download Java games from the T-Mobile portal.Jennifer King, of T-Mobile Online, says: "This is because T-Mobile won't be able to recognise what handset is being used and therefore be able to provide an optimised version of the game."Virgin says it will offer Java downloads next year, though it is possible for its customers with Java phones to get them from third-party sites. It warns, though, that this is for the technically minded. Lars Vestergaard, head of wireless research at analysts IDC, says: "The Java market is screaming for some kind of compatibility. But this will improve and, by 2006, all new mobiles will be equipped for Java." So that's a lot more people who will be able to play Crazy Cobra, Java's own take on Snake.&#183;For more information on mobile games see:www.online.t-mobile.co.ukwww.orange-today.co.uk/fungameswww.vizzavi.co.uk/mobile/vizzavi_mobile/games.jspwww.02.co.uk
Poverus questTimeHunt is a high-class treasure hunt on the theme of time, and "a real-life quest into the story of Michael Poverus, a little-known alchemist we have been researching for a number of years," according to Danny Kodicek, Head of Clues. It features 144 interactive pages with clues set by a wide range of contributors including Terry Pratchett, Sir Martin Rees, Germaine Greer, Douglas Hofstadter and Steven Pinker. Some of the money to finance all this came from the European Commission's media programme. It's a beautiful site and the loading animations are entertaining. To play the game, you click on the sun and log in. However, at that point I was foxed by a "Network problem: could not establish connection" message and left without a clue.www.timehunt.comBig drawOn Saturday, the Victoria and Albert Museum in London is holding an event to kick off Big Draw, the third national campaign to get people drawing. More than 3,000 turned up for last year's opener at the British Museum. The Ulster Museum, Belfast, the National Museum, Cardiff, the Royal Museum, Edinburgh and others are also participating in Big Draw Week, October 16-23. The website includes materials for people who want to hold events, while collaborator AccessArt has resources for older students and "lifelong learners".www.drawingpower.org.ukwww.accessart.org.uk/drawingTurn TurnerTate Britain has put Turner's gallery online - the 19 x 55ft one he had at home. The display consists of two 360-degree panoramas that you can scroll around. Clicking on the pictures on the wall brings up a small image of the chosen picture and a caption. The panoramas were created in Cinema 4D by BT Openworld's production studio.www.tate.org.uk/britain/turner/gallery.htmGooNewsGoogle has greatly expanded the test version of its news service and put a link to it on the front page. It now has many more sources - 4,000 of them - and an archive, though the top stories are usually only a few hours old. Click on one of the "related" links attached to each story and you get the choice of multiple versions. It is impressive, considering the whole thing is untouched by human hand. Google's automated news-processing software identifies related stories and prioritises them, instead of using a newsroom full of journalists.http://news.google.comMarsWorld Space Week starts tomorrow, and the Mars Society is pondering the big issue: what should the first human say when taking that dramatic first step on to the surface of the red planet? On the evidence so far, your suggestions are needed, desperately. Meanwhile, I hope to start my training by flying a flying saucer. Not only is The Levitator amazingly realistic, it really flies - with the help of its Glow in the Dark Warp Drive Generator, some helium and a frisbee-like flip. Unlike the space industry's multi-billion dollar knock-offs, you can also use it as a cushion if you get tired.www.newmars.com/firstwordswww.thelevitator.comThe poopThe Moviepooper site now gives away the endings of 645 films - ideal if you fell asleep before the end, or like   to use knowing how it turns out as a substitute for actually watching it. And it all started with a Usenet newsgroup posting in June 1995...www.moviepooper.comNew HopeBob Hope, who celebrated his 99th birthday in May, has been given an unusual tribute: an online exhibition at America's Library of Congress. It's worth a visit just for the scanned images of his huge joke file and excerpts from scripts. Of course, the London-born Hope did a tremendous amount of work for the United Service Organization (USO), entertaining the troops abroad for 50 years. The one thing it's short of is multimedia, but the Official Bob Hope Enterprises home page sells videos and DVDs, or you could just turn on your TV.www.loc.gov/exhibits/bobhopewww.bobhope.comHear hereWebListen reckons it has been pioneering pay-per-hear music on the web since 1998, but its site was in Spanish. There's now an English version with a free download of Suede's Positivity.www.weblisten.com/enNew &amp; noted&#183;Chamber of Secrets:http://harrypotter.warnerbros.co.uk&#183;Stupendous second issue:www.liberty-man.com&#183;Now free each week:http://scienceweek.com&#183;The man who writes back to Nigerian scammers:www.axiusnews.com/brad-c/directory02.htm&#183;Fire escapes:http://escaperail.comSix of the bestWordworksWorld Wide Wordswww.quinion.com/wordsColloquialismswww.peevish.co.uk/slangEnglish sayingswww.rootsweb.com/~genepool/sayings.htmOrigins of phraseshttp://members.aol.com/MorelandC/Phrases.htmThe Word Detectivewww.word-detective.comLinkshttp://pw1.netcom.com/~rlederer/rllink.htm
Blogging liiiive from Paris today, where the world's third generation mobile geeks and suits are gathering to discuss something along the lines of "how the hell do we get this to work, then?" No answers yet, although early on some entertaining press bashing has seen the media blamed for over-hyping Wap, and being over-sceptical about 3G. There is no talk about TV ads that used to say "surf the net - surf the BT Cellnet" to advertise... ahem... Wap. And don't mention those billions spent on licenses, whatever you do.
Today's Online is nowon the web, including the interesting tale of how a community living far from conventional broadband connections plan to bring fast internet access to their villages themselves, using WiFi (802.11) kit.
Media playWhat is a codec? My father has asked me if installing IE6 will allow him to view them.Pete HamptonJack Schofield replies:A codec is a coder/decoder used to compress analogue video or music into digital files. You need to install the same type of codec to play a file on a personal computer as was used to encode it. For example, if you want to play DivX 5-encoded movies in the AVI file format, you have to download the DivX 5 codec. Windows Media Player (not Internet Explorer) downloads codecs from the Microsoft site automatically, if they are there.You can find out which codecs were used to encode an AVI by right-clicking the file, selecting Properties, and clicking the Summary tab. Audio and video codecs are listed separately. You can also find out which codecs are installed on a PC. Go to Start| Settings|Control Panel and select Sounds and Multimedia. Next, go to the tab for devices and double-click the entry for Video Compression Codecs. Of course, double-clicking a movie file is the simplest way to find out whether you can play it or not. Seewww.moviecodec.com.The powerI'm doing a project in PowerPoint which includes a DivX movie, but I am not sure if the PC used to present it will have a DivX decompressor installed. Would it be best to convert it into a normal M Peg movie file? Is there away to do that? ZZJS:In theory you can convert an AVI file encoded with DivX to another codec usingVirtualDub, which is free. In VirtualDub, go to Video|Compression to select the codec you    wish to use. (Note: having a codec that plays back a certain type of video file does not mean you will be able to encode with it.) In this case, however, you could be better off using Windows Media Tools to convert to ASF (Advanced Streaming Format). Seewww.soniacoleman.comfor a tutorial.Usually, I avoid ASF as it is a Microsoft-owned format. However, if you are using Microsoft Windows to make a presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint, ASF is versatile and convenient. Microsoft also offers Presentation Broadcasting software that enables you to webcast a PowerPoint 2000 presentation - including slides, audio and video of the presenter - and capture it as an ASF file that can be played from a CD. Seehttp://quick ones.org/?276Multi-homeWhen using Internet Explorer, the user can select the home page. But can multiple screens be opened to give, say, four screens viewable at the same time, where each of the four screens can be different URLs?Bruce Murchiewww.xeniumsolutions.co.ukJS:Use4uses JavaScript to open four separate home pages at once for you, and that is probably the simplest solution.Smart Explorerwill also open four home pages at once.Bold readWhen unread emails arrive in the Outlook Express Inbox, they appear bold. For some reason, they often "unbold" themselves without having been read first, and sometimes get missed.Andrew M Mc DonaldsonJS:Outlook Express is often set up to mark a message as having been read if you have previewed it for, say, five seconds. The setting is under Tools|Options|Read. You could either increase the number of seconds or untick the box.Name hidingI often receive emails where the To: name reads "Undisclosed Recipients". How is this done?Bruce Murchiewww.xeniumsolutions.co.ukJS:Some mail programs seem to do this automatically if you leave the To: field blank, and put all the recipients' addresses in the BCC: (blind carbon copy) field. This does not seem to work with Outlook Express. One alternative is to address the email to yourself and type in or change the name used to Undisclosed Recipients.About.comhas a longer explanation: see &lt;a href="./ http://quickones.org/?275. In Outlook Express, you will need to select View|All Headers to see the BCC: field."Let or not?BThe Zone Alarm firewall continually asks if MMOD.EXE can have access to the net. Should I allow it and, if not, what does this program do? What about LUCOM SERVER.EXE? Is this another problem?David PrestageJS:My guess is that you have Ezula's Top Text installed. If you read this web page, it will detect it, and you may want to use Ad-aware to remove it:www.whirlywiryweb.com/q/ezula.asp. However, LuComServer.exe is Norton Live Update. If you are paying for a Symantec anti-virus product then you would usually want to allow it access to update its virus signatures.Backchat* Last week, Jon Myer was apprehensive about downloading the Windows XP Service Pack 1, knowing his ISP would cut him off before the download was finished. John Harrison says: "I had exactly the same problem but found that the Windows site is smart enough to restart the download where the cut-off occurred. I found it best to break the download manually at 1 hour 55 minutes (say) and    then restart it, rather than waiting for my ISP to break the connection." Alexander Royle also found the download resumed without problems.* Margaret Hung was looking for a cheap notebook PC for her daughter. Paul Norris says "Dabs.com always seem to have good offers." Last weekend, the cheapest IBM ThinkPad R31 in its Clearance Corner was &#163;769.63. David Evans adds: "You can buy good secondhand notebooks from computer fairs from about &#163;250. Most will have at least a three-month guarantee."* Phil Clarke wanted to retain the formatting of his Word documents - he uses unusual fonts - and I suggested he embed them in his doc files. Harold Stern says: "Surely the use of Adobe's PDF is the real solution." PDF was designed as a Portable Document Format, but the free Adobe reader is clunky, and you need software to create PDF files. Harold uses what is now called Jaws PDF Creator, which costs &#163;70 plus VAT (seewww.jawspdf.com/pdf_creator). A cheaper alternative, at $49.95, isFine Print's PDF Factory.
Four years ago, when I started recommending Google, people thought I was mad. Fortunately, the conversion time puts other movements or religions to shame. If you can just get someone to type a word into Google's search box then, within a tenth of a second, they are usually convinced.Right from the time it was a research project, at http://google.stanford.edu, Google has been supreme at delivering great results with one-and two-word searches. Google will happily find 10 million hits - which an information scientist might consider a disaster - but it doesn't matter, because the dozen hits you want are usually on the first page. Indeed, Google has an I'm Feeling Lucky button, which takes you straight to the top site.With Google as my home page, I've largely abandoned the ancient art of guessing website addresses or URLs (uniform resource locators). The quickest route to Marks &amp; Spencer, the Liberal Democrats, Scientific American, The Louvre and millions of other sites is to type the name into Google.But it isn't perfect. Sometimes you have to work at getting what you want.Google has added several options that limit the size of the search universe. For example, you can search only for images, or only Usenet newsgroups. Click on Advanced Search, and at the bottom of the page, you will find specialised selections.The Advanced Search panel also shows how to construct your own advanced searches. For example, type in a phrase, hit enter, and you will see it appear in the search box inside quotation marks, such as "Close but no cigar". From now on, you no longer need to use the Advanced Search page for this: just enter a name or phrase in the normal way, but inside quotation marks.You need to quote the words because otherwise Google will simply ignore the common ones, which are on almost every page. The other way to make sure words are included is to put a plus sign in front: love +in +a cold climate. To remove unwanted hits, add in a minus sign.Google even lets you select the type of file you want to search, and the site you want to search. For example, has anyone used the phrase "chilling effect" in a Word document on Microsoft's site? You can use the Advanced Search panel or type in the search phrase: "chilling effect" site:microsoft.com filetype:docThe site: command is a useful way of searching. It also   allows you to search groups of sites, countries and domains. For example, site:.org and site:.co.uk.You don't even have to search the whole page. Google will find text that is in the title (allintitle: football), or in the web address (allinurl: football), or in links to the page (allinanchor: football), and so on.Not every bit of Google syntax is easily found. However, more information has become available thanks to the unveiling of Google's API (applications programming interface), and the efforts of professional searchers and writers such as Tara Calishain and the readers of herResearchBuzznewsletter and website. That's where I learned about Google's phonebook: syntax, and its variants. She says: "rphonebook: finds residential listings, while bphonebook: finds business listings. Run the search rphonebook:sears ma and then the search bphonebook:sears ma and you'll see what I mean." Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be a way of searching for UK phone numbers.American users can also get maps. "Put in the street address and city and Google will connect you to a map that also provides detailed directions to that location from any other address you specify," says Professor David Sumner from Ball State University, Indiana.The Google API allows anyone to write programs and create web pages that search Google's database. For example, Calishain has written GooFresh, which searches pages Google has indexed recently. The address for that and some other sites she has suggested can be found below.Finally, a tip from Craig Branson, online director of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. I thought I'd abandoned Boolean searching forever, but he reminds me there is still a place for the OR operand. Searching for (cat OR cats), or (dog OR dogs) - the OR must be in capitals - helps overcome one of Google's weaknesses, the lack of "stemming" (finding all versions of a particular word, eg cat*). It may also be useful when searching for geographical information, for example: (Florence OR Firenze).And if you want to know more, then you know what to do. Just go to Google and type Google search tips in the box.API toolsGAPS Proximity searching:www.staggernation.com/cgi-bin/gaps.cgiGoogle by mailwww.capescience.com/googleGooFresh - recent pageswww.researchbuzz.com/toolbox/goofresh.shtmlelgooG - mirror searchwww.alltooflat.com/geeky/elgoog
Will we be seeing more government coming online?We've got a commitment to get all government services online by the end of 2005. We're at about 54% of services currently online and by the end of the year, that figure will be over 70%.There have been some problems with some of the government sites?There have been some fairly well publicised problems with sites such as the1901 Census sitebut theUK Online sitehas been extremely successful. The only problem was when more than 700,000 people tried to access theIraqi dossierwithin the first 24 hours, which is 20 times the site's normal volume of traffic!Online voting?In May last year, we ran a series of pilots with the local authority by-elections in places such as Sheffield and Liverpool, where we had voting via computer and text-message. The intention is to run another round of pilots this coming year to learn further lessons. So, not only am I in favour of it, but I'm sure it's well on its way. The technology is certainly there.Broadband Britain?We did a lot of work last year with theBroadband Stakeholder Groupand they came up with an action plan that we responded very positively to. Out of that came a &#163;30m broadband fund, administered by the DTI, to try and get some innovative broadband projects. One of the most encouraging things is that BT has finally got their act together. Their competitors have responded well, also.What about those who can't get broadband?The rural/urban divide is a real issue where broadband is concerned. We need farmers and others involved in the countryside to have access to broadband to diversify their activities.3G?A few weeks ago, I was in Japan where they have 2 1/2G. We're told that because of the size of Japanese homes, people aren't that keen on PCs taking up valuable space, so they tend to rely onDoCoMoand other technologists who fill the gap. I think it will be massive here as content becomes available - it's content that matters.Favourite gadgets?I have aBluetooth iPaqand one of the smallSony Vaio laptops. I'm absolutely up for a device that's linked into theGood Pub Guideso I know where the nearest decent pub is! That said, some car manufacturers are looking at how you might download updated software into the engine management systems, but I'm not sure I want Jaguar to be upgrading my gearbox technology while I'm driving it!Favourite sites?www.bbc.co.uk,www.friendsreunited.co.uk,www.amazon.co.uk,www.trailfinders.co.uk.Visit:www.e-envoy.gov.uk&amp;www.ukonline.gov.uk
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:In a speech to the Labour conference in Blackpool this week, Tony Blair urged his party to face up to radical reform of public services, defending the private finance initiative as the only way to revitalise education and the NHS. But will PFI survive the opposition of the unions? What do you think?Pashmina:who is edwin curryBronco:hes john majors boyfrendPashmina:john major was gay??Host_Chris2:Edwina Currie is a womanBronco:dont think so mate. lookin at a picture right nowPashmina:aint she the egg ladyHost_Chris2:well done, Pashmina - your grasp of political history surprises meBronco:never herd of herHost_Chris2:but I must steer you back to the actual topic: PFIPashmina:she ate like 50 eggs*capitalistpiglet has entered the NewsRoom*capitalistpiglet:hi from Blackpool!Bronco:no that was lucky lukePashmina:hi piglet is you on holidaycapitalistpiglet:no im at the labour party conference with an NUS delegation lobbying for wider access to higher educationPashmina:is it sunnyHost_Chris2:you are uniquely positioned to comment on today's topic, capitalistpiglet. What's the mood on PFI now?Bronco:hes trying to get new a-levelscapitalistpiglet:no my a-levels were fine. I just started at Oxford.Pashmina:oxford well done piglet!!Host_Chris2:congratulations. Which college?capitalistpiglet:BrasenoseBronco:brasenose. LOLPashmina:u must be the 1st of this chatroom 2 go 2 univercity. so proud!Bronco:lol @ "brasenose"Host_Chris2:I have a double first in classicsPashmina:u dont countHost_Chris2:from CambridgeBronco:you done well for urself Chris2*LaddeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*LaddeezMan:roomPashmina:hi LadeezMan why the extra dLaddeezMan:I typed too fast when I re-registered. Now im stuck w itBronco:u r a "laddeezman" just like john majorcapitalistpiglet:oh my god!!! Alan Milburn just asked me to pass him a napkin!!!LaddeezMan:shut upHost_Chris2:would someone like to ask capitalistpiglet a question?Bronco:still lol @ brasenosePashmina:piglet: how many eggs did edina curry eatcapitalistpiglet:I can see Robin Cook's dandruff from here!LaddeezMan:I know 50Bronco:oops I just brased me nose. lol&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
The last day in August saw a glorious moment in the history of North Devon Cricket Club. Having wiped the carpet with Axminster, North Devon were confirmed as champions of A Division. This may not matter much to you. However, I spent most of my childhood in the village of Instow, where North Devon's finest cricketers strut their stuff at a pretty little seaside ground where a six can end up on the beach, and I was quietly chuffed.The result didn't make the national news, but the ability to find such nuggets is one of the beauties of the networked age. Multinationals may promote the web as a way of bringing the world together, but it's also the perfect medium for eccentric local information, such as the news atwww.devoncricket.co.uk.Except, something's been nagging at me. How much    genuinely useful local information is out there? And is it easier to find out about your locale if you live in the technocratic city? Without claiming to be too scientific, how better to find out than take three different kinds of places - Instow, Shepherds Bush, London, where I resided for several years, and Bedminster in south Bristol where I now live - and compare my real-world knowledge with what I can find on the web?For some hard facts, start atUpMyStreet. Here, you'll find information on property prices, schools, local crime, council tax rates and even ambulance response times. A site that aggregates statistics and links, it's a great starting point if you're thinking about moving to a new area. All you do is key in the postcode of where you'd like to investigate - go to the postcode finder atwww.royalmail.comif you're not sure about those all-impor  tant numbers and letters - and away you go.However, as the site warns, it's important to treat the information with caution. According to UpMyStreet, a terraced house in Bedminster sells for &#163;99,290; but this is a figure based on Land Registry statistics from a few months ago and simply doesn't tally with the higher numbers in the windows of local estate agents. It may be best to check again in November, when figures for July-September reach the site. Housing prices, though, only tell part of the story about an area. What about getting the real flavour of a new place?In the case of Instow, look no further than the Instow Resort Webpage atwww.instow.net. Here, you'll find a local map, information on a variety of local businesses such as hotels and restaurants, and dates for village events. It all adds up to a tidy little web presence for a tidy little village. And a modest village, seeing as I can find barely a reference to David Shepherd, Test umpire and arguably Instow's most famous son.The web situation for Shepherds Bush isn't so neat. Nevertheless, one of the first sites you come to with aGooglesearch is theGreenside Residents Action Group, a lively community site dedicated to providing a forum for those who live and/or work in Shepherds Bush.The site also has an excellent links page, which, in a novel twist, mostly ignores the web in favour of email addresses for local councillors and phone numbers for council helplines.  And, because life's not all serious, check out the gig listings at theEmpire; mutter defiantly as local sideQueens Park Rangersfall ever further behind west London rivals Chelsea and Fulham; and, for information on shops and restaurants, try the local listings atwww.shepherdsbush.org.uk.With Bedminster, things are more difficult. An inner-city area of Bristol in the midst of gentrification, there's no one-stop site for information. Of those sites I did find, the community site This Is Southville atwww.southville.org.uk(Southville is the area of Bristol adjoining Bedminster) has the most local feel, but it's full of broken links. Tellingly, the situation with Bristol as a whole is much better.First, go to the Bristol City Council website atwww.bristol-city.gov.uk. Alternatively, put in a little surfing time and you'll find excellent Bristol websites for everything from social businesses such as cooperatives (Social Economy Bristol atwww.socialeconomybristol.org.uk; through to local media (start with the BBC atwww.bbc.co.uk/bristol; andBristol Zoo, a site with plenty of interactive elements).Go to the Bristol Index atwww.bristolindex.co.ukfor a list of Bristol-related links. What are we to make of this? Poor Bedminster? Here's another way to view things: Bristolian civic pride is largely centred on the city itself, and it's a small enough conurbation for websites to aspire to covering the whole of Bristol. Perhaps the first thing to find out before trying to get local information on the web is a simple one: don't just rely on physical maps, find out where residents think they live before you begin searching.
Unlike his predecessor, the new e-commerce minister Stephen Timms does not face much of a learning curve to fit into his new role.Timms worked for IT analyst Ovum and consultancy firm Logica for a total of 15 years, before becoming an MP. He wrote that broadband was "no longer a pipe-dream" - back in 1987.But away from the discussions on broadband, he points out that there are plenty of other issues that need his attention. "There are genuine security concerns which need to be addressed," he says, referring to the strengthening of laws threatening online privacy. "But the economic imperative is to promote the take-up of new technology, not hamper it."Timms says that civil servants in the Department of Trade and Industry and the Home Office are thrashing out the controversial proposals to allow more than 1,000 state-sector bodies access to traffic data, such as email headers and phone bills. These plans were withdrawn for reworking by the home secretary, David Blunkett, earlier this year, following an outcry. "I'm confident we'll find a way through," says Timms.He is similarly confident of a resolution to the drawn-out discussions on an internet service provider (ISP) code of conduct, which will set how long ISPs keep your email headers and website logs.Protecting IT from potentially over-tight surveillance is part of his job: appointed a minister in May, he says Tony   Blair told him to ensure e-commerce realises its economic potential.However, Timms is also   interested in its social potential. In a section on his web-site headed Christian Socialism, he says that politics can learn from Christianity and other faiths. And this goes for IT, too. "There are some interesting crossovers," he says, in the way that technology firms are starting to consider the greater good.He mentions a training project for the disadvantaged in east London, and the annual Byte Night event, where he recently joined 130 other industry figures, sleeping rough to raise money for charity.Timms is also involved in work by the Department for International Development, which aims to transfer technology to the developing world, particularly Africa. With this, morality and economic benefit coincide, he reckons."There's been a huge surge in employment in the IT industry in Bangalore," he   says of India's technology city, including work outsourced from the UK. "We're also in a position where we have the smallest number of unemployed people in the UK for 27 years. It's in our interests to have strong trading partners. There's clearly anxiety about jobs going overseas, but new jobs and opportunities will be created."To return to broadband, Timms is particularly interested in the model of mesh wireless, where users become part of the network, extending its reach further than a single base sta tion could manage. "You would obviously need somewhere as a hub for the backhaul with a high capacity," he says, reverting to the techno-speak of his former employment.But it's a good illustration of the new e-commerce minister's interest in community spirit with a technological twist.
