How Time Warner grew into the world's largest media company is as much a story of the development of mass-communications as it is of one company.The hero of the first chapters of the story is Henry R Luce. As a young man in 1923, he and Britan Hadden borrowed some money from family and friends to found Time Inc, a company Luce boasted would revolutionise the world and end information overload for the majority of Americans.In many ways the magazine was the first 'portal'. Newspapers of the time were compendiums of information, including shipping schedules, stock prices, transcripts of political speeches and reports of accidents and fires which, Luce said, no one had the time or patience to sift through.  Time would publish snippets of news, with interpretation and a focus on personalities.The magazine, derided as yellow journalism by critics, was an astonishing success. Business leaders became popular, prompting the creation of  Fortune in 1930. Portable cameras and developments in printing allowed for the introduction in 1936 of  Life , the first magazine devoted to photojournalism.From there it was a straight march through the rest of the century's revolutions in communication. Time Inc pioneered radio news with 'The March of Time', followed by newsreels shown in cinemas.As sales of  Life began to decline with TV in the 1950s, Time bought TV and radio stations in order to reach an even wider audience. As the corporation grew, its original mainspring,  Time, became less   important, at least to the company's profits.It practically invented cable TV, a service that went public with the broadcast of the Ali-Frazier fight in Manila in 1975.But it became the pre-eminent US media giant in 1989, when it merged with Steven Ross's Warner. Warner was an operator of funeral parlours and parking lots that had, 20 years earlier, bought Warner Brothers, the movie studio and cartoon empire founded by Jack Warner in 1923.By the mid-1990s, when the company acquired Ted Turner's Turner Broadcasting, Time Warner had become the world's largest media company.Its music holdings controlled more than 20 per cent of the global music industry; its cable holdings were wired to more than 20 per cent of American homes; its magazines reached 120 million readers a month; and its film studio was one of the most profitable in Hollywood.But over the past few years Time Warner seemed at a loss as the old media began to give way to the new. Its share price lagged and chief executive Gerald Levin was criticised for failing to embrace the coming changes. The deal with AOL has transformed Levin, and the company.What would Luce, who died in 1976, have thought? He always resented the fact that newsreels had supplanted magazines and harboured misgivings about technological change. 'My heart is in print,' he said.
'Five years ago AOL was providing farmers in the American Midwest with email. Now it's taking over the world's largest diversified media company.' That was the awe-inspired view of one City analyst last week.Founded in 1982 in Vienna, Virginia, AOL started life as part of Control Video Corp. The founders had high hopes for CVC becoming a major online games and services provider for the likes of Apple and Tandy. The idea failed to take off and in 1991, under new CEO Steve Case, then 32, AOL split from CVC. The following year AOL, with 150,000 users and $20 million in revenue, went public.In her book aol.com, Kara Swisher says Microsoft boss Bill Gates told Case in 1993: 'I can buy 20 per cent of you or I can buy all of you. Or I can go into this business myself and bury you.'Case started an aggressive marketing campaign to sign up thousands more users. The company launched a mass-mailing campaign, sending out 250 million free software disks to consumers. By the middle of 1994, AOL had a million users.Soon it was struggling to match demand, and acquired the nickname 'America On Hold'. Users started switching to other, cheaper, providers. So desperate was AOL to stop the exodus that, according to Swisher, it considered launching an adult channel. The offer of refunds to disgruntled users helped avert potential lawsuits.In October 1996, when AOL had more than 6 million users, the company's fortunes really started to change. It tore up its business model and introduced unlimited Internet use in return for a monthly flat fee. Usage tripled from 1.5 million hours a day to 4.5 million.In 1997, with nearly 8 mil lion users, AOL was able to buy its old rival, CompuServe. Two years later it bought Netscape for $10bn. Then came an alliance with Sun Microsystems which gave the company a new earnings stream - it can now help firms develop e-commerce strategies by offering 'end-to-end services'.AOL is also hell-bent on riding the mobile phone-driven 'm-business' wave and, under the banner 'AOL Everywhere', is now ensuring that its online services will be found in everything from mobile phones to palm-top devices.Today AOL offers access to the Internet in 15 countries and has 20 million members in the US. CompuServe brought it another 2.2 million users, while AOL Europe, its joint venture with Bertelsmann of Germany, started in 1995, adding another 3.4 million members.The company now has 12,000 employees, and last year made a profit - unusual for an Internet company - of $762m, on revenue of $4.8bn.Perhaps more important than the revenue AOL has established in less than a decade is the way it has established its brand, the most vital commodity in cyberspace when it comes to encouraging loyalty from the notoriously fickle Internet community.Henry Blodget, Merrill Lynch's stellar-rated Internet analyst, has likened AOL to Coke. 'People like the leading brands better. And they are willing - no, eager - to pay more for this preference.'After last week's news, take this sentiment and multiply it by a million.
Having broached the subject of the fabulous new 'ignorance economy' last week, I was gratified to see a full working demonstration in operation over the past five days.No one would disagree that potentially the world's largest merger between the former cowpoke network, AOL, and the grand old man of media, Time Warner, is by many measures a great deal. Especially if you are AOL chief executive Steve Case and have turned a volatile and speculative market capitalisation into something more solid. But the fact that the valuations of both companies' shares have danced up and down like a dog at a fair since the deal was announced underlines that, even in the Wall Street Universe of Masters, there is plenty of uncertainty on the meaning of life.In London we love to dwell on these glamorous deals without a backward glance at how they might affect our own businesses.Plenty of previous alliances - such as Disney ABC and the recent CBS/Viacom tie-up - have failed to register even a flicker in the corporate world, let alone change the output of our media or intrude on our tight and largely parochial set of mini-moguls. But the sudden realisation that - duh - dot.com-mad valuations can be leveraged with a bit of muck and sweat into real cashflow and old media has sent shares in London completely haywire.On Friday, BSkyB's share price took off like a rocket - rising 15 per cent or so to over 1200p. Panting along in its wake was EMI - the music company has leapt from 564p after millennium weekend to 690p as the market figured that a dot.com is as likely to buy a music publisher as   another music company would be. And then there is the miraculous Pearson, which has streaked from 1700p on 7 January to 2141p at the end of last week. Everywhere the story is the same - it's the Time Warner effect.Ask the wiseheads of our communications businesses what they make of it and the response is optimistic but less hysterical. Sir Martin Sorrell, the only Brit who actually runs a global communications business from London would say it's more of the same - Americanisation rather than globalisation - and another step towards the converged world we have expected for some time. Marjorie Scardino, a non-exec director of AOL and an exemplar in media management at Pearson through her combination of focus and investment, takes the view: 'It's not whether we are "old" or "new" media or "online" or "offline" that matters; it's how we use our content across all channels that will make us winners.'And of course the eventual beauty of the Internet is that it offers one platform for everything - apart from the paper through your door, for those who still like a crossword on the bus.And this is why Bill Gates is retiring from running   Microsoft back into a life of writing code. (What does it say about a man of unimaginable wealth that his personal ambition, having stepped back from the tumult of day-to-day business, is to spend more time with his computer? It's either sad or sweet). Retreating into the 'technology' side of his business is Gates shorthand for cracking the code to a new kingdom, probably television, by designing software which will eventually be as ubiquitous on our TV sets as Windows is on the PC.What every media and communications boardroom in the country is fretting about is whether they are big enough and whether they are Net-friendly enough. The truth is that none of their directors can really answer that for sure. And just to spread the uncertainty, in every Internet boardroom in the country directors are worrying what sort of deals they need to do with the 'old media' laggards to ginger up their content. Only the cynical would be sitting back and excitedly waiting for Freeserve to make a bid.But while it is easy to get swept up in the romance of a world in motion, there is still one factor largely overlooked. And that is just who will pay for these new romances? The Internet might reduce a burden of fixed cost when it comes to pushing telly or print or radio into the homes of consumers, but the jam tomorrow will be what consumers are prepared to pay for their content-rich existence. The explosion of disposable income will melt like a sundae on St Kitts once world economies take a downturn.For every leap in the share price of a media company there must, at some point, be an advertiser or a customer who eventually pays just a bit more for their football or FT. It is a long way away from the heady deal-making of investment banks, but this will be the battleground where the new economy really meets the old.Useful linksAOLTime WarnerPearsonMicrosoft
Here is the vision, or the nightmare: one single mega-corp, an American giant, which delivers down its cable, to your own home, every intellectual morsel (it thinks) you need - the films, sit-coms and documentaries it has made; the news it makes; the information and e-mail services it controls; the chat-rooms it monitors; the celebrities it has made famous. Enough moving pictures and words to last a thousand lifetimes.This is the fantasy of total control, the dream of domination, that has allowed the world's largest ever merger last week, the coming-together of Time Warner, with its world news from CNN, its 5,700 films, its Time publishing empire, and 120 million magazine readers, its TV shows such as  Friends  and  ER  and its cable channels; and America Online, the world's biggest Internet provider.To understand quite what these corporate giants are up to, you need to remember that super-fast cable links will make what we now call the Internet seem as limited as the first hand-cranked telephones now look in the world of mobile telephony. Before long, you will not only be able to carry the Internet around with you on handsets, but your home will be able to receive huge quantities of films and words through high-speed cable or broadband links, 24 hours a day. There will be no need to hook up, no wait, no dial tone.Thus, within days of the new century beginning, some of the most familiar cultural divisions of the twentieth century already look as if they are starting to blur, to fuzz at the edges. Telephone companies? Television? Radio networks? News companies? Entertainment companies? The Internet itself, as a separate thing? All these categories are swimming into one another through the logic of corporate mergers and the tech nologies of voice recognition, broadband, faster cable and webcasting.Before you feel your head swim, recall that this is therefore, above all, a political matter. The super-company will be able, in theory, to offer you a kind of complete media bubble, an all-in-one service that anticipates your preferences and gives you what you want, when you want it. Or what you think you want. For this is extraordinary power and, if this capitalist fantasy was realised, it would only start with news and entertainment. Your provider of laughter and of glimpses at the outside world would soon become your banker, or a good friend of your banker. Its advertisers would be your suppliers.Its world-view would, no doubt, look varied - even the Murdoch empire, running from Bart Simpson to William Rees-Mogg, is pretty eclectic in style. For the new super-company, there would be no aggressive ban on other sources of infotainment. There would be no need. Its perpetual household bubble would be just thick enough to make it a bother to go elsewhere. The convenience of a single huge supplier, a hypermarket of the imagination, and the cross-promotion that allows, would keep rivals out, huddled in the obscure shacks on the wrong side of the tracks. AOL's Steve Case has virtually admitted as much.Nor should we assume that governments would be alarmed by the emergence of the media/entertainment/commerce super-company. In some ways, politicians would like them for making life simpler. They would be easier to cut deals with. Their products would be sanitised and their political views would be predictable. Already, AOL faces a vociferous hostile alliance (seewww.aolsucks.orgfor instance) accusing it of censorship, a row that became white-hot last September when the company kicked the American Civil Liberties Union off its sites. The more the Net is in the hands of a few giant outfits, the less anarchy, the more control, the easier for political establishments everywhere.This, of course, is the utter negative of the world the Internet pioneers hoped to create, as unlike the original vision as Microsoft's Seattle is unlike the simple farming economy the first Western settlers dreamed of as they jolted down the   Oregon Trail. The Net offered, and still offers, the ideal of individual anti-corporate power, a world-wide wash of free information, serendipity and random friendship.So it is hardly surprising that, after the corporate American back-slapping, thinking America quickly signalled alarm. Consumer groups started talking of 'a giant media and Internet dictatorship'. Writing for the Internet magazine  Salon , the former Netscape employee Jamie Zawinski argued that 'this should worry people in the same way and for the same reasons that the sheer size of the media corporations should worry them. This kind of vertical integration makes it harder for the public to hear anything but the corporate party line...'And Mark Crispin Miller, of New York University, argued bitterly: 'Conflict of interest is now so widespread that the phrase almost has no meaning any longer. AOL will now have every reason to cram its offerings with Time Warner product. AOL will tend to guide us toward sites that feature the latest Warner Brothers release, the TV shows and the movies that Warner Brothers produces...' And another commentator chipped in that 'content may be king, but access to the home is king-maker'.Some readers may be wondering by now how much all this affects them - a column about US corporate mergers attacked by US liberal critics. First, we live in an Atlantic culture. Second, when it comes to the really powerful media influences, Britain's monopoly laws are the monopoly laws that Washington chooses. Here, we have comparatively tiny media companies struggling to merge, to grow from minnows to little trout. Even the BBC is small compared to the killer-pike breeding on Wall Street.But this is not an inevitable 'force of history' event. Every time, so far, that some government, group or company has dreamed of total   control, and every time thinkers have wailed that this is The Future, then The Future has fallen apart. This time, a day after ecstatically hailing the AOL-Time Warner merger as 'a marriage made in heaven', Wall Street stripped $30 billion off the companies' joint value - about a seventh of their value, which is some going for a 24-hour second thought. Why? Partly because companies all have their own cultures, and Time Warner is already a ramshackle empire. Case looked like a tubby, cold-eyed predator in a feeding frenzy as he embraced Gerald Levin of Time Warner. The financial world concurs that, in reality, smaller, junior AOL is devouring the more senior company. But this may be a hard meal to digest: corporate history is littered with takeovers that failed to deliver.Nor have either governments or consumers been quite as easy to manipulate as the control fantasists hoped. Microsoft, which had seemed too big for the ordinary rules, has been stopped in its tracks by government lawyers. Monsanto has been gutted by the consumer revolt across Europe. Murdoch's notorious boast that British national newspapers would soon be reduced to just three titles - the  Times, the  Daily Mail and the  Sun - looks, today, merely quaint.Keeping the Internet open and free matters. The more easy, star-struck capital, and converging technologies allow super-companies to emerge, the more we need democracy to fight for variety and fair markets. And we need it for one reason above all - the single glaring omission in this article so far, the essence without which all the excitement about share prices, mergers, corporate strategy and technological innovation means nothing at all: content. We need variety and danger to get a better, livelier social conversation - in short, to make ourselves more intelligent.We can produce faster, brighter, neater, cheaper ways of delivering pictures and words. But outside science we cannot, it seems, produce any great new stories, works of musical or dramatic genius, fresh social or political thinking or unexpected insights. Our thinking and story-telling are getting as grey and slow as our technology is fast. And so it will stay as long as the corporate giants lumber across our dreams.
Speaking on an American television show yesterday, Bill Gates admitted surprise at the blockbusting merger between the internet service provider America Online and Time Warner earlier this week."Well, I didn't predict it," he said. "I can understand why they did it. It's an absolutely gigantic company, it's a fierce competitor of Microsoft in many areas."Mr Gates was hardly alone in being wrong-footed by the deal, but the man for so long regarded as a visionary in the world of hi-tech may have just found himself facing the malaise of any middle-aged man - losing touch.The combination of AOL, with screens in 20m homes in the US, and Time Warner's almost limitless archives of film, music, television and   print should raise concerns in Seattle.Microsoft has found itself under increasing pressure from younger, more nimble companies, which often seem more able to understand where the market is headed.New stars of the software market include VA Linux, a collaborative, extendable "open source" system that can be downloaded free from the internet, which was created by Linus Torvalds nine years ago when he was 21. Linux saw its shares soar more than 700% on its first day's trading last year, from $30 to $239 (about &#163;147).Red Hat, another rival, trebled its value on its first day's trading and is now worth more than $18bn.As the market has moved away from the traditional PC it has played into the hands of Microsoft's arch-rival Scott   McNealy, chairman of Sun Microsystems.Microsoft also faces renewed competition from Apple, which began to regain ground after its founder, Steve Jobs, returned to the company two years ago. Mr Jobs made Microsoft look out of touch when it introduced style into computers with the polished curves of its iMac.But it is in the internet that Microsoft has been slowest to adapt. It took until last year for the company to drop its mission statement of putting a PC on every desk, but the software market has been moving away for some time.Much of the focus in the near future will be on mobile phones, which are forecast to be the most pervasive method of access to the internet. Again, Microsoft has been slow to react and in this instance has come under   pressure from a British company, Psion. The company owns a third of Symbian, which developed the epoc operating system into a world leader.Mr Gates identified Psion as its most potent threat in a leaked internal memo and in December announced a joint initiative with handset manufacturer Ericsson, causing shares in Psion to fall 40%.Microsoft has also been investing in cable television companies, with an eye on the digital revolution that will bring internet access into the living room. Its 5% stake in NTL appeared to pay off last week when Microsoft software was chosen for the next generation of that company's set-top boxes.Microsoft's advantage is sheer scale and its firepower means it can never be counted out of the action.
Bill Gates, the world's richest man who created the world's most highly valued company, once had a vision that a computer would sit on every office desk. Now his dreams have moved out of the office to encompass every aspect of our daily lives.The man who founded Microsoft 25 years ago announced this week that he was going to step down as chief executive. But few industry rivals or analysts saw his decision to become "chief software architect" and chairman as a sign that the 44-year-old wanted to spend more time with his money. Warren Buffett, the world's best-known investor and mentor to Mr Gates, said: "He certainly couldn't step away from Microsoft - it's his baby."A rival Silicon Valley executive admitted: "The one thing I've learnt in this business is never, ever underestimate Bill Gates. This is a hugely ambitious move for these guys".Mr Gates himself was excited by the prospect of his new job and said he would be devoting just as much to it as   he did to handling the day-to-day responsibilities.The father-of-two looked more like the 13-year-old computer programmer he once was when he said: "I'm returning to what I love most - focusing on technologies for the future." The new job "will allow me to dedicate myself full-time to my passion - building great software and strategising on the future".Most Microsoft watchers believe the new job reflects the company's desire not to be left behind in the internet age.Although Microsoft was offering few hints about what it would reveal in the near future, industry analysts use the term a "networked future" to explain the way the world is expected to change. And it is this networked future that most analysts expect Gates to focus on in his new role.Ashok Kumar, analyst at   stockbrokers Piper Jaffray, said: "Microsoft will want to develop software for the network. &#91;It recognises&#93; that we have migrated from a pc-centric world to one in which any mobile device can work."The term network basically describes a sort of limitless warehouse in the sky where individuals can access anything they need from anywhere on earth. This means that anything from an individual's diary to contact details and books they want to read on holiday could be filed on to a computer and then downloaded when required.There were signs the $500bn company was changing. Just 18 months ago Steve Ballmer, who is to take over as chief executive from his old college friend, was appointed president. Soon after, the company dumped its old mission statement and called for "Windows anywhere, any time and on any device."Bill Gates talked about the development of "next generation software" this week. But he wants nothing less than for consumers around the world to access anything they need from the latest movie to the latest Harvard research report   from any device all using Microsoft software. While other companies such as Sun Microsystems or Novell have focused on the huge market for business customers, Microsoft is likely to want to use its brand name to offer services to consumers as well as big business.His interest in software has taken him into all sorts of areas. He has talked about a home where Microsoft software can lock your doors and turn off your lights at night. In building his $50m house near the Microsoft campus in Seattle, he attempted to prove that it already could.His other software dreams include an involvement with a university research project at Carnegie Mellon looking at building an electronic model of the human brain. Mr Kumar said: "People have been trying to do this for ever. There's hardly any limit to his ambitions."Change is in the nature of the net. Bill Gates himself appeared to accept this when he said this week: "These are dramatic times in our industry. As we look ahead... we recognise that we must refocus and reallocate our resources and talents."Gates is still sore at almost missing the potential of the net. The company failed to appreciate the impact of Netscape's browser and was overtaken by smaller, hi-tech companies such as AltaVista and Yahoo!.The Seattle-based giant's whole modus operandi has been called into question by the coming of the web. Although Windows has been used on more than 90% of the   world's computers for almost a decade, the company was slow to recognise that it would not be enough to control the web. One industry executive said yesterday: "The days when Microsoft could offer a few shrink-wrapped applications for Windows are gone."Richard Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said: "For Gates, I believe that this is about making the internet work for Microsoft. That's where his heart is."It has also been clear for some time, perhaps as far back as 1975 when Gates dropped out of Harvard to build an operating system, that his heart is not on business matters. He said this week that his new role will enable him to go home at night and think of "databases and user interfaces rather than business models and cost structures". His decision was called a "wake-up call" by one industry executive. Not only is he respected for his passion for software, his very presence is expected to have an impact on the company's beleaguered team of programmers.Art Russell, analyst at stockbroker's Edward Jones, said: "He is frankly considered such a visionary that people just hang on his every word."Faced with "more competition than it had ever seen before" Microsoft will "get a lot more fire in its belly" because of his new job. The job change significantly comes as the hundreds of engineers who have been working on Windows 2000, the company's latest software programme, are left with time on their hands.The new job will also mean that Mr Gates can spend more time on new developments rather than his long-running battle with the government. He is widely considered to have seriously misjudged his behaviour during the landmark anti-monopoly battle. Partly in recognition of the fact that he was considered arrogant and condescending towards the law, Mr Gates has been forced to schmooze with Washington power players over the past year, something one executive described as "excruciating" for all concerned.Bouncing around the stage this week, wearing his trademark v-necked pullover and geeky glasses, Mr Gates said: "I have had the same job for 25 years."We achieved a lot of the dreams we had, but today there are more opportunities than ever. I think it's fair to say we haven't seen anything yet."It also seems fair to say that we haven't seen the last of Bill Gates yet, either.
Steve Ballmer has often been described as Bill Gates's alter ego. Whereas Mr Gates is softly spoken, Mr Ballmer's voice booms across crowded gatherings. And just as Mr Gates is intensely focused and reserved, so Mr Ballmer cuts a charismatic figure with his shiny bald dome and strapping physique.The son of a Ford executive, he has travelled a long way since his upbringing in a Detroit suburb. A close friend of Mr Gates from their days at Harvard, Mr Ballmer joined Microsoft five years after it was founded. He has since run its finance, recruiting and sales operations, amassing a fortune that Forbes magazine says makes him the fourth-richest American, mostly from his nearly 5% stake in Microsoft.Having graduated with a degree in applied mathematics and economics, Mr Ballmer joined Procter &amp; Gamble - considered a tough finishing school. He left the firm to go to Stanford business school, but dropped out to join Microsoft.
April 1975:Bill Gates and Paul Allen found MicrosoftMay 1983:Microsoft introduces the mouseNovember 1983:Microsoft unveils WindowsSeptember 1985:Microsoft picks Republic of Ireland as the site of its first production facility outside the USMarch 1986:Microsoft stock goes public at $21 a share rising to $28 by the end of the first trading day, raising $61millionMay 1990:Microsoft launches Windows 3.0June 1992:Bill Gates accepts the national medal of technology for technological achievement from president George BushMarch 1993:Microsoft Encarta, first encyclopedia designed for a PC, is unveiledAugust 1995:Microsoft launches Windows 95November 1995:Microsoft releases Internet Explorer 2 for Windows 95April 1997:Microsoft signs an agreement to acquire Web TV Networks, which gives users access to the internet via TVOctober 1997:Justice department files a motion in federal district court alleging that Microsoft had violated a 1994 decree dealing with licensing the Windows system to computer manufacturersNovember 1999:Judge Thomas Jackson rules that "Microsoft enjoys monopoly power"January 2000:Bill Gates steps down from being chief executive to become chief software architect
Bill Gates is standing down as chief executive of Microsoft as the company he founded and has managed for 25 years faces the very real threat of being broken up.The legal battle between the world's largest company and the US government is a landmark anti-monopoly case. The outcome could define the corporate history of the next century, as the US courts decide whether the company abused its stranglehold over one market to gain access to the internet.As Bill Gates, who has been largely blamed for Microsoft's uncompromising approach during negotiations with the government, stands back from the day-to-day management of the company the two sides seem no nearer settlement.There is a fundamental disagreement about how to remedy the situation. The justice department and the 19 states suing Microsoft are said to be increasingly leaning toward a severe "structural" remedy - breaking up the company, to make it difficult to gain control over any one business area. Microsoft has publicly rejected any such suggestion   and Steve Ballmer used his first public comments as chief executive to say: "I think it would be absolutely ridiculous and irresponsible for anyone to try and break up this company. I think it would be the greatest disservice that anybody could do to consumers in this country."He noted the paradox of a government trying to break up Microsoft in the same week that America Online launched the world's biggest takeover bid, with its offer for Time Warner. Although Mr Gates will remain a member of the executive team directing the negotiations, Mr Ballmer will now lead it.The government's hand was strengthened in November, when federal judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ruled that Microsoft had abused its monopoly position to harm consumers and stifle innovation. Microsoft is to publish its official response next week. If the mediation talks collapse, both sides will return to the federal court in Washington next month for final arguments.Although the case is seen as a landmark in the internet age, the legal action has its roots in an investigation by the federal trade commission in 1991,   years before the significance of the internet was realised. The commission began investigating after rivals complained that Microsoft was using its stranglehold on world operating systems to shut them out of the software market.The investigation resulted in Microsoft signing a so-called consent decree for the government in 1995. This narrowly focused document tried to stop the company using its licensing agreements to bully computer manufacturers, but two years later, the justice department charged Microsoft with violating the decree. The company's relationship with the regulatory authorities has been increasingly acrimonious ever since.When Netscape, the upstart web browser company, wrote to the trustbusters complaining about Microsoft, government lawyers again found Microsoft unyielding - setting the tone of legal battles that followed the decision to prosecute in 1998.Unless Bill Gates's new job really does lead to a different stance, few observers believe the two sides will be able to reach a settlement. Both are likely to appeal against any ruling. If so, the final act of this case could still be a long way off.
What Bill Gates says"I'm returning to what I love most - focusing on technologies for the future. This was a personal decision, one I have discussed with Steve and our board of directors for some time. Although I've been able to spend more time on our technical strategy since naming Steve as president in July 1998, I felt that the opportunities for Microsoft were incredible, yet our structure wasn't optimal to really take advantage of them to the degree that we should. Steve's promotion will allow me to dedicate myself full-time to my passion -- building great software and strategizing on the future, and nurturing and collaborating with the core team helping Steve run the company."The Microsoft press releaseWhy he stepped down&#149; Gates figured it was Ballmer's turn topretend not to understandthe Justice Department's questions.&#149; The cross-housecommute from his bedroom to his home office had become too exhausting.&#149; Steve Casedoesn't have to be CEOanymore and gets to be the visionary - why can't I?Salon MagazineWho is Steve Ballmer?He's big, loud, funny and fearless. He's a hardball negotiator who never seems to give up or tire. And he's definitely not diplomatic. Soon after the Department of Justice filed its massive antitrust case against the company, Ballmer blurted out, "To heck with Janet Reno!" Though he later retracted the comment, the line became a symbol of Microsoft's attitude toward the government's attempts to rein it in.The Washington PostThe differences at the topWhen Bill Gates says something outrageous or false, you get the distinct impression that he actually believes what he's saying. With Steve Ballmer, the new chief executive at Microsoft Corp., it's the opposite. The more off-the-wall the Ballmer remark,  the more you can suspect he doesn't entirely buy it, either. That's just one of the differences between the two men, who are not peas in a pod despite their ultra-close working relationship and friendship for more than two decades.San Jose Mercury NewsBallmer never leaves doubt where he standsDuring his years as the chief salesman for Microsoft Corp., Steve Ballmer's most important weapon has been his mouth. The problem is, sometimes he uses it to his own detriment. Like this past September when Ballmer was speaking before a gathering of business journalists in Seattle. Across town, Microsoft was announcing plans for an initial public offering of its online travel service to take advantage of the sky-high valuations of Internet stocks. At almost the same moment, Ballmer was helping drag them back to earth. "There's such an overvaluation of tech stocks that it's absurd,'' Ballmer told the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, responding to a question about business stories ignored by the news media. "I would put our company, and I would put most companies, in that category.'' Oops.San Jose Mercury NewsMicrosoft will not lose a stepThat's the conclusion of about a dozen industry watchers - from VCs to CEOs to analysts - about Bill Gates's announcement on Thursday that he will step down as the company's chief executive officer. Some made light of the news. "I wonder if he's interested in being a CEO of another company - if he goes to a startup, I wouldn't mind investing in it," said Marc Andreessen, cofounder of Netscape and chairman and cofounder of stealth Internet startup Loudcloud. Other vocal Microsoft critics were notably silent: Oracle chairman and CEO Larry Ellison had "no comment."Red HerringWeary GatesAnalysts conjectured that Gates may have grown weary of Microsoft's prolonged battle with the Justice Department, which accused the company of using its monopoly on operating systems to control the market for desktop software. Microsoft Windows runs nine of every ten PCs in the world. "The DOJ &#91;Department of Justice&#93; action took all the fun out of the job, and Gates wants to go out on a high point rather than a low point," said analyst Rob Enderle of Giga Information Group.ForbesUseful linksBill Gates official biographyMicrosoft profile of Steve BallmerSteve Ballmer on Microsoft's new mission statementMicrosoft cartoons
Microsoft chairman Bill Gates is the computer age's version of  John D Rockefeller, history's first billionaire, whose Standard  Oil company once controlled 90% of the US oil industry.Rockefeller's empire was broken up after a marathon antitrust  battle and a similar fate appears to be in store for Microsoft, the  first company to be worth $500bn thanks to its dominance of  operating systems.In yielding the position of chief executive to his close friend,  the rumbustious Steve Ballmer, Mr Gates will remain chairman of  the company he co-founded with Paul Allen 25 years ago. He says  he will focus on technology - his first love - as the company's  top software architect.Warren Buffett, one of the world's most successful investors and  a close friend, attributes Mr Gates's decision to a desire to  get away from the daily grind. "I've seen this coming but I  wasn't sure when it would happen," Mr Buffett told the  Washington Post. Each year the two men get together for a "think  week" to reflect. Mr Buffett believes this is when Mr Gates  appears most at peace. "I think Bill was ready to turn think  weeks into think years," Mr Buffett said.But still only 44, it is hard to think of Mr Gates withdrawing  completely from an industry he helped transform. A more likely  explanation is that Mr Gates is preparing himself for the next  phase in Microsoft's existence: its break-up. What seemed  unthinkable when the government started its landmark antitrust  case against the software giant is being increasingly mooted at  the Justice Department.Mr Gates brought this upon himself, mounting an unconvincing  defence that his company was not a monopoly. He came across as  arrogant, evasive and less than truthful. The US government has  two options, breaking Microsoft into three, corresponding to the  parts already used for internal accounting, or dividing the  company into an operating systems company and a software  company.In stepping down and appointing himself as chief software  architect, Mr Gates has positioned himself to head a company  focused exclusively on the Windows operating system, leaving Mr  Ballmer to lead the software side of Microsoft. Although he may  shed some tears at the break-up of the company he created, Mr  Gates is well aware of the contrasting fortunes of IBM and AT&amp;T,  two giants that tangled with the antitrust authorities.IBM won the battle but lost the war. The computer giant saw off  the government in a decade-long battle, but was a spent force as  a result and lost billions of dollars in the 1980s. AT&amp;T, the  telecommunications monopoly was broken up into regional phone  companies, which are now key players, along with the original  AT&amp;T.Mr Gates does not want to travel down the road taken by IBM and  as the head of a smaller Microsoft entity, the former Harvard  University dropout could rediscover the thrill of leading a  nimbler company at the technological cutting edge. Strong as he  is as a business, Mr Gates remains a geek at heart and he would  rather try to discover new technological toys.The ruthless Rockefeller never called Standard Oil a monopoly,  referring to it as the result of "financial cooperation".  Likewise, Mr Gates insisted Microsoft was not a monopoly  although it controlled 90% of the world's PC operating systems.  But the US government was right to describe Microsoft as a  monopoly. Mr Gates, the richest man in the world with a fortune  of about $90bn, should thank those pesky government lawyers for  injecting a lumbering giant with new vigour.
Microsoft founder Bill Gates is to step down as chief executive of the software giant, promoting  Microsoft president and close friend Steve Ballmer to the post.Mr Gates, who will remain chairman and take a new title of chief software architect, said he was giving up the CEO title so he could return "to what I love most, focusing on technologies for the future."Microsoft has made Mr Gates the wealthiest private individual in the world, with a fortune estimated at over $80bn.Yesterday's announcement does not necessarily mean he is giving up any power in the company he co-founded in 1975 with Paul Allen.Mr Gates said he planned to dedicate his time to fashioning and promoting the "next generation" of Microsoft's flagship product, the Windows 2000 operating system.He said he particularly wants to develop software services that will be hosted on the internet and made part of future versions of Windows.Microsoft is working to make its popular software, especially its Office suite of business programs, available over the internet, in addition to the traditional way of loading it onto individual personal computers."Steve's promotion will allow me to dedicate myself full time to my passion - building great software and strategizing on the future and nurturing and collaborating with the core team helping Steve run the company," Mr Gates said.Mr Ballmer will retain his title of president. He also will be given a seat on Microsoft's board of directors."I'm certainly honoured and very, very excited about the opportunity," Mr Ballmer said.Mr Ballmer, like Mr Gates, has already staked out a position against breaking up the company, a possible remedy which may be sought by the federal government and 19 states that are suing Microsoft over alleged antitrust violations."I think it would be absolutely reckless and irresponsible for anyone to try to break up this company," Mr Ballmer said. "I think it would be unprecedented and I think it would be the single greatest disservice that anybody could do to consumers in this country... I just think it would be reckless beyond belief."Mr Ballmer, 43, was appointed president of Microsoft in July 1998, giving him direct responsibility for improving the performance of all of the company's divisions, as well as customer satisfaction.He grew up in Detroit, where his father, a Swiss immigrant, worked for Ford Motors. At Harvard, he lived just down the hall from Mr Gates and the two became friends.After Mr Gates hired Mr Ballmer, the two reportedly had some rocky times. In the spring of 1985, as Microsoft's deadline to produce Windows slipped behind, Mr Gates reportedly threatened to fire Mr Ballmer if Windows wasn't on the shelves by the end of the year, though few people believe he was serious. Windows was ready by November.Along with Mr Ballmer's promotion, Mr Gates announced that Microsoft would develop the "next generation windows services", which will power new products and services over the internet.Microsoft wants to use the internet to transmit data to any device, including computers, cell phones, handheld computers and home electronics.The new internet-based Windows services will be developed over the next two or three years, with developers getting the first detailed view of Microsoft's strategy this spring, Gates said.
I woke up feeling intensely guilty. When I was young, I used to go into a dark box at church and confess all kinds of guilt: about talking back to my parents, about unkindnesses, about impure thoughts. But now I feel guilty about just one thing:   not being a millionaire. On the glowing boxes of my adulthood, the TV and computer, people are constantly getting rich quick.When Time Warner merged with AOL this week, some predicted the end of print, and my life passed before my eyes. But I was far more disturbed that I had lost yet another opportunity to cash in, or to cash out.I worked at Time in the early 80s. The magazine was not on the cutting edge of technology then. When Time named the computer as its 1982 "Man of the Year" we were still pounding out our   stories on typewriters. I didn't hold on to my Time stock. And on Monday many of my old colleagues became multimillionaires. If there's a way to lose money, I'll find it.I called a Washington psychoanalyst named Justin Frank. I told him I didn't want to feel deeply inadequate just because I didn't know how to day-trade.He confessed his own feelings of inadequacy. "As a psychoanalyst, I subjectively feel like a dinosaur because I am exploring things in depth, and in the meantime everyone around me has got rich."We are moving into an era   of decisiveness as opposed to an era of thoughtfulness. People feel guilty if they have a subconscious identification with Hamlet."To trade or not to trade. I never cared about money before. It was not what Country Joe and the Fish taught me to value.Once upon a time, money was an occasion for guilt. The robber barons who had exploited the poor would cleanse their lucre by buying great art or pouring it into charity; the Guilted Age. But now the only remorse that people feel about money is, why haven't they made   more? "Once, new money tried to disguise itself as old money," says Michael Lewis, who wrote "The New New Thing," about a Silicon Valley billionaire."It gave some of itself away. It dressed itself up in airs and pretensions. Now old money cringes in the face of new money. Now even new money gets stale fast, and has a sell-by date."We are obsessed about making money with our money. Making an honest living does not seem like a particularly sensible thing to do any more when you can simply hold on to a stock that   rises to the stratosphere. "I have never seen so many disgruntled people at the peak of a bull market," says James Stewart, the author of "Den of Thieves" about the Wall Street scandals of the 80s and now an editor at Smart Money."People look at their portfolios going up 40% last year and they are whining and complaining to me that they didn't own Qualcomm. They don't even know what Qualcomm makes. If they had Qualcomm, they whine they wish they had more of it."Everybody brags about their gains. Nobody talks   about their losses. As a subject for boasting, portfolios have supplanted sports and sex."Jim Cramer agrees. He is the money manager who founded TheStreet.com: "People used to be mortified to talk about how much money they made. Now they get in my face and say, 'I caught 79 points on Oracle, what did you catch?' "In the old days, you had to be intrepid or the owner of a Master's in business administration to get in on a gold rush.Now your personal trainer knows as much about one-day price movements as Warren Buffett."It's not like a land grab, where you had to go out west, brave native Americans and horrible rains and run into the Donner party," Mr Cramer says."You don't have to brave anything at all. You just have to have a predilection not to sell."So the generation that prided itself on its idealism has finally found its true signature. And the question that the children will ask is: "What did you do in the bull market, Daddy?" -  New York Times
Virgin.net has pleaded with its customers to "bear with us" as it struggles to overcome a potential security breach, which has left more than 150,000 customers without access to email accounts.Frustrated Virgin.net customers have been forced to change their email passwords after last weekend's incident, which Virgin says is being investigated by police.One businessman from Yorkshire said he planned to cancel his subscription with Virgin after four days of trying and failing to contact the company's customer support line to reactivate his email account."We've been on the phone to Virgin constantly and cannot even get through at five in the   morning," said Robert Minton-Taylor, who runs the Minton-Taylor public relations consultancy in Skipton, Yorkshire."I appreciate all companies have the occasional problem but our firm relies on Virgin.net for 80% of our business communication needs."We will be switching to another provider."A spokesman for Virgin.net said that capacity at its customer support call centres had been increased and 166,000 of its subscribers had been sent letters in the post explaining how they could get their email accounts up in working order again."We apologise to our customers and ask them to be patient," the spokesman said."We are throwing every resource we can at solving the problem and working through the night to get it fixed. It is a mammoth effort."Customer security is of paramount importance to us and we want to ensure everything is done properly."Virgin.net, which has 620,000 users, said last night that 40% of affected users had been given working passwords and the rest would be able to send emails by the start of next week.
There is something sad about the fact that, when a man who has played a pivotal role in shaping the way the developed world lives and works announces he is hanging up his executive boots, the knee jerk response is "oh, yeah?" The immediate assumption is that Bill Gates' move from chief executive officer at Microsoft to the freshly-fashioned post of chief software architect has something to do with the anti-trust case and splitting the company into two or three, or the competi tive threat posed by the transposition of the internet into the wireless world, or both at the same time. The debate is about who or what this company is planning to crush, rather than the moment being used to reflect on what Mr Gates and his colleagues have created so far.So what is the man up to? There is no evidence that he is attempting to do anything out of the ordinary. Mr Gates wants to see off all possible threats to Microsoft's existing business and become a leader (or even dominate) every other sector it feels it can attack successfully.Leaving the anti-trust case aside, Microsoft is facing substantial competition, certainly the biggest threat since Jim Clark and Marc Andreessen created the Netscape web browser five years ago and added a fourth dimension to desktop computing.On that occasion Microsoft's response was two-pronged. On the one hand, Mr Gates moved back into the software lab   and marshalled the creation of a rival product, Internet Explorer. And at the same time (it was alleged during the Department of Justice hearings) Microsoft executives flew down to see Netscape and threatened to flatten the company unless Microsoft was allowed to buy a piece of the action.So Mr Gates is now back in the lab to oversee what is being slated as Next Generation Windows Services. Microsoft is losing its grip in the operating system market and is also in serious danger of failing to get a handle on the computing at the heart of the new wave of mobile applications. It has to respond.Although, this time around, we can safely assume that the temptation to send corporate heavies simultaneously flying round the world threatening to flatten someone has been avoided. Microsoft is, after all, still awaiting sentencing at the hands of the American state.Unsurprisingly, the company does not   want to be broken up and Steven Ballmer, Mr Gates's successor at the helm, is still labelling any attempt to do so as "absolutely reckless and irresponsible". But its attempts to avoid this have, to date, amounted to little more than a few bits of crass PR involving the Gates charitable foundation and a few software-tools-for-schools initiatives.Microsoft and its founder are missing the obvious trick. A break-up should be welcomed and willingly instigated by the company. Then Mr Gates really could step back into the lab and leave others to recount a great source of good.
The first post-Christmas casualty of the internet bubble was Value America of Virginia. This internet retailer - backed by a string of blue chip investors including Paul Allen, a founder of Microsoft - decided to sack half its staff and to concentrate in future on selling to businesses not consumers.This may turn out to be a wise corporate move. It is the latest example of the how the world wide web is transforming the balance of power between corporations, consumers and governments. And the consumer is winning.A few years ago globalisation appeared to have created a breed of monolithic multinationals answerable to no one and able to play governments and consumers against each other on a global basis. Not   any more. Sure, the corporations are still winning against governments as the global nature of the internet enables them to minimise payment of sales taxes and to duck payment of corporate taxes by creating virtual HQs in offshore tax regimes.The latest example, as reported in our financial pages last week, is the way chunks of the betting industry have migrated to Gibraltar to avoid the 9% betting tax.However, corporations are losing out against consumers whose hitherto fragmented bargaining power has been harnessed by the awesome power of the web.You saw it at the Seattle summit where the US agenda for the trade talks was undermined by the forces marshalled by non-governmental organisations and linked by the web. You   saw it in the humbling of Monsanto's plans to dominate world agriculture through genetically modified foods. And you can see it everywhere in the way that hardly any of the exploding web retailers are making money. Amazon.com, the daddy of them all, is deemed to be doing well even though it is still making heavy losses.Where companies have a monopoly or very strong market penetration like Microsoft, Sun Systems or Cisco they can make big money. But where they are operating in the newly democratised markets of the web - members of the click-ocracy who can move to a cheaper retailer at the click of a mouse - they are finding it almost impossible to make money. With a few exceptions the centrifugal forces of the web will keep prices down. The only thing that could change the new supremacy of consumer power is if there is such an almighty shakeout that oligopolistic conditions re-emerge.The business school response to this is that "brands" will be all-important in retaining web business. I wonder. Take the   most obvious example: Hotmail. Bought a few years ago by Microsoft it is the biggest provider of free email (apart from the call charge) and has built up a huge brand presence though it, presumably, loses pots of money. It is the internet caf&eacute;'s raison d' etre and a lifestyle badge for millions of global travellers.It is also fantastic value for money (or no money in this case).It is the sort of service that people would happily pay for. It would still be extraordinarily cheap at 5p a go (especially compared with the 26p cost of sending a domestic letter which takes a day to be delivered). Yet if Microsoft decided to levy a modest charge 5p it would soon discover that brand loyalty on the internet is only click-deep no matter how many millions companies spend on marketing and image building. Overnight millions of users would migrate to Yahoo or any one of the myriad companies offering a competing free service.It is now much more difficult for multi-national companies to charge higher prices in countries even where market local conditions are favourable because   surfers can soon find another country where the product is cheaper. We are now seeing the start of the long-awaited resurgence of consumer power as potential purchasers link up with each other to secure negotiated discounts. Companies like Letsbuyit.com are already doing innovative things to harness collective consumer power. But we haven't seen anything yet.It is quite possible that a new kind of conglomerate - say Consumeristpower.com - will emerge to harness the global buying power of potential purchasers. If anyone wanting to buy a certain kind of car this year registered their intentions on the net, Consumeristpower.com would negotiate directly with the manufacturer: and the negotiating ploy would be a discount on the wholesale not the retail price.It could be argued that the consumer is getting an almost unhealthily good deal at the moment. Giving away email, web building sites, instant messaging, web space, calendars and so forth is being justified by potential revenues from "banner ads" and other forms of advertising.But how long can this purposive lossmaking continue? As Andrew Wileman observed in Management Today: "Products are being given away below cost (eg buy.com or Priceline.com) to build a customer base, while advertising rates for all but the highest traffic web pages are collapsing".That there will eventually be a massive shakeout of internet companies is not really in doubt.The "creative destruction" that the economist Joseph Schumpeter identified for mainstream capitalist companies (when competition destroys outdated ideas and firms) will be seen in spades with internet companies.But even after this upheaval the balance of power between producer and consumer will have shifted decisively in favour of the consumer. Click, click.
Just before Christmas, FT.com used Lenin to advertise its email news - which was deceptive since their service is not as revolutionary as the old red. Email news - headlines or stories sent straight to your inbox - is one of the oldest news channels on the net.And it still makes sense: in the beginning was the word which on the net was mostly carried by email. It wasn't until the world wide web appeared in 1994 that programmers added the photos, videos, sound clips and animation that make the net the colourful, and slow, place that it is today.If you want news but don't have time to crank up the web, if you use only email, or if you want current affairs dropped straight in your inbox (one occasion when the net really does just cost a few pence) then email news could be for you. If you're discerning enough to say no to what you don't want, that is.You need an email account. Hotmail (www.hotmail.com) is as good as any other, not least because it offers its own email news. As you would expect from a Gates enterprise, he plugs his own stuff (more on Guardian Unlimited later) so flight booker Expedia makes an appearance with MSNBC news. There are more than 30 other options ranging from business to teen lifestyle and horoscopes. I subscribed to them all.Not the best idea. If you are less than vitally concerned about the Dow Jones or teen couple of the week - and you don't use Hotmail for anything else - you may encounter a backlog when you pop back to check your creaking inbox. True, not all of it is trivial: Anchor Desk   has good technology news, Slate is like a daily version of Newsweek or Time. But there is still an awful lot of the "What's the best way to ask someone out?" nonsense you get from Bolt.com, a teen interest mail that can interest only the most self-obsessed of teens.Out of interest I checked one of my inbox's many horoscopes: it said I would get a mountain of mail. It wasn't kidding.Back in the realm of fact, I had subscribed to ITN's desktop news (www.itn.co.uk). ITN is useful - the news comes at lunchtime so you get a different enough selection of stories to a morning paper, and there are links to video reports. (A great advance - TV on your computer!) You are also your own news editor - though, in practice, this means choosing how many UK and international stories you want, rather than sending a hack out to the Maldives to file a report on coral diving.You get only the first few lines of a story; for the rest you must visit the website. The Press Association's email (www.pa.press.net/newsbriefing) is similar but gets away with it as it has a wider range of    stories (sport, news extra, anniversaries, afternoon and evening events) and calls itself a briefing. Better is Guardian Unlimited's Wrap (www.newsunlimited.co.uk/wrap) - a concise and complete round-up of the morning papers. On the other hand, FT.com (www.ft.com) actually puts in three dots at the end of an item to let you know there's more to read on the main site...But FT.com has superb specialised news and lets you choose it from categories such as internet and e-commerce, IT and markets. Nice - though it would be better to have a keyword search so if you were interested in Vodafone's latest exploits, but not telecommunications as a whole, you could cut out all the stories you didn't want. Investors and analysists would love it: it's got to be better than using the email as a daily advert for the main site.The closest thing on the net used to be News Hound, an automated clipping service that shut down at the end of last year, so try Yahoo! alerts    (http://alerts.yahoo.com) instead. Of the new generation, Moreover.com (www.moreover.com) collects headlines from more than 1,500 sources and sorts them into 200 categories. I chose "Europe" but the week's delay in receiving my inaugural email suggested nothing was going on in the continent.There are also the specialists: Russia Today (http://briefs.einmail.com) gives the latest news, features and financial information on the country. You can get news on central Europe and China from the same team.Suck (www.suck.com) is off-centre news and comment on the issues of the day, and also very long. Elbow Grease (www.hotwired.com) is shorter, with useful technology news from Wired magazine. Oxygen (www.oxygen.com) will appeal to the kind of women who want to be "empowered moms" and receive a daily email called Weight-a-Minute.Not your thing? Try Cricketline (www.cricketline.com) for cricket and the Guardian's Fiver (www.footballunlimited.) for footie.For the dumb, esoteric and just plain bonkers try About.com (http://email.about. com/internet/email), which has a good selection including the Daily Message (Bible quotes, recipes and trivia), MySnow Report and EmailRemind for personal appointments and public holidays (like hard to remember Christmas day) to name just three.Best in this vein is the Daily Word (www.dailycast.com) that teaches you a new word each day. Today's was a synonym for quirk which can also be a polite way of saying someone or thing is weird or wrong.It gave me a word I could use to describe email news: idiosyncratic.
What's the eBar about?It's an e-lifestyle venue with training, computers, chill-out and e-business hosting facilities. I trademarked 'eBar' in Europe and the plan is to open them in around 30 different locations as soon as we raise the funding.Is everything going to plan?Plans have to be changed every two minutes with the internet. The plan I started with is probably not the plan we're operating right now. With the training business we ran into a millennium-bug spending freeze and also the Christmas party season was taken up with organising people into games of Alien versus Predator on our 20 workstations. I had a long hard look at cybercafes and they were deathly dull and horrible places so the idea was to mix a really relaxing bar environment with a place to use computers.What kind of hardware are you using?We're fully IBM'ed up - for general surfing we have 300MHz GLs but for the gaming side we have IntelliStations with flat-panel plasma monitors. In the reception area we have two or three NetStations so anybody who wants to drop in and surf can do it from there. Downstairs we have everything from Microsoft Office to web design tools and NetMeeting.And you're using smartcards instead of money?I'd noticed that cybercafes, for supposedly technical places, give a bit of paper for a receipt and they're not really sure how much you're spending. It's very easy to code a system that counts people down on time. The smartcard does a couple of things: non-members can pick one up and it tells the bar at the end of the night how much they've spent; and if you're a member, the card gives you access to the facilities in the evening and you can order drinks without having to leave your workstation.How long have you been working with computers?I started with Andersen Consulting about 11 years ago, then I moved to Lotus Development and started working on Lotus Notes. I set up Lotus Consulting in Norway and Sweden, then I went to America and worked on major infrastructure projects. Then I worked as a product manager for BT, setting up the BT network for Lotus Notes, but it turned all corporate and wasn't fun.Any favourite gadgets?I'm a complete toy junkie - I particularly love my Palm Pilot and my Sony Mini-Disk. I'm a labels man - if it's electronic it's got to be Sony and if it's computing it's got to be IBM.Any favourite websites?I live byThis Is Londonandscrum.combecause I'm big on rugby. There's also a really cool local site that I visit -www.fulham.co.uk.How important is the computer to what you do?It's a tool. It's not the be all and end all and I could probably live without one.Fulham.eBar, New Kings Road, London SW6
The creation of artificial life will be one of the great themes of the 21st century. It is already helping to drive the market for toys and games, from CyberLife's Creatures to Tamagotchis to Sony's AIBO robot dog, while "intelligent agents" (software robots) are expected to become indispensable on the internet.Indeed, a generation of children is already becoming acclimatised to A-life through keeping "virtual pets" who "live" in personal computers. Many keep dogs and cats as mess-free screen pets, thanks to Mindscape's Dogz and Catz programs, while Creatures allows them to explore breeding and genetic manipulation using Norns.Steve Grand, the British designer of the Creatures program, says: "Probably some of the best artificial life scientists in the world are 13 year old American girls, because of what they've done with Creatures. There's even a Norn genome project like the human genome project, and some people are doing mutation tracking."Toys also allow companies to experiment with advanced technologies that may not be ready for hard commercial use, such as speech recognition. For example, you can talk to Fujitsu's Fin Fin, a parrot-like "virtual pet" with a head like a dolphin, and Lernout &amp; Hauspie's Talking Max2, a cartoon parrot, even talks back. Max needs to be trained, of course, but he can obey verbal commands and engage in witty conversations. (Both the Fin Fin and Max2 programs come complete with microphones.)As computers become more powerful, designers will be able to simulate more sophisticated life forms, including people. Just before Christmas, Mindscape launched Babyz as the natural progression from Dogz and Catz. Other companies, such as Dave Morris's AIdeaLabs in Texas, have already tried "virtual girlfriends", and Electronic Arts is about to launch a people simulation called The Sims, which has been developed by Will Wright, founder of Maxis and creator of the Sim City series.As David Crane discovered when he pioneered the idea of keeping a person as a pet in Little Computer People - launched in the 1980s for   the Commodore 64 home computer - the problem is making the simulation varied and believable enough to keep the player's interest. And the way to do that is to give the creatures the ability to learn, and to reward them for learning things, which is how Creatures works.When they become smarter, of course, artificial life constructs will have to go out to work. They will probably become a standard part of computer interfaces, and make it easier to do things on the internet. Microsoft's Office suite and Word 2000 already provide an (admittedly stupid) "intelligent agent" as an optional interface to the help system, and users can substitute a cartoon dog, or a companionable cat for the now-familiar animated paperclip. The same Microsoft Agent technology is also being used experimentally on dozens of web sites.There is a huge potential market for such AI (artificial intelligence) constructs. Software robots - bots for short - will provide intelligent opponents for games players, especially in multi-user online games. They'll scour the web for   information, like the ones pioneered by another British company, Autonomy. They'll go comparison shopping to find their owners the best prices. Eventually they'll become smart enough to answer the phone and much of your electronic mail.But some people are already worried about what happens when they become too smart. Professor Hugo de Garis, a "brain builder" based in Japan, believes that what will actually dominate the century is a battle for "species dominance". He says: "Humanity is going to have to decide whether it does or doesn't build artilects (artificial intellects), which are coming simply due to the rise of the technologies. It's the Terminator scenario . . ."Will bots and robots still be our   pets, like the Robo Kitten that de Garis is developing? Or will we be theirs? Will people amuse themselves by breeding and educating artificial life forms like the Norns in Creatures, or will they amuse themselves by breeding and educating us?Such worries sound silly. After all, AI research has been going on for decades without making an impact outside a few specialised areas, such as oil exploration and computer chess. Why should that change now?"Computer power," replies professor Hans Moravec, director of the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. "I think the primary bottleneck was computer power. It's a bit like having a rubber band engine to power a 747: it doesn't matter how good your aerodynamics is!"Moravec argues that generally AI has not had access to more computer power since the 1960s, when research was done using $10m supercomputers and mainframes. Research moved to minicomputers, workstations and then microcomputers, each of which was dramatically cheaper but not inherently more powerful. In the 1990s, however, micro- computers increased in power from   less than one MIPS (the ability to perform a million instructions per second) to 100 MIPS, and they're now approaching 1,000 MIPS.In fact, computer power is increasing so rapidly that Moravec is turning down speaking engagements and other distractions to concentrate on developing navigation systems for things like guard robots and cleaning machines."I'm rushing to capitalise on our decades of preparation before further increases in computer power make the problem so easy everyone will be doing it!" Moravec says."The business plan says that with 1000 MIPS we can build that kind of thing. We'll have 1000 MIPS microcontrollers in about three years, and we'll go commercial at that point."Moravec typically compares the computer power available for AI and robotics with animal life forms. The 1 MIPS machine - think of a 1985 personal computer - is about as smart as a nematode worm. The new 1000 MIPS systems have advanced to insect level, perhaps approaching a spider. Moravec thinks he'll be able to apply the power of a guppy - "not as smart as a goldfish" - to building something like a robot vacuum cleaner in about 2005.The comparisons highlight the rate of progress. Computers are making the kinds of advances in five or 10 years that took evolution 25 or 50 million years.After another one or two thousand-fold increases, it's possible to imagine machines as smart as monkeys, or men. Moravec thinks we'll reach that stage in about 2040."I strongly believe that the development &#91;of human-level robots&#93; can be done incrementally," says Moravec. "That was how intelligence was built the first time, by evolution. So what I look for is a series of slightly more sophisticated machines, each capable of earning a living."Steve Grand - who, at 41,   was given an OBE for Creatures in the New Year honours list - has also decided to go into robotics, and this week announced a new company called CyberLife Research."I want to make machines that think," says Grand. "I don't mind doing it in software, but I want to do it in hardware as well. I'm trying to develop a general-purpose brain on a chip. I'm not looking for applications right now, but I'm thinking of building a model glider that   can learn to fly - hopefully before it hits the ground."Grand is sceptical about the field he's just entered - "it took evolution millions of years for good reasons" - but he agrees that 40 years is a reasonable time-scale for brain building. "We should be at least at chimpanzee level."Hugo de Garis thinks he's leading the way, having formally switched on the CBM or CAM-Brain Machine (CAM stands for Cellular Automata Machine) on November 29 last year. This has been developed at the Evolutionary Systems Department of ATR Labs in Kyoto, Japan, and imple mented by Dr Michael Korkin's Genobyte Inc in Boulder, Colorado.The idea, in essence, is to build machines that create brain-like structures called neural networks by generating them automatically. De Garis says the CBM "can evolve a neural net circuit module of some 1,000 neurons in a second or so". The aim was to have an artificial brain with a billion neurons by 2001, though 75 million neurons now looks the likely maximum.Building the brain is only the first stage. "Evolutionary engineers" then need to turn   the raw material into a working brain, before programmers can use it to control something like the Robo Kitten. All the kitten's behaviour patterns need to be specified, for example. De Garis says this should be running to provide "proof of concept" in two years.De Garis sees the scope for perhaps half a dozen brain-building projects in different countries, though the next two CBM installations will both be in Belgium. One will be at the Starlab in Brussels, where de Garis will become chief scientist at the end of this month. The other has been bought by Lernout &amp; Hauspie, which specialises in speech technology, and which includes Intel and Microsoft among its investors. But to create really useful artificial brains, de Garis thinks we need "national brain-building projects - something equivalent to Nasa".As well as being a brain builder, de Garis is also raising the alarm about the dangers of brain building: "I'm very much part of the problem," he admits."In the short term, the products will have very beneficial effects: they'll be just wonderful," says de Garis. "And the machines will get smarter and smarter year by year, until eventually they will become so smart they take over their own development. At that point, humans lose control. I think and think about how this terrible scenario can be avoided, but I just can't see a way out of it."Steve Grand is more optimistic. "They're just another life form, and there are millions of other species out there who haven't 'taken over the world'. People are bound to be resistant at first, but then they're also scared of impersonal technology, and one of the good things A-life can do is make machines more personable and friendly. People will soon learn to love them!"For more information visit:Hugo de GarisCreaturesHans MoravecSteve Grand
Power saverA chip that can save power in notebook computers is being unveiled by Intel next Tuesday. SpeedStep processors are the first to offer what in a car would be two gears. The Mobile Pentium III runs at 650MHz when the system is plugged into the mains ("performance mode") and drops to 500MHz when running on batteries. The voltage is reduced from 1.65v to 1.35v, which cuts power consumption from 14.5 watts to 9.45 watts, so batteries last longer.Play a tuneWhy put up with the tinkling of Tetris when you could be listening to the Chemical Brothers on your Game Boy?    Destiny Software's $99 Songboy converts the handheld console into an MP3 music player. It will also be able to show album covers and lyrics on the screen if Destiny's MPE format is used. The basic system will have 16MB of memory for storing music files, which can be organised on a PC before a playlist is transferred to the Songboy. Until that's available, users can try the PC software, which mimics Songboy's features. Download a test version fromwww.songboy.comChips upThe chip market was worth $160 bn last year, almost 18% more than in 1998, says Dataquest, a US-based industry research company.    Intel was the largest supplier with 16% of the market and sales worth $25.8bn.Mac AquaApple has finally shown how its long-awaited new operating system, Mac OS X ("ten") will look by posting screen dumps on its website atwww.apple.com/macosx/The system is based on NeXT's NextStep, a version of Unix that Apple co-founder Steve Jobs launched in the 1980s after leaving Apple. It has been given a much more stylish appearance, which Apple calls Aqua (though some may think it looks more like Microsoft Windows). The OS will still run "classic" Mac applications, though these can't use its new facilities. Apple says it    wants to avoid giving users "a confusing choice" of operating systems and will "orchestrate a smooth 12-month transition from Mac OS 9 to Mac OS X". It's expected to go on sale this summer.Jack SchofieldPhone linesOne thing that didn't happen over the new year - apart from the millennium bug - was mass delivery of the much hyped WAP phones enabling mobiles to browse the internet. But who needs them? Conventional mobiles are fighting back.Fonedata has launched a service giving access to web-based information through the short messaging system (SMS), though it is available   only through Vodafone at the moment.Just type in a keyword such as NEWS into your SMS space for news headlines or MET for weather or ETRADE (plus the stock exchange code for the company) for stock market quotes) and data is automatically sent back to your phone after about 10 seconds (at a cost of 20p a throw).Fonedata even offers a direct link to your own website from your phone (though you will have to customise your site to handle small chunks of data).Orange already operates a similar service via SMS, offering news, sport and finance headlines, as well as other popular content including horoscopes and weather forecasts.Victor KeeganNet blackmailA hacker has dealt a heavy, and embarassing, blow to e-retailers still battling to persuade customers that their websites are secure.Known only as "Maxus", he broke into the music store CDUniverse.com and stole 25,000 credit card numbers.He then contacted the site and demanded more than &#163;60,000, threatening to publish the numbers on the internet if he was not paid.When the site refused to pay, Maxus posted the numbers, and advertised the fact on several hacker newsgroups.The site and numbers were accessible to all-comers for several days, until his internet service provider blocked access.Neil McIntosh
Music on the moveSales of MP3 players by online retailers may have been disappointing, but in the high street they seemed to be booming. Of all the stores in Tottenham Court Road, London, in the week before Christmas, only two had not sold out of MP3 players.When I returned that afternoon to purchase from one store, the last one had been sold. I believe I purchased the last one from the other store.The copyright issue may have dogged MP3 but you can record CDs you have bought on to your computer and download your choice of music .So MP3 is still a more convenient way to listen to music on the move with no risk of losing or damaging CDs or cassettes.Carole Bonnerc.m.bonner@lse.ac.ukI should like to make two comments on Martin Clark's notes in Online (January 6).It's clearly wrong to say: "Giants like Sony seem ready to enter the digital audio market after years of disapproval." Sony, with Philips, launched digital audio to the public with the compact disc in the early eighties.I wonder whether Martin has been overly influenced by MP3 hype. If "compressing sound files by cutting out sounds inaudible to the human ear" has no adverse effect on sound reproduction, why are Sony and Philips, and all other industry players, spending large sums on developing Super CD and DVD-Audio?The answer is they have finally admitted that current 16/44 CDs are less than "the perfect sound forever", the slogan under which CD was launched. If a standard CD can't cut it, how can MP3?MP3 is OK as Walkman music, but not as a source for serious listening, when one is trying to recreate the concert   hall in the home. Ironically a good quality analogue set-up, usually vinyl discs, but don't forget reel-to-reel tape, will still outperform any 16/44CD set up (after 20 years); and, judging by early reviews, hold its own against Super CD and DVD.It is also ironic that the performance of the analogue front end has improved so much in those 20 years, and is still doing so; witness the breathtaking cartridges now produced by such as Van den Hul in Holland, and the lucid and transparent valve phono amplifiers from such as Paul Hynes Designs.And of course you can buy the latest dance sounds on 45.Roger Perryroger.perry@tesco.netSold shortI am a regular reader of Online. Indeed, it is the only reason I get the Guardian on Thursdays. I am therefore disappointed at the recent slimmed down coverage.I am sure it is not the choice of the Online team but reflects an editorial decision from on high. Please convey these sentiments to whoever has made the decision to shortchange those of us who are interested in computing and see no reason why it alone (apparently) of all the sections should be minimised at holiday times.M.E.Williamsmike@lantes.freeserve.co.ukTime outI experienced a delayed reaction to the Y2K bug. When I switched on my PC on January 1, I immediately pressed the DEL key to check the system date before my PC had a chance to deduce that my programs were all 100 years old.The date was correct. My data was fine. I ran a virus check to trap any lurking Trojan horses: nothing.My website was unchanged. I received no malicious emails. By now I was positively blas&eacute;. All thoughts of Y2K now dismissed, I opened a free coverdisk program I had loaded months before, assuming that it would have expired. The following message appeared: "You have 36,255 days of your 30 day evaluation period left." Ouch!Lewis Peake,Norwich
The year 2000 started with almost none of the disastrous millennium bug problems. No aircraft fell out of the sky, there were no more power cuts than usual, our bank accounts remained the same and the supermarkets are still full of food.This is hardly surprising given the amount of money and effort invested in eliminating the problem. But the problem may not have been as great as predicted. Problems might still occur as we get further into the 21st century, but the likelihood lessens as days go by.However, the millennium bug was really the tip of a much greater iceberg. My work over the last 25 years has been to fit computers into many of the devices we use in our everyday life. I now teach others how to do this. These computers are not the kind that you purchase in the high street store. They are no bigger than the corner torn off a postage stamp and cost about the same as a postage stamp (before the software is written for them).They are buried (or embedded, to use the correct terminology,) in almost anything we use these days: washing machines, microwave cookers,   televisions and videos, intruder alarms, central heating controllers, several in the average car, smart cards for automatic barriers in car parks and at railway stations. They can even flush the toilet.Industry uses these embedded computers in vast quantities to control and monitor all kinds of processes. The use of embedded computers makes equipment far less costly to manufacture and can provide many different facilities, including the ability to analyse themselves and inform the users when they are going wrong (as well as keeping working during the error).Despite the extremely high reliability of these systems, they do still go wrong now and then - how many of us have been stuck in a supermarket queue because the computerised till has just hiccuped and refused to acknowledge any more scanned items?The embedded computers need to be programmed just like all computers. Any programmer will tell you that all programs will contain errors (or bugs) and under certain conditions will not perform exactly as required. Most bugs are just simple errors and the majority are usually ironed out in the first few months that the device appears on the market (it does not always pay to be the first to buy some devices).But why are these systems not fully tested? The simple answer is that it is impossible to test fully all possible combinations of the tens of thousands of instructions that make up today's computer programs. To demonstrate this point, I show my students a small part of a typical computer program (about 20 instructions) and I ask them how many different ways there are of executing them.Most answer about 50 to 100, some brave ones suggest 1000 ways. When I tell them that this small, almost insignificant fraction of a program has two hundred and fifty thousand million (250,000,000,000) different ways it can be executed, I can see the disbelief in their eyes. I then go on to tell them that if ten of these combinations could be tested in a second, it   would take over 800 years to fully test this small segment.Imagine how long it would take to test a typical program found in most modern equipment which would contain between 10,000 and 100,000 instructions. Maybe thousands or even millions of years. This means that no piece of equipment on the market today which contains a computer, can be fully tested.Most programmers have adopted a formal approach to writing programs which reduces (but do not eliminate) the bugs. The millennium bug is just one possible bug, but because manufacturers knew about it, they were able to test for it very simply. It is not all doom and gloom as in reality, only a tiny fraction of the possible ways of using a computer program will ever be used.There are many more bugs that are likely to exist in our computer systems than the millennium bug, some more significant than others. Microsoft's software has dominated most of the PC market, but many systems use Unix. The Unix operating system keeps track of time by counting the number of seconds since January 1, 1970. As Unix uses a fixed size number, it cannot count higher than 2,147,483,647. If one more   count is added to this maximum, the number becomes wrong. This will occur at sometime in the year 2038. It is highly unlikely that many systems running the original version of Unix will still be operating then, and as we know about it, something can be done between now and then.Even more sinister bugs can lurk in our computer systems. Most people who use computers will be aware of the computer viruses that some unscrupulous programmers have deliberately corrupted the programs in our computers, such that under certain conditions, or at certain dates, the program fails to work properly.Some people have made a lot of money from selling anti-virus software that can detect and sometimes destroy the virus - just as some people have made a lot of money correcting the millennium bug (real or not). It is   simplicity itself for an unscrupulous programmer to deliberately insert a bug into an embedded computer that will cause it to fail at a certain time or date - not just the millennium.This is like built in redundancy where after say, two years of operation, the computer program stops working and so the equipment fails. In this case, you would have no choice but to either send the equipment for repair, or replace it.It is impossible to know why the computer has failed, so hiding the misdemeanour of the unscrupulous programmer. Repairers would obtain a new, unused computer and, hey presto, the equipment would spring back to life - at least for another two years of use.Having said all this, in the 25 years of working with embedded computers, I have never come across one where a fault has been deliberately put in - but that's not to say they are not there!(Dr Christopher Hudson is a lecturer in computing and electronics at Brunel university as well as a consultant to industry. He also runs workshops for industry on the use of microcontrollers.)
A digital camcorder built-into a wrist-watch, a tiny pendant style camcorder and the world's smallest music players were among the highlights at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last week.The stars of the exhibition, which had previously seen the debut of the DVD player and digital camera, were gadgets designed to be worn on the wrist. Casio unveiled the first wearable digital camera, the WQV-1, which features a small LCD screen that acts as a viewfinder when recording images and as a monitor during playback.It is capable of storing up to 100 images in its 1MB memory, and pictures can be uploaded to a PC via an infra-red data transfer link.The watch, which Casio hopes will go on sale in the UK in early summer for around &#163;250, captures images in black and white, although the company hopes that a colour version of the watch/camera will be available within the next year.Casio pulled out another showstopper in a wrist-watch that features an integrated MP3 digital audio player. The WMP-1V can store up to 33 minutes of what it claims is CD-quality music, or 66 minutes of FM standard sounds in its 64MB memory.The watch boasts a small screen that displays track and artist information, and has a headphones socket and a USB interface for connecting to your computer, to collect MP3 files downloaded from the internet. The MP3 watch is also scheduled to reach the UK in the summer, with a   price tag of around &#163;200 to &#163;250. But Casio wasn't the only manufacturer to display a music-playing watch. Panasonic paraded its own slightly larger version among a range of futuristic devices that use its upcoming SD (Secure Digital) memory card. Developed in conjunction with Toshiba and SanDisk, the postage stamp sized card can store 64MB of digital information. That might seem remarkable enough, but the group also pledged to have a 256MB SD available by the end of this year.Scheduled for a world wide launch at the end of the year, the wristwatch can store up to 80 minutes of music on a standard 64MB SD, and up to five and a half hours on the mooted 256MB SD.Panasonic intends to incorporate SD technology on a host of innovative products many of which will be released in 2000/2001. Among them are tiny "wear round the neck" pendant style digital cameras and camcorders, handheld e-mail devices, and a microwave oven that uses the SD card to store recipes and control the cooking process.Not to be outdone, Sony unveiled a series of products that included what could well be the world's smallest audio player. A dead ringer for a cigarette lighter, the NW-E3 Network Walkman can store 64MB of downloaded music    on its embedded flash memory. Similar to other models in Sony' s internet music range, the NW-E3 is SDMI (Secure Digital Music Initiative) compliant. And as it has no moving parts, it can be used while its owner takes part in all kinds of vigorous outdoor sports. The player is set to launch in the USA in April for around $330,   with a UK launch expected later in the year.Sony also used CES as a platform to highlight the versatility of its Memory Stick digital storage media. Before the show the Stick had been used only in internet music playing Walkman products and the company's range of Vaio PCs. The Stick will now be integrated into Sony's digital camcorders to enable easy storage and downloading of digital still images.Other new gadgets from the company included a digital camcorder with built-in printer, a DVD Walkman range complete with LCD screens, and several tiny personal MiniDisk players and recorders.French-owned consumer electronics manufacturer Thomson continued its tradition of displaying concept products. Among the items, which may or may not make it into the company's range next year, are a projector that features an integrated DVD player, a portable games machine that uses a mini DVD, and an MP3 player built into a rucksack.For consumer electronics manufacturers, the show's must have item was a DVD recorder. Almost every maker displayed a product, with Pioneer, Philips and Panasonic committing to UK launches in the next 12 months.Other highlights of the show included Samsung's phone watch, which the company believes could reach the UK in 2000, CD-jewel box sized portable speakers from the British manufacturer Wharfedale (pictured left), and a bathroom-friendly flat screen portable TV from Sharp.
Given the way the UK's first 'e-Christmas' was hyped, it's not surprising that sceptics are now lining up to offer a more realistic perspective.First in line is the e commerce consultancy E Insight (www.e-insight.com), which claims that Brits spent around &#163;200m online at Christmas (not the &#163;500m some predicted), that online retailers ran up &#163;75m in operating losses in the same period and that only 65% of orders arrived in time.Figures like this are chastening. Though they may like to think they are catching up with America, Britain's online retailers clearly still have a long way to go yet.That said, people can get as carried away with backlash stories as they can with hype. I did a lot of my present-buying online this December - having written the Guardian Guide to Shopping on the Internet, I felt honour-bound to have a go.By and large, it went pretty smoothly, with one or two notable exceptions, though I did limit my shopping to certain categories (books, CDs, toys, and chocolates)    that the net does well. At Amazon (www.amazon.co.uk), I picked up several books you wouldn't find on the average high street, and ordered some as late as December 20 and still got them in time.However, Amazon proved frustrating for children's books - you can't see the illustrations. I ended up going to the high street for a better look. Once there, I still couldn't find everything I wanted, so having done my research, I went back to Amazon and finally found satisfaction. Call it a clicks-and-mortar strategy.Buying CDs online was more problematic. If you're interested in mainstream chart fodder, you're fine shopping online. If you want something more off-beat, you need to search around and plan ahead. Mid-December I bought Goldie's Timeless and Junk Science by Deep Dish for my brothers, from Audiostreet (www.audiostreet.co.uk). A few days later, the Goldie disc turned up. I went back to the site and discovered that they didn't have Deep Dish in stock but might get it in one or two weeks - not soon enough. In a rush, I'd made an elementary mistake and forgotten to check product availability.That said, it wasn't really my fault, since at the moment Audiostreet doesn't reveal stock details (they will soon, apparently), something which makes every purchase there a click in the dark. In the site's favour, when I rang to complain, the order was cancelled with no hassle.I had a trouble-free time buying two CDs back at Amazon and that persuaded me to risk buying two more CDs on  21 December, the site's last ordering day. Needless to say, these didn't arrive in time. When I contacted   Amazon, it was implied that the CDs had probably been stolen on their way to me. Perhaps our postal service isn't as secure as we'd like to think. Once I complained, Amazon sent replacements free of charge. It was a good recovery, but I still had to go out and find an alternative present on Christmas Eve.In contrast, on December 20 I bought champagne truffles from Choc Express (www.chocexpress.com) and got them sent to my mother-in-law in Bristol. They arrived in good order in two days.Shopping for toys online didn't go so well. Everything    that I looked for at eToys (www.etoys.com) seemed to be out of stock. A week and half before Christmas, I did find one thing I wanted - a Fisher Price Rescue Heroes helicopter for my son - at Toyzone (www.toyzone.co.uk). It was three pounds cheaper than in the shops, though delivery cost &#163;2.95, and arrived with no problems in three days - a good result.Things went less well at the American site, Toysmart (www.toysmart.net). I wanted to buy a rather funky construction set called ZoLo, which you can't find over here, but the site wouldn't accept my credit card.After around 30 minutes in two different phone queues (to America! In the middle of the day!), I discovered it wasn't my fault. So I was urged to try again. I did. Again my purchase was rejected. After a big phone bill and a lot of wasted time, I won't be going back.Another purchase from America also proved frustrating. My daughter was desperate for a particular Barbie that's no longer available (the Rapunzel Barbie with extra long hair, if you must know). Via eBay    (www.ebay.co.uk), I found it at Advantage Collectibles, a US specialist site (www.advantagecollectibles.com). But though I ordered it two weeks before the big day, it didn't arrive in time, which did cause some problems. However, without the net, I would never have managed to locate it, so I'm reluctant to complain too much.So what did I learn from all this? First, don't think you'll be doing all your Christmas shopping online. For the best results, use the real world and the net in tandem. Always check product availability before you try to buy. Finally, net shops do go out of stock and they often need to order in less popular CDs and books, all of which takes time.So start early, especially if you're buying something from abroad. If you do get started early, you won't be on your own. Chastened by surveys like that done by Book Track, which showed that delivery worries caused consumers to stop buying books online after December 11, retailers have decided that their e-Christmas 2000 push will need to get started in October. Only nine months to go, then. Bet you can't wait.
Nice legs, shame about the paceVirtua Striker 2, 
version 2000.1Dreamcast Sega 39.99Let's be honest. While playing for Man United and getting sent off regularly are undoubtedly major blemishes, the main reason Mr Beckham courts controversy is because of his looks. His floppy fringe and chiselled jaw help fuel the terrace vitriol, even if opposing fans wouldn't admit it. Looks are also crucially important in games, with Virtua Striker 2 
a good example.This latest addition to the rapidly growing Dreamcast sports catalogue is blessed with visuals so crisp and fluid you could almost ignore the shortcomings in other areas. From the moment the camera pans on to the stadium, you can confirm that "arcade perfect" is, for once, a true statement. Even the lack of real names doesn't initially detract, especially as the likenesses to the top players are obvious.You can dive straight in as the controls are simple - one button passes, one tackles and one shoots. It's like Fifa never happened and is all the better for it. Until, of course, you have played for more than an hour. It is around this time that realism arrives, making you notice that rather than breaking from the back with pace and precision you are, in fact, wildly pinging the ball around midfield in a vain search for space. And when you do get a shot in, it usually flies past the bewildered goalkeeper making scoring less satisfying than it should be. Standard tournament facilities notwithstanding, in-depth play is further hampered by minimal options, reflecting the arcade heritage.Virtua Striker looks great and plays well in short bursts. Just don't expect a long-term relationship.Greg HowsonFor dedicated followers of fighting onlyQuake III: ArenaPC CD-Rom, &#163;39.99Activision/id SoftwareVideogame buffs can be divided into two categories. First, there's the casual gamer: the type that leads a life, enjoys different genres, and might put in a couple of evenings a week at his PC, if he's lucky. Then there's the hardcore gamer: the type that has completed everything since Doom on the "nightmare" difficulty level, that dismisses casual gamers as "newbies", and spends half his life engaged in virtual violence against other hardcore gamers, and the other half in chat rooms whingeing about ping rates.The latter will be pleased with Quake III. The people at id Software have produced arguably the state of the art in multiplayer deathmatching.Enhanced networking code means fewer disconnections and lag problems; the artificial intelligence for the bots (computer-controlled opponents) is now fearsomely sophisticated; and all sorts of other tweaks contribute to a slicker, more frenetic, more challenging   experience. Smaller maps, jump pads instead of lifts, faster weapon switching, enemy identification facility, decaying armour ratings. . . .The casual gamer, on the other hand, might wonder what the fuss is about. Apart from looking a bit prettier, this is all too familiar: same idea, same weapons, similar environments. Except it's much, much harder.And where's the single-player campaign? Well, if he wants, he can trawl through 24 arenas taking on fiendishly powerful computer gladiators, but there's no test of wits or sense of progress there. His only real option is to connect to the net, and get verbally abused and repeatedly murdered by the hardcore gamer.Never before has a game been tailored so exclusively to one end of the market. (The manual, which uses jargon like "frag", "gibs" and "camping" without bothering to define it, is a perfect illustration.) No bad thing in itself, of course, but this is one game that should carry a newbie warning: "Not suitable for persons who play under 18 hours a week."Andy BodleMedal of HonourPlayStation &#163;29.99Dreamworks/EAMedal of Honour takes you back to France in June 1944 for a first-person shooter that's somewhat similar to the big Nintendo 64 hit, Goldeneye 007. Since this is a Dreamworks game, there's a lot of attention to historical detail - as long as it doesn't interfere with the gameplay. So, for example, you can drop into a well-lit sewer and find it stocked with dozens of German soldiers, who   conveniently appear in ones and twos so you can pick them off at will.The "realism" extends to the fighting, too: some enemies, when shot, perform amusingly-cinematic falls from balconies.However, lack of help from the aiming system, and the inconvenience of the firing button, tend to make Medal of Honour quite hard work.The game also suffers from "pop ups", with scenery appearing out of thin air. Still, the sound effects are good, and the 3D graphics are very smooth. It all adds up to a good game, even if it's not quite in the same class as Goldeneye or Metal Gear Solid.Jack Schofield
PlayStation 2 unveiled earlySony has decided to unveil its next-generation PlayStation 2 console in Japan on February 19-20, instead of waiting for the Tokyo Games Show. The public will be able to check out the quality of the first 20 PSX2 games such as Tekken Tag Tournament and Ridge Racer 5 for an entry fee of about &#163;6.Although Sony has yet to announce a date or a price for its new system, some American retailers are already taking orders on the web. Gamestop, for example, is offering the PlayStation 2 for $399.99 with an estimated release date of September 30. Go towww.gamestop.comGuest appearanceAlso in America, the EB World (Electronics Boutique) website is taking advance orders for Will Wright's new "virtual life" simulation, The Sims - and offering some extra characters for the game. These include the Avatar and the Raven from the role-playing game, Ultima IX, plus the star programmers Sid Meier (Civilization, Alpha Centauri etc) and Will Wright himself. For the ultimate geek pet, seewww.ebworld.com/ebx/Set up shopThis week, Electronics Boutique finally launched UK websites atwww.eb.uk.comandwww.game.uk.comApparently the company wanted a "soft" launch building up to long-term success. It therefore avoided getting caught up in Britain's pre-Christmas e-commerce frenzy.Christmas crackersFifa 2000 was, like its forebears, the best selling game in the UK at Christmas, ahead of Tomb Raider IV and movie spin-off Tomorrow Never Dies on ChartTrack's all-formats chart. More than &#163;50m worth of games were sold in the week to December 25. In the US market, Donkey Kong 64 came out ahead of Gran Turismo 2 and Pokemon Yellow in the console games chart published by the NPD Group. Tomorrow Never Dies took fourth place while Tony Hawk's Pro Skater came fifth.Tiny new Lara is still GameHard to believe that Tomb Raider heroine Lara Croft can be reduced to fit on a Game Boy Color screen, but Core Design, Lara's creator, expects to have a GBC game out in a couple of months. Lara is packing her Uzi for a trip to a temple in the Peruvian jungle to find an ancient crystal, The Nightmare Stone, and save the world.High NuonVM Labs has announced the titles of some of the games for its (very) long awaited NUON technology, formerly known as Project X. They include Tempest 3000 from British programmer Jeff Minter, Miracle Design's Merlin Karting (with King Arthur and Merlin), and Myst, the world's most boring graphical adventure. The NUON chip is designed to add games playing and multimedia features to products such as DVD players and television set-top boxes. Seewww.nuon-tech.com
Apple's new fruitsApple chief executive Steve Job's decision to drop the word "interim" from his title might have grabbed the headlines last week, but another announcement he made to MacWorld in San Francisco was much more interesting.Apple also unveiled its new iTools atwww.apple.com, a web-based suite of services that are designed especially for Mac users. It is hoped that, because they're made only for Macs, users will notice improved speed and functionality - not to mention fewer of the irritating   crashes that can bedevil Mac-using surfers of certain sites.Top of the list for MacSnobs like me is the @mac.com email addresses - although you'll have to move smartly to snap up the remaining prime addresses. There is also a HomePage service, allowing fast set-up of a personalised web page on Apple's newly beefed-up servers.Parents will appreciate the KidSafe service, which will allow users to block out web sites unsuitable for young eyes. Apple claims the filter is intelligent enough to block sex sites while still allowing kids to, say, do research for a biology project on animals' mating habits - unlike some rival services. And an Apple innovation wouldn't be complete without a nod towards aesthetics - which, in this case, is the new iCard greetings card service, a design-aware alternative - for Mac users only - to the generally pretty tacky e-card offerings elsewhere on the web.Why is Apple doing all this? Well there is, of course, a price to be paid to enter this world   of exquisite taste and usefulness. You've got to have a Mac, and the latest Mac OS 9, which, presumably, is the payback.Christmas clearoutGot any unwanted Christmas prezzies? It used to be hideous ties, undrinkable spirits and dangerous-looking chocolates to be quietly disposed of in the new year. But going by what's up for grabs at the free ads paper, Loot, (www.loot.com) times have changed.Loot has set up a special Unwanted Xmas Gifts section on its site to let its users raise some cash for the sales. Some of the things going cheap are so strange it's almost worth registering and logging in just for a browse.A quick foray this week found an unwanted Honda superbike, discarded BMW 3-Series lowering springs (still boxed - but what are they?) and several Sega Dreamcasts, including one going for only &#163;100.Shouldn't Sega be worried?A new type of web ringAnd, if by some freakish chance you manage to raise a four figure sum from offloading your unwanted lowering springs, why not splash out this Valentine's day at trendy upmarket jeweller's Van Peterson? The store is urging us to "engage yourself in cyberspace" by buying a ring through its website, atwww.vanpeterson.com. The site is fast and beautifully laid out, filled with stunning sparklers like the &#163;5,600 Pelham ring. There's only one question to ask with something like this: how many people are prepared to make a purchase this big without coming eye-to-facet with the item itself?Sorry...how unromantic.Expanding horizonsOr how about getting away from it all? Microsoft's Expedia website (www.expedia.co.uk) has announced it is dropping the requirement to register to use its services.The move comes after figures from Jupiter research showed that 40% of users are put off sites which demand their details before giving them full access. Expedia includes content from the Rough Guides series of books, a travel magazine, fares information and the ability to book online.Chance for a spreeBT's comparison shopping website,btspree.com, is running a big giveaway until the end of the month. It is hoping to encourage more users to register for the service, which lets you compare products and prices from lots of retailers.The first 50,000 UK residents to sign up will get vouchers worth up to &#163;2000, claims the site, which can then be redeemed against holidays, theme park entries and cinema tickets. The vouchers are valid until the end of next year.Lion kings and jungle prints"Printer consumables" and "environmental awareness" are two words not normally associated - but that was before the advent of Canon's new World Wildlife Fund website atwww.canon-wwf.com. Canon is the first conservation partner of the WWF, and has launched a site full of pictures of endangered animals to help sell its products. There are "desktop animals" to download, plus the chance to win a family safari holiday in Kenya, or scanners and printers, plus links to WWF factsheets. You can also collect WWF-licensed endangered species cuddly toys - when you buy things like BubbleJet printer consumables. Hmm.Music of the moviesIf you thought MP3 music was going to be the cool thing on the net this year, think again. Nope - the cool bit's going to be the video you create to go with your MP3 track.OK, perhaps not quite that cool - we've all seen the scratchy, jerky efforts that stagger down the line using streaming media players like RealPlayer. But the Lava MusicVideo Player, from MP3 music people Creative Labs, displays information and graphics sequences to show as the song is being played - a first step towards fully-fledged, MTV-style videos for MP3.For now, Lava says the software, available in beta form atwww.lava.com, will at least make it easier for musicians to get their work noticed.Neil McIntosh
In the cult 1980 movie, Sir Henry At Rawlinson's End, Trevor Howard wakes up in bed, grabs his shotgun, fires both barrels at the ceiling and shouts: "Mrs B, Mrs B, I don't know what I want but I want it now."Those in the suddenly fashionable incubator space feel the same: all are looking for the billion dollar idea that can make all concerned very rich but don't know what it is.Incubators work at the very start of the process. They are looking for investment opportunities that can be as little as an idea scribbled on a napkin during an evening out. This area of funding carries the highest risk profile of any type of investment, as the odds on success may be only a few percent: it explains why incubators will typically take a large percentage of the equity, for a relatively small amount of money.With too much money chasing too few deals, what criteria are used to assess proposals? And what should the ideas person look for from such a partner?First: management. Although the internet boom has rewritten the rules on raising funds, there is still one constant: the quality of the management. This used to be about track record and proven business skills but is now tending towards age (youth), and confidence. This is likely to change as entrepreneurs with proven commercial success again become more important. In the US this is still the key, and those with three or more winning businesses behind them can almost name their terms when   raising money.Second: experience in the sector to be targeted. If the idea needs specialist knowledge, such as founding an exchange for surplus airfreight space (done) or establishing a portal for beekeepers (not done), does the management team come from the sector or will it have to spend time - the factor in shortest supply - learning it?Third: is the idea expandable beyond just one country? Most incubator funds do not want projects that cannot be grown to at least a European level. They are always looking for the Exit Strategy - how they will cash in and collect. There are two ways: flotation or sale to a larger player. Everyone has half an eye on North American dot.coms entering European markets and buying them out.Fourth: is this going to be first, second or third to a market niche? Any later and there is little chance of challenging the early entrants.If you can launch within, say, six months of the first to market and your site is "better" then the investment can be justified.Fifth, has the idea been funded in North America? If it has, and there is little sign of a European launch, then there may be an assumption that the American investor did its due diligence and went ahead, therefore so can the incubator.Sixth, due diligence: funding at this very early stage can be completed in as little as two or three weeks. The incubator will not want to delay but will try to establish the following: size of the potential market targeted; that the revenue model is credible, and what the   company could be worth in one to three years.The entrepreneur faces two key decisions in deciding from whom to accept help. First: is there a meeting of the minds or do they look at you as their bankroll to an easy life?Second: what do they bring other than money? Many incubators provide help with the business process, but how many can help you develop the   technology you will need to build your site?Not since the 19th century gold rushes has there been such an opportunity for an individual to reap the fame and riches on offer today. Sleep tonight, dream and may you wake with the next billion dollar brainwave.&#149; Larry Levy is founder and CEO of Protg, which funds start-up ideas.Larry@protege.co.uk
More than &#163;1.2bn was wiped off the stock market value of electrical retailer Dixons yesterday as the group was forced to admit its profit margins are being hit by tumbling prices.The price collapse leaves the vast Dixons empire - which includes Currys, PC World, The Link and Jakarta and is the UK's largest electrical retailer - appearing increasingly like an internet company with shopping offshoots.The company is now valued at just over &#163;5bn, but its 80% holding in internet service provider Freeserve is valued at &#163;3.7bn. The 1,000-store business, therefore, is worth only a little more than a third of the loss-making net operation.The price of the store group's shares slumped by 302p -   more than 20% - as analysts took fright at the Dixons' warning, even though the company was also unveiling better than expected first half profits, a &#163;121m cash handout to shareholders and a robust set of sales figures showing a 5% improvement in pre-Christmas trading.Dixons reported a 0.7% decline in its profit margins last year, but yesterday chairman Sir Stanley Kalms said: "It is definitely 1% or more now."Analysts described the information as an "unwelcome surprise", but Sir Stanley disagreed. "It may be unwelcome, but it is not a surprise. If analysts haven't noticed that prices are going down then they are out of touch and not doing their jobs properly."He added: "We have had deflation for quite a few years   now and it will carry on in some products."It is probably averaging 5% but on some products is much more. We are selling videos for &#163;70 that cost &#163;300 a few years ago, we have high quality computers for &#163;400 - and just look what has happened to the price of mobile phones, down from &#163;69 to &#163;39".But he warned that to start decribing Dixons as an internet company was "a flippant reaction", insisting that the company remained primarily a retailer and that he was unworried by the share price."It doesn't mean very much. It is just a knee-jerk reaction. We have had a good year and are pleased with our results."The company was reporting profits up 14% in the six months to November 13.Underlying profit, before   tax, exceptional items and a &#163;8.6m loss at Freeserve, rose to &#163;92.5m, compared to &#163;80.9m a year ago.Shareholders are to receive a 25p a share cash handout after   the company banked &#163;219m from the sale of 20% of Freeserve last year.The company said the product cycle and outlook was encouraging. "The digital TV   boom hasn't even started yet, and DVD is going to have a major impact."In two or three years' time nobody will be buying video tape recorders. Digital cameras have also become a serious product group."The company also announced its plans to make Dixons a major net retailer by the end of this year, with a &#163;30m investment."Nobody understands e-commerce properly," said Sir Stanley. "Setting up a website is easy. It is like putting a carpet down in the street and putting a few goods out on it."You could do that from your bedroom. But successful e-commerce will be about fulfilment. It is about next-day delivery anywhere in the country, it is about servicing, repairs and returns," he said.
AOL's $350bn merger with Time Warner (TW) should be scrutinised carefully by the anti-trust authorities to see whether it is good for the consumer. This is vital not just because the merger itself needs to be looked at but because success will trigger a surge of copy-cat mergers across the globe as media companies pay ever higher prices for remaining companies fearing they may be left behind in the race of the Titans. At issue is whether the world wide web - whose founding philosophy is free access and empowerment of the individual - should be dominated by huge media conglomerates or whether plurality is to be the ethos.AOL's merger was greeted on the markets as a marriage made in heaven to exploit the convergence of computers, telephones and cable. This is because it merges AOL's subscription-driven gateway to the web (with 20m subscribers) with TW's entertainment archive and cable network - a vital asset when the web faces a "broadband" revolution offering high-capacity links to the home. AOL, which has had many ups and downs in its 15-year life, will be vulnerable without broadband during a period when its subscription-based web model could be challenged by free access.This merger raises three big issues. First, whether size itself is good if there are no benefits to the consumer. Second, whether AOL will guarantee open access to competitors to its new cable assets. Third, whether there should be guidelines over what happens when media giants own both the conduit and the content sent down them. The problem is this: if there is to be open access to conduit and content then why is there such a pressing need for AOL and TW to merge. If there isn't, and the real motive is to restrict access in order to keep prices higher, then it is a serious matter. The markets are so smitten by an "internet company" (though actually AOL is a pre-web dial-up service) marrying old technology thereby justifying the inflated prices of web stocks that they haven't had time to consider the real world. Unless this is sorted out now the next giant merger and the one after will point to AOL/TW as a precedent to allow them through the regulatory hoops. It is difficult for net companies, let alone the regulators, to keep up with the dizzy pace of activity. Which is why we must pause in order to decide what sort of future we want and whether it should be moulded by consumers or big corporations.
Yesterday afternoon, the geeks were taking it badly. In chatrooms and newsgroups right across the internet, the &#163;220bn merger between the online groupAOLand the media group Time Warner was just too much for some to digest in one go. The forums saw heavy traffic all day as netizens pored over the details. On the Usenet network - a massive collection of tens of thousands of discussion forums - most writers were worried. "Oh, my gawd - AOL's taken over Time Warner", was the comment that opened one debate.The fact is that netties don't like AOL. Search for "aol sucks" on the internet, and you'll find more than 4,000 web pages. But why? AOL is the world's most successful online service, with more than 20m users relying on its user-friendly services. It's also a survivor which has been around, in its current incarnation, since 1985. AOL, indeed, has often played the role of underdog in the face of companies armed with new technology - new technology which should really have rendered AOL obsolete.But while AOL has learned, quite brilliantly, how to survive, the internet has never learned to love AOL. On many hate lists the company rates up there alongside Microsoft and the government. All three are feared for the same reason: netizens worry that they are out to curb the precious freedom of the internet, freedom to say things and choose particular technology to get around - or even dictate how they get online in the first place.AOL's public relations problem stems largely from its success at   recruiting first-time users - a key market when the net population has grown, within five years, to encompass 40% of the US population and more than 20% of UK adults.These "newbies" - the net industry term for beginners - have been lured by the simplicity of AOL's sign-up process, which starts with one of the millions of its CD-roms, given away with net magazines. Ten minutes after putting such a disk in a computer, even the most technically illiterate can be online, provided they have a credit card.It's a long way from the days when you needed hefty manuals, basic programming skills and maybe a few tech-savvy friends to get online.   AOL-ers find, within minutes, that they have their own email address and access to AOL's broad range of sanitised content and closely monitored chatrooms.The problem, say the old hands, comes when AOL-ers take themselves on to the big bad internet, often without realising they have moved outside AOL's safe environs. Suddenly there is a set of new rules to follow, called "nettiquette", without which the already chaotic world of online chat would descend into anarchy.David Cassell is the San Francisco-based editor of theAOLWatchnewsletter and website, and one of the most dedicated critics of the company. His problem with AOL is not   just its ability to introduce legions of na&iuml;ve newbies to the net: he is angered by a range of AOL policies, from its privacy rules to its customer service, via technological gaffes and its all-pervasive advertising."Take the technological side," he says. "When AOL first introduced the power to post to internet newsgroups, there was a bug in its software which meant every message was posted five times."Cassell rattles off several other reasons for the company's stunning unpopularity. They are mostly AOL mistakes, from its obscene-word filter software which prevented British users from saying they lived in Scunthorpe, to an incident in 1995 when   women talking about breast cancer in AOL's chatrooms were told not to mention the "obscene" word "breast". Then there were the constant engaged tones when membership grew faster than the company could handle."One of my big fears is that people say we're just elitist, that we don't like new people coming online, but that's not true at all," says Cassell. "The truth is more complex... but if I had to summarise it, I would say that we're marching into a new world, with new possibilities. I think it's great that people around the world can hook up and talk to each other for the cost of a local phone call."The problem with that is that AOL wants to seize the revolution, and take that away from an open standards world where people can just hook up and talk, into AOL's world where you're not really on the web - you're just looking at stuff which non-AOLers can't. And you're looking at AOL's adverts while you're doing it, on AOL's tools."AOL is sanguine, as any &#163;190bn group can afford to be, about sniping from the "AOL sucks" brigade, saying that complaints are isolated and mainly from old net hands."AOL is a mass market product, the global brand for consumers," says Matt Peacock, director of corporate communications for AOL Europe."A lot of the AOL-sucks stuff came out of the fact that a very large number of people came out of nowhere and didn't understand the protocols which had been built up over the years. This meant a very tech-savvy, net-focused and closed world found this enormous rush of new people who didn't understand the etiquette, and they didn't like it. But I don't think that is the case now."America Online: the public relations disasters&#149;  In one of many incidents which have led critics to question the company's attitude to freedom of speech, the American Civil Liberties Union expressed outrage last October over newspaper allegations that a gay AOL subscriber had been instructed to remove details of his sexual proclivities from his online member profile. Meanwhile, anti-racism groups have protested, the firm's policies banning hate speech have allegedly been insufficiently policed and frequently violated.&#149;  Unsolicited email, or "spam" - carrying advertisements for pornography, gambling and get-rich-quick schemes - is an internet-wide problem, but AOL subscribers have long complained they get more than their share. The firm has been aggressive, and in some cases successful, in pursuing "spammers" through the   courts, but the scourge continues: two years ago, CNN - now an AOL bedfellow - reported that between 5% and 30% of the service's email traffic was unsolicited.&#149; AOL uses a system of "community leaders", volunteers who agree to welcome new users and police content online in return for free access to the service. The practice, condemned as Orwellian by free-speech activists, was the subject of a US lawsuit in May filed by two former community leaders who alleged that the company's use of volunteers violated labour legislation. Disgruntled former leaders now share their woes at the Observers.net website.&#149; Users complain that the firm's "free net access" trials - which require credit card details to be submitted so the company can charge users who decide to continue after the trial ends   - are more trouble than they are worth. Some trial subscribers who follow online instructions to help them disconnect have found instructions to telephone the company and been plunged into a maze of unhelpful recorded messages. Cancellations sent by fax and mail have sometimes failed to take effect, and subscriptions have continued to be deducted.&#149; There was widespread condemnation of AOL in 1998 when a US naval officer, Timothy McVeigh (not to be confused with the Oklahoma bomber of the same name), was discharged for "homosexual conduct admittance" after an AOL source leaked information that he had listed his homosexuality in his member profile. He has since been reinstated.
The takeover battle for accountancy software groupPegasushotted up yesterday with the departure of one bidder, the arrival of another and rumours that a fourth interested party could yet enter the fray.Pegasus, which revealed before Christmas that it had secured a 430p per share cash offer from Australia'sSolution 6, yesterday received an all-share offer fromFreecom.net, the vehicle for entrepreneur Bob Morton, valuing each of its shares at 658p.Market leaderSage, which had been considering a bid, has pulled out of the race. All four companies operate in the fashionable applications service provider - ASP - sector which allows small and medium-sized enterprises to create virtual online business through rented software.Freecom.net's offer represents a 49% premium to the price Pegasus shares were trading at prior to the announcement of the offer from rival Solution 6.Freecom.net said it was con fident of success. However, market sources believe Pegasus may seek either a cash sweetener from Freecom.net, or even a white knight.Freecom.net's offer has secured the support of Southwind, Mr Morton's family trust, which owns 12.7% of Pegasus. The rest of Pegasus's shares are split between institutions, none of which own more than 12%."This is a very exciting merger," Mr Morton said. "Both companies have similar target markets and the synergies are compelling."Freecom.net said it had spoken to Pegasus about a merger twice before, but the talks had come to nothing. Pegasus called on its shareholders to wait for Freecom's offer to be published and a response to be sent to them before deciding whether to sell.Separately, Freecom.net announced a pre-tax loss of &#163;1.9m on a turnover of &#163;600,000 for its maiden end of year results to December 31. Pegasus shares closed up 32p at 562p; Freecom.net dropped back 4p to 325p.
The European Commission confirmed yesterday that it would investigate AOL's (AOL)  $159bn (&#163;100bn) takeover of Time Warner (Time Warner) because of its "sheer size".Shares in America Online and Time Warner fell sharply yesterday as investors fretted over the consequences of the marriage between the world's biggest internet service provider and media group. The deal, announced on   Monday, also faces regulatory scrutiny amid concerns about the increased dominance of a handful of companies controlling access to the internet.Shares of AOL fell 12 per cent at one point yesterday morning on concerns that its acquisition would slow revenues that have been increasing at internet speed. By midday, some $17bn had been wiped off the total value of both companies. Tom Wolzien, media analyst at Sanford Bernstein,   said that the shakeout was typical after a merger announcement set to change a company's classification."After the dust settles, people will be looking at more fundamental techniques of valuation," he said.He supported AOL Time Warner's own estimated value of $350bn for the combined group rather than the $245bn they were quoted as worth at midday yesterday.Mr Wolzien believed   some investors had failed to recognise the value of harnessing Time Warner's entertainment assets and cable network with AOL's internet capacity. "If people think the internet can go on forever without content there's got to be a recognition of reality," he said.Investor preference for internet stocks over traditional companies has long been cited as a reason why so few large-scale mergers between the two sides have been carried out. The deal   is set to be carefully scrutinised by regulators on both sides of the Atlantic.Investigations by both the federal communications commission in the United States and the European Commission are expected to take up to nine months.George Vardenburg, AOL's senior vice-president for global and strategic planning, said yesterday: "This &#91;merger&#93; is transforming the way people will get information, shop and are entertained."
Vodafone AirTouchyesterday named partners includingIBMand the online broking firm,Charles Schwab, for the launch of its global internet service in a bid to shift the battleground in its continuing &#163;80bn contest to acquire Germany'sMannesmann.The first stage of the service, offering share trading, news, games, film listings, weather forecasts, travel and banking, will be launched in July. More sophisticated versions will be launched online later.Vodafone chief executive Chris Gent said the increasing use of mobile telephones to access the web would cause average revenues per user to rise by 20-25% from existing levels of between &#163;330-&#163;350 a year.Vodafone will give the portal a separate brand which Mr Gent said he hoped would act like theVisamarque and could be overlaid on local content. Core services however, such as the Schwab broking service, will be accessed from any of Vodafone's global markets.The cost of setting up the service will initially be around $150m (&#163;93m).The launch was carefully timed to focus Mannesmann shareholders' attention on the high growth parts of the Vodafone business. Mannesmann is due to publish its defence document by the end of this week.Mr Gent said: "There is nothing in the mobile data and internet that Mannesmann cannot do better with us than alone. We have the scale and global presence which will allow us to confirm our position in this long term race."Other partners in the service include hardware group IBM - which will build the architecture and host the web portal -Psion,Sun Microsystems, and infospace.com, which will collect content.None of the agreements are on an exclusive basis. Mr Gent's hope of taking the high ground in the increasingly grubby war of words with Mannesmann was momentarily dashed when he was forced to defend himself over imprudent comments made to a reporter during a cricket match in South Africa.He allegedly poked fun at Mr Esser's affection for poetry, adopting a German accent and inciting already sensitive national feelings in D&uuml;sseldorf.Mr Gent said yesterday: "I was surprised by the remarks attributed to me in Cape Town."They were out of context and inaccurate. I regret that they were reported at all, because they were made on a social occasion."Mannesmann, predictably, said it was unimpressed with Vodafone's internet plans.The German company lambasted Vodafone's lack of control in many of its markets - it can only guarantee adoption in the 10 national markets where it has the majority shareholding - and the company's failure to secure exclusive arrangements."Even more importantly, Vodafone's projections of increased revenue per user serve to confirm the insufficient value of a hostile offer that fails to compensate shareholders for Mannesmann's superior internet, data and tele-commerce future," Mr Esser insisted.Vodafone will also be working with makers of palm-held computers to make its internet service easily accessible from other wireless devices.The second phase, which will be launched at the end of the year, will include a more comprehensive version of the worldwide web, voice activation and the introduction of virtual private networks.Mr Gent said he expected further marriages of content and internet access providers.
Microsoft has settled one anti-trust lawsuit for an estimated $275m (&#163;167m) a week before it is due to respond to accusations from the United States government that it is a monopoly and harms consumers.Analysts said yesterday that Microsoft's settlement with Caldera, a small Utah-based software company, could indicate a greater willingness to reach agreement before going to court.However, settlement with the department of justice is expected to be much harder to reach because of the scale of the landmark action.The government indicated a desire for substantial remedies at the outset of the settlement talks, which started last month. Microsoft is to present its case against the findings of Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson next week.On reaching a settlement with Caldera Tom Burt, Microsoft's general counsel, said:   "We are pleased to put this issue behind us."Rather than litigating, we prefer to focus on building great software for our customers in this dynamic and competitive industry."On the same day as the settlement was announced Caldera Systems - sister company to Caldera, which trades under the Lineo name - filed to list on the stock exchange. Caldera Systems aims to raise $57.5m with its initial public offering later this year.
The global media industry was turned on its head yesterday when Time Warner, the US information giant whose interests range from the CNN news channel and Time magazine to Warner Bros cartoons, announced it was merging with the world's biggest internet service provider, America Online.The $350bn (&#163;220bn) deal, which ranks as the largest takeover ever, creates the world's fourth-largest corporation. The participants said it established "the world's first fully integrated media and communications company for the Internet Century".Ted Turner, who owns &#163;5.2bn worth of Time Warner shares after selling it CNN, has agreed to vote in favour of the merger and become vice-chairman of the enlarged company, called AOL Time Warner.Seen as the ground-breaking convergence of "old" and "new" media businesses, the merger sent shockwaves through Wall Street and the City of London.A series of copy-cat corporate marriages is now forecast in the US and Europe as financiers and entrepreneurs race to bring respected media "content" - ranging from TV broadcasting and newspapers to film archives - together with the leading companies of the new information age.In New York commentators speculated on the future of media brands such as CBS and Disney with the frontrunners   of the internet industry, such as Yahoo! and even Microsoft.In London there was frenzied dealing on the stock market as investors bet on one or more of Britain's big media groups, such as Pearson or Granada, attempting to take over a UK internet service provider, such as Freeserve.In both the City and Wall Street, the merger was seen as justification for the stratospheric valuations attached to shares in internet and new media companies.The new US media giant brings together a vast array of news and entertainment brands, and one of the US's biggest cable networks, with one of the world's most established internet infrastructures, potentially giving it unheralded power in areas such as e-commerce.AOL Time Warner will be headed by Steve Case, currently chairman and chief executive of America Online, while Time Warner's boss, Gerald Levin, becomes chief executive of the new company."This is an historic moment in which new media has truly come of age," Mr Case declared yesterday. "We've always said that America Online's mission is to make the internet as central to people's lives as the telephone and television, and even more valuable."By joining forces with Time Warner, we will fundamentally change the way people get information, communicate with others, buy products and are entertained - providing far-reaching benefits to our customers and shareholders."Mr Levin added: "The digital revolution has already begun to create unprecedented and instantaneous access to every form of media and to unleash immense possibilities for economic growth, human understanding and creative expression. AOL Time Warner will lead this transformation."America Online is only 15 years old, but already boasts 150m users through its various online services and many more users of its Netscape internet browsers - software that revolutionised access to the web. Some 1bn viewers worldwide are believed to have access to CNN, while Time Warner's magazine business reaches 120m readers and its young cable business already has 13m subscribers.Despite the breadth of the deal, the merger partners do   not expect any problems in gaining regulatory approval."Today's announcement really does change the tectonic plates in this world," Christopher Dixon, a media analyst at the US investment bank PaineWebber, said. "This underscores the strength of the internet ... It's about coming up with ways to use your computer in a TV-like experience."Most financial and industry analysts cheered the creation of a new class of digital media company. But rivals urged regulators to ensure consumers have equal access to content such as Time Warner's magazines and TV programmes, even if they do not link with AOL's internet services.Bulletin boards on the web were crammed with complaints from internet users who saw the deal as a blow to the web's freedom from US corporate dominance.
His marketing prowess and knack of connecting with the mass market has made America Online the world's largest provider of online services with more than 20m subscribers worldwide.At the same time, his lack of technology savvy has sometimes put him at odds with some of the early webheads who pioneered the internet.The quietly spoken father-of-three started his career in the marketing department of Procter &amp; Gamble, which controls the world's leading consumer brands. It was while he was in charge of developing new pizzas for Pizza Hut in the early 1980s that he first came across an online information source.He was said to have recognised the possibilities of the new technology while balking at its then "user unfriendliness". AOL was born in 1985 out of the embers of a company which ran an online service for users of Atari computer games. It became AOL in 1989 after launching a nationwide service for the first time. But it was 1997's takeover of Netscape which changed the company and Case's reputation.The takeover of the browser group which had first threatened   Microsoft was a coup for Case, who had been appointed chief executive in 1993.John Sidgmore, chief executive of UUNet Worldcom, who has known the Honolulu-born Case for five years, said after the deal that he had become "the premier   chief executive in the internet space". While other internet businessmen claim that Case is too interested in mass marketing for the industry's good, he has long claimed that the new means of spreading information should be available to all.A former college rock singer, he lists music and sports sites on his own home page but claims that reading political science and social history are his chief interests in the latest edition of Who's Who in Finance and Industry.The 41-year-old denied that he would be keen to look for other challenges yesterday.He told interviewers that he would like to spend the next 10 or 20 years as chairman of AOL Time Warner.
They may have just created the media marriage the markets were waiting for, but Steve Case and Gerald Levin make an odd couple. The quietly spoken Case, head of the world's largest internet service provider, has little in common with Levin, the often brusque leader of an old media giant and 18 years his senior.Whereas Levin plays the tough-talking Hollywood insider who tamed the volatile genius of Ted Turner and created the world's largest media company by joining Time with Warner Communications, Case is a marketing guru with a smaller-than-life persona.But it was the web that bought them together. The pair first got to know each other while co-chairing a committee on the new economy and became friends on a fact-finding mission to China. That shared interest led the two men to announce the world's largest corporate takeover yesterday.The merger of America Online and Time Warner creates the world's biggest online media company in a deal that is set to value the combined group at more than $350bn (&#163;220bn). By bringing together dominant players from the worlds of old and new media, the new company could redefine the worlds of entertainment, communication and commerce.The new company will be called AOL Time Warner - but significantly will trade on the market under AOL's initials.It will enable AOL customers to have access to the sprawling Time Warner media and entertainment. In turn, Time Warner will be able to deliver its products over the internet in a more comprehensive way than at present.Time Warner, based in New York, owns the Time publishing empire, CNN, Warner Bros., Time Warner Cable, Sports Illustrated, People, HBO, Fortune and Entertainment Weekly. Time Warner gets access to the world's largest online and e-commerce platform; AOL offers access to the brave new world of such web companies as CompuServe, Netscape Communications and ICQ.Celebrity gossipIn the jargon, this is "convergence" - when the barriers between television and the PC disappear. The AOL subscriber will potentially be able to download any of the 5,700 films made by Warner Bros. Or listen to the latest track from the Red Hot Chili Peppers or watch the latest episode ER or flick through the celebrity gossip in People magazine.In announcing the deal yesterday, Steve Case said: "This merger will launch the next internet revolution." It was the deal that business analysts were waiting for, proof that the huge distribution abilities of an online group could marry a group with a dowry of entertainment assets desired by the mass market.Peter Kreisky, a senior consultant at Mercer, echoed other analysts when he said yesterday: "This is a marriage made in heaven and one that we've been waiting for for a long time."The Virginia-based AOL, used by more web surfers than any other online group, gains access to a new cable television network, while Time Warner can send its information to a new breed of online consumers. Both groups will then cross-promote each other's content. Both sides were yesterday stressing the importance of the timing of the deal. Yesterday was 10 years to the day after Time Warner was formed following the combination of Time Inc and Warner Communications, a merger which brought the old world of printed news together with the faster growing entertainment industry.For many yesterday was also the first full business week of the new "internet century". "This is an historic moment in which new media has truly come of age," said Case. "We've always said that America Online's mission is to make the internet as central to people's lives as the telephone and television, and even more valuable, and this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to turn this promise into reality."Case, now reckoned to be the most important manager in cyberspace, first raised the idea of a "merger of equals" in a phone call to Levin last October. The call - at around the same time as Viacom and CBS announced their merger to create one of the world's largest media companies - was breathtaking in having most   of the important details already worked out. Levin, a 59-year-old dealmaker, said Case immediately offered him the post of chief executive of the new group. Case will take responsibility for overall strategy and deal-making in his role as company chairman.Levin said yesterday that he was immediately impressed by this offer to "digitally transform Time Warner". He was particularly attracted by the chance to link up with these "bright, impressive, hip, new media-oriented types". However, the deal floundered for the next month as it became obvious that the stock market put a far greater value on these hip types than those employed by an old media group.Biggest fearsThroughout November, AOL's share price rocketed and made Time Warner nervous about its valuation. Although the old media group made almost $27bn in revenues last year, compared with less than $5bn by AOL, the internet company is worth at least 1.5 times what the old media group is in the stock market. Amid the celebratory tone yesterday, the biggest fears raised were over the reaction of AOL's shareholders, now saddled with a slower growing media giant.Under yesterday's deal these shareholders will own 55% of the combined group with Time Warner shareholders owning the rest. If the deal is approved by shareholders and regulators, the biggest problem could come from a clash of cultures. Levin's decision to be the only   senior executive of the new group not to wear a tie at yesterday's New York presentation prompted one analyst to exclaim that he had "gone internet".Levin also could not help pointing out the unusual nature of a company "with both Steve Case and Ted Turner as executives". Turner, the high-profile founder of CNN, owns 9% of Time Warner and will become deputy chairman of the new group. After the tie-up, his wife, Jane Fonda, from whom Turner has separated will be in line for up to $500m in a divorce settlement.The deal is likely to set off a new wave of mergers between media and technology companies. But it could also worry regulators around the world, worried about the dominance of a handful of companies controlling information and how that information reaches people.Both executives played down that threat yesterday and said they would work at opening up access to both rich and poor. Bob Pittman, the co-chief operating officer of the new group, said the merger would allow the company to expand more internationally."It is no coincidence that last year was the first in which the number of internet users abroad has outpaced that of the US," he said. Yesterday's takeover of Time Warner showed how far the world has moved in the 10 years since the company was formed. In 1989 the internet was hardly used outside a small band of academics and business people, now it is set to become a mass market medium.
A week is a long time on the web. Just look at shares in America Online.Days after one of the biggest and most sustained sell-offs of internet stock ever experience by the New York and London markets, the US's largest internet service provider announced it was swallowing up one of the   great leviathans of traditional media. The currency? AOL shares.It may seem inconceivable but for the two protagonists it made compelling sense.Together AOL and TW give rise to a formidable combination of internet "eyeballs" and content. The take-over brings together two companies with premium quality paper, premium quality management in AOL's Steve Case and TW's Gerald Levine and two premium revenue streams.In strategic terms AOL acquires a diversified media company with widespread content including film, television and publishing, plus a major cable television subsidiary. TW gets a ready-made internet strategy. But will other companies be able to find such strong and complementary partners?It is unlikely, although they certainly will not tire of looking. There are not many AOLs. Most European internet service providers have premium paper but neither management depth nor revenues, let alone profits.Individual companies' chances of success depend very much on who they chose to partner. Every deal will be different. For AOL and TW content was not king. AOL has emerged as the dominant shareholder but in other cases it could be the access provider that is eaten.For nationally leading inter net service providers like Freeserve, Terra Networks and Thus yesterday's news should be a good thing. AOL's all-share offer has ratified the value of internet paper in the world beyond virtual business. If media companies approach Freeserve in an attempt to ape what has taken place on the other side of the Atlantic, Freeserve should be in a position to bargain hard for the eyeballs it represents.Much will turn on whether a bidder attaches more weight to Freeserve's market share as an ISP - 35% according to the most recent figures - or the site's attractiveness as a portal, where it is able to attract fewer than 15% of the UK's "unique site visitors". If a content provider approached Freeserve, the more bullish ISP figure would probably be more relevant. In a bidding war Freeserve's price should benefit. Based on Freeserve's interim figures WestLB Panmure values its shares at &#163;2. In light of the AOL-TW deal we can see them rising to &#163;6.Alliances between content and access are likely to be theme for the next couple of   months, with a flurry of rumours and deals. Expect incumbent telcos like Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia to speed up their plans to spin off their internet subsidiaries as soon as possible to capitalise on their paper value.Language will also be a complication, exposing UK players, more than their continental rivals, to US-driven forces.For those who strike deals there are good prospects but it could leave public service bodies like the BBC or Channel 4, which have no equity facility to trade, in an unsustainable position.Miles Saltiel is head of technology research at WestLB Panmure.
Richard Branson's Virgin Net has told 25% of users to change their email passwords after a potential security breach.The company had to disable its incoming email service temporarily at the weekend after hackers were suspected of infiltrating its systems.Virgin Net said it informed around 155,000 of its 620,000 users that the "integrity" of accounts could be at risk unless they changed passwords following the breach, which occurred last Thursday. It is working with police to identify the source of the problem.Alex Heath, the managing director of Virgin Net, said there was no evidence that accounts had been abused."Our customers' email privacy has always been and will continue to be a top priority for Virgin Net, and as such we have acted quickly and decisively to ensure the integrity of the service."Virgin's scare, which is likely to fuel fears about security and privacy on the net, paled against the problems encountered by an American online music retailer at the weekend.CD Universe was contacted by a hacker who claimed he would publish customers' credit card details on the web unless he was sent $100,000.The blackmailer, who said he was 19 and from Russia, released some details when CD Universe refused to pay up.He set up a website allowing surfers to obtain credit card numbers, with names and addresses, by clicking a mouse.The site was shut down yesterday following the intervention of the FBI. "The internet creates a whole new class of criminals," said Elias Levy, of computer security firm SecurityFocus.com."On the net you can have criminals coming from countries where we have no extradition treaties. How do you prosecute these people?"
"Ford Ka Helps Billie's Driving Ambition!" "All Saints Choose Chart-Topping Jeep Grand Cherokee!" "Slade to Tour With Ford Minibus!" Manufacturers are always eager to tell us about their latest sponsorship hook up with the pop star of the moment (and Slade). But standing amid the throng watching All Saints collect the keys to their new wheels at last year's Motor Show, I couldn't help but wonder whether a glorified mini-van was appropriate transport for a group of supposedly cool and foxy international pop stars. And All Saints aren't the only sell-outs.Take a look at the cars most pop stars drive, or are driven in, these days and, with the exception of Ferrari fan Chris Rea (who I'm not sure counts anyway) and Prodigy's Keith Flint, who drives a monster of a TVR, mundanity rules. Hang around outside the Brits and you'll see that the Mercedes S-Class, or worse the Toyota Previa (for second-string boy bands), are the standard pop star transport.Maybe today's artists can ill-afford to be seen endorsing fossil fuel-burning extravagance, as Jay Kay has found to his cost when pilloried for his conflicting environmentalism and a penchant for 12mpg Lamborghinis. Whatever, things were certainly different in the 50s and 60s, when no artist would venture out in anything less than a fur-trimmed Roller with gold-plated hub caps. The best of these fabulous vehicles can still be seen in two extraordinary car museums, one at the Liberace Foundation in Las Vegas, the other at Elvis's home, Graceland, in Memphis.Automobiles may have been at least partly to blame for Elvis's slothful ballooning, but he still loved them. "The first car I ever bought was the most beautiful I've ever seen," Elvis once said. "It was secondhand, but I parked it outside my hotel the day I got it and stayed up all night just looking at it. The next day it caught fire and blew up on the road."I suspect it may have been suicide. The car knew what he would have done to it had it lived. The first new car he bought, soon after his first string of hits on the Sun record label, was a 1956 Cadillac. According to legend, Elvis went into the showroom clutching a pound of grapes and squeezed the fruit on to the bonnet of the demonstrator. "That's the colour I want my Cadillac, thangyouverrymuch," he said. It was the only known instance of Elvis wasting food.That Cadillac is the first car you see as your eyes adjust to the reverently dimmed light inside the museum. The rest of the collection is arranged in a horseshoe around a re-creation of a drive-in movie theatre. Filmgoers watch selected car moments from Elvis's movies on a   continuous loop, while parked in authentic 1957 Chevrolet seats.The collection is by no means complete - Elvis's legendary gold Caddy is on display at the Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville and other Elvis-mobiles are often advertised on the internet. As his wealth snowballed he began buying new cars, each of which he would personalise with the same good taste that judged the living room ceiling to be an appropriate place to lay shag pile. Cadillacs, Jeeps and Harley Davidson motorbikes abound throughout the rest of the museum, each with either a spangly silver or a bilious pink paint job to mark them as the property of the King. Occasionally Elvis inadvertently allowed good taste to obscure his better judgment and bought a European machine. But even then he either chose a dud (his black Ferrari 308 GT4 is about as desirable in Ferrari circles as rust), or irretrievably disfigured his purchase with an ill-advised piece of customising (as with the vile blue leather in his Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud).Elvis didn't reach his zenith until the 70s, and neither did his cars. I didn't know whether to laugh or cry when I reached the half way stage of the tour and the centre piece of the exhibition: a brace of Stutz Blackhawks.Even in standard trim Stutz Blackhawks are ostentatious. The first one ever made was originally ordered for Frank Sinatra in 1971; Elvis charmed it from the dealer for $26,500 (Sinatra's response is not recorded). Frustratingly, an assistant wrecked that car while on his way to wash it shortly after Elvis took delivery (it was later repaired). Undeterred, the King bought another of the Pontiac-engined monsters and had its interior plated with 18-carat gold. Both are on display at Graceland.As if Elvis's cars hadn't suffered enough, he even tried to murder one of them. As is the custom with highly strung, mid-engined Italian supercars, Elvis's rare and beautiful De Tomaso Pantera refused to start one morning. Instead of calling a breakdown service, as you or I might, he simply pulled out his gun and shot it.By the standards of what Wladziu Valentino Liberace did to his cars, Elvis's Pantera got off lightly. Las Vegas's Liberace Car Gallery is possibly the only car museum that could rival Elvis's for chintz and chutzpah. I took a cab there from the Strip and found, alongside the world's biggest rhinestone and more dodgy candelabra than Bermondsey market, numerous customised classics.Take the priceless Rolls-Royce Phantom V Landau, smothered in tiny mirror tiles etched with a design of galloping horses. Beside it in the low-rise museum compound, ranged appropriately around a parking lot, sits a matching Baldwin grand piano. Or Liberace's Excalibur, a British confection based loosely (and I mean loosely) on the legendary Mercedes SSK. This one is covered from head to fender in Australian rhinestones (his favourite semi-precious rock).Liberace, at one time the highest-paid musician in the world, didn't own a car until he was 30, when he bought an Oldsmobile 88 convertible - chosen because a piano has 88 keys. But once he bought that he was hooked, and embarked on an automotive spending spree untrammelled by notions of taste or restraint. As with Elvis, but sadly not today's off-the-peg stars, Liberace didn't stop once he'd  bought  a car. Even his more mundane machinery would be decorated with a piano key motif, or bedecked with his trademark candelabra. But Liberace's greatest automotive crime was that the only mileage his grand and costly cars accrued was in carrying their owner on and off stage to the applause of a sea of blue rinses.As you wander around the rest of the collection, you cast incredulous eyes over a Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud with a striking red, white and blue colour scheme, in honour of America's bicentennial; a bastardised Beetle - "Volks-Royce" - part Roller, part VW; a customised London cab (Liberace was a committed Anglophile - or "insufferable snob" as they are known in the US); a 1964 Cadillac with diamond-studded candelabra, a bar with sterling silver cups depicting winners of the Kentucky Derby, and a TV and stereo; as well as dozens more motoring atrocities. As far as I'm concerned, it more than warrants its title of "Nevada's third most popular tourist attraction".One man whose name crops up in both museums is George Barris, fabled customiser and creator of the original Batmobile. Barris painted Elvis's gold Cadillac, and also plastered Liberace's 1954 Eldorado with a chrome piano key design and used candelabra as (hardly pedestrian-friendly) bonnet ornaments.It could be that today's pop stars need a man like Barris to pep up their garages. He could decorate Morrissey's Porsche with a fibreglass quiff; the Sterophonics' car could be swathed in sheepskin; or maybe Liam Gallagher would like a large pair of bushy eyebrows atop the windscreen of his Bristol.I suspect my fantasies may all be in vain. Elvis and Liberace existed in an era more tolerant of such gaudy glamour. Perhaps, on reflection, it's best that way.Graceland, Elvis Presley Boulevard, Memphis (001 901 332 3322); The Liberace Car Gallery, 1775, East Tropicana, Las Vegas, Nevada 89119 (001 702 798 5595)
What are you driving?Grey Ford Sierra Ghia estate.What does that say about you?Very good question.What do you like about it?It's extremely reliable, capacious and powerful.Why did you buy it?It was purchased from a friend for those reasons.What kind of driver are you?Hard but not speedy.Any bad habits?Absolutely none, your honour!Any driving test tales?It took three goes - all pretty straightforward.What was your first car?1938 Morris 8 tourer.Have you ever crashed or got a speeding ticket?Many crashes in my early years - one or two quite serious. I've only ever got speeding tickets when I'm driving in mountains.Have you ever experienced road rage (either passively or actively)?Yes - both ways. I had to stop an irate young man and get out of my car and demand that he hit me - he didn't.What do you use your car for?I've virtually rebuilt a house and two flats with its assistance.What sort of state is your car in (inside or out)?Generally rough, but mechanically it's always kept in good order.What's in the boot/glove compartment?Emergency supplies, ropes, boots, water, umbrella, toilet paper and rubbish.Have you ever had sex in a car?Many times. My very first, in fact, in the back seat of a borrowed Vauxhall 9. Not very satisfactory but subsequently things got better. It's not my preferred territory.What music do you listen to on the road?All and everything.What would be your dream car?Blue Bentley Continental circa 1985.Who is your dream passenger?The person who was taking me to pick up my winnings in cash from the lottery.Larry Lamb is appearing in Anna Weiss at the Whitehall Theatre in London.
At its launch, the new Fiat Punto lost its spirit. Or at least its spirito: the ad campaign for the new model traded the wry wit of the "Spirito di Punto" series for a dollop of American cheese. And hey, if those elephants, giraffes and ostriches didn't make you laugh, there was a fat man, too!Thankfully, the car's image projectors are now back on track with a new series of boy v girl dialogues, to which the obvious subtext is that Fiat's best-ever seller is the essence of cute. Few will disagree; if you thought the original was a nice-looking duckling (Ford evidently did, given the styling tribute that is the Focus) it's fair to say that Punto II is a fanciable swan.Like size-10 stilettos, five-door hatchbacks can look clumsy, but Punto's proud haunches are so confidently styled that, in this case, the five-door manages to be chic. Check the bold, pointy tail lights and clever kicked-out boot; like a little Dolce and Gabbana number, it looks trim from every angle. Blessed with a flatter, more pert posterior, the three-door car looks even tidier. Punto's face now shows more character; the headlamps are complex, all-in-one clusters and they glare with the kind of insect-like cool you'd expect from a BMW.Inside, there's enough room for at least half an average Italian family. The stereo sits logically on a pronounced bump atop the dash, but visibility is excellent for most of 360 degrees. The seats are comfy and big on side support; they encourage you to assume an uprightish stance, but that's entirely suitable for this car's roadgoing nature.Fiat braved a potential caseful of jokes by staging Punto II's launch in a remote corner of western Sicily. Brimming with pride, the mayor of the labyrinthine mountain-top town of Erice   threw his streets open to visiting journalists. Studying the map carefully, I charged my JTD 1.9 diesel test car the wrong way down a generous alleyway, being forced to retrace my tracks after a swift 58-point turn. Still, the manoeuvre was invaluable: it showed how well the new "City" button works - you push it in and the steering goes light as an air steward's handshake. It also showed how dint-resistant the car is - when I finally managed to detach the rear quarter panel from the street corner, the metalwork obediently popped back into place, showing hardly a scratch.Once through the city walls, the JTD took to the hairpins like a supercharged sherpa. In fact, it showed such brio that it upstaged both the 1.2 litre 16-valve and the alleged Sporting version, the latter producing so little torque in second that, as I overtook a lorry, I fully expected the words "To be continued!" to flash across the windscreen.By now, I was starting to conceive my Punto dream-team - a creation with all the rev-lust of the JTD, all the toned handling of the Sporting and all the composure of the 1.2 ELX. Silly me, I had yet to drive the prime Punto, the HGT. This 1.8 insists and thrives on a good hard thrashing, clings to tarmac like heavily chewed gum and, at high speed, sails on with all the solid grace of a Golf GTi.Superminis face tough work to earn family car status, but the new Punto keeps Fiat in the field - a marked improvement on a car which has been Europe's best seller since 1997. Fiat's decision to kick off prices at &#163;7,995 makes the car not quite as lean as the cheapest 1.3 Encore-badged Ford Fiesta. However, despite the revisions to the latter, Punto II has image and driveability that place it leagues ahead.
Today's $250bn merger announcement between Time Warner  and America Online provides the most dramatic proof yet of the  breakdown of old and new media.For Time Warner, it has been a steady march from the traditional  media of film and print new areas. Gerald Levin, the head of  Time Warner brought CNN, the cable network into the Time Warner  empire, seeking to cross-fertilise Time Warner's numerous  publications with cable TV.Once thought of a bloodless technophile, Mr Levin has emerged as  an audacious dealmaker. In his latest venture, Mr Levin is  seeking to catapult Time Warner well and truly into the internet  age, tapping the internet expertise of a new media company like  AOL to leverage his company's traditional media assets.Other companies have been moving in this direction, notably  Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. Mr Murdoch became an internet  convert towards the end of last year and now wants his company  to be at the cutting edge of the internet. His number two, Peter  Chernin, is less focused on the company's heart, its newspaper  business, than on its fast-growing divisions such as  entertainment and the internet.Last month, Mr Chernin announced a $1bn alliance with  Healtheon/WebMD, the online healthcare company. The deal  signalled a new trend for traditional companies to  leverage their huge marketing power to gain a stake in internet  companies. Instead of accepting advertising fees from online  groups desperate to increase brand awareness, media companies  are demanding a stake in the company in return for space.As another example of the sort of cross-pollination Mr Chernin  has in mind, News Corp plans to start a religious website linked  to its Zondervan publishing interests. Mr Chernin also expects  TV Guide, the magazine partly owned by News Corp, to rival Yahoo  and America Online as a valuable media brand.Mr Levin has taken the process of convergence to another level  altogether, by merging Time Warner with an internet company.  Although AOL initially was ridiculed by internet purists, it has  established itself as the dominant online service provider with  20m customers, and it boosted its internet credentials with its  purchase last year of Netscape, which popularised the internet  browser.By merging operations, Time Warner will have access to AOL's  large customer base, while Yahoo will have access to Time  Warner's content, which includes films, TV programmes and  publications ranging from Time and Sports Illustrated to People  and Entertainment Weekly. While other companies such as News  Corp were looking at alliances with internet entities, Time  Warner has decided to go all the way by throwing its lot in with  AOL.This deal represents the second phase of mergers among media  companies. In the first phase media companies merged with each  other. Disney set the trend by buying the ABC television  network, Viacom bought Paramount, the film studio, Time Warner  hopped on the bandwagon and bought CNN. These media companies  then entered into alliances with internet companies or formed  internet subsidiaries. Now we have a marriage of a traditional  media company with an internet company.On paper, it looks like a sensible idea. Media companies have to  position themselves for an era where people will get news not  just from print, but from phones, interactive TVs and computers.  They need the expertise of a Yahoo! to channel information to  these various platforms. The internet companies, for their part,  need content for their sites.Mr Levin has always been a technology buff. He resisted the  pressure to get rid of Time Warner's cable assets, which soaked  up investment. Now they have become valuable as a way of  delivering information. He led the drive for interactive TV,  although the experiment fizzled, coming ahead of its time. Now  the question is whether he is too far ahead in putting Time  Warner and AOL together. Large companies, and the new entity  will be a behemoth, are notoriously difficult to run, and the  clash of cultures between two companies, has often been  difficult to overcome.
On the dot of midnight, as 1999 became 2000, all sorts of bad things were supposed to happen. Computers would malfunction, planes would fall out of the sky and cities would be plunged into darkness. None did. The millennium bug didn't bite, and the first few days of the new century - if such it is - have all been about grappling with older and rather more tangible problems, such as finding hospital beds for intensive care patients and enough staff to treat them.This is salutary lesson about getting too hung up about arbitrary dates. When you get down to it, the task of politicians has changed very little since Beveridge said there were five giants barring the way to a better world, and named them want, idleness, ignorance, disease and squalor. Across the globe, there is a need to ensure that everybody can enjoy the basics of a decent life - a job, a roof over their head, an education, protection from preventable illness and an adequate diet.The importance of the millennium celebrations, however, is that it has focused attention on what has been achieved in the past and what remains to be done in the future. There is no intrinsic reason why Beveridge's giants should not be slain in the 21st century, no real excuses for putting up with the death of 5m children under five during the next 12 months.At the crossroadsWhen people died young in the middle ages, it was because of a lack of knowledge; they die in Africa today because they are poor, and don't have proper sanitation and the right drugs. The cost of providing universal primary education would be $8bn (&#163;4.8bn) a year - about four days' worth of global military spending. So when pessimists say we are condemned to famine, ecological disaster and ever greater inequality, they are wrong. This is not a question of inevitability, it is a question of choice and will.As Oxfam said at the end of last year, we stand at a crossroads. "A new world is taking shape at the end of the millennium that has two possible futures. If current trends continue we will have a world divided by immense inequality, with the poorest regions falling further behind. Our children will face a world of environmental collapse, international resentment and insecurity and uncontrolled international crime. Vast swaths of humanity will be excluded from great wealth created by a global economy."It is worth reflecting on what future generations will think when they look back. Will they see us as the first generation to build firm foundations for international peace and to rid the planet of the scourges of absolute poverty and avoidable disease? Or will they see a generation hell-bent on squandering every natural resource in a quest for material happiness and at the cost of   the great majority of humanity? Will they feel pride or shame at what their fathers and mothers have done to the world they inhabit?"Of course, a number of obstacles stand in the way of a better future. One is the giant that Beveridge had no need to mention amid the high optimism of the mid-20th century: cynicism. This is no longer the age of "what needs to be done", but "what can we get away with".In retrospect, the idealism of the post-war reformers may have been misguided, even na&iuml;ve, but there was a genuine belief that there was no problem too big to be solved. Today, politicians everywhere routinely renege on pledges in the belief that any problem can be solved by short-term fixes, spin-doctoring or character assassination.Take this example highlighted by the outgoing head of the International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus, in Madrid recently. He reminded his audience of all the agreements signed up to by governments over the past decade or so - to reduce the number of people living in poverty by half by 2015, to ensure universal primary education, to reduce child and infant mortality by two-thirds and maternal mortality by three-quarters, to reverse the current rate of destruction of the environment and to eliminate the disparity in access to primary and secondary education for girls and boys by 2015."Imagine for a moment that these pledges were to be actually fulfilled: what a giant step this would be toward a better world, toward improving the lot of the most disadvantaged among the poor - women and children! But many of the world's top leaders are losing sight of these pledges. With 1.3bn people living in extreme poverty, what is needed is some thing that is also fundamental in human relations: abiding by one's word. If we allow cynicism to prevail here, we may as well give up the dream of progressing to a more fraternal society," he said.Absolutely right. Over the past decade, rich western countries have merrily trousered their peace dividends as a result of the end of the cold war, giving them the wherewithal to meet their United Nations targets for aid. Yet, with a few honourable exceptions, countries have continued to fall further and further short of their 2000 aid targets of 0.7% of GDP.Dog eat dogOne reason that governments have been allowed to get away with this is that the past two decades have seen the relentless denigration of the public realm. This has been true both within and between countries, with the fostering of a dog eat dog political culture and the every man for himself mentality.All the great flowerings of civilisation - from Greece and Rome onwards - have been based on a strong sense of a public realm and public duty, not on naked individualism and atomised societies. So if the first prerequisite for progress is an end to cynicism, the second is the desperate need to protect, nurture and develop a sense of collectivism. The tremendous success of the Jubilee 2000 campaign, the outpourings of public concern over food safety and the World Trade Organisation are all signs that the mood is changing.The public is waking up to the fact that the counterpart to ever lower taxes is a health service in a state of semi-permanent crisis - and that if they want the best graduates to teach their children they are going to have to pay for them, collectively or privately.Similarly, it is becoming clear that solving some of the world's most pressing problems - the environment, drugs, organised crime, corruption, poverty, financial instability - cannot be left to the private sector because the private sector is part of the problem. The reason the dark ages were a dark time for civilisation was that the public realm collapsed with the demise of Rome, leading to fragmentation, lawlessness and higher rates of illiteracy. Recolonisation of the public sphere is now long overdue, with electorates tending to be ahead of governments in understanding what needs to be done.As Mr Camdessus noted: "Humanising globalisation also means creating conditions that will enable us to better protect ourselves as a group against collective risks on a global scale, and together obtain a clearer view of our collective destiny."We are the first generation in history to be called upon to organise and manage the world, not from a position of power such as Alexander's or Caesar's or the Allies at the end of the second world war, but through a recognition of the universal responsibilities of all peoples, of the equal right to sustainable development, and of a universal duty of solidarity."It's not often that I find myself in total agreement with Mr Camdessus. It is conceivable that the next 100 years could see great advance for the human race. But the process of humanising globalisation will only happen if there is a rediscovery of the virtues of governance and a willingness to accept collective responsibility for our destiny. That means redistribution of power and redistribution of wealth. But above all it means a belief that we can do it. If we believe it can't be done, it won't be.
Orders placed with Internet shopping sites were lower than expected over the Christmas period, and the widely predicted boom failed to happen. The 'e-tail' flop caught out many new entrepreneurs, and even some established retail names, according to the first analysis of seasonal Net trading.Retailers' losses from the first 'e-Christmas' add up to about &#163;75 million, says specialist consultancy firm E-Insight. The firm, which used mystery shoppers to test a range of web retailers, found services wanting. More than a third of orders were not delivered as promised. Some didn't arrive in time or the wrong goods were delivered.Spending failed to meet pre-Christmas predictions of up to &#163;500m. Sales totalled a disappointing &#163;200m, the survey estimates.'Bricks and mortar retailers are dabbling in e-tail thinking that they can achieve their goals by using existing systems of distribution and marketing but this means their costs are swallowing up any profit they are making and costing them money,' said E-Insight's chief executive Alan Taylor.Firms such as Marks &amp; Spencer and Woolworths launched Internet shopping sites only weeks before Christmas, and for a fraction of their ranges. A spokesman for M&amp;S said: 'The intention was to test customer demand so that we could expand. We will put 3,000 items online by the spring.'But smaller companies who have secured millions of pounds of venture capital, turning their young bosses into paper millionaires, will struggle, Taylor said.'Many of these start-up dotcoms have been profligate in their approach to marketing expenditure. We are seeing the investor community becoming increasingly careful because they are not seeing the yield they expected.'Supermarket giant Sainsbury's receives heavy criticism in a report by leading investment bank Goldman Sachs. Its home delivery service is 'difficult to navigate and a far from satisfying experience' analysts say.
If you've got some Christmas present money to stash away on behalf of your children, is it possible to find a profitable home for it via the internet?The short answer is that you or your child can get a lot of useful information from the net on the various deposit accounts and equity-based investments aimed at young savers. But I've yet to come across any providers whose websites allow you to open an account or buy into a fund online.Bank and building society children's accounts, which usually offer free gifts and magazines to tempt children, provide a useful home for smallish cash gifts. Children from age seven can get an early introduction to the savings habit by operating their own account, which they can add to with pocket money deposits and make withdrawals from. Parents generally need to open and operate accounts for younger children.The financial search sitewww.moneyworld.co.ukis a useful place to start. Here you can quickly call up the best high street rates available on children's accounts. Unfortunately, by sticking to a short list of major providers, it doesn't paint a complete picture.Missing are some high interest paying children's accounts offered by smaller building societies such as Lambeth's new Cat's Whiskers instant-access account which is paying an attractive 6.5% gross on deposits of &#163;100 or more. It also misses out those societies offering good rates to children of local residents such as the Saffron Walden's Ladybird account, currently paying 6.4% on &#163;1 or more.For a fuller list of children's account providers, you'll have to leave your screen and pop down to your local library for a look at the rates tables in Moneyfacts' monthly guide to personal finance or call Moneyfacts, whose website is still under construction, for a one-off complimentary copy on 01603 476100.The best high street buy just now is Nationwide's Smart 2 Save account, which is open to children up to age 12 and is paying 6.4% on deposits of &#163;1 or more. Nationwide's website onwww.nationwide.co.ukwins my vote as one of the clearest and most straightforward to use with particular merit for aiming certain screens directly at children. Clicking the "young savers 0-12 yrs" icon brings you directly into details of Smart 2 Save including the option to click on "I'm 7 or over and I want to do it myself".Up comes a child-friendly screen explaining that, to open an account, the child will need to come into a branch armed with at least &#163;1, their birth certificate, proof of their address (such as a gas, electricity or phone bill to your parents' address) and a completed application form. They can click on an icon to e-mail for a form sent   by return of post and ask any questions they fancy.This screen also waves the account's freebie carrots under your youngster's nose. Their welcome pack will include a wallchart, money box, a pencil with a monkey eraser and free entry to one of a range of zoos and other family attractions if they go with a full paying adult.Also attractive to kids is the facility to click on to the Monkey House, a screen which tells young browsers about Nationwide's sponsorship of the Tamarin monkeys at London Zoo. Users are invited to e-mail their questions about monkeys and send in drawings, some of which will be reprinted on the website.Lambeth's website onwww.lambeth.co.ukis also clear and attractive. Click on the first item on its first screen and up comes full details of its Cat's Whiskers account illustrated with moving images of domestic and wild cats.I had a frustrating time trying to download an application form and make a request for literature to be sent, but was assured by head office when I rang to query this that the problem was rare. "It's a problem with the server. There's a break in the link somewhere and we are on to them to sort it out. It's best in the meantime to ring our freephone number on   0500 200020." You can normally download and print off an application form in seconds, they said, which you fill in, sign and send by post.This is the best method most children's account websites offer. So why can't you open an account online? Lambeth says it's all to do with money laundering regulations which make it mandatory for providers to physically see proof of identification when a child, or an adult for that matter, wants to open a savings account. Nationwide, on the other hand, says it can open card-based accounts online but it makes no sense to offer online opening of passbook type accounts, including children's accounts, because all transactions thereafter have to be carried out through a branch in order to update the passbook.Whatever the reasons, you can't yet open a children's account on screen. But you can make an online request to be sent literature and an application for accounts on most societies' websites. This includes Coventry's Interest Zone account (www.covbsoc.co.uk), Bradford &amp; Bingley's KidZone account (www.bradford-bingley.co.uk) and Birmingham Midshires' SmartStart account (www.birmingham-midshires.co.uk).Most children are non taxpayers because they earn less than the annual personal tax allowance of &#163;4,335. They also have a capital gains tax allowance of &#163;7,100. So, they don't have to pay income or capital gains tax on their sav ings and investments. To get tax-free gross interest paid on a child's bank or building society account, you will need to register them as a non-taxpayer by filling in form R85. This will normally be included with the application form.A child's tax-free amount depends on who gave them the money to invest in the first place. If it comes from anyone other than the parents, it is treated as their own. But if it comes from a parent, only the first &#163;100 is tax-free. The rest is taxed at the parents' highest rate.For wealthy kids with sizeable cash gifts to invest over the longer term, it's worth looking at pooled equity-based funds like unit and investment trusts, a few of which are marketed for children. These are not so attractive for small investors because of costly charges and relatively high minimum investment rules - most such savings vehicles demand a minimum of &#163;50 a month or a lump sum of &#163;500.Giant fund manager M&amp;G has recently issued a free guide Investing for Children, a copy of which you can request online via its website onwww.mandg.co.ukor by calling 0800 210 200. The website offers a clear guide to M&amp;G's 40-odd unit trusts - but, again, you cannot invest online. You can download and print off an application form to complete and send in by post, but it is quicker and easier to call M&amp;G's dealing line on 0800 328 3196 where you can complete your transaction over the phone.The same story is true for Save &amp; Prosper's new website onwww.prosper.co.ukwhich goes live this weekend. S&amp;P have also published a new guide, Saving for Children, which you can order online or download and print off.
Freeserve produced the strongest set of figures in its short history yesterday to claw back some of the ground its shares lost in the new year sell-off of internet stocks.John Pluthero, chief executive of the UK's largest internet service provider, said quarterly figures showing a reduced pre-tax loss of &#163;3.6m on a turnover of &#163;3.8m, and 1.575m registered users were "very strong".The figures, for the 12 weeks to November 13, 1999, compare with a pre-tax loss of &#163;5m and a turnover of &#163;3.4m in the previous 16-week quarter.Mr Pluthero pointed to the 14,000 new customers joining the service each week and the increased amount of time they are using the service as evidence that Freeserve has been holding firm against rival offerings from big American providers.Shares in Freeserve edged up 2p to 491p in a market still nervous about the prospects of internet companies. Last month Freeserve shares were trading at 590p."This has been a good quarter for us," Mr Pluthero said. "Independent figures show we now have the most recognised internet brand in the country and we reach 85% of the internet population."Our e-commerce is improving and we are positioning ourselves to be at the front of the wave when internet access goes mobile later this year."Analysts broadly welcomed the results, describing them as "solid" and saying losses were less than had been expected. However, some remained cautious."Freeserve has certainly not been as volatile as such fireworks as QXL &#91;the online auction house&#93; but the current results do nothing to alter its exposure to current anxieties over tech stocks," said Miles Saltiel, head of technology research at West LB Panmure.Mr Pluthero said he was unconcerned by analysts' forecasts that Freeserve, which is valued at more than British Airways, will not make a profit until the third year of its operation."We are in an investment stage which is about growing our brand and our user base," he said."Our losses are in line with analyst expectations of around &#163;10m-&#163;15m a year over three years. I think most people would spend &#163;30m-&#163;40m to build the biggest internet company in the UK."The figures showed that advertising now provides &#163;4.50 for every 1,000 page impressions, more than double Freeserve's target.The company has also doubled the number of e-commerce partners it had last quarter to 80 and expects to add another 30 over the next few months.Increased advertising and e-commerce revenues, plus a share of telephone call charges, helped the company offset an expensive pre-Christmas advertising and marketing campaign.Freeserve remains on the lookout to buy smaller internet service providers."We're talking to various people about what to do with their subscriber bases," Mr Pluthero said. Deals are likely to be structured either as alliances or paper acquisitions.Freeserve was floated in July at 150p per share and is still 80% owned by the electrical retailer Dixons. It recently signed a deal with BT Cellnet to provide mobile internet services to the next generation of wireless application protocol (WAP) mobile phones, due out in the spring.However, Mr Pluthero said yesterday: "It will be a slow-burn story this year with only 10% of the UK population owning next generation phones by the end of the year - 2001 is going to be the year of WAP."
It was billed as Britain's first e-Christmas, but it looks likely to have been the last for many hopeful cyber-retailers. For, although the volume of retail sales in December hit the highest levels since April 1997 and the most popular internet shopping sites captured their first significant slice of that trade, many wannabe e-tailers simply failed to make the grade.Figures suggesting that only 1% of credit card sales were conducted over the internet in the run-up to Christmas have fuelled the notion that the widely predicted e-shopping bonanza was little more than hype. The recent sharp fall in the share prices of some of the internet's most prominent names, such as QXL, eToys and Amazon.com, has added to the sense that e-commerce is little more than a speculative bubble, with market valuation of internet stocks bearing little relation to the volume of transactions.Internet trade is increasing, but not yet at a rate to justify e-tailers' market values. Verdict Research, the retail consultancy group, reckons internet shopping will have accounted for nearly 3% of all UK retail sales in 1999 - worth &#163;581m - and expects this to rise more than twelvefold in the next four years to hit &#163;7.4bn by 2004.Daniel Gestetner, the managing director of ShopSmart.com - which runs an online shopping portal of more than 1,000 independent outlets - estimates that orders and sales last month for UK e-tailers were 100 times greater than during the previous Christmas and were 50% higher than in November.What has confused the Christmas picture is that so much of the discussion about e-commerce relates to its potential rather than its performance. That is why a company such as Amazon.com - which started as an online book retailer but has branched out into groceries and pharmaceuticals - can be valued at $20bn on the stock market even though it has yet to turn a profit.It also explains why "bricks and mortar" retailers such as Dixons see their share value soar once they reveal their credentials in the "clicks and mortar" world.The success of the top web operators remains patchy, with the most prominent players clustered around a very small field of goods - books, music, videos, computer products and fashion clothing. "The products which are picking up on the net are those which have traditionally been bought by mail order," says Mike Godliman of Verdict, "so we have had the big sites all competing for the same pool of goods." Verdict already describes some sectors of the internet market as overcrowded.It now looks likely that many internet hopefuls will fail, or will seek protective mergers. Christmas has only served to highlight the deficiencies of some businesses - great website, shame about the delivery. The secret of success in the virtual high street is a pedestrian ability to respond to customer orders and deliver them on time. The On-line Shopping Report, commissioned recently by the web design and marketing consultancy Dial Intern, revealed that in a test sample four of the 20 most popular UK websites failed to respond to customer enquiries, let alone get around to processing orders and delivering them. These shortfalls were notched up by big names such as Waterstones, Toys'R'Us, Virgin-mega and the music retailer CDzone.The realisation that some of the most promising internet operators failed to deliver in the Christmas period has triggered a wave of selling in the shares of internet companies. In the US, disenchantment set in despite research which suggested that the number of visitors to US retail websites rose by nearly 40% in the run-up to Christmas.The problems for US internet companies began before the end of 1999, when Value America, which sells electronic and office products, said it was sacking nearly half its staff and seeking a "strategic" merger. According to ShopSmart.com's Gestetner, a wave of defensive mergers is now almost certain in the UK, which is lagging some 12 to 18 months behind the US in terms of the development of internet sales."There is going to be a lot of consolidation in the next few months," he says. "A lot of people have been converted during Christmas to shopping on the web, but there have been delivery horror stories because some companies still fail to realise that e-commerce relies on its back-up distribution systems."Everyone knows it is imperative to post early for Christmas but the same message failed to get through to net shoppers, many of whom were trying to place orders which were impossible for e-Santa to achieve, even though operations such as WH Smith and Amazon routinely operate a 48-hour turnround.Chris Mole, a partner at PriceWaterhouseCoopers, says the lesson of the cyber retail world is that there are no second chances. It is a dire warning for internet companies as the industry enters a critical period which will separate the successful cyber-players from the web's also-rans.&#149; Lisa Buckingham is the Guardian's City editor
The trillion-dollar computer industry is now dominated by impossibly rich nerds, many of whom started their companies in garages. Now publishers are trying to cash in by producing a stream of books about these rags-to-riches stories.Tim Berners-Lee is, of course, an exception: he's British rather than American, and poor even by the standards of Microsoft programmers, thousands of whom are multimillionaires. Still, Berners-Lee's name will go down in history as the creator of the World Wide Web (his capitals), and to help history get its facts right, he's written it all down inWeaving the Web(Orion), with Mark Fischetti. It's not Homer but it's well worth reading.Buy it at BOLAnother innovator to tell his own story is the multi-billionaire founder of Dell Computer, Michael Dell - with a little help from Catherine Fredman, who has also collaborated with Intel's Andy Grove. Again,Direct From Dell: Strategies that Revolutionized An Industry(HarperCollins Business) isn't a thrilling read, but it does build a gripping   image of a very effective businessman. Would-be entrepreneurs should be able to pick up a few tips.Karen Southwick'sHigh Noon: The Inside Story Of Scott McNealy And The Rise Of Sun Microsystems(John Wiley &amp; Sons) is a different matter, partly because McNealy is a far more colourful character. As cheerleader for Silicon Valley's anti-Microsoft brigade, he's never short of a well-honed insult. The problem is that there's little about him in High Noon: he declined to be interviewed for the book. Instead, Southwick provides an account of the rise of the company that currently dominates the Unix server market. She devotes far too little space to the "Unix wars" (1988-93) when Sun tried to take over the industry, and far too much space to the overhyped Java language. But that's probably what the market wants.At least McNealy gets an easier ride than the characters in Michael S Malone's hugeInfinite Loop(Aurum Press). Its lengthy subtitle - "how Apple, the world's most   insanely great computer company, went insane" - does not mislead. Malone grew up alongside Apple's co-founders, Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, and reported on the company for the local paper, the San Jose Mercury News. He does a thorough job of debunking the mythology Apple has spent millions of dollars fostering, and provides enough detail to keep trivia quiz compilers happy for decades.Buy it at BOLLike the PC software market, the publishing industry seems to be increasingly dominated by books about Microsoft and its nerdy co-founder, Bill Gates. Gary Rivlin leads the pack withThe Plot To Get Bill Gates(Quartet Books). It's a racy read, which captures the essence of the story while skipping much of the detail. And while Rivlin frequently dishes the dirt on Gates, he doesn't spare Gates's envious enemies either.Buy it at BOLPaul Andrews - co-author of the best biography,  Gates (Simon &amp; Schuster) - has also returned to the field withHow the Web Was Won(Broadway Books). This brings the story up to date from the time of the   earlier book, published in 1993. Like Gates, it's meticulously researched and very readable. There's no obvious bias, but as a reporter for the Seattle Times, Microsoft's local paper, Andrews doesn't take the kind of pot-shots that Rivlin enjoys.Buy it at BOLMicrosoft has also come in for some serious study, particularly inWinners, Losers &amp; Microsoft: Competition And Antitrust In High Technology(Independent Institute) by two American professors of economics, Stan Liebowitz and Stephen Margolis. It's an important book, if sometimes heavy going. It looks as though it started as an examination of the economics of technology industries. Some of this material was published in journals in 1990-96 when Microsoft   provided a useful case study, and the US government's anti-trust cases made it a crucial one.Liebowitz and Margolis put a lot of effort into showing that some popular stories beloved of journalists - "alleged market failures" like the adoption of the QWERTY keyboard, and victory of JVC's VHS video cassette format over Sony's Betamax - are simply myths repeated by people who have not researched the facts.The authors then test their theories against various personal computer software markets, comparing specialist magazine reviews with market shares. Their conclusion, briefly, is that good products win, whether they're from Microsoft or not.Of course, Microsoft is just    one of a string of companies that technological developments have thrown into remarkable prominence. Jeffrey Young has written extended essays about many of them, and they're collected inForbes Greatest Technology Stories: Inspiring Tales of the Entrepreneurs and Inventors Who Revolutionized Modern Business(John Wiley &amp; Sons).Young covers the development of the first computers, the mainframe (IBM), microprocessors (Intel), personal computers (MITS, Apple, IBM), Windows (Microsoft) and so on. Some of the essays are stunning, and only a couple are duff. In sequence they provide an entertaining and informative, if very gappy, history of computing over the past 50 years.
