Thirty years ago he helped create a technology that has revolutionised millions of lives around the world. But yesterday the man known as the "godfather of the net" laid out his vision of where our online future might be, including a time when we download entire TV series in seconds - and even surf the web from Mars.Talking at the MediaGuardian Edinburgh International Television Festival, Vint Cerf - one of the handful of researchers who helped build the internet in the 1970s - said that the television industry would change rapidly as it approached its "iPod moment".The 64-year-old, who is now a vice-president of the web giant Google and chairman of the organisation that administrates the internet, told an audience of media moguls that TV was rapidly approaching the same kind of crunch moment that the music industry faced with the arrival of the MP3 player."85% of all video we watch is pre-recorded, so you can set your system to download it all the time," he said. "You're still going to need live television for certain things - like news, sporting events and emergencies - but increasingly it is going to be almost like the iPod, where you download content to look at later."Dr Cerf, who helped build the internet while working as a researcher at Stanford University in California, used the festival's Alternative McTaggart Lecture to explain to television executives how the internet's influence was radically altering their businesses and how it was imperative for them to view this as a golden opportunity to be exploited instead of a threat to their survival. The arrival of internet television has long been predicted, although it has succeeded in limited ways so far. But the popularity of websites such as YouTube - the video sharing service bought by Google in 2005 for $1.65bn (&pound;800m) - has encouraged many in the TV industry to try and use the internet more profitably. Last month the BBC launched its free iPlayer download service, and digital video recorders such as Sky Plus and Freeview Playback allow viewers to instantly pause and record live television.Dr Cerf predicted that these developments would continue, and that we would soon be watching the majority of our television through the internet - a revolution that could herald the death of the traditional broadcast TV channel  in favour of new interactive services."In Japan you can already download an hour's worth of video in 16 seconds," he said. "And we're starting to see ways of mixing information together ... imagine if you could pause a TV programme and use your mouse to click on different items on the screen and find out more about them."Some critics, including a number of leading internet service providers, have warned that the increase in video on the web could eventually bring down the internet. They are concerned that millions of people downloading at the same time using services such as iPlayer could overwhelm the network.Dr Cerf rejected these claims as "scare tactics". "It's an understandable worry when they see huge amounts of information being moved around online," he said. But some pundits had predicted 20 years ago that the net would collapse when people started using it en masse, he added. "In the intervening 30 years it's increased a million times over ... We're far from exhausting the capacity."Dr Cerf also revealed that he has been working on future developments for the internet, taking it beyond the confines of planet Earth. With other researchers he has been developing systems for using the net to communicate and control space vehicles, including interplanetary landers sent to explore the surface of Mars."Up until now we've been using the so-called Deep Space Network to communicate across space with radio signals. What my colleagues and I would like to do is use a version of internet," he said. He said the problems encountered by the project - such as having to wait 40 minutes for a response from a space vehicle 235m miles away - were proving awkward, but predicted the system could eventually be used to enhance internet communications. "I want more internet," he said. "I want every one of the 6 billion people on the planet to be able to connect to the internet - I think they will add things to it that will really benefit us all."
When I read a Fake Steve post (It's official: My Little Pony has lost his mind) saying "Sun is changing its stock ticker symbol from SUNW to JAVA," I thought it was funny. Then it dawned on me that it wasn't a joke. Pony-tailed Sun chief executive Jonathan Schwartz wasserious. He says:This is a big change for us, capitalizing on the extraordinary affinity our teams have invested to build, introducing Sun to new investors, developers and consumers. Most know Java, few know Sun -- we can bring the two one step closer.The first person to comment on MLP's blog makes the obvious point: "In the minds of many people, Java == slow." Another says:Sun once again fails to grasp the big picture. While 'Java' may be better known by the public than 'Sun Microsystems', the perception of Java by the public isn't good, so why associate the entire company with it? Synonyms for Java are 'Big', 'Fat', 'Bloated', and 'Slow'. Are those the terms you want to characterize your company? Actually, as a former employee, I'd say those are actually pretty accurate. Nevermind, sounds like a great idea!So far there are 349 comments, mostly hostile.On his blog, Russell Beattie responded by sayingJava needs an overhaul:unless some drastic changes are made to Java, the move to JAVA as Sun's ticker symbol is going to be as relevant as changing it to COBOL. I'm using Java less and less as time goes by, not more -- the heyday of the language and platform has come and gone, and IMHO, it's going to continue to fade from relevance with increasing speed.Beattie speculates that "many of today's current hot trends in programming are a direct result of a backlash *against* everything that Java has come to represent":The general up tick in interest in Ruby, Python and PHP during the 2000s all has its roots in programmers who had to work on one Java project too many, and were desperate to find something more efficient and less painful to use. You all know the story -- less XML and cleaner, leaner code -- and once you've experienced it, believe me, you won't go back.But even if everyone thought Java was wonderful (and lots of people do), it's hard to see the logic. People who want to look up Sun's stock are most likely to start with S, U and N, whereas Java sounds more likely to attract traders speculating in coffee futures. Or looking for a holiday in Indonesia....The problem isn't just that JAVA is a stupid stock ticker for Sun, it's that Java was a stupid name for a computer language in the first place.
Range Rover Tdv8 Vogue&pound;70,600Miles per gallon:25.1Seats:5Good for:parklandsBad for:car parksThere are plenty of things you expect to see on a Range Rover - a dead pheasant, perhaps, wedged head-first into the front grill; mud, obviously, and maybe even a wicker hamper complete with Perspex champagne flutes balanced precariously on the chest-high bonnet. But you don't expect to see a sticker boasting of its eco credentials. The Range Rover may be the world's most luxurious four-wheel drive vehicle, but tree-hugging and sowing flower meadows aren't priority hobbies among its owners. And yet here is a sticker informing those passers-by brave enough to look up from their dragging feet and into the mighty maw of the biggest SUV on the street that, in fact, all the carbon generated from the production of the car and the first 45,000 miles on the road is offset by Climate Care in a variety of renewable projects around the developing world...Laudable indeed, but the sticker will have to be a lot bigger if it is going to deflect the barrage of eco abuse that comes your way as a 'Rangey' driver. And this was in the company's new diesel-powered model, which took consumption not only into double figures but up to the mid-20s, which - though not great - is 10mpg further than the paltry 15 achieved by the petrol variants.The first thing that strikes you as you approach the Range Rover is its colossal size. From its vast headlamps to the yards and yards of polished bodywork, it's of a scale that makes you feel childlike - you'll need a shooting stick and sandwiches if you plan a full circumnavigation. It's also very high - too high, for instance, for a five-year-old to get in without a knee-up. You can buy a power step which electronically slides out from the underskirts of the car, but the best approach is to mount it as if it were a shire horse.The week I had the new diesel Rangey fell in the school holidays, and nowhere seemed more inviting to its mile-munching, grand-touring capabilities than a long trip on the open roads of France. Before we could stretch out its low-revving engine we had a couple of obstacles to negotiate. The first was that the car was too tall to fit under the 180cm boom of the Eurotunnel, so we had to load up with the lorries. The second was that on arrival in Rouen the car was too big to fit into any of the town's underground car parks so we had to park across the city and walk... walk! In Britain we seem to have accepted these gargantuan vehicles as our lot, but in France big cars still seem a merciful rarity, and driving a Range Rover makes you feel as self-conscious as a hippo in a thong.But still, and here's the awful crunch. The Range Rover was as rich, luxurious and overwhelmingly indulgent as a bowl of foie gras. You know it's wrong, you know you shouldn't, but it's so hard to resist.There is, however, a baffling absence of storage space, and the idea of placing seat-heater controls where little fingers can turn them on over and over again as a hilarious joke to see Mummy getting a hot bottom smacks of sadism. Or is that the point ...&#183;www.eurotunnel.com. Prices start from &pound;49
For the past week's posts on a single page, clickhereHighlights include:Ad blocking is theft, so block Firefox instead (updated)Tafiti -- Microsoft redefines the search interface with SilverlightWal-Mart offers cheaper DRM-free music, but not for Mac ownersThe most-commented posts are always listed on the right.
Operating under the sign of a Jolly Roger, The Pirate Bay website hopes to evoke a buccaneer spirit: swashbuckling swordsmen, or perhaps the pirate radio stations of the 1960s. But as the internet's number one destination for illegal downloads, it has raised the ­hackles of the entertainment industry and elevated its founders to the top of Hollywood's most wanted list.With more than two million visitors every day, The Pirate Bay has become one of the sharpest thorns in the side of the media business. Its controversial success has caused havoc in the music, TV and film industries.Current top downloads include The Bourne Ultimatum, Die Hard 4.0 and Knocked Up — all showing in British cinemas, but available to watch on a computer screen for those willing to take the risk.The three-year campaign to bring down the website is almost an epic of Hollywood proportions, sprinkled with high-flying lawyers and accusations of political extremism. And yet, so far, the chase has failed to bring the pirates down.Despite their high profile, however, the men behind The Pirate Bay are not part of an organised crime syndicate. Instead, they are an unlikely trio of Swedish computer geeks who began their war with the media from a small room in Stockholm.The group, who spoke exclusively to the Guardian, live like students in the suburbs of Sweden's major cities. They wake late and work into the night. The closest thing they have to an official headquarters is a desk on the suburban outskirts of Malmo — and that is simply because it has a working fax machine.But as the most hated men in Hollywood, they said they have become used to the attention. "We get legal threats every day, or we used to," said Peter Sunde, 28, one of the site's main workers. "But we don't have a problem with them — we're just a search engine."Fredrik Neij, a 29-year-old IT consultant, has a more prosaic view: "It's nice to be noticed," he smiled.Chief among those angered by The Pirate Bay's popularity is the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), which represents the US film studios. It is waging war against the site, which it claims is costing billions in lost sales.John Malcolm, executive vice-president of the MPAA, has railed against the trio, accusing them of cashing in on illegal activity. "The bottom line is that the operators of The Pirate Bay, and others like them, are criminals who profit handsomely by facilitating the distribution of millions of copyrighted creative works," he said.Mr Sunde insists the site does not profit its founders, and money raised from advertising is used to cover expenses. Instead, he says, the team make their money from a variety of side projects and day jobs.Filesharing and illegal downloading has been a big issue for media companies since the late 1990s. But while pioneering services such as Napster and Kazaa were closed down by the courts, the campaign against The Pirate Bay has failed to make a breakthrough.The crux of the defence is that The Pirate Bay operates like any internet search engine: it points to downloads, rather than hosting any illegal content itself. Under Swedish law this has so far made it immune to prosecution."I don't like the word untouchable, but we feel pretty safe," said Mr Sunde. He thinks that European enmity towards the Bush administration has bolstered support. "The US government is losing popularity every day in Europe, and people don't want to see us give in to them."Their apparent invulnerability to prosecution has made them heroes of the internet piracy movement, but not everybody feels the same way."I certainly don't see them as romantic pirates: it's out and out theft," says John Kennedy, chief executive of the international music industry body IFPI. "It's pure, ruthless greed — or total naivety."But the group's supporters around the world say they are vexed with what they see as the "corruption" of the media industry."This is already happening — you cannot stop it," says Magnus Eriksson of Piratbyran, the Swedish thinktank which helped start the website in 2003. "But the thing is that the people who download the most are also the ones who spend the most on buying media. Media companies already know that they have to change."The pirates suspect the cam­paign against them is gathering pace. Last year police raided the site and held Gottfried Svartholm, the third member of the group, for questioning. No charges resulted, but the site was offline for two days.Lately critics have focused on potential political links, including one German failed attempt to link the organisation with far-right extremists.More recently Swedish police said they were considering blocking the website because of a tip-off that some pages linked to images of child abuse. This, says Mr Sunde, was just an attempt to smear The Pirate Bay's reputation. "There were three files in question, but it turned out that none of them contained child porn," he said.The group is adamant it is just a search engine, but Mr Kennedy rejects any analogy with traditional internet businesses. "When I sit down with Google they are prepared to talk about copyright issues," he says. "If I thought The Pirate Bay guys were doing something really new and clever, then we'd look at it — but there's no evidence of that."Mr Sunde remains unmoved. He says piracy is a way of life on the internet. "I started off copying disks on my computer when I was eight or nine," he said. "You should never tell people where they can't go or what they can't do."&#183;This article was amended on Monday September 17 2007. We said that The Pirate Bay website keeps an index of torrent files, pointing people in the direction of downloads "whether they are copyrighted or not". We should have said whether or not there are restrictions on their use.
A man is being prosecuted for "dishonestly" using someone else's open (unsecured) wireless connection, while in a public place (Report, August 23). What next? Prosecuting people for eating a fruit from a branch that overhangs the road? It is difficult to see what is being stolen here. The connection is available, whether or not it is being used. The fact that someone is using it does not prevent anyone else from using it. If it was interfering with the network owner's computers, or the householder's privacy, then it is reasonable for the police to become involved. Otherwise, surely police officers have better things to do.Alex MacfieOxfordThere's guns on the streets; kids getting killed; yet the police are happy to arrest people for using wireless broadband belonging to users who elect not to encrypt their access. That'll make the crime figures look good.Graham HenleyBarnard Castle, DurhamReply119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER Telephone: 020-7239 9959, Fax: 020-7837 4530, Email:letters@guardian.co.ukWe do not publish letters where only an email address is supplied; please include a full postal address, a reference to the article and a daytime telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so. We may edit letters.
For gamers, summer is time for an enforced hobby break as publishers' perennial strategy of holding back almost all their triple A material for Christmas causes the traditional entertainment drought. However as bleak and rain-soaked as August is, you can safely bet console and PC owners will be in the middle of a long dry spell, and 2007 is no exception. Pity the PS3 owners, though, whose summer lull is due to continue well into 2008.Nintendo WiiNow that the excitement of owning a console you control by waving a remote control around is starting to settle down, those who purchased a Wii are in the mood for something else to do with it since finishing Zelda and playing a lifetime dose of Wii Sports.Super Mario: GalaxyDue Nov 07New Mario games have a rarity value bordering on the legendary, making this one to anticipate and savour. Galaxy is set in space and promises all-new moves using the Wii remote.Metroid Prime 3: CorruptionDue Oct 07Nintendo's characteristic take on first person shooters; Metroid is renowned for its sprawling, vertiginous maps, familiar range of weapon upgrades and noticeable lack of bloodshed.PS3The biggest, heaviest, most powerful, most expensive games console ever is currently being outsold five-to-one by the Wii in Japan. No wonder, given the incredible paucity of its games library and the likely delay before that situation changes.Gran Turismo 5Due spring 08Although easy to dismiss as yet another Gran Turismo update, the sheer quality of previous outings suggests this will be one for all but the most vehement car-detractor.LittlebigplanetDue 2008One of the most exciting games on the way on any system, LittleBigPlanet is a quirky kinetic puzzle game whose reliance on social networking is a lot more than press release padding.Xbox 360After a lacklustre start, Xbox 360 is without any doubt this year's most engaging console to own. With The Darkness, Forza 2, and Ghost Recon 2 all released in the last couple of months, its coming releases are equally illustrious.Mass EffectDue 30 Nov 07From the people that brought you the wonderful Star Wars-themed Knights Of The Old Republic series comes Mass Effect, a giant, galaxy spanning, action-orientated space opera.Halo 3Due Sep 26The game all Xbox 360 owners (and those who've craftily been holding out) have been waiting for - the king of console shooters finally reborn for the new generation.Nintendo DS vs Sony PSPWith a lack of compelling games (PaRappa The Rapper is this year's most entertaining release), the PSP has languished, while the DS, driven by stalwarts like Pok&eacute;mon and new franchises from Dr Kawashima's Brain Training to Elite Beat Agents, has thrived. A new, slimmer PSP is due towards the end of the year, but few exciting titles.
MondayWiki-spinning hits the games industryTuesdayBioshock review ignites flame warGame charts prove summe ris hereWednesdayThe Paramount Blu-ray controversySega reveals new EmpireEA announced new Rock Band tunesWii gets PESThursdayPSP games convention blow-outThere can be only oneMetal Gear 4 trailerFridayConsole giants get mobile at LeipzigBioshockXbox 360 Elite launchManhunt 2 gets US release
Take-Two has announced that modified version of Manhunt 2 has been awarded an 'M' rating by the US Entertainment Software Retail Board. It will be released in North America on October 31. The Wii, PS2 and PSP versions have all been approved.From theTake Two press release:"Manhunt 2 is important to us, and we're glad it can finally be appreciated as a gaming experience," said Sam Houser, founder and executive producer of Rockstar Games. "We love the horror genre. Manhunt 2 is a powerful piece of interactive story telling that is a unique video game experience. We think horror fans will love it."
Thenew D3 camera from Nikonis the kind of kit that has photographers drooling in puddles big enough to wash a cat in.The Guardian's top lens loverDan Chungwent to check it out at the launch in London and gave it the video treatment. Megapixels ahoy!
A version of the computer game Pac-Man that delivers an electric shock to players has revealed how the human brain reacts to imminent danger.Volunteers played a game in which they had to outrun a virtual predator as it stalked them around a maze. If caught they received a shock to the hand.The study, at the Wellcome Trust centre for neuroimaging at University College London, revealed that when the threat was far away players predominantly used the prefrontal cortex region of the brain, which is for complex planning tasks.But when the predator had closed in, activity rapidly shifted to a more primitive part of the brain called the periaqueductal gray, which governs quick-response survival mechanisms, such as the familiar fight, flight or freeze reactions.The study is the first to capture in humans the shift in brain activity that lies at the heart of one of evolution's most primitive defence mechanisms. Details of the experiments were published in the journal Science yesterday.Dean Mobbs, who led the study, said the research revealed how fear affects the brain when physical danger is near. "The closer a threat gets the more impulsive your response will be," he said. "In effect, the less free will you will have."Chris Frith, a co-author on the paper, said that understanding people's reactions to fear might help shed light on anxiety disorders such as panic attacks.
Microsoft's Xbox 360 Elite launches in the UK today. The console adds a paint job, HDMI slot and a larger hard drive to the standard 360 but is otherwise the same. The main attraction is the hard drive space, especially when the TV and movie download service launches later this year. I haven't had a chance to see if it runs any cooler or quieter yet - I've been in Leipzig all week - but I already have a problem. There is no immediate way to transfer your profile, saves etc from your current 360 to the Elite. If you want to do this - and anyone who is upgrading from a standard 360 will want to - then you need to go through the faff ofordering a data transfer cablefrom Microsoft. Yes, the cable is free but the inevitable delay means Elite owners will probably be using their older console for longer than they would likeOf course, you can buy the larger hard drive separately, it comes complete with cable, but then you'll miss out on the HDMI slot. Hmm. The problem has been caused by Microsoft foolishly pitching the Elite at new consumers rather than existing owners. The guys - and they invariable will be male - who will appreciate the extra hard drive space and improved HD connectivity will be hardcore 360 owners. Anyone who has waited for the 18-months since launch to buy a 360 is likely to be more than happy with the standard model.There are other problems too. Assuming you get round to transferring all your data over you'll need to be hooked up to Live before you can play any of your previously downloaded games. Fine if your 360 is permanently online, hugely annoying if not. You can understand why Microsoft launched the 360 model. Compared to the PS3 the 360 was in danger of looking technologically underfed. But there are plenty of hurdles to jump before current 360 owners can benefit from the Elite's improvements.
The first real must have game of the year is released today.Bioshock- released on 360 and PC - is a first person adventure set in an under water city full of art deco architecture and 1940's music. No, there isn't a space marine in sight. I'm nearing the end and can safely say this is a potential classic. Or perhaps the relief at getting a game that isn't set in sci-fi/fantasy setting has clouded my judgement - you are still "just" shooting stuff after all. What do you think of Bioshock then? Does it deserve the hype?
You don't have to be a programmer to appreciate a pop song about the job. This one was written byJonathan Coulton, the singer-songwriter who is the Contributing Troubadour at Popular Science.Coulter released Code Monkey as anMP3 filein April 2006, and there are nowloads of videos. The one above is by Mike Spiff Booth, a program manager at Adobe, who posted it atspiffworld.com. He writes:Before you ask, since apes, goblins, and night elf receptionists don't tend to interact much in the wild, I couldn't only use captured game footage to make this video. Every frame of this video was composited together by hand using images captured from the WoW Model Viewer, WoW Map Viewer, and the World of Warcraft game itself.I found it earlier this week at Tech Republic'sGeekend. Just what you need on a Friday afternoon....
Tallinn's old town. Photograph: Timur Nesametdinov/APEarlier this year, there was a lot of kerfuffle about a so-called cyberwar which struck Estonia's government - our European correspondent Ian Traynorreported the details, and it became big news on the web.The tale has got theWired treatment, prompting former hacker Kevin Poulsen to write a really interesting and detailed blog post on Wired.comexplaining why thinks the story is overbaked.Essentially his point is that Estonia (one of the world's most wired economies) took a bit of a beating, but the effects were overplayed thanks to overdramatic government response. The Estonia attack wasn't sophisticated, and cyberwar has already been with us for a while, he suggests.In truth, U.S. network operators already deal with DDoS attacks of a similar, or greater, magnitude than the ones that hit Estonia. [Ralph] Petersarguesthat critical U.S. military networks and weapons systems could fall. Malware is getting pretty sophisticated, I'll admit, but I've yet to see a bot that can send packets from the public internet to a classified, air gapped Air Force network. If it exists, it can also do your laundry and walk your dog.Bruce Schneiersuggestsreading the whole thing, and I'm inclined to agree.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's your favourite piece of technology?TheBoss SP-303 Sampler.Is it good for your art?Most definitely. I had to rethink ways of songwriting because of it - in a good way.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it - actually two of them - in Vienna two nights ago to play some music with Dave and Brian from the band.What additional features would you add if you could?First off, I'd make them way tougher and more heavily built. I'd also want to upgrade some of the inboard effects a little and I'd improve the time-stretch quality for sure.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years time?I think it's obsolete already. Boss has a new version out, the SP-404, and the 303s use an already obsolete card technology called SmartMedia.What one tip would you give to non users?I'd say give the 303 a try if you're looking for a cheap machine that can do a lot with just a little.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Well, I don't know what a luddite is so I'll go with nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My iMac 65 cost me about €1,500. I'm not too big on mega expensive or fancy things, really.Mac or PC?Mac, but mostly because I'm used to it. I'd get a PC no problem. To be honest, I'm really, really excited about the fact that the next Mac OS will run Windows at native speed.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?I don't know for sure because I don't have it with me but I'm positive Amazing by George Michael, Tessio by Luomo (the Vocalcity version) and Il Grande Silenzio By Ennio Morricone are way up there somewhere.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd really like one of those top-of-the-line, classy coffee-makers because really good coffee is totally worth it for me.
Konami managed to make some room in its Leipzig agenda for some mobile game announcements. The company is bringing PES 2008, Silent Hill, Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow and Castlevania: Order of Shadows to the small screen this Autumn, although I'm not sure whether that vague timeframe goes for the whole of Europe.The PES conversion has been handled by Konami's European mobile studio and is said to be the most advanced footie sim on the platform (though they all say that, to be honest). The game features a new engine and AI, plus that old favourite, 'realistic ball physics'. There will be feints and headers as well as standard pass and shot moves, although it sounds like the controls can be configured for one button play - how on Earth will that work?Silent Hill is set in an abandoned orphange and apparently adopts a first-person perspective, merged with point-and-click gamesplay. I'm thinking something like Dungeon Master or the recent id games, Doom RPG and Orcs and Elves. Apparently, the adventure will reveal lots more secrets about the town and features three playable characters.Set in 2035, Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow is a translation of the Game Boy Advance title. You control a pair of friends trapped in a gothic castle and battling monsters with spells and various weapons. It's also possible to capture the souls of enemies in order to assume their attributes and abilities.Meanwhile, Castlevania: Order of Shadows is a mobile original designed in conjunction with series creator, Koji Igarashi. It'll feature a whole new story and gameplay mechanic. Konami's mobile games site is runninga blog of the development process, written by team member, Tyrone Rodriguez.Capcom is another Japanese developer taking mobile gaming seriously and branching out from its native market to the west. The company has brought a mobile version of Devil May Cry to the Leipzig show. According to Pocket Gamer, DMC: Dante's Awakening looks like a conversion of DMC2. Morehere.
Nokia S60 mobile phone users in 11 countries can now download the new Windows Live suite fromhttp://www.nokia.com/windowslive, which provides access to Windows Live Hotmail, Messenger, Contacts and Spaces, says aMicrosoft press release. S40 users will have to wait until next year. It says:Initially the service will be available as a free trial, and then customers in select markets wanting to continue using the service may be asked to pay a monthly fee.Microsoft'sNokia'sPhil Holdenhas more details and nine screen shots on his Live Spaces blog.TheLiveSide News bloghas also covered the story, and that's where I found the link to Phil Holden.It's hard to guess whether or not this idea is going to get any traction: it could easily come to nothing. However, if the established phone companies see Apple and/or Google as a threat, this seems quite likely to encourage at least a few of them to get closer to Microsoft. (My enemy's enemy is my friend.)Apple's sales of iPhones are tiny compared to Nokia's: Nokia has about a third of the world market, shipping 91.1 million phones in the first quarter of 2007, and it could ship 400 million this year. Getting on a small proportion of Nokia's next billion mobiles would help Microsoft in the phone business, and boost Windows Live. And it certainly needs a boost at the moment.
For those of you sitting at work, unable to surf the full web, here - as the title may hint - is the new MGS4 trailer, shown off at the Leipzig Games Convention. It features the most exciting use of a bulldozer yet witnessed in the Metal Gear franchise. Oh and some of the new boss characters. From today's press release:"The characters - Laughing Octopus, Raging Raven, Crying Wolf, and Screaming Mantis - are empowered with special, supernatural abilities and have individual back stories that outline how they have become the beings they are. All were initially good people who, for various reasons linked to events in the Metal Gear Solid series and events they have seen in countless wars, are now altered beyond all recognition both physically and mentally - and are perfect examples of the 'Beauties and the Beasts' themes that run throughout MGS4"So I think I've figured out who Laughing Octopus is, but can you place any of the others?
We had our Windows XP laptop stolen but brilliantly recovered by the police within 24 hours. Unfortunately, the secondhand dealer who paid the thieves £100 for it had wiped it clean of our grandchildren's pictures and other much-wanted data, and we hadn't backed it up for some months.Mike EastAvoid using the laptop as you will overwrite disk sectors and make many files unrecoverable. Get someone else to download an undelete utility such asFreeUndelete,RoadKilorRestorationand install it on a floppy or USB drive, so you can run it from that. You can try more than one undelete program as some may be able to rescue more than others.There are also companies specialising in data recovery, such asApex RecoveryandVogon. They can often recover data even if it has been overwritten.Data Recovery Doctorquotes "from £195" but I usually estimate £500 to £1,000. It depends what your data is worth. It's certainly worth more than your laptop.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
T-Mobile's USB modem offers an alternative to fixed-line internet access. It's perfect for people who travel a lot, or for those who want to dump their landline altogether. The small white box plugs into your USB port, giving you internet access wherever there's a T-Mobile signal. The interface is simple, connecting to the net with just one click, as well as sending and receiving text messages. Although 1.8Mbps is promised, speeds of 1Mbps in urban areas are more normal. The main attraction is the price. The modem is free with a 12-month contract, which costs &pound;29.99 per month for unlimited data. However, a fair-use policy of 3GB per month applies. For an additional &pound;15 per month, you can sign up to Web'n'Walk Max, which gives you access to VoIP.t-mobile.co.uk
The Guide + Play (&pound;345) is as much about audio and video playback as it is route-planning, but can it really be an in-car iPod replacement? As a satnav system the GPS-500 has lots going for it. It has a large 4in screen, which admittedly could be brighter, is very simple to use and delivers accurate and timely directions. Its best feature is arguably its maps, which are delivered from a higher, more overhead perspective than some of its rivals.It might sound odd, but it makes them very easy to follow. It is a little surprising, then, that it's the  AV system that lets it down. Songs and videos are loaded on to the device via an SD card (it doesn't come with one) and it can cope with most major file formats. However, the speakers are pretty poor and didn't like being turned up loud at all. Video quality is OK, but a little dull and lacking in colour.The GPS-500 has enough going for it as a satnav system to make it a contender. Its AV facilities need more thought.&#183;This article was amended on Friday August 24 2007. The satnav system reviewed above is a Harman (not Harmon) Kardon GPS 500. This has been corrected.
This slim slider phone appears mirrored until it's activated and the buttons start glowing through. Unfortunately, this means that rather than having physical buttons to navigate with, you have to rely on your fingers hitting the correct positions on the casing. The phone features the faster data transfer rates of HSDPA but its internal memory, at 20MB, isn't massive and might need beefeing up with a Micro SD card. It has a 3.2 megapixel camera which can take stills and video. Unusually, there's not much customisation available. Wallpaper is restricted to the one theme provided or a photo you've taken, although additional themes can be downloaded via Vodafone live! Overall, it's an attractive phone, but it is let down by its navigation.
It's Thursday, which means the printed Technology section is inside The Guardian at your local newsagents: buy now while stocks last! Cheapskates and people who can't get a printed copy can, of course, read the whole thing onlinehere.Highlights include Michael Pollitt on the"worst ever" trojanholding job-seekers to ransom, Peter Judge onultra-wideband(UWB) wireless, coming Real Soon Now, and well-knowntaxi driverjournalist Guy Kewney with an entertaining piece onHow fake software scooped 16 awards.
Having paid$1.65 billionfor YouTube, Google always planned to add advertising to get its money back (and more). It has finally decided to do it by runningoverlay adsalong the bottom of videos, which sounds obvious enough. Cable TV viewers may already be familiar with the idea, and if it's not ads taking up a strip at the bottom of the picture, it could be a scrolling news ticker or whatever.However, the idea seems to have upset some people because it's already being used by the rivalVideoEggsite. Wired magazine has run a littleinterviewwith VideoEgg's chief marketing officer, Troy Young, where he agrees that "YouTube's new overlay advertising strategy is a rip-off of the model VideoEgg pioneered over a year ago." He says VideoEgg is posting a Welcome ad (above) inspired by an oldAppleeffort, adding that "we filed apatenton [the idea] a while back."The US patent office isbadly broken, so VideoEgg could get a patent on an idea that is patently obvious and for which there would seem to be "prior art". So while VideoEgg is not in any sense a "patent troll" -- it's a real company with real customers -- it could, likeEolas, be awarded truckloads of cash.But reminding people of Apple's Welcome ad may not be such a good idea. Apple dominated the personal computer market at the time (though the advert's claim that Apple "invented the first personal computer system" is a flat-out lie). However, IBM quickly reduced Apple to a tiny percentage of the market. VideoEgg is already a minnow compared to YouTube, which is backed by Google's billions. Foolish bravado looks out of place.
Eidos has unveiled Highlander, a new title based in the 'universe' of the movies and TV series. Due out on PC, 360 and PS3 next year, it looks like a third-person adventure with the acrobatic undertones of Assasin's Creed. From the release:"control an Immortal embroiled in a battle against rival Immortals in an adventure spanning over 2000 years. Explore and battle your way through epic historical locations. (NY, Pompeii, Japan and the Highlands). Featuring familiar characters from the Highlander series, stunning sword combat, epic battles and high adventure in lush, historical locations."As well as sword fighting and leaping from buildings there are also a series of Quickening moves to remember ("Resurrection, Chi balance, Weapon Mastery and Channelling the Source"), which, to the cynical mind, might sound a little like Force powers. No word yet on a soundtrack, butsurelythey'll license the Queen tunes?The announcement has been accompanied by several moody screenshots of a New York dock location. I've no idea why. There's also anofficial website, but it's not working. I don't think Eidos are fully with it on this one yet, but I loved the original Highlander so I'll let them off. I can also do a convincing Kurgan impersonation.
One of the joys of writing for a news organisation like the Guardian is that your work gets syndicated and run in newspapers, magazines and on websites around the world.Sometimes, however, it all turns out a bit odd. Reader Bruce emailed in this screengrab from the website of Thai newspaperThe Nation: rather than runningthis storyon the launch of Google Sky, it seems to be suggesting that I'm in fact one of Google's latest products."Google Sky launches Bobbie Johnson, technology correspondent". Make of that what you will... thanks Bruce!
Thanks to the popularity and reach of the internet, Google has become one of the most powerful companies in the world. Now the California web giant is casting its net across the rest of the universe as well.Yesterday it announced a new service which allows computer users to tour space and watch the stars from the comfort of their living rooms. Google Sky, developed with some of the world's leading observatories, lets surfers tour a virtual cosmos at will.The service is an add-on to Google Earth, the virtual geography program which lets users access a computerised 3D map of the planet. Surfers who download the new Sky application will be able to look to the heavens from any point on Earth.The service allows them to zoom through more than 200m galaxies and take a detailed tour around 100m individual solar systems. "You can flip up and see the constellations and search for stars, galaxies, nebulae and fly through space inside Google Earth," said Google spokesman Jason Chuck. "There have been a lot of interesting space events recently, such as the Perseid meteor showers, and with lots of kids going back to school we hope this can be really useful in the classroom too."One function will overlay maps and charts onto the night sky, describing famous constellations such as Orion, Andromeda and Cassiopeia.Sky was developed by Google engineers based in the US, working with scientific groups including the UK Astronomy Technology Centre and the Anglo-Australian Observatory in New South Wales. "This initiative will open a new window for anyone to be able to appreciate, explore and discover our fragile position in this vast and amazing universe," said Dr Francisco Diego of University College London.
Yesterday it was a handheld games console with a camera attachment and some Wi-Fi capabilities. Today, it's an even slimmer handheld games console with camera, Wi-Fi, GPS, video-on-demand service and instant messaging. Okay, so we knew about most of this months ago, but there are a few fresh details.The new slimline PSP is rolling out across Europe from September 5, at the suggested retail price of 169 euros. It now features a video out port so you can connect it to your TV. Also, from the press release:"Exclusive to the SCEE region and for a limited time, two Limited Edition PSP bundles will also be available. Featuring a PSP in Spiderman Red and Black, the Spiderman bundle will come with Activision®'s Spider-Man 2™ and the Blu-Ray movie, Spiderman 3. Also available, in a fetching shade of Simpsons Yellow, the Simpsons bundle will come with Electronic Arts' The Simpsons Game. Both bundles will be available for €199.99."The video-on-demand service, created in association with Sky, is launching early next year in Europe, providing pay-per-view downloads of 'selected Sky content' spanning sports, entertainment, movies, music and animation. Still no word on price, still no specifics on what we'll be able to download.Go! Messenger is an instant messaging service for PSP, which can also do voice and video chat if you have a headset and a camera. It'll be delivered as part of a firmware update in January 2008 - you'll need to download the app onto a memory stick.Go!Explore is the GPS system and its due out early next year too:"Collaborating with market leaders TeleAtlas and NavNGo and utilising the very latest in map data and navigation software, Go!Explore is a state of the art, combined In-car and Pedestrian GPS navigation application for PSP. Incorporating a GPS receiver and the software UMD (Universal Media Disc) software containing your chosen maps, Go!Explore will offer a top quality Satellite Navigation system at an affordable price."Of course, much of this functionality is available on high-end mobiles like the Nokia N95, which is compatible with Nokia's N-Gage gaming platform and this promises better games than the standard Java experience.But it's a compelling set of applications - especially for PS3 owners who can also benefit from the whole Remote Play feature. The key thing, as always, is the games, and there are some decent titles at the show - God of War: Chains of Olympus, the latest SOCOM and Pursuit Force titles, WipEout Pulse, Syphon Filter, GRAW 2, Sega Rally Revo... Apparently there will be 74 new titles before Christmas.So what do you reckon? Will this tempt a new audience to splash out on Sony's handheld hardware?
I've just upgraded to 64-bit Windows Vista, but I've now discovered that I can't listen to missed radio programmes from the BBC website because there is no 64-bit version of Real Player.Dick WilliamsThe BBC site apologises and says: "Rest assured, the BBC is discussing this with Real." Meanwhile the Real Networks' help site said in Answer ID 6757 on May 30: "The latest release of Realplayer 10.5 is compatible with Vista. The latest release is build 6.0.12.1578". That might work. However, a better bet is the freeReal Alternative.The 64-bit x86 version of Vista runs 32-bit code so it's a bit of a mystery why Real has taken so long to fix it.
An independent website about life in Milton Keynes has failed in an attempt to win access to data on the same terms as the local council's official site. The decision by the government's watchdog on public sector information illustrates the weaknesses of rules supposed to encourage the re-use of official data.Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign argues that all data collected by the government in the course of its work (except where it identifies private citizens or where secrecy is essential for national security) should be freely available for re-use in the knowledge economy.The Milton Keynes case concerns a four-year battle by a web design company, Zero-Now, for access to information about public services held on a council database called the Community Online Information Network. Zero-Now wanted up-to-date information for use on its websitemiltonkeynes.com. However the council preferred to make the information available through two official websites, run by a contractor partly owned by the council,milton-keynes.gov.ukandmkweb.co.uk."The people of Milton Keynes have paid for this information," says Zero-Now's owner, Eric Merner. "All we want is a level playing field." In October 2005, it complained to the Office of Fair Trading. This was passed on to the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI), which is responsible for encouraging the re-use of official data. Specifically, OPSI enforces the public sector information regulations, which implement an EU directive designed to stimulate the re-use of data.Neither the directive nor the regulations sets data free. But they do say that when a public body allows re-use of a dataset, it must do so fairly and transparently.Zero-Now claimed that, by restricting the community information network to its contractor, Milton Keynes was violating fair-play clauses. These say that a public body "shall not discriminate between applicants who make a request for re-use for comparable purposes".OPSI failed to uphold the complaint - on the grounds that the contractor with access to the database was performing part of the council's "public task". So, as no re-use of the data beyond the public task was taking place, Zero-Now had no grounds for complaining about unfair terms. However OPSI decided there was "room for improvement" in the way Milton Keynes handled information, and made five recommendations."I'm disappointed," says Merner, who intends to pursue his case further.On a positive note, OPSI is calling for reforms in the regulations covering public sector information, especially to clarify the definition of "public task". The Free Our Data campaign agrees. Clearer definitions would not only help enforce the current rules, but would pave the way towards our campaign's goal.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Diane &amp; Deb, I miss you so much, I love you and will never get over losing you both xx," reads the dedication. "Diane and her twin Debra were born in Sunderland, the day before I turned two years old," writes Pauline Branton onvirtual-memorials.comamid dozens of family snaps.More than 2,000 people have viewed the tribute to the sisters since it was put up in May. Strangers have also left their contact details and passed on their condolences. Branton has also set up a tribute atgonetoosoon.co.ukand a video at One True Media. Unlike a gravestone, these tributes will not weather over the years.Grieving processBranton's mother, Pat Sharp, says such sites have helped the grieving process. She feels that not everyone who's close wants to hear about the void the loss of her daughters has left, and the site gives her comfort. She is also seeing a bereavement counsellor. "It's such a beautiful tribute to my girls," says Sharp. "Pauline found it difficult to do and there were times when she cried and cried as I do, but the site has definitely helped us."But are there any pitfalls in baring your soul so publicly? Does it make you vulnerable  to unsavoury characters, or even those who aren't who they say they are?In America, it would appear so. Distraught relatives have stumbled across discussions onmydeathspace.com, which archives people's MySpace pages after they have unwittingly written their own epitaphs. These aren't the sweet messages of condolence that Branton welcomes, but questionable and sometimes insulting comments.So what happens when the families object? The response from the people posting such comments wasn't to apologise and take down their words, but to remind those who were objecting that in America, you can say what you want.Anyone, whether they have a connection with the family or not, can submit a death to mydeathspace.com. It currently lists nearly 2,700 deaths and has more than 100,000 hits per day.Karen Davis, site manager at www.gonetoosoon.co.uk, shudders at the thought of anything so offensive happening here. The network of individual tribute websites was set up by Leeds businessman Terry George in November 2005. It has around 13,000 tributes and receives 2m visits a month.Davis says she's not aware of any incidents of people being insulted, but that issues of contempt of court have arisen through accusations about the manner of a death. "We work very closely with the police to make sure nothing is published that shouldn't be," she says. She stresses that the website is rigorously monitored by volunteers to ensure that any offensive material is taken down swiftly."When I joined the company in April last year, there were around 400 tributes, it's growing unbelievably. This is a not-for-profit website and it's important to keep the service free so that anyone can use it. With that in mind, it's paramount that the site stays as transparent as possible."She adds: "There are no adverts and no charges to set up a tribute, or to add words, pictures, music and customise the pages to suit the memories of those that have died."The national charityCruse Bereavement Caresays that a good memorial site can help someone who is grieving, but it urges caution. It suggests that potential users of such a website visit it several times before taking the plunge and putting up your memorial so that you can see if it's properly maintained and easily accessible, and whether or not it carries advertising and has any charges.SafeguardsChief executive Anne Viney says: "We could never sit in judgment on anyone, or on how they choose to express their love for those they've lost. But they have to look carefully at these sites - who has set them up? What are the resources, motivation and ethos? Will a memorial really still be there for as long as the site says it will? What safeguards are in place?"Perhaps a code of conduct would be in order? Viney agrees, adding: "If anyone would like to work with us on a code of conduct for these sites then I'd like to speak to them."She says: "A lot depends on who can send you messages, what those messages say and whether the site is monitored. There certainly is a place for these sites if they bring people comfort, but what is being offered needs to be communicated very clearly."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You(test)TubeAmerica's National Science Foundation and others have opened a test version of a video sharing site called SciVee, a sort of "YouTube for science".scivee.tvTomorrow's EliteMicrosoft will launch the Xbox 360 Elite in the UK at &pound;300. Prices of earlier models are being reduced: the 20GB system drops to &pound;250 and the Core to &pound;180.Stop press: films aren't realTwo American academics say film studios are "reinforcing (or even creating) incorrect scientific attitudes".arxiv.org/abs/0707.1167Plugs and playZyXel is launching a home storage server and a networking system that can stream multimedia using mains cables.connectplayentertain.co.ukWe have you surroundedYamaha has added three models to its YSP range of digital sound projectors. They offer "true multi-channel Surround Sound" from a one-box system. Prices range from &pound;499 to &pound;1,199.digitalsoundprojectors.co.ukIn-car streamingThe Venturi Mini, available next month at &pound;80, plugs into a car's 12V cigarette lighter socket and streams music via Bluetoothmyventuri.comPhishers nettedThe Guardia di Finanza has arrested 26 people over a huge phishing attack that affected Italian tourist websites.securitypark.co.ukVideo Games Live concertThe Philharmonia Orchestra is giving a concert of music from videogames at the Royal Festival Hall on October 22.southbankcentre.co.uk
No, but that isn't going to stop start-ups like Tilera from trying. At the 19th annual Hot Chips semiconductor conference at Stanford University, California, Tilera said it had started shipping Tile64 processors to customers such as 3Com.Although this is a 64-core version, Tilera reckons it can go up to 1,000 cores. Intel and AMD, which supply the mass market, are only just establishing dual-core and quad-core designs.Tilera was founded by Anant Agarwal, a professor of electrical engineering and computer science at MIT. He created a tiled, mesh-based multicore architecture there in the 1990s.Traditional chips work like motorway networks and are susceptible to traffic jams on the main highway, the system bus. Tiled systems are more like American cities, laid out on a grid pattern.But traditional programmers also tend to have a procedural, pipeline-type view. It's easy to think of one thing coming after another. Thinking of 64 things happening at once is a bit harder. Most software hasn't been written that way.With trillions of dollars now invested in IT, users are often unwilling to rip out and replace what they already have. Tilera is therefore targeting specialised niches such as intelligent networking.There's nothing really new about parallel processing. The UK tried to change the world in the 1980s with the Inmos Transputer, a powerful parallel processor, at a time when much less had been invested in the Intel market. A more recent entrant is the IBM Cell chip used in the Sony PlayStation 3.But the IT industry usually follows an evolutionary path. Tilera's main impact may be to hurry Intel, AMD and Sun down the multicore path into a mesh-like future ... but it will probably take far longer for the software to follow.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Tom is a copywriter living in Los Angeles. He's desperately looking for a new job, so he signed up to Monster - the online careers and recruitment resource for employers and jobseekers. An email he believed was from Monster arrived, inviting him to download the new "Monster Job Seeker Tool". But Tom soon discovered that it was no such thing. Instead, he had fallen victim to the "worst ever" ransomware trojan that encrypted all his files and stole information."Hundreds of files, if not over 1,000, were encrypted," says Tom. He found messages in his folders from the Glamorous Team demanding $300 (&pound;150) to decrypt his files and threatening to share his private information. A few days later, a friend pointed him towards Prevx, a UK-based internet security company which had written a free decryption tool.File encryption"Unfortunately, it seems my files were encrypted a few times over, so the tool didn't work for me. I never considered paying up. I would never run a program from these crooks on my machine - who knows what it would be. My big concern is their threat to share my personal info with the world," says Tom who, thanks to good backups, only lost recent family photographs.Mike, a management consultant from Arizona, had been let go from his job, and was moving files from his company laptop so he could return it. "I noticed the "read_me.txt" files [with the ransom demand] on my 80GB external hard drive, and of course knew there was a problem. Thinking I was doing the right thing, I deleted all of the .txt files and copied my good files to DVDs. When I tried to read the DVD to make sure the files would open, my heart sank as I discovered that everything was trashed," says Mike."Of the 80GB of data, I would estimate that I permanently lost about half.""This is the worst attack I've ever seen," says Jacques Erasmus, Prevx's director of malware research and a former hacker who has proved a worthy opponent for the Glamorous Team. He's spent days trying to help victims like Tom and Mike recover their files."We received a first sighting of this around eight hours after it was released via spearphished emails to a targeted audience of people looking for work using the monster.com website," says Erasmus. The attack may have used an email list stolen from Monster or a similar job-seeking service."[Normally] to get an uptake of 1,000 machines, you'd need to send the email to around 75,000 people. However, because this email was highly targeted, the conversion ratio would be much better. Therefore I believe it was sent to around 10,000 email addresses," says Erasmus. A secondary wave of infection involved pornography and a malicious website in Panama. Only people in the USA were affected, except for one person in Saudi Arabia.The software was a password-stealer trojan with a new ransomware feature and three functions: encrypting files on the victim's hard disk; stealing browser data and silently sending out stolen information to a website on a shared Yahoo server. No documents were taken - just data from browser sessions - although panicked users who deleted the read_me.txt messages with the randomly generated encryption key lost their files forever.A key component was an http sniffer, which captures user data from browser sessions by bypassing the SSL encryption - the lock icon - normally relied on for secure internet transactions. Every 60 seconds, stolen data was encrypted by the trojan and sent to a dump site created only days beforehand."It took us about six hours to reverse-engineer the [encryption] algorithm including testing," says Erasmus. "We made two tools, one to decrypt the stolen data and one to decrypt the files for users."Helped by access to the dump site (possibly an oversight by the ransomware creators), Erasmus found that around 1,000 PCs had been infected. Apart from individuals at home, the victims included  US government departments and multinationals including Hewlett-Packard. He found 257MB of stolen data and contacted the FBI and a dozen seriously affected companies.The data proved startling in its detail. An employee of General Dynamics Corporation, working inside the US Department of Transportation, was monitored making his online passport application to the US Department of State. A woman working for Booz Allen Hamilton, a global consulting group, was seen applying for a job directly to the CIA. Although both were using secure browser connections, they now face identity theft from organised criminals."There was an entire biometric profile of a government contractor in the stolen data - details such as eye colour, hair colour, exact measurements and weight," says Erasmus. "What worried us more was the level of data that was compromised from large US corporations and government contractors. Logins to critical systems, databases and intranet logins were captured. This could be devastating."Stolen dataThe Guardian has seen 5.6m lines of stolen data including credit card and bank account numbers, home addresses, social security numbers, logins, passwords, job applications and even emails with sexual content. We quickly found logins for Mike in Arizona and Bill in Oregon. Using Bill's details, we logged into his email account and left a message. His view of the ransomware trojan now? "Very malicious, and dangerous, and very scary."We sent Mike his login details for his Fuse.net email and Paypal accounts, discovering even more about the trojan's capabilities. "My first reaction, to put it bluntly, is holy shit!" says Mike.It's even worse for other people. Stolen banking information, almost certainly sold on by the Glamorous Team, will delight cash-seeking criminals. "We believe that Glamorous Team are Russian and part of a bigger crime network," says Erasmus. Only Prevx (prevx.com) users were protected as its software works by stopping any suspicious behaviour rather than reacting to previously detected files.Are we going to see such a well-targeted attack here in the UK? It's very likely, although the criminals are probably now lying low. "For what they have achieved, I'd need to give them high marks. They've got into the government, major defence contractors and major corporates in the USA," says Erasmus.As a former hacker, Erasmus admires the criminals' technical skills and he urges people not to be fooled by odd-looking  emails that could be phishing attacks.The ransom noteHello, your files are encrypted with RSA-4096 algorithm (en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA). You will need at least few years to decrypt these files without our software. All your private information for last 3 months were collected and sent to us. To decrypt your files you need to buy our software. The price is $300. To buy our software please contact us at: [email address] and provide us your personal code [personal code]. After successful purchase we will send your decrypting tool, and your private information will be deleted from our system. If you will not contact us until 07/15/2007 your private information will be shared and you will lost all your data.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Skype's popular internet telephone service went down on August 16 and was unavailable for between two and three days. Skype relies on peer-to-peer technology, where each client is also a server, reducing the load on centralised servers. Peer-to-peer applications are meant to be resilient: if one peer fails, another can take its place. Skype's extreme outage shows that this is not always the case.So what happened? Skype says the problem was triggered by a Microsoft patch, delivered by Windows Update, which caused an automatic reboot of many PCs. "The high number of restarts affected Skype's network resources. This caused a flood of log-in requests, which, combined with the lack of peer-to-peer network resources, prompted a chain reaction," says Skype's Villu Arak. According to Arak, the system would normally have recovered quickly, but on this occasion "a previously unseen bug" caused the network to fail. Some observers have speculated that Skype's entire distributed database became unsynchronised and had to be rebuilt, accounting for the long delay.Warning shotThe incident prompts a number of awkward questions. The first is whether it is sensible for a company to make critical services dependent on its customers' machines - over which it has no control. Arguably, the Skype incident was merely an unfortunate combination of lax software quality exposed by an external trigger rather than a problem with the peer-to-peer concept itself, but it still proves that distributing an application over millions of machines does not guarantee resilience. Suddenly the business benefits of peer-to-peer seem more doubtful. Skype's nightmare weekend is also a warning shot to anyone considering greater dependence on VoIP, such as using it for business conferencing.Another issue is that probably only a few Skype customers fully realised what they agreed to when they clicked OK to the licence agreement. In Skype's case, any machine may become a supernode, which is a server responsible for hundreds of other clients. Similar considerations apply to the BBC's iPlayer application for TV over broadband and Sky's similar Anytime service, both of which use a peer-to-peer application called Kontiki. When you download a broadcast, you are really downloading it from another user's PC, as well as allowing others to upload it from you. Both Sky and the BBC are rather quiet about this aspect of the service, which could be a significant problem for anyone paying directly for data transferred, or simply concerned about others using their PC as a server.Automatic restartWhat about PCs that automatically reboot? Although Microsoft was not directly to blame for breaking Skype's network, this shows that automatically restarting PCs can have unintended consequences. More often, it is something more humdrum like losing the contents of an unsaved document. Automatic restart is now the default for Windows Update, although it is only used when necessary and can be switched off in the Control Panel. That is good for security but inconvenient for users.Skype's troubles are good news for some. Blogger Om Malik reports that rival VoIP provider Gizmo Project saw a four-fold increase in sales during the outage. The Gizmo Project uses the standard Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), in contrast to Skype's proprietary system. This means that unlike Skype, the Gizmo Project software can place calls through other SIP-based providers. At times of stress, it can pay to have multiple options.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
UK retailers would be much obliged if you could pop out and buy a games console: videogaming is expected to account for 82.3% of the growth in the &pound;24.3bn electricals market this year. Otherwise they are still doing well out of flatscreen TV sets, although they are suffering from price deflation. The portable music player is still growing, and the iPod finally has some competition. And while high-definition camcorders are showing promise, they are still too expensive for the mass market.So says UK Electricals Retailers 2007, a new report from Datamonitor's Verdict Research. Verdict goes on: "New product launches have been the catalyst for the exceptional performance achieved by the &pound;3.4bn games consoles and software sector."No surprise there, really. Nintendo's new Wii has been selling like the hot proverbials, adding to the success of the handheld Nintendo DS. Sony's PlayStation 3 has bumped up turnover with the average bundle costing more than &pound;500, and "the Xbox 360 is still proving popular," says Verdict.It's not just the consoles. Sales of games, controllers and extra peripherals are expected to grow rapidly as the hardware base expands.However, there are problems with "rapid price deflation on flat panel TVs" in the &pound;5.4bn audiovisual market. People are buying more LCD TVs, but prices have fallen so fast that retailers are struggling to grow the value of sales. The key strategy is to sell bigger sets. Last year, 32in models were most popular, but this year, 40in screens are the best sellers. Verdict says the move to high-definition video has plenty of potential, but "so far it has not broken into the mass market".However, Verdict can't provide the answer to one of the more interesting queries: is there a shift between portable MP3 players and music-playing mobiles? Its retail analyst James Flower says the MP3 market is still growing, and "non-Apple is definitely growing in market share, although it is still obviously tiny in comparison. Other manufacturers have learned from Apple, and consumers now will consider other brands, such as Sony, Creative, and iRiver. Two years ago, the iPod was much more dominant."Flower reckons people who listen to a lot of music probably still want a dedicated player rather than a phone, "but that could change with the Apple iPhone".But not everything in the garden is rosy for British electrical retailers, especially the smaller, more specialised outlets. Verdict points out that the grocers are mounting an assault on the market. They are expected to increase their share of sales by half a point to 5.8% this year. Tesco and Asda are leading the way, expanding to stock more non-food items, and also selling via catalogues and online. Argos has used these approaches to become the UK's largest electricals retailer after DSG, which includes Currys and PC World. John Lewis and Comet have also grown their sales.The new mantra is "click and collect". Flower says: "While Argos sees itself as a pioneer of such services, its model is now being copied by competitors. PC World, Currys, Comet and Jessops all offer similar services while Tesco also allows customers to pick up online  purchases in selected stores."Tesco and Asda have huge economies of scale and can operate on much lower margins than specialist retailers. Supermarkets in Germany and the US in particular did this years ago. It's no surprise it's happening here.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's about 20 years since the Guardian printed a picture of me under the headline Million Dollar Guy. I had won an award for a piece of software I'd created, DBXV, from the Million Dollar Software club to expose how easy it is to scoop sham awards.Two decades on, Andy Brice has achieved much the same thing with a product that is at least as good as DBXV was and which has two features which DBXV never achieved. First, his AwardMeStars utility actually exists; and second, he didn't have to pay for the award plaque.Software developer Brice, of Oryx Digital, has now won 16 awards for his latest product, AwardMeStars. Not just awards - recommendations from software download sites. "Some even emailed me messages of encouragement such as 'Great job, we're really impressed!," Brice reports.They should be impressed. Brice's product is one of the few downloadable executables which definitely can't be infected with a virus - because it's not executable. It's a text file, which simply says that it's a text file which won't run - but it carries the .exe suffix, which means that your PC might try to run it if you click it.Just to make it clear: it won't work. It doesn't work. It was created as an experiment to see how many shareware awards it could receive."The obvious explanation," says Brice, "is that some download sites give an award to every piece of software submitted to them. In return they hope that the author will display the award with a link back to them."It's an ancient scam, one of many designed to fool search engines into giving a website a higher rating. The idea is that we, being lazy animals, will do a search for a product, and click on the first link that comes up. So if your pages are the highest rated, then yours will get the clicks - and the advertising revenue that flows from those clicks.But of course the same applies to other areas where awards are common. How many people, seriously, do you think vote for Restaurant of the Year awards given by local newspapers? As any publisher will quickly confirm, such "prestige" awards are designed purely and simply to persuade the chef to buy advertising space in the paper (and an expensive table at the awards dinner).In the case of DBXV and its award, all we had to do was write to the awards organiser and say: "We sold over $5,000,000 worth of DBXV," respond appropriately to their message of congratulations and stump up the &pound;60-odd it costs to buy the aluminium plaque that says that Consoft (geddit?) won the award.We pleaded pressure of work in refusing the invite to the the lavish black-tie dinner. In reality, both my collaborator and I were known to the award company and the cat would have emerged from the bag if we'd shown up. It didn't matter: the assurance of LD "Lazy Dog" Spencer (company secretary) that the figures were correct was all the proof they required before cashing our cheque.In a similar spirit of inquiry I experimented by text voting for my nearest Greek taverna for an award from my local paper. To my complete lack of any surprise, it won; I can show you the picture of the elated staff at the black tie dinner. And I can show you the advertisement they took in the paper, too.The good news: having submitted the "software" to all 1,033 shareware download sites listed by submit-everywhere.com Brice was pleased to find that 421 sites rejected it. The tragic news is that judgment was still pending on 394 sites, and actually accepted by 218 which list it, obviously, as untested.Dismally, the rejections aren't all gold-star efforts: several of them rejected software "of this genre" - a utility.Now, shall I tell you about my award-winning blog?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
After a few false starts, a wireless technology that could clear up the clutter around our PCs, TVs and phones could actually be on the way.Ultra-wideband technology (UWB) should carry data fast enough to send high-quality video, sound or images between devices up to 30 metres apart. A DVD player need no longer require a Scart lead to connect it to the TV, and a camera-phone will be able to send images to a PC or printer in seconds - once everything is equipped with UWB.It's been promised many times before (including byme in 2005), but this time it could be coming true. "There will finally be a lot of WB kit on the shelves of stores like RadioShack in the US this Christmas," says Stuart Carlaw, wireless research director at ABI research. "It won't reach the UK straight away, but it's a good bet it will be here by the middle of 2008."UWB has been under development in  laboratories for more than 40 years, emerging from military classification in the 1990s. But it has taken a long while to catch on because it is so different from other radio communications.Most radio frequencies are parcelled out for exclusive use by licence-holders such as Vodafone, T-Mobile or the BBC - apart from a few bands open for anyone-to-use technology like Wi-Fi or Bluetooth. UWB cuts right across a broad swathe of other people's spectrum: the chips being made start around 3GHz and could potentially go up as far as 10GHz. But they don't interfere with other devices because they work at such low power, and the signals they create look just like the kind of noise that other radio systems are designed to ignore.This stealthy approach to sending signals builds on the idea of spreadspectrum or frequency-hopping, which was invented by Hedy Lamarr, better known as a Hollywood star, and composer George Antheil in 1940. They hit on the idea of splitting a signal between many different frequencies, using one at a time to keep ahead of anyone trying to listen in. UWB takes the idea further by using them all at once, sending a pulse at very low power.The signs that UWB might have finally made it are pretty clear. Lenovo and Dell have built it into laptops - although these aren't available in the UK yet - and regulators including Ofcom have ruled that it is legal to use UWB without any sort of licence.Ofcom's ruling should help foster a world market for UWB-enabled products. In February, a European decision instructed regulators to allow UWB, using specifications similar to those in Japan and the US, where UWB is already allowed. With wireless leaders such as Cambridge Silicon Radio (CSR) based in the UK, Ofcom has estimated that being on board will be  worth about &pound;4bn to the UK economy over the next 15 years.UWB is also part of the future plans of two of the most popular data transfer systems we have. A wireless version of the USB ports found on all PCs and a faster version of the popular Bluetooth wireless technology that's fitted in most mobile phones will both be based on a version of UWB as defined by the WiMedia Alliance industry body.In other words, UWB technology finally looks like being an industry standard with the kind of market that could give it economies of scale. This follows several years of wrangling, fairly typical for new technologies, where different vendors proposed their own versions of the technology in the IEEE standards group, and companies with a vested interest, such as the mobile phone operators, lobbied for regulators to restrict UWB.That is over now. The telecoms industry's standards body, the ITU, has recommended that UWB be allowed and standards have been defined. Products made for the US market should eventually be legal to use in Europe, although they may need software to switch off certain parts of the spectrum used by their UWB radios, according to Stephen Wood of Intel, who is president of WiMedia: "Basically, you turn off bands other than the correct one for Europe. Since this is a software capability, it doesn't have additional cost."The WiMedia standard promises 480Mbps with a range of 30 metres. Other UWB versions promise speeds up to 2Gbps. However, products aren't yet reaching these speeds because of hardware manufacturers' budget constraints, but they are still very attractive, say analysts."To get UWB under $15 (&pound;7.57), it has to be single CMOS chip," says Carlaw. "It's difficult to do higher-band stuff in a CMOS process." All the UWB products so far are around 3GHz to 5GHz, he says, and give a throughput of around 250Mbps, making it very possible to send TV pictures and other data reliably to ranges up to 10 metres. By comparison, today's Bluetooth only offers 3Mbps.UWB won't wipe out today's Bluetooth, though. "Normal Bluetooth will interrogate devices and decide what technology is required," says Alan Woolhouse of CSR, a leading Bluetooth chip maker that is moving into UWB. "If fast file transfer is needed, it will fire up the UWB radio."In other circumstances, lower power, low-speed Bluetooth might be needed. The technology overlaps somewhat with the fast 802.11n draft Wi-Fi standard which is now appearing in products. However, 802.11n, with promises of 200Mbps, actually delivers around 60Mbps now. More importantly, it's a networking technology, not designed for the sort of ad hoc peer-to-peer connections where we now use Bluetooth and USB, says Carlaw: "Wi-Fi is completely painful for ad hoc  pairing. UWB and Bluetooth are much less painful."Even with Bluetooth to manage the connections, the cables won't go away overnight, however. Despite having UWB on board, the Dell and Lenovo laptops still have the usual bunch of USB slots, simply because there aren't any other wireless USB devices for them to talk to yet.The first products to arrive will be hubs and dongles that let laptops connect to devices such as printers and cameras that already have USB slots, according to Carlaw. Consumer electronics devices such as camcorders and digital cameras will then get built-in wireless USB. Phones have a lot to gain from UWB, but may be the last devices to adopt it, since they place a greater premium on battery life and on the physical space inside them.If and when UWB arrives, wired connections will remain: "Wireless USB is more convenient for most users, but the evolutionary path for a wired interface has significantly greater upward growth potential than anything wireless," says Wood. "A copper wire in effect has the use of the entire RF spectrum."And it can also carry electrical power to charge the device.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Paid-for emailsI refer to Andrew Brown's A Death Penalty for Spammers? (Read me first, August 16). I did not suggest that the stamp issuers actually verify who the sender is. Anonymous email is a great virtue and stamps ought to be available for cash. My suggestion was only that the charge be applied. Destroying the economics is enough.Tim Bray, by emailFree on Virtual EarthJust a point about the comment that you make that Pictometry data is an Ordnance Survey product which will not be available for free (Free Our Data, August 16). Pictometry is flown and captured by Blom Aerofilms which uses the OS as its sales team. Pictometry is available for free on Microsoft's Virtual Earth platform. Its bird's-eye view uses Pictometry data.James Rutter,by emailUniversal aimThis is Universal shooting itself in the foot while thinking it is aiming at some imaginary enemy (Newly asked questions, August 16). iPod users are not going to fiddle around with something other than iTunes to get their music and these iPod users are the ones fuelling iTunes sales.Cliff Pitcher,Seattle&middot;If Universal wants to set prices differently, why not set up its own store? Just compete. One could argue that that is exactly what Universal is doing by handing Apple rivals a (theoretical) competitive advantage so as to break Apple's dominance of digital distribution.Brad Isaacs Jackson, TennesseeSound questionMichael Cuthbert (Letters, August 16) claims that we should stand "shoulder to shoulder on downloading and its terrible audio quality". I totally disagree. I recently listened to an MP3 I had downloaded illegally of a song I've bought twice before, once on vinyl (before all my vinyl got stolen) and once on tape (before the tape became unusable with age). Not only do I believe I have paid enough for this track, but there, on the high-quality MP3, was a very quiet extra percussion layer I had never been able to hear before. Let us instead stand shoulder to shoulder against the record industry's gouging of both listeners and of artists, and refuse to purchase their DRM-crippled tracks, their overpriced re-releases and certainly the music we've already paid for.James Mackenzie, Edinburgh&middot;I think that Michael Cuthbert might be wrong about downloaders. I went over to CDs a long time go and have ripped my favourites to my MP3 player. I play CDs in my car and at home I have a good stereo. In none of these places are the listening conditions ideal and I'm not so sure that I'd notice the loss in quality because of all of the extraneous noise.Robin Hall, Hitchin&middot;Wonderfully insightful stuff from Michael Cuthbert with regard to the iPod generation's lack of respect for the music they download. How dare we enjoy listening to music without first mourning the loss of all those inaudible frequencies and fretting over compression artifacts! May I suggest Mr Cuthbert now turns his attention to the disgraceful use of JPEG images on the internet, as I'm sure he'll agree we would all be far better off using 200MB RAW images on our websites.John Bolland, Newcastle Upon TyneeGov isn't Mac-friendlyAt a time when the BBC is being criticised for its iPlayer and the government is highlighting the discrimination against older people, I was surprised to find that the government's online system for making attendance allowance claims (and maybe other pension related claims) is only compatible with the  Windows operating system. Surely  the government should be specifying systems that are cross-platform  compatible?Keith Arrowsmith, Sheffield
Gartner research indicates that in four years' time 80% of internet users will have avatars - virtual replicas of themselves - working or playing online. Given the pace of internet adoption, and the fact that people often have more than one avatar, there will soon be more avatars than humans, at least in the industrialised world.How, if at all, this will change society is fascinating to predict. Dozens of companies are researching advanced versions of virtual worlds. And as computers get more powerful, screens bigger and slimmer, with high definition television around the corner, the prospects are endless. Admittedly, the flagship of three-dimensional worlds, Second Life (SL), has been having a bad time of it this month. It had its first big financial crash when the Ginko bank failed with debts worth $700,000 (&pound;350,000), leaving depositors in the real world suffering the consequences. Second Life was also forced to ban gambling activities. Some commentators keep reminding us that only a small proportion of its 9 million "residents" actually come back regularly to participate. On the brighter side, next month the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra will become the first professional classical ensemble to give a concert in Second Life, in a virtual version of the city's Philharmonic Hall.It is true that SL's residents come and go but this is unsurprising since, unless you are actively involved in building, shopping or partying, then a space that is already eight times the size of Manhattan can be a pretty empty place to get lost in (just like the real world). It is barely a year since SL came on to the public radar yet already there is an unstoppable momentum towards building more 3D worlds that will eventually be able to interact with each other, so an avatar in one can move in and out of a rival system.The race to build a better virtual world is already leaving the Arctic land grab in the shadows. The winner could be Google Earth, which recently added photographs of streets to its zoom-in model of the planet. It already has 250 million users who add content and interact with each other. It doesn't take a big leap of the imagination to envisage your avatar talking to friends and strangers in your own street in a few years' time. But it faces big competition from others such as Entropia Universe, the Swedish virtual world that recently signed a deal with the Beijing municipality to build a virtual universe able to handle 7 million users at any one moment. The company believes virtual worlds could lead to people working from home in a big way. Since barely 50,000 of Second Life's 9 million residents are online at any one moment, the same ratio of active to inactive users could make China's virtual space bigger than most countries in the world. The company promises "stunningly realistic graphics, environmental physics and believable animations".Second Life, of course, isn't standing still. It regularly introduces new features, such as 3D sound (which gets louder as you get closer to people) and the benefits of opening its code to developers has yet to be felt. But it may need a fundamental system upgrade to ward off increasing competition.Virtual worlds are a natural space for social networks such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook to migrate to in the future since friends can meet and chat together and maybe even watch real football matches together online. The likes of Bebo don't think this will happen. Their plans are dominated by a mass migration of social networks to mobile phones. But in a few years - as mobile devices get bigger, lighter and smarter - they might be the natural hosts for such networks.As Baroness Greenfield observed: "Offering people the chance to have a permanent soap opera going on in which they can participate will be even more pervasive than reality TV such as Big Brother."vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
I have a new definition of a hardcore gamer: it's anyone who can sit through the full 90 minutes of1up.com's weekly 1up Yours podcast. It's one of a number (a huge, ever-growing number) of 'casts, written and presented by the journalists behind the big American news sites. These guys are extremely serious about games and play a lot of them - they play games on the way to work, play them all day, then play them at home. They don't have lives, they have game saves.That's fine, but an hour and a half of ceaseless chatter about the controls in the latest Metroid Prime game does not, in my opinion, make compelling audio.Even the lightest of subjects, like the forthcoming twang-'em-up Guitar Hero 3, are treated with such sombre reverence I forgot whether I was hearing about a super-fun air-guitar sim or a humanitarian disaster which somehow involves novelty plastic controllers.It's strange, because American sites like 1up, IGN and Gamespot have absolutely nailed videogame reportage as a written phenomenon. News stories are short, timely and pertinently interlinked. Text posts are accompanied by a steady flow of trailers, demos and screenshot dumps. It is possible to build a rounded, audiovisual understanding of a game months before you play it.On podcasts, though - robbed of the incessant forward motion and multimedia layers of the news site - depth becomes conversational treacle. It's like brevity is somehow considered lame. And don't even talk about structure or showmanship.It's a shame as the podcast should represent an accessible, digestible means of grabbing snappy game news when you simply can't bear the trial, expense and indignity of surfing the web on your mobile.The variety is there. Not only does every major news site have a podcast, most of the key blogs like Joystiq and Destructoid do too. There are speciality retro gaming blogs (8-Bit Memories, RetroGamingRadio) and blogs for specific titles like Zelda and World of Warcraft.Several of the big studios have also started their own blogs, notably Bungie (Halo) and Insomniac (Ratchet and Clank), and while these provide some interesting insights into development, there's a lot of peer-to-peer backslapping to get through. Also, the stories you want to hear - of childish internal rivalries and tortuous three-month crunch times - aren't the stories they want to tell. They want to tell you how advanced the AI is. And they want to use the word "awesome".My favourite by far is Achievement Junkie, which brilliantly sets itself apart by using a female co-presenter (ingenious!) who isn't a hardcore gamer. It's a daily dose of Xbox 360 news presented in a quirky, upbeat, chatty manner. And it's usually 10 minutes long.Most radio journalists will tell you that editing is everything. Most game podcasters aren't listening. They're too busy talking.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The internet's domain name system will soon undergo a major expansion. But wherever there are new resources, there are arguments over how to exploit them. Specifically, the idea of a .xxx web suffix for porn sites, once characterised as the internet's vampire, may have risen from the dead as part of a larger argument over rules for how much discretion will be exercised in accepting or denying applications.Icann is the organisation which controls generic top-level domains. Roughly, these are the website suffixes such as .com and .org that are not owned by a country (such as .uk or .us). Some recently approved domain applications were .jobs, .mobi and .travel. The most notorious recent rejected application was .xxx. Anextensive new reporthas just been released regarding issues relating to expanding the number of top level domains (TLD).Controversy has raged around provisions that a proposed new TLD "must not be contrary to generally accepted legal norms relating to morality and public order", and whether there is "substantial opposition to it from a significant portion of the community to which the string may be explicitly or implicitly targeted".These are acknowledged to have come out of the contentions over .xxx. They're obviously intended try to put a stake through its heart once and for all, and any unholy spawn which it might inspire in the future.Some commenters have vigorously opposed those draft policies as violations of free expression. The organisationKeep The Core Neutralmade a call to arms: "But special interests want to censor these domain names for moral, political or commercial reasons ... or any reason at all! Don't let them set up a censorship system at the very core of the internet!"However, Jonathan Zittrain, professor of internet governance and regulation at Oxford, has said: "Arguments about Icann and domain names don't much matter except to those who want a piece of the financial pie, and I think predictions of domain names' unimportance have largely proven true ... I find it hard to really care if Icann wants to allow some names and deny others. I don't see how a willingness to have some content-based process for determining new TLDs can become [censorship]". (people.oii.ox.ac.uk)The .xxx domain proposal was widely viewed as a bad idea, impressively drawing broad opposition from disparate groups such as censors, civil libertarians and the adult entertainment industry. It was difficult to find an informed proponent for it who did not somehow stand to profit from the monopoly income it would create. (Read me first, January 25 2007.)And this shows where those viewing new suffixes too much as a matter of free speech are misguided. New TLDs are often revenue opportunities to sell registrations to trademark owners and speculation game-players. Anyone who is thwarted in executing their business plan has an incentive to cry censorship.Icann is an organisation long dogged by problems of transparency and accountability, viewed with suspicion by many observers. It is easy to paint it as a villain against a fantasy of utopia. But even a small familiarity with the shenanigans surrounding monetising domain names should make you pause for thought before advocating a laissez-faire system.We are not operating without any experience in these matters. For example, the .cm domain (belonging to the country of Cameroon) has been used to grab traffic from typographical errors of .com sites. And the .com domain itself has seen a major controversy over such typo traffic. There have been many arguments over whether domain registries are dealing properly with companies that seek to buy domain names solely for resale, or even use as spam sites.The domain name market is full of rent-seekers, speculators, squatters and various scammers looking to make a quick buck. Having policies aimed at discouraging new TLDs that seem prone to those activities is simply a good idea.What do you think? Leave your comments for Icannhereuntil August 30, and view themhere.&middot;Seth's blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Yes, but perhaps it's not as bad as a new study suggests. The net was aflame this week after one study from the US suggested that typing on the iPhone takes twice as long as on more traditional handsets.User Centric, an American consultancy that looks at usability, attracted lots of attention by claiming that the buttonless touchscreen interface was seriously hampering those used to their old phone's ordinary keypads.The impact was clear: "For Qwerty users, texting was fast and accurate," said Jen Allen, a usability specialist with the company. "But when they switched to the iPhone, they were frustrated with the touch-sensitive keyboard."Imagine that frustration extrapolated from the US, where texting is still a minority pursuit, to the frenzied SMS cultures of Europe or to Asia. It could be a potential dealbreaker ... except for the fact that not everybody agrees with the study's findings."Typing on the iPhone is definitely slower than using a hardware keyboard, but I wouldn't say it takes twice as long," says Tom Dunmore, the editor- in-chief of Stuff magazine and an  iPhone user.He adds: "There's a bit of a learning curve, where you have to use the force and let Apple's error correction do its thing - but it's very impressive, and you end up touch-typing."There were certainly some methodological sidenotes which indicated that the research doesn't necessarily tell the whole story: the study looked at only 20 American users of mobile phones,  and gave them a mere 30 minutes to practise using an iPhone compared to their ordinary mobile handset.In addition, the minimum texting threshold that User Centric considered was just 15 texts a week, which is barely a lunchbreak's work for text-hungry teenagers. And - perhaps crucially - none of them used predictive text,  the system used by a large number of people, as well as the iPhone.Despite these issues, User Centric's Allen claims that the small sample and heavy restrictions still produced "statistically significant results".But few dispute the idea that a flat, touch-based interface will never adequately replace physical keys for very heavy typists.It seems unlikely that fast-fingered teens will ever break speed records on a first-generation Apple handset.Dunmore agrees that heavy users might still find that they can't manage speeds they are used to."The iPhone's keyboard is lots better than I thought it would be - but it still ain't a BlackBerry," he says.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Is there a single computer game left untouched by the fetishised psychosis of people who still live with their parents? If so, for crying out loud, give it my number.When I hung up my roleplaying game (RPG) cap I thought I'd said sayonara to the more obsessive end of the gaming spectrum. A genre with as many wobbly papier-m&acirc;ch&eacute; shrines and roleplay fanatics as you can wave a Wii controller at, the continual wading through fan fiction to find an FAQ got to be too much, and I ran away screaming.In Kingdom of Loathing I thought I'd found my perfect retirement. An awe-inspiringly sarcastic online RPG that drops pop culture, gaming and scholarly references with the flair of a pixellated Pratchett, its intolerance of the usual internet mores is such that you have to pass a spelling and grammar test before you're even allowed to chat.But there is a downside: as with most freeware, the game's creators make their money from merchandise and donations and an - honest to God - "feelie kit". For a mere $40 (&pound;20), some keys, a participant's certificate and other hastily assembled crap can be yours.It's the sheer disparity between the game and the merchandise that makes me twitch. Who are these complex individuals who can spend an afternoon laughing disdainfully at Lamz0r N00bs (that's lame newbies to you, auntie), only to lovingly admire their participant's certificate afterwards? You have to hope it's a little joke from the makers, this time more on their obsessive users than the general public.It gets worse with Zelda, a series so unrelentingly brilliant that fan design should be made an act of treason. One fan makes a tidy sum selling Triforce jewellery made out of chainmail. "Ever wonder what the items and such in Hyrule really look like?" runs the blurb. No, because I've played the game and in fact they look heavily pixellated and a bit rubbish.You can choose from the Ocarina of Time, the Moon Pearl, and even the potions. "The bottles are 16oz/500ml size and about (sic) the exact same size as the bottles Link carries around." You can just bet someone sat by her screen with a ruler and a calculator for that one.While I'm slightly in awe of people who can use chainmail in anything other than a sentence, I wish they'd use it for Dungeons and Dragons instead of such dead-eyed kookiness. I know they're just games for children and people with no social lives who are frightened of cheese, but they're also mine, dammit, and I refuse to be lumped in with a load of reverential basketcases just because I like playing them.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've just bought a MacBook Pro and I'm running Windows XP via the Parallels Desktop. Windows still seems to go online, so do I need anti-virus software?Mike WellsYes. Although you are running Windows in a virtual machine, you should still follow the normal security procedures and install Windows updates. I'd also suggest using AVG Antivirus Free Edition or Avast! software for added protection. Both are free.
Can I install Windows 98 over the existing copy of Windows XP on my laptop?Katie BedfordNo, you cannot easily downgrade an operating system, and going to Windows 98 would be a really bad idea: it's less secure, less stable and far less powerful. You would have to re-save your data in old formats that Windows 98 programs can read, and back it up. Then you would boot your laptop from a DOS floppy disk, reformat (fdisk) and repartition the hard drive to remove XP and its NTFS file system, then install Windows 98 from scratch on the clean DOS-format hard drive. Your XP programs won't run so you'll have to find old versions that can read your data. Oh, does Windows 98 have drivers for all your hardware?If XP is compromised or broken, you'd be better off re-installing it and updating it to XP SP2. If you really want an earlier version of Windows, then Windows 2000 is as far back as you should consider going. You would still have to remove XP, but you wouldn't have to reformat the drive. Also, you should be able to use some (most?) of your existing programs and data.
When I right-click a file in Windows XP, I get a long menu with entries for QCD and Paint Shop Pro. How do I remove them?JWGAll the entries in the menu are under shellex in the HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT section of the Windows registry. An article atjfitz.comshows how to edit these manually, but this can be risky. Instead, try a free utility such as Brett Bartholomew's Context Menu Editor (bartdart.com).
