A friend in a band wants a digital audio recorder for music. So far we can only find one from Olympus, which records speech but not music. Any ideas? Chris DeweyMost digital recorders are intended for voice and are unsuitable for music, but one of the iRiver range of MP3 players, might be worth a go. These can record to MP3 from a built-in microphone, a line-in jack or the integrated FM radio. However, for serious use, the main choices seem to be the M-Audio MicroTrack 24/96, at around £350, and the Edirol R-1 portable recorder from Roland, which is £20 cheaper. Both record to MP3 or - better - WAV format to CompactFlash cards or Microdrives. Both products are sold online bySolid State SoundandDigital Village, and the latter also has shops.MicroTrack from Solid State Sound
Nick Denton has signed a deal with VNU Media to make Gizmodo, his gadgets blog, available in eight languages. "While we are unsure how most of our high-brow humor will translate into the mother tongues—how does 'Sucks Big Monkeys' sound in Italian?—we are definitely happy to see that the world, not just the English-speaking bits, can now enjoy a fine dose of Gizmodo with their morning cup of cafe/koffie/kaffee/caffe or afternoon toad-in-the-hole/bratwurst/head cheese," saysthe announcement.The international sites includeGizmodo in British English, Innit? Bob's Your Uncle.Comment:there is a certain amount of speculation that the Denton empire could be on Rupert Murdoch's shopping list....
From the outside looking in, it seems as if you are a giant marionette controlled by a puppeteer who has been sniffing wood glue. Spin round to the other side, though, and you are actually using one of the most sophisticated gaming gadgets: the EyeToy camera, and its latest tie-in title, EyeToy Kinetic.The EyeToy is a small camera that plugs into your PlayStation 2 and sits on top of your TV. While you stand in front of it and follow the instructions on the screen, the camera uses motion sensor technology to record your body movements and translate them into game moves. It sounds complicated but, in reality, it is blissfully simple.Until now, EyeToy has provided fun titles for the whole family. But this latest version is about taking those games and actually making them good for you. Kinetic, which was developed with Nike Motionworks, is based around a series of carefully designed exercise games, as well as warmup, stretching and toning programmes.Couch potato no moreIt sounds like a difficult sell. After all, most videogames aren't going to get you fit, unless you count the acquisition of particularly strong thumbs. This means that actually getting off the sofa and leaping around feels a little weird.You also have to swallow your pride a little at first, largely because the only downside lies in our own human weaknesses. Most of us, by and large, are not athletic, graceful creatures. If we were, we probably wouldn't need EyeToy Kinetic in the first place. Seeing yourself on screen is slightly disconcerting, even when you are not moving. However, when you are jiggling about - sometimes with all the grace of a water-balloon on a washing machine - you inevitably develop the ability to look at the screen while mentally editing out your own grunting participation.The game is focused on four exercise areas: cardio, mind and body, combat and toning. Each contains different types of game, and they all come with a selection of music tracks and are aided by a wide-angle lens that fits on to the camera.The cardio games are very aerobic and involve lots of bending and stretching to hit moving coloured orbs, while the combat games are much faster paced and focus on rapid punches and kicks. These latter games are undoubtedly the most fun, mainly because they involve distracting tasks - such as running for a chocolate bar - which make you forget you are exercising.Several involve ducking and weaving around the screen to avoid floating objects and punch projectiles. Once you get the hang of it, you will suddenly feel like a Jedi in training as you execute a lethal punch on some hapless, pixels.The four mind and body zone mini-games are much slower and much more considered. Kicks and punches are replaced by fluid body movements, gentle sweeps and an emphasis on focusing the mind. These games can often be the most difficult because your brain has to switch from quick energetic movements to something a little more serene. And when you have just spent 15 minutes sweating from everywhere - including your ears - this is not always easy.Lastly, there is the toning zone. This isn't made up of games as such, but has several follow-my-lead programmes to focus on specific body areas, as well as tai chi, yoga and meditation sections. This is far more like the kind of stuff you would expect to see on a normal exercise video.Personalised trainingAt the same time, though, it also highlights one of the refreshing things about EyeToy Kinetic - the fact that you are not buying into the PR machine of some inanely grinning D-list celebrity who has just reached the "release exercise video" tick-box on their fame agenda. It is also an attractive alternative to the latest dance-exercise craze "sweeping the US" (which usually requires you to have the fitness level of a marathon runner and eight serviceable legs).Kinetic is all about doing things at your own pace, whatever your fitness level. Although you can combine any of the mini games into a routine of your own, a large chunk of the game is given to the personal trainer mode. This is where the game develops a personalised 12-week programme to boost fitness.The programme adjusts itself depending on how well you are doing. If you constantly get A grades during workouts, it will ramp up the difficulty level or work in more intensive mini-games. It is clever stuff. This is also where Matt and Anna, the virtual personal trainers, come in.These guys will talk you through the games, warmup and stretching sessions and try to keep you focused when you are playing. It is nicely done, because Anna and Matt don't ever become too annoying. It is always worth hearing when one of them really gets into the action and shouts "Hit it! Hit it! HIT IT!" or comes out with odd little snigger-inducing lines, such as Matt's favourite: "You can do anything in one minute!"EyeToy Kinetic is a slick game, and there isn't anything quite like it. There are few things in this world that make exercise fun - and even fewer that actually make you forget you are exercising. But EyeToy Kinetic is one of them.With games regularly portrayed as the video nasties of the 21st century, it is refreshing to find a title that firmly racks up a few points for the "games can be good for you" side of the fence. And if our rather plump nation loses a few pounds while proving the point, then so much the better.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Photograph: Getty ImagesThis week's issue of Technology Guardian is now on the streets, and on the web. Our lead story is aninsight into the world of the hacker, courtesy of a training school that teaches you how to break into other people's systems.OurInnovationspage looks at the latest gadgets and technology, including anonline playroomthat connects children with distant relatives.InGames, Keith Stuart wonders why the games industry isin thrall to B-movie actors, and we review exercise gameEyetoy Kinetic.Over onOpinion, Victor Keegan takes a stroll through the world ofpedometers, Kate Bevan rails against theMicrosoft Media Centerand we look atyour letters.And inInside IT, we examine the wrangling between American and the UN overwho controls the internet, and ask whether government is missing the big picture in its enthusiastic takeup ofinteractive whiteboardsin school classrooms.For a complete listing of everything in this week's edition,click here.
AOL, a unit of Time Warner Inc, could announce the acquisition of New York-basedWeblogs Inc.(http://www.weblogsinc.com/) as early as Thursday," a source tellsReuters."Weblogs includes roughly 80 advertising-supported sites published by a group of more than 100 bloggers. Examples include Autoblog, BloggingBaby and Engadget, Weblog Inc.'s most trafficked site, which is aimed at "rapid gadget freaks." Engadget ranks as one of the Web's most visited blogs, according to data on traffic measurement site Technorati."Comment:This story, as Reuters says, first appeared onPaidcontent.org. And presumably "rapid" is a typo for rabid.
To the untrained eye it looked just like any computer screen. There were programs, files and the accumulated digital junk that sits on most people's desktops. But as I looked closely, I could begin to see everything that was happening: every document opened, every password entered, every program activated. It was as if I were looking at my own computer - except I wasn't. What I was secretly observing was someone else's screen: after just three days of training, I had become a fully fledged hacker.To be honest, it didn't take much effort. A basic grasp of how a computer works, a tiny bit of familiarity with programming and the ability to force yourself into a puzzling and sometimes tedious world are the raw ingredients for becoming a hacker. The key element though, as my tutor, Byrne Ghavalas, told me, is "intent": you have to want to think like a hacker to become one.Ghavalas is no ordinary teacher, and this is no ordinary course. He describes himself as "a computer penetration expert" for 7Safe, the security specialists who jointly run the course with Glamorgan University as part of an MSc in computer forensics. It serves a serious purpose: the Glamorgan course, split up into hacking and forensics modules, is one of the few in the country where you can learn these skills legally. The aim is to teach computer security experts what to look out for when protecting against hackers - by teaching them how they think.My hacking classmates are all computer network engineers, whose jobs include keeping hackers out of the companies and public institutions for whom they work.For, as Ghavalas reminds us, while thinking like a hacker may be "cool", acting like a hacker is not just uncool, it is also illegal and highly damaging. Police estimate that last year, hacking in all its forms cost the UK &pound;2.4bn, with &pound;177m of that from small businesses.High securityThe seriousness of our mission is underlined by our surroundings. We are taught inside a police college in Bedfordshire, where the doors slam locked behind you and everyone must wear identity passes at all times. We hone our skills from 9am to 6pm in a brightly lit, air-conditioned classroom where each bench has two sleek computers. The contrast with the real hackers - our future opponents - could hardly be more striking. The typical image of the hacker, after all, is of a lone, usually scruffy, young male, sitting in an attic bedroom through the night, trying to break into networks around the world.This was certainly the image projected by the first generation of hackers, such as Hans Huebner, Kevin Mitnick and Matthew Bevan, known by their "handles" or nicknames. Huebner ("Pengo") and fellow German hacker Karl Koch ("Hagbard") sold defence secrets from the west to the KGB during the cold war. Mitnick, known on the internet as "Condor", was the first to be convicted under US anti-hacking legislation in 1989, and was arrested and jailed for further offences in 1995. Meanwhile, the Welsh hacker Bevan ("Kuji") was arrested in 1996 for breaking into US air force networks.Yet my fellow pupils and I have one thing in common with hackers - we have to learn how to target a computer's weak points. I begin by understanding how a computer works, how it communicates and how it talks. This is when I realise that their basic flaws were there from the very start. I discover that computers talk in a strange sort of pidgin English - a very basic language, restricted in size and sophistication by the small amount of memory available when computers were first developed. I learn phrases of that language, which is a bit like text speak - "English lite" for computers.Ghavalas points out that all computer operating systems have fundamental flaws. One is that, like the people who created them, they are by nature social beings. Say "hello" to a computer and its response will be "hello, who are you?". A computer is designed to respond to questions, yet as soon as it does it starts to leak vital information, data that can be and is used to commit cyber crime.Our first lesson is in "sniffing" traffic; analysing the data coming out of an internet-enabled machine. I need more information, so I provoke my intended victim. The computer responds, emitting a little jet of information - a mixture of message types and data. This means almost nothing to me, but with the help of some neat programs and a little expert guidance, I begin to discover more useful information about my target.I find out the machine's name and address and, using a variety of hacking tools, a detailed picture of begins to emerge. Gradually, I discover how many users that computer network has, how many programs are being run, and what kind of attack it might be vulnerable to. When it comes to hacking, information really is power.One ingenious program allows me to ask a computer for its password policy - what the length of password is, how the company arrives at them and, eventually, where the passwords are stored.Trial runNow it is time for the first hacking run, and after just three minutes, the first low-level passwords are broken. I am yet to gain the ultimate prize, the administrator's password which would let me control the entire computer and its network.As my experience and knowledge increase, I can see why hacking is so addictive. It is easy to see why some hackers have a fondness for darkened rooms and green screens: there is an odd sense of immersion as you tunnel your way into a computer system. It is also voyeuristic. You feel as though you are on the other side of a two-way mirror - there is a feeling of power, achievement and acute excitement caused by knowing you could be caught at any moment.At some point during all this I also start to sense what many cyber-cops believe, that hackers break down into three main groups. So far I had been playing in the kindergarten of the joyriding "script kiddies". This is where people intent on hacking can find off-the-shelf tools to help them exploit known weaknesses in computer systems. Once I had reached this level, I then felt the urge to do even more, and this is where danger for the unwary lies. They go that little bit further, becoming known in the jargon as a "cracker", and then they are hooked - and get caught.Geek eliteOne example is Briton Gary McKinnon, who is fighting extradition to the US. If he fails, he will face a 78-year jail sentence from American courts for hacking into the US military computer network. By his own admission McKinnon is not a great hacker: he simply discovered that much of the US military computer network used a particular route, and that a lot of them used passwords such as "admin" and "password".Both these groups - hackers who get caught and script kiddies - use hacking tools that have already been created. Out in cyberspace there are websites where you can buy or find these easily enough. These include sites where someone will sell you stolen credit card numbers, and those where for &pound;200 you get penetration code adapted to run on any computer without alerting most security software.However, someone has to create this endless stream of programs in the first place - and these people are the uber-hackers. They also rumoured to know of "zero day releases": flaws in computer code that nobody else knows about, which they exploit until they have no further use for - at which point they throw them to the script kiddies.Only then do companies such as Microsoft work out a fix for the weaknesses that the uber-hackers have exploited. By definition, of course, no one can be sure just who these elite hackers are - precisely because they never get caught."There is no doubt in our minds that uberhackers are out there, people who are ahead of the game," says Alan Philips, 7Safe's managing director. "Maybe they just want money, maybe they just like the thrill of knowing some weakness that no one else knows, maybe they have tried it out and are scared of being caught."Their presumed presence, however, is why his firm runs the hacking course - from which, three days later, I graduate. "We want people to understand just what the top hackers can really do," says Philips.Knowing what I can do after just a few days' training, that is quite a scary thought.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The ThinkSecret Web site expects next week's Apple announcement (below) will be the PowerBook and Power Mac G5 update it reported inSeptember. The sitesays:While the October 12 event will disappoint Apple watchers eager to see the fruits of Apple's labor on its fifth-generation iPod, it has become apparent that Apple wants to avoid detracting attention from the new iPod nano, which carries high margins and which Apple expects might sell up to 10 million units this holiday quarter. While full-size iPod sales have been depressed for the better part of the year, especially in capacities beyond 20GB, Apple's bigger priority at this time is halting the skid in both Power Mac and PowerBook sales.
Get your back upI have five years worth of Word documents and emails that are important, plus a few photos. I'm running Windows ME. How should I back up effectively?Gwendolen BirksJack Schofield replies: For home users, there are three attractive options, and it's a good idea to use at least two. The first is the CD-R, which stores about 700MB on a disc. For maximum security, copy all your important files to one CD, and only write to it once. Do not use "packet writing" or "drag to disk" systems that treat the CD as if it were a floppy. (It isn't: the CD was designed to be written as one long spiral.) It's not worth the risk of losing data by saving 20p on a disc.Backing up to CD is simpler if you keep all your important data in one folder (such as My Documents) or in subfolders smaller than 700MB. However, some programs - including email and accounting programs - may store data elsewhere. If you have mail in Outlook Express, search your drive for .dbx files to find where they are, and back up the whole folder.Today, accessory hard drives and memory cards are also attractive for backups. You can buy a cheap external hard drive that plugs into a PC via a USB or (for preference) FireWire port. But bear in mind that all hard drives fail eventually, and it is possible to lose both the PC and the back-up together - through flood, fire, theft or whatever.For extra security, you can store backups online. You can forward important emails, photos, etc to a Yahoo or Gmail email account, store small files in Yahoo Groups and Briefcases, and store photos in online albums. There are lots of online back-conup services for those willing to pay.In any case, you must check that your backups work. With CDs, for example, make sure they can be read in a different PC and that the files are really there.But computer backups are essentially temporary, because you also need a way of reading them. Millions have backups on 5.25in floppies and 3in Amstrad PCW disks they can no longer read. Some can get at the files, but no longer have a program that can load them. If it's just the odd email or article, and you want to keep it, you might as well print it out.Software with a catchI have seen Adobe Premiere Pro 1.5 on eBay for as little as &#163;5. What's the catch?David FaulknerJS: Uually these are pirate versions, or versions that cannot legally be sold. For example, it could be an OEM version intended to be sold with a piece of hardware, such as a video card, an education version, or a program that has been "unbundled" from a suite. It could just be stolen property. Most software suppliers try to identify pirated or missold programs and may refuse to register or support them. Adobe's high prices make it a common target - Premiere Pro 1.5 costs &#163;616.87 from Adobe's website.Say it with musicA friend in a band wants a digital audio recorder for music. So far we can only find one from Olympus, which records speech but not music. Any ideas?Chris DeweyJS: Most digital recorders are intended for voice and are unsuitable for music, but one of the iRiver range of MP3 players, might be worth a go. These can record to MP3 from a built-in microphone, a line-in jack or the integrated FM radio. However, for serious use, the main choices seem to be the M-Audio MicroTrack 24/96, at around &#163;350, and the Edirol R-1 portable recorder from Roland, which is &#163;20 cheaper. Both record to MP3 or - better - WAV format to CompactFlash cards or Microdrives. Both products are sold online by Solid State Sound (Solidstatesound.co.uk) and Digital Village (Dv247.com), and the latter also has shops.Backchat&#183;John Porter wanted "on-the-fly" translation and, with reservations, I suggested the WordReference toolbar. It seems alternative browsers have better options than Internet Explorer. Roger Knight suggests using Firefox with the Googlebar, which started when Google's toolbar was only available for IE. Mark Udwin suggests using Firefox with the Translate extension: "Translation is simply a matter of highlighting the single word or the whole article, right clicking on it and selecting the desired language. The translation then appears in a new tab courtesy of Babelfish." Mick Citizen suggests the now free and ad-free Opera browser: "Right-click on a highlighted word, phrase or paragraph in Opera, and a context menu offers Lycos translation to and from French, German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and Japanese", among other things. Finally, Andrew Turner chides me for omitting to mention one of WordReference's best features: its forums. "These are set up for language students (of any age) to help each other learn. They are true online communities where people freely give their time and expertise to help others."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the 1960s it was science labs, in the 1980s microcomputers. Today, when government ministers want to talk up their efforts to modernise education, the symbol is the whiteboard. Tony Blair last week repeated the government's ambition to put whiteboards in every school. In his budget speech this year, Gordon Brown boasted of a &pound;1.67bn investment enabling schools to be "no longer blackboard and chalk".Interactive whiteboards are large touch-sensitive panels connected to a digital projector and a computer. In schools, their big attraction is that they can display video and graphic material directly from the web - and that everyone can join in. "The whiteboard creates a big space for collaboration around ideas, which transcends what small screens can offer," says Martin Owen of Nesta Futurelab, the lottery-funded endowment organisation. "It makes the blackboard much more lively and effective."Britain's enthusiasm for the technology is remarkable. "The market has grown faster in England than anywhere else in the world," says Nancy Knowlton, chief executive of Smart Technologies, a Canadian company that has the largest share of the British market in interactive whiteboards. Last year, interactive whiteboards accounted for &pound;50m of the &pound;252m invested in ICT in primary and secondary schools.However, as with other aspects of IT in schools, hard evidence that money is better spent on technology than elsewhere is hard to come by. Even whiteboard enthusiasts admit that schools are buying whiteboards at a faster rate than teachers are learning to use them properly.As with personal computers, the first use to which schools put whiteboards was to teach IT itself, as a glorified PowerPoint projector. This was hugely underusing their potential, says Mark Beaumont, sales director of Infacom, an educational IT specialist. Some of the best uses he has seen are in teaching science: children can watch an experiment happening in real-time and then stage by stage in a "virtual flip chart". The danger is that preparing such teaching material takes time and commitment. "Unless you have an enthusiast, the whiteboard will often sit in a box for a year."Some exciting whiteboard software is becoming available on the web, however. Former physics teacher Iestyn Jones, founder of the e-Chalk website, publishes a games program to help children grasp the principles of natural selection by acting as a predator to peppered moths in pre- and post-industrial revolution camouflage. "You can see their eyes light up as they grasp the principle."Do whiteboards actually help children learn? Becta, the government's educational ICT agency, says there are many reports of whiteboards improving students' motivation.However, it cautions that: "As interactive whiteboards are still relatively new, more research, both quantitative and qualitative, is needed on all aspects of their use." Most research so far has been conducted in schools where whiteboards are a novelty. "Further studies will be needed to re-assess their impact once they are embedded in classroom practice."Becta also warns that although schools now have more freedom to buy ICT equipment, they should be aware that whiteboards cost much more than simply the hardware. Unexpected costs range from curtains and blinds to loudspeakers and especially training.Becta warns that some teachers may still require training in basic techniques such as learning to organise files into folders and recognising different file types such as JPeg and MPeg.Beaumont agrees. "It's a double learning curve - you have to get used to the software then get used to displaying a huge image in front of the class." He says that integrating ICT into the curriculum should be a full-time responsibility for an expert member of staff.A final worry is that whiteboards are attractive to thieves, who can sell them on to pubs and clubs for showing big-screen events. One London borough reported 150 thefts in a year.Not everyone is impressed by whiteboards. The Alliance for Childhood, a long-standing critic of IT in education, raises concerns about potential damage to children's eyesight as well as pointing to international studies that fail to show any correlation between the use of computers and children's educational achievement.The alliance's forthcoming publication, Tech Tonic, is especially scathing about the use of IT in primary schools. "We remain convinced that, at the elementary school level and below, there is little evidence of lasting gains and much evidence of harm from the hours spent in front of screens."Children themselves seem to have mixed views. One recent school-leaver, Dale Baxter, sums up the verdict of a web-savvy generation on interactive whiteboards. "They are a brilliant tool in schools - but only when the teacher knows how to use them."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple is the computer brand which buyers find most reliable, according to a survey by consumer magazine Which? It found that consumers were more likely to recommend Apple computers to their friends than any other brand, closely followed by Dell and Sony.Retailers Time and Tiny - which both ceased trading last year after the collapse of their parent company - came bottom of the list after a third of their machines required repair within a year of purchase.Apple plans to make a new product announcement next week, a month after it launched its super-slim iPod nano music player.
One of the world's largest collections of contemporary British art goes on show today, showcasing work from the likes of Henry Moore, David Hockney and Tracey Emin - and the venue is just a click of the mouse away.The British Council's new online database,www.britishcouncil.orgcollection, provides details of the 8,000 works in its permanent collection, 80% of which is on tour at any one time.The website allows visitors the opportunity to trace the whereabouts of each artwork. Work from the British Council collection can be found in places such as Malaysia, Kenya and Kazakhstan.
Jakob Nielsen's latestAlertboxcolumn contains a list of the Web design techniques that most annoy and frustrate users, apart from pop-up adverts. As he admits, there's nothing new here, but that's OK. The problem is gettng idiot Web designers (ie most of them) to pay attention.Top of the list:Legibility ProblemsBad fonts won the vote by a landslide, getting almost twice as many votes as the #2 mistake. About two-thirds of the voters complained about small font sizes or frozen font sizes; about one-third complained about low contrast between text and background.As Nielsen observes:There's much talk about new fancy "Web 2.0" features on the Internet industry's mailing lists and websites, as well as at conferences. But users don't care about technology and don't especially want new features. They just wantquality improvements in the basics:text they can read; content that answers their questions; navigation and search that help them find what they want; short and simple forms (streamlined registration,checkout, and other workflow); and nobugs, typos, orcorrupted data; nolinkrot; no outdated content.
It's clear that most attendees here didn't wake up feeling on top of the world this morning. Luckily the mixture of super-strength coffee and Xbox 360 has perked most up. Anyway, I've spent the day playing some more 360. And generally the impression is pretty positive, but I can't help shake that feeling that the next-gen has to offer more than just sharper images. Still, with a launch lineup that ticks all the traditional boxes – racer, shooter, sports – it's clear that that the target market will be happy. As always with a new console, we'll have to wait for the more interesting titles – like Bioware's space RPG Mass Effect – to come through next year. Anyway, these are my impressions of some of the other titles.Condemned – Typically sharp visuals in this dark and violent first person game. Reminded me a bit of Max Payne's gloom-noir locales but whether it will have that title's class remains to be seen. Felt a bit loose to play too, not overly convinced by the 360 pad when it comes to first-person shooters.Dead Rising – A zombie title that starts in a shopping mall. Maybe Dead Rising is trying to say something clever about commercialism and consumer trends? Unlikely. It is, in fact, a mindless romp that puts a pile of undead on your screen – numerous on-screen characters is clearly the 360's big trick - and lets you whack them to pieces with a baseball bat. Classy.Gun – A pleasant change of scenery – Wild West – heralds a decent looking tale of stagecoaches and cowboys. Still seems to be about shooting things though.Saints Row – sadly not the Southampton FC 360 game that must surely come soon, this is, in fact, a GTA clone, with gangs and stuff. Dull.The Outfit – A fairly mindless WW2 blaster which, by focussing on the third person, at least differentiates itself from the first person shooter morass. Reminded me a lot of Activision's Mercenaries - ie lots of destruction and not much deliberation. These are traits of most of the launch games.Dead or Alive 4 – Yes, it looks lovely, but c'mon guys, do we really need beat-em-up games in 2005? 15 year-old boys will enjoy the protagonists lack of clothing.FIFA: Road to World Cup – The FIFA game for 360 is national teams only and plays a solid game. The Pro Evo controls, that are standard, help, and there is a nice realistic pace to the game. The player likenesses were impressive – no more zombies – although there is still a discernable delay between pressing the pad and the on-screen action.More from X05 when I get back, including a chat with J.Allard.
As advertisedpreviously, we asked search engine expert John Battelle - who wrote Technology Guardian'scover storylast week - to answer a selection of reader questions.You asked in your droves, and nowhe's answered.Thanks, John.
I have three teenagers who regularly use the internet for purchasing CD's, games, books etc. This requires they keep asking me to make the purchases on their behalf. Is there any way they can do it with out me having to use my credit/debit card details? Are there methods where they can have an account credited by me, or from their own bank accounts , and then use these to buy things online themselves? Ian NurserThere is obviously a big need for this knd of thing, and some companies are offering pre-paid credit cards. The main example isSplash Plastic, which has been going for about five years. One obvious problem is that the card is not accepted at many online stores.There's also the new Cashplus pre-paid MasterCard, but it seems to be extremely expensive to use (seeSpending with pre-paid cash card could cost you dear).My own ex-teenager suggests the Solo card. TheFAQsays: "You can open accounts that include Solo with NatWest from age 11 onwards and with HSBC from age 13 onwards."Anyone got a better idea?
The US software giant Microsoft has broken off licensing talks with four major music companies over its plans to launch a subscription download service, it was reported today.It is believed Microsoft had been in negotiations with EMI, Warner, Universal and Sony-BMG about selling music online for a flat monthly fee.However, sources told the Wall Street Journal that the talks broke down on Friday because of what Microsoft considered to be excessively high royalty demands.The sources said the music labels were seeking royalties of around $6 (&#163;3.40) per user per month - believed to be roughly in line with what rivals pay in licence fees - according to the Journal.Microsoft is understood to have been seeking a lower charge in order to undercut competitors in the emerging music subscription industry.It already operates a music download service,MSN Music, which claims to offer 1m songs at $0.99 each, but many experts believe flat rate subscription services will become increasingly popular.Yahoo! charges PC users $4.99 a month for its music subscription service, while Napster costs UK users &#163;9.95 a month.Apple's iTunes store currently dominates the online music sector, accounting for more than three-quarters of downloads and charging 79p a song in the UK.In July, Apple announced that more than 500m songs had been downloaded, many for its popular iPod music players, which are incompatible with rivals' download services.The royalties sought by music labels have become a major source of friction for download firms.Last month, Steve Jobs, the Apple CEO, claimed recording companies had demanded that iTunes raise its prices. Mr Jobs warned people would revert to illegal downloads if charges increased."If the price goes up, people will go back to piracy," he said. "Then everybody loses. If they want to raise the prices, it just means they're getting a little greedy."According to the Music Managers Forum, artists receive around 4.5p from every 79p sale on iTunes - around 6% of revenue - but 35p from physical singles sales, equal to about 12%.Two weeks ago, the Warner CEO, Edgar Bronfman, suggested download royalties should not be uniform and said newer material should cost more than back catalogue songs.
ModelAudi A8 3.2 FSIPricefrom &pound;47,150Top speed155mph (governed)Acceleration0-62mph in 7.7 secsConsumption28.8mpg (combined)CO2 emissions235g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelKen BatesOn the stereoAspects of LoveEn route forChorleyThe new Audi A8 I drove recently cost north of &pound;50,000, which is, perhaps, an incautious sum to spend on a saloon car, even if it does have a TV in it. But it could have been worse. They could have sent us one of the expensive ones. The range-topping, long-wheel base A8, with a 6.0-litre engine in it, goes for (clears throat to prevent voice going all high) &pound;77,360. And that's before you start throwing in the prestige add-ons, such as the massaging front seats and the illuminated rear vanity mirrors, which, presumably, as the owner of a range-topping, long-wheel base A8 costing &pound;77,360, you consider to be your birthright.I'm a professional, though. I held my nose and dutifully tried to get comfortable in my poor man's A8, with its mere forelock-tugging 3.2-litre engine, its gauche, standard-size wheelbase, and with rear footrests not even available as an option - an A8 from the wrong side of the tracks, if ever there was one. But into these mean cars a man must get who is not himself mean ...The insecurity soon wore off - pretty much as soon as the door closed, in fact, cocooning one in a thickly-glazed, leather-lined, private booth from which the outside world has little choice but to seem distant, unthreatening and very much cheaper. You don't need to be aloft in the cabin of an SUV, clearly, to feel that other people have no real place in your life. A big, fat saloon can feel just as insular, if it's been bolted together well enough.And what is an Audi saloon if not an essay in the undersold art of doing up screws properly? Not that anything as primitive as a screw seems to have been used in the construction of the new A8, whose aluminium frame has been joined together using, we are told, a new "laser-hybrid process". In the absence of further explanation, one is free to picture members of the Audi workforce, flashing up and down the assembly line with light sabres.The mission, with this cool, new slightly dispassionate A8, appears to remain what it has always been - namely to create a car thumpingly grand enough to answer to the most insecure entrepreneur's status anxieties, yet light enough to get about the place like a skateboard.And because silence is the measure of a luxury saloon, the A8's designers remain locked in a complex ground war on the twin terrors of noise and vibration. My impression was that Audi had this battle pretty much sewn up about two models ago and would have pulled out the troops by now. But, of course, that would be to underestimate the company's determination to establish an irrevocable regime change in this area, and on the new A8 they have somehow found new fronts to open up.The A8 now comes with seals and insulation devices in areas where other cars don't even have areas yet - at the point where the wing mirror meets the door, for instance, in order to prevent the wind getting in and playing the kind of tune probably not even audible by dogs, yet which is believed to drive Audi engineers and, by extension, Audi owners nuts. As for the windscreen wipers, well, "new flat wiper technology ensures a lower noise level and more pleasing frequency characteristic than a conventional wiper".They spoil us with these ceaseless refinements, they really do. They flatter us with the assumption that our senses are finely tuned enough to notice them. There is more than a hint, around some of the developments on the new A8, that this never-ending quest for improvement is about to topple into parody.Take the brake lights. They are fitted with LEDs, rather than conventional bulbs. The thinking behind this is that LEDs reach their full brightness quicker than bulbs, so drivers behind you will have the chance to see your brake lights sooner and respond to them quicker. Which sounds like a fantastic development. Indeed, were I the owner of a &pound;50,000 Audi, I would be more than broadly in favour of any initiative that lessened the chances of someone ploughing into the back of it in a Kia Sedona.But then one looks at the actual figures. It takes conventional brake-light bulbs 200 milliseconds to attain the glow for which they are famous. It takes LEDs less than one millisecond. Which is a whole lot fewer milliseconds. But it's still only milliseconds. Surely, if the driver of the Kia Sedona behind you is in a position to reflect that difference in his braking reactions, then he is either Juan Pablo Montoya or way too close.Clearly, though, it is churlish to fault a car for trying too hard when the tangible result of those efforts is so effortlessly gorgeous. It's like driving around in a silk sheet. Is that an engine one hears, or the voice of Jenny Agutter?Oh, and it reads fingerprints, too. Pass your forefinger over the scanner in the centre console and, assuming you have logged your preferences with the car in advance, the A8 will sort the seat and mirrors into your favoured positions, fire up the heating at your optimum temperature and set the massager thrumming at the rate your buttocks trust.Extraordinary. I'd have been even more impressed, of course, if the car could have read my irises in the rear-view mirror, sparing me the slightly demeaning and vaguely Interpol-related business of scanning my finger. You can bet they're working on it, though.
I got into the office this morning and discovered an invitation from Apple to attendanotherlaunch event with a live satellite link to San Francisco. It's happening next Wednesday night,SeptemberOctober 12."One more thing...", it said, echoing the characteristic announcement catchphrase of Apple bossSteve Jobs.But as usual, Apple are keeping their lips sealed over what it's going to be.So what do you think they're going to unleash? Speculation in the comments box, please.
Q:Given how important search engines are to many aspects of modern life, is there a case for some kind of government regulation to ensure fair play?MavanJohn Battelle:I'd say not. Unlike, say, Windows, there are many viable choices for search engines, and market competition seems to keep them pretty honest.Q:I am the editor ofAskYourNeighbour.co.uk, which is one of the UK's fastest-growing forums. We now have 2m pages on Google, which generates considerable traffic. But do you think websites can become too obsessed by their Google exposure at the expense of more traditional marketing methods?Graham ParkerJB:Yes. Because search is such a key driver of traffic - and often the only one that can be easily and clearly tracked - it can become the obsession of many a webmaster.Q:Is Google still actually better than Yahoo! or other search engines? I hear people saying that Yahoo! has more pages registered.MaxJB:This is not an easy thing to do - count the number of pages in an index. In fact, scientists disagree about how and even if counting the number of documents in an index is possible. Search is deeply subjective - what is a great result for you may not be a great result for the person next to you, even if your query is exactly the same. That's why really the best engine for you is the one you like best.That said, it is fair to say that both Yahoo! and Google have very comprehensive, fast and relevant results.Q:Does Google's main revenue stream - targeted, almost personalised advertising - worry you at all, especially since the advent of Gmail?Eric WhiteJB:Yes, but not because I think Google is going to take advantage of that information. More because I fear that information may fall into third party hands - the US government, for example. I write about this in chapter eight.Q:How do you think Microsoft will respond to the threat posed by Google and, with a warchest of some $7bn, just what is Google's long term strategy?Dorian OkerekeJB:I think they are very, very focused on this question, and I expect they will be revealing their long term competitive strategies in the coming months. Let's not forget MSFT has nearly eight times the cash Google does, and more engineers.Q:Back in about 1996, before Google was ever heard of, the search engine Alta Vista, belonging to Digital Equipment Corporation, had the bulk of the global market. It was the first engine to index the web. Google managed to cruise past Alta Vista in about six months. Why did that happen, and what is to stop some other competitor coming along and breaking Google's hold on the global market?Kevin MJB:A combination of things. I cover this in chapter three. First, Alta Vista went portal, and neglected core search. Second, Google had better results thanks to its PageRank - using the ranking of sites and their links as a signal in determining relevance. And third, Google stayed pure - one thing, well. No portals.Q:Why can Google search through the entire web in less than a second when it takes me three or four minutes to search for a document on my own computer? Can Google's search technology be applied to individual PCs?lee kJB:It already has been. Go find "Google Desktop Search" and you'll see what I mean.Q:Is Google already approaching the levels of personalisation available though commercial vendors like Autonomy and, if not, will it ever? Or is Autonomy not actually all that it purports itself to be?martinJB:Not yet. But give it time.Q:Google's success is founded on the evaluation of off-site links, an egalitarian system that forces sites to give value. How do they square this with the sale of site results?Michael OsterJB:You mean the sale of paid search links? I think they see it as consistent, as the paid results are relevant to the search, usually. They do not do paid inclusion ...Q:How can I narrow down the date range for a Google search? Advanced Search gives me options of past three months, six months or one year. How can I limit my search to items published say in the past week?rogerJB:As far as I know, you can't.Q:I am considering switching to Gmail. However, as an objectionist to any kind of monopolisation of the web, do you feel Google is set to become another Microsoft?David BlackwellJB:No, I don't think so. Why? Because unlike Windows, you can switch as soon as you feel uncomfortable, to Yahoo, MSFT, Ask, AOL, and scores of others.Q:I have concerns with privacy. As everything slowly makes its way onto the internet in the form of pdf and doc files, and with the ability for Google to search these files, I feel my privacy is being decreased. Editorials I wrote long before the publications were even online are now searchable. I can take precautions now to avoid putting my name on the net, but it seems there is nothing I can do about things from the past. Will society continue to accept this, or will there be a sort of uprising to return our privacy?Christina WJB:I think each culture has its own sense of boundaries with regard to this issue, but ... we increasingly are who the index says we are. I think we'd better get used to it, and get on with figuring out how to control our own reflections. We tend, as a society, to get comfortable with these kinds of redefinitions of public/private over time. Look at the telephone, for instance.Q:Why are Google results often full of shopping comparison sites and blogs? Google isn't as good at getting to the stuff you want as it used to be. I believe the Google motto is something like "Do one thing, and do it well". Are they not doing search as well as they used to? Have they been side-tracked by other ventures?AndrewJB:Google spends a lot of time on these kinds of issues, but I am not sure they can control all the aspects of spam, affiliate, and blog links. I think they are very, very focused on search. They are doing a lot of other things, as well, but their core is search. They are very serious about it, from what I can tell.Q:Does it pay to advertise on Google?Ben WaymarkJB:From what I'm told, yes, quite well.Q:Did you seek permission to use the literature in your Google print project? I'm referring, of course, to the upcoming lawsuit being taken by numerous publishing groups. Their issue, as I gather, is that you are scanning the books and including them in your search engine despite the fact that you are not making the material publicly available. Do you foresee Google overcoming this obstacle or will they have to bin the project?Andy AziJB:I'm not a Google rep, as your question seems to imply, but I tend to fall on Google's side with regard to this question. I think books should be freely available. That's why there are libraries. If someone wants to buy one, so much the better.Q:Is there any reason to fear that Google may have become TOO powerful for the public's good, a bit like Microsoft? And does the powerful search technology of Google (and other companies) make it easier for the government and the police to snoop on us citizens?ChristianJB:Short answer: Yes.Q:So what's the best way to find good free porn on Google?WilsonJB:Keep on searching, brother.Q:What can Google do for Africa???temiJB:I imagine someone there is thinking about that right now.Q:I've heard about the "Google Sandbox" effect, whereby new websites are held back from ranking highly on search engines for a period of time. Personal experience seems to verify that this happens, but I haven't seen anything from Google confirming this. Can you shed any light on it?JoannaJB:I suggest you go search for "Google Sandbox" on WebMasterWorld. You'll find plenty to review on that topic there.Q:Google plans to build a 1m sq ft corporate base on a now-vacant site on NASA property in the heart of Silicon Valley. Can we ascribe any significance to its location? Is Google planning Google Universe?Jon DennisJB:Yup, from all I can tell the ambitions at Google are certainly huge.Q:Given how important search engines are to many aspects of modern life, is there a case preventing government regulation/censorship to ensure fair play?BenJB:I think we are going to see such cases in the next decade.Q:How do feel about the way Google organises sponsored search? The lack of transparency seems to be a bit of a scam. Any advice?GregJB:Google's lack of transparency is a major issue for the company, but also a significant competitive advantage. A tension to watch.Q:In your personal opinion, what do you think would have happened if we didn't have Google? Did Google revolutionise the internet, or did it just fill in an inevitable niche? Do you think Google is going to be around for ever? Can anything conceivably replace it?Zhou FangQ:What do you think the future direction of sponsored search is? Has it reached a peak? Will the market consolidate? What will the impact of MSN search be, and what form will it take?GregJB:I think we are about 5% into what sponsored/paid search will do. It will march into TV, magazines, all media, as well as all ecommerce. We're in the early innings.Q:We are thinking of placing our website on Google - but have just had a call from Yell.com which sounds promising (we have a plumbing biz). Where would we be likely to get the most response and why?loobyJB:I'd say try both, then back the best results.Q:Google has many problems as a search engine - their PageRank algorithms are easy to fool (using GoogleBombs) - and the engine copes badly with queries of more than a few words. Do you think that, as Google diversifies into other services, they will neglect what originally made them well known - high quality search results?CharlieJB:If they do, they'll make the same mistake that others made, like Alta Vista, who opened the door for Google.Q:When I search for a particular hotel's website, I always end up with a load of booking sites but not the hotel itself. Can I search more effectively?Tom WilsonJB:Yes, try adding a word or two that might only be on a hotel site, and not an affiliate site, like "concierge service" or something particular to the hotel.Q:What do you think of Google's motto, "Don't be evil", in light of their collusion with Beijing to censor search results?LunarJB:I wrote about this in length in the book. I think it's impossible to scale such a motto, subjective as it is.Q:Why can't we find a safe anti-porn family-friendly search engine which offers qualitative search results on the web? Google, Yahoo, AltaVista, MSN and the rest are all showing pornographic materials in the results. Will we see a search engine that put into consideration the family needs and online safety soon?Modem NightingaleJB:All have "safe search" features which work pretty well, but the onus is on the parent.Q:Google, like many search engines, gives high level of results which are usually actually low in relevancy. Only a few have mentioned this. Who does check out the endless pages? The volume means many miss perhaps a better site. Why do you think Google hasn't taken up clustering of results (so far fewer pages, duplicates removed etc)?JB:They have toyed with it, but do not feel it works well enough to roll out yet. Try Ask, or Clusty.Q:For Google to truly be "not evil", it seems to me the best thing to do would be for it to take a look at itself, note its mammoth size, and break itself into pieces - smaller companies which don't dominate in the way that Google now does. It might even write a common charter with certain don't-be-evil ground rules that all the "Googlet" companies would have to follow. Any chance Google would go for something like that?bdaJB:If it's unconventional and smart, chances are Google will try it.Q:As a director at Gizbox.com, I am all for the new business opportunities that search engines give. However the search engines do have the power to switch your business traffic off within the second. I think there should be a global search engine regulation authority to protect and support small internet businesses.AngeloJB:Good luck with that one. I don't think it could ever work.
Xbox 360: has already been shown off in Tokyo. Photograph: Itsuo Inouye/APOver on ourGamesblog, Greg Howson is posting live from Microsoft's first European event for Xbox 360, X05. So far he's examined theheadline news,the games, and itshigh definition capabilities.There should be more from him over the course of the day, socheck inand see what he's got to say.
LMAO.
"Ningis a free online service (or, as we like to call it, a Playground) for building and using social applications," says the site.Our goal with Ning is to see what happens when you open things up and make it easy to create, share, and discover new social apps. These might include for any city, your own take on Craigslist...for any passion, your own take on Match.com...for any interest, your own take on Zagat...for any event, your own take on Flickr...for any school, your own take on the Facebook...for any topic, your own take on del.icio.us...for any mammal, your own take on Hot or Not or Kitten War.Update:Ning has been launched by Gina Bianchini and former Netscape co-founder Marc Andreessen.
It's that time of year again, when the notable in the virtual worlds sphere take a trip to the New York Law School to gather and pontificate about theState of Playof all things metaverse. The third conference in the series kicks off tomorrow and will tackle "Social Revolutions", the human elements that have helped social systems, political systems, legal systems and governmental systems emerge from the bits and bytes of online games. Oh how we love them.Some of the highlights include: Amini-machinima festivalhosted by author Paul Marino and surely to feature some of the performances filmed in online game worlds (Cantina Crawl's currently the mostcelebratedexample)Building the Global MetaverseThe Second Life Community ConventionArchitecture in Virtual WorldsUnfortunately (or fortunately), I'm currently in the US in Chicago atanother conferenceso won't be attending SoP, but you can get all your virtual erudite needs fromTerra Nova, the official SoP blog and online home to many of the speakers.Games, eh? Not just fun.
It's hard to know what to make oftoday's announcementof co-operation between Google and Sun Microsystems. It's not surprising that the firms have got together. AsCNetpoints out (on page 2):Google and Sun already have ties. Among them: Schmidt [Google's CEO] was Sun's chief technology officer in the 1990s. John Doerr, a venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, is on the board of both companies. Andy Bechtolsheim, a Sun co-founder who returned to the company to launch its Galaxy servers, wrote a check for $100,000 that helped get Google started.But what they are really going to do together is anyone's guess. Sun will bundle Google's toolbar "as an option" with its Java download, but why bother? It only takes two minutes to get the toolbar directly from Google, and Java is becoming increasingly irrelevant on the client side of the Web.According to Sun, Google will also help to promote OpenOffice, but again, that's already both free and well known. And there's no money in it for either party.Is Google going to dump Linux and Intel-based clusters for high-priced Sun servers runnng Sun's Solaris version of Unix? Coo, look at those aerialGloucester Old Spots!I can think of loads of useful things that Google could do. For example, it could do tackle the shopping spam and "supplemental resutls" that make its search engine so much worse now than it was a couple of years ago. It could fix Gmail so it doesn't keep telling me it's sorry it can't do that but try again later. It could make its personalised start page a bit less inferior to Microsoft's Start.com. It could integrate a few of its offerings (Gmail, Blogger, Orkut, Desktop Sidebar etc) at least to the point where they appeared to inhabit the same universe, and so on. How about turning some of those half-baked betas into proper finished products?Much as I love Google, it's starting to look lke a company whose reach exceeds its grasp.Update:Here's the Guardian's storyon this, from our New York correspondent David Teather.
I'll do some more tomorrow when I get a longer time with the games, but after playing on the 360 for the first time tonight, these are my initial impressions.Perfect Dark Zero – Initially ever so slightly underwhelming, especially the multiplayer. But the singleplayer level, basically a sniper section set across some rooftops, does look lovely. The lighting and the tactile textures – paint peeling off metal, moisture on bricks etc – are a step up from the current generation of console graphics, but ultimately the gameplay still involves shooting things. I'll get a longer go tomorrow, but my suspicion is that Perfect Dark will not be the Halo-esque success that Microsoft are hoping for.Kameo – This fantasy adventure is stunning to look at – a real step forward. Unfortunately a truncated go on the game didn't reveal much other than a character that can change shape – remember Zelda Majora's Mask? – depending on the situation. More on this tomorrow.Project Gotham 3 – Couldn't get near this one – which bodes well, I guess. Graphically it did seem slightly underwhelming though. After all the hi-def hype it is hard to shake the feeling that a fairly decent PC wouldn't have a problem pumping out the graphics on display, albeit costing a lot more than £279. Anyway, I'll grab a go on this tomorrow.Other initial standouts included the excellent looking Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion and Ubisoft's very promising King Kong. More tomorrow…
The message from the X05 press conference, other than that air-con is a *good thing*, was that hi-def gaming on the 360 is the future, or something. What that appears to mean so far is prettier versions of established genres. Movie after movie was shown but all seemed to conform to a tired sci-fi stereotype, usually with musclemen shooting aliens (although Gears of War did look nice) or a spruced up sports/racing game. Only the seemingly gorgeous Kameo looked to buck the trend. Of course, the real deal will be later on tonight when we get to go hands-on with a lot of the launch titles. But the hi-def thing is interesting. All the games here are being shown on lovely hi definition screens – and there's no doubt that the games look good. How much their impact will be dulled on the conventional TVs that the vast majority of owners will play them on remains to be seen.An impressive feature at the conference was the demo of the 360 dashboard, which looks clean and inviting – 360 owners will not be able to avoid online gaming. Luckily an Ebay style reputation score – to helpfully wield out annoying teenagers who blight a lot of the games – and a host of causal puzzle and arcade games preloaded should tempt in more reticent gamers. The music and photo capabilities were also shown, though Microsoft was perhaps too keen to stress that the 360 is all about the games. I'll post some hands-on impressions of these later..
Microsoft's XO5 press conference has just ended in a hot and sweaty auditorium in Amsterdam. The key announcements were:Exclusive Xbox titles, Mass Effect (Bioware sci-fi RPG, very brief movie shown)Crackdown (movie shown – futuristic urban combat game, as far could be seen)Too Human (created by Silicon Knights who made the wonderful horror title Eternal Darkness a few years ago – Too Human, sadly, looks like just an other futuristic combat game, albeit one with gods and giants)Peter Jackson will be executive producer on the Halo movie – apparently he is a fan, not that you'd imagine an overweight bearded guy being interested in a sci-fi shooter.Id Software will be using 360 as the lead platform for the new Wolfenstein game.Superman Returns will be an EA game.More news later when I've got some hands-on time with the 360 games...
Last week, mobile games publisherJamdatsent me a lovely new Sony Ericsson phone loaded up with their new Doom RPG, programmed by Fountainhead and endorsed by Id. When I first heard about this I was sceptical about how a remix of this benchmark shooter would work, but also intrigued by the fact that the developer had recognised the limits of the hardware and tried something new.Been playing it for a few hours and am genuinely impressed. All the original Doom graphics are here, as well as the monsters, the weapons and the familiar find-coloured-key-open-door structure. It all looks very blocky, but that – of course – is the reality of the original PC titles, and fans will quickly find that their memories of 12 hour demon-blasting sessions come flooding back in the jerky haze of low-res sprites.But here's the difference (and the clue is in the title): this is an RPG.There's an inventory for storing and accessing items, passwords and weapons (there are eight guns, some classic, some new), you can collect credits to spend on health and ammo at vending units, and there are characters hanging around each level who can be approached for hints and plot information. Also, every time you kill a monster you earn experience points, which improves your strength and allows you to take on the more troublesome enemies. Movement works like an old skool text adventure – you can go forward, backwards, left or right, with each touch on the controller shifting you a single step. No scrolling here. Look, I told you, this is a nostalgic experience.Actually, it reminds me a little of Amiga classicDungeon Masteroften cited as an important forerunner to the Doom experience. It feels like an adventutre game with ponderous pace and restricted mobility, but yet, when a door slides open and you encounter a hell hound or zombie marine, you have to shoot quickly and sometimes leg it when your health is bottoming out. This is an awkward mix but, as with the lack of strafing in the Resident Evil titles, it sort of works in context. (I also like the fact that the in-game display perfectly resembles the original Doom design, right down to the increasingly bloodied representation of your character's face to indicate health.)Plot-wise, it's standard Doom stuff – the Union Aerospace headquarters on Mars has been over-run by monsters and you're sent in to find out why. The narrative unravels through chats with scientists and civilians on the base as well as accessing computer terminals – very Half-Life. The text-based interactions are clipped and functional, although there is the odd post-modern joke (one email you find has the sender talking about a retro game he's been playing called, Doom. "It bears a remarkable similarity to our situation," he notes).I can't quite believe I'm enjoying this, but I am. For an old Doom junky, it's fun to face all the familiar demons, and to spot classic elements of the series (there are secret doors spread throughout each level, naturally), plus it reminds me of formative titles like Alien and the aforementioned Dungeon Master – games that existed before rigid genre boundaries, when action games slipped seamlessly into graphical adventures, and when the elements of the now heavily codified RPG were first being forged. The maps are impressively large too, providing a modest element of exploration. There are ten levels in all - at least eight hours of gameplay according to Jamdat.Doom RPG looks rough - humorously limited even. But it's a careful, respectful mobile interepretation that actually addresses key issues with mobile gaming and makes the very best of a very limited platform. If only other developers treated their source material so logically, this industry might actually start making the impact it has been promising for five long years.
Flintoff: Look! I'm on telly! Photograph: Dan Chung/GuardianI'm still not sold on the idea of television on your mobile: I barely have enough time to read the books, magazines and websites that clutter my life, let alone use my spare time to check in to the latest episode of Hollyoaks on my phone.But there's a lot of money in both the television industry and the mobile phone industry, and that means there's a momentum behind the concept of linking the two together. O2 recently launchedtrials of mobile TV in Oxford, and Orange has been running its 3G streaming television for aboutfive months.Today it is announcing an increase in the number of channels it is providing with its £10-a-month service: including, crucially, live coverage of cricket'sICC world Super Series, where some of England's stars - including Andrew Flintoff, Kevin Pietersen and Steve Harmison - will be lining up against Australia.If you're on Orange and have a 3G phone, you get a free 7-day trial. But is this cricket coverage enough to tempt you?
Old Skool text adventures don't get enough press in gamesblog's opinion. We'vetried, but have had our hands slapped. OK, it's time to try again.There are some tremendous "interactive fictions" (as they're now called) out there in Internet Land, from the re-issue of the classicHitchhiker's Guilde to the Galaxyto thesuperbadaptationofHamlet(which was such a hit that it seems to have overstepped its bandwidth allowance).The11th Annual Interactive Fiction awardscommittee has just posted up the nominees for their latest crop of adventure stories, and for those with a limited amount of time/patience/attention, these should do just the trick for a computer game fix.You can download the entrieshere, and don't forget to vote for your favourite(reg. req'd). You can also play classic IFs fromhere.In the meantime, I'll just see to this angry dwarf standing ahead of me, in a dark corridor to the north...Syntax Error
"Internet search giant Yahoo, along with several universities and two European archives, say they intend to make books available on the Internet later this year. The entities, known collectively as the OCA (Open Content Alliance), represent how major search engines like Google, which has a similar project called Google Print, now emphasize the quantity of search results, rather than the size of the information available for searching," reportseWeek.The OCA says that by year's end, it will make its first collection of books available through a specially designed search engine available atwww.opencontentalliance.org, and perhaps later through the general Yahoo search portal.The first books will be from the University of California. O'Reilly Media, a publisher of technology books, and two archives in Europe, the National Archive in Britain and the European Archive, will also open up their collections, but haven't yet decided what materials to make available.Comment:Looks like Yahoo could benefit from Google's mis-steps with Google Print....
The market for music downloads has more than tripled in a year, helping to offset a continuing slump in CD and DVD sales, an industry report revealed today.Digital music sales were worth an estimated US$790m (&#163;450m) in the first half of this year, equivalent to 6% of industry sales. This compared with US$220m in the same period last year, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said.Recorded music sales fell 1.9% to a retail value of US$13.2bn in the first half this year, compared with US$13.4bn in the same period last year.The digital boom, which now exceeds the value of the global singles market, was largely driven by sales in the top five markets - the US, Britain, Japan, Germany and France - the IFPI said.Sales of physical formats fell 6.3% by value in the period to US$12.4bn, the report said, a drop partly caused by pressure on prices. CD sales were down 6.7% in value and by 3.4% in unit volume. DVD music video sales fell 3.1% in value and 1.6% in units.The London-based IFPI has had some success recently in shutting file-swapping operations."There is a long way to go. Digital and physical piracy remain a big threat to our business in many markets," the IFPI chairman and CEO, John Kennedy, said."Our industry's priorities are to further grow this emerging digital music business while stepping up our efforts to protect it from copyright theft."The report said digital sales helped compensate for a fall in disc sales in Germany, with single track downloads growing to 8.5m in the first half of 2005 compared with 1m a year ago. Unit retail sales dropped 7.7%.France had the smallest fall in physical sales among the big five markets, down 2.7% in value but up 7.5% in units. French CD album sales were up 9.5% in units and 1.2% in value.
I'm off to X05 (Microsoft's Xbox 360 event) tomorrow and will be blogging from the show - assuming there is a net connection in the auditorium. Otherwise it will be a sober post or two from the hotel. EA have alreadyannouncedthat their 360 launch line-up of FIFA, Tiger Woods, Need for Speed and the rest, will be playable at the event. This is nice, especially if the players in 360 FIFA look a little lesslike zombiesthan their PS2/Xbox counterparts. More interesting will be the presentation itself. At E3 Microsoft hilariouslybussed in a team of aspiring actorsto whoop and holler at every announcement. Hopefully for their sake they've taken the more reserved European audience into account for X05 - a typical Euro press conference consists of silence, followed by a question about the release date from a French journalist and a query about pixels from Dietar at Xboxesjoy.de - and have ditched the groupies. The fun starts tomorrow evening.
What gives you the most satisfaction? Maybe the first pint on a sunny evening after work, or the look onPortillo'sface when he got turfed out in '97 (hey, this is the Guardian) but yesterday's session of Pro Evolution Soccer 5 was right up there. It's mainly when scoring a goal - a proper punch the air moment - but such is the realism of the ball movement that seat-of-the-pants defending is similarly enjoyable.Konami have really nailed the ball physics withPES 5and it just feels right. The beauty of the series has always been to make tap-ins as satisfying as 30-yard screamers. The increased challenge in PES 5 - it *is* harder to score - only exacerbates this. Then there is the lovely thud as two players slid in for a 50-50 ball, which will usually spin off in an accurate direction.The players seem even more grounded than ever - there is none of the turf skating of other titles. Before this descends into total love-in it's necessary to report that the usual issues still bedevil the game. The presentation is as arcane as ever, while the action will probably be too realistic for some. This really isn't a game that you can pick up and play - practice and perseverance are necessary and the majority of matches mirror the ebb and flow of football, not basketball. Now if only they would hurry up and release the bloody thing so online gaming can get started.
Bad day at work? What better way to get the stresses off your chest than venting on your blog - loathsome boss, exploitative company, inane workmates and all. Thousands of us are at it: keeping online diaries that document the frustrations of modern working.Some are more exotic than others. Take blogger celeb Belle de Jour, who detailed the realities of life as a London call girl, and got a book deal into the bargain. Others are pure vanity publishing: pages and pages of eyelid-drooping dross posted for all to see; the equivalent of a one-sided conversation with your mother about the ailments of ageing family friends, only not as interesting.As people become more web-savvy, uploading the daily drudge (whether anyone wants to read it or not) becomes easy. Perhaps too easy. Because, while you might not imagine anyone is reading your ramblings, the growth of blogs is giving them a newfound power - and readership.According to research from web hosting company Hostway, 77% of people said a blog would influence what they bought. Suddenly that tirade about a broken dishwasher could have some relevance.Companies, too, are becoming more switched on to the existence of blogs, which is great for consumer choice, but more worrying if your rants focus on the office, rather than domestic appliances. If you can be identified from your blog and make a few too many caustic comments, that harmless stress-buster could turn into a sacking offence.High profile cases, such as that of Ellen Simonetti, fired from her job as an air hostess in the US for "inappropriate" pictures on her blog - and we're not talking hard-core porn here - show that bosses will take action against employees whom they see as damaging the company. Worryingly, many employees are not issued with guidelines about what is, and is not, acceptable blogging practice."Ninety four percent of employees have never been informed if their company has a blogging policy - and that's a very tricky situation," says Paul Halfpenny, from Hostway. "Because you'll be writing every day, at some point you will let some information slip, which could be where you'll come undone."Joe Gordon was dismissed from his job (although he successfully appealed) because of his blogging. Part of his new job plays to the very skills that landed him in trouble in the first place - he now writes a blog for the company."I certainly didn't expect blogging to be a part of my job," he says. "I find it highly ironic, given past problems caused by my personal blog. It was something my boss and I came up with, and it compliments our website and magazine side of the business especially well."With business blogs, there is a danger of them being seen as a marketing tool to espouse a corporate line, little different from advertising. The good ones have some personality and originality to them. I like to offer a good mix so that readers come to the blog because they want to read it, not just to see if we're offering a special deal."But, he says, there is a line to be drawn between personal and work blogging. "It is different in that I am obviously writing for the company. In my own blog I can discuss anything that takes my fancy."Blogging seems to be moving into the corporate world as companies realise the power of the individual voice. Cadbury Schweppes has just launched a blog on its graduate recruitment website, where the new intake at the company can detail their day-to-day activities, giving job hunters a better understanding of what it might be like to work there.Jill McCall has been blogging for the website. She says she enjoys contributing and the process is useful for her, as well as a tool for the company. "Because we're always on the go, we don't have time to think 'what am I doing?'," she says. "Writing blogs allows you to take stock and note your progress. This is particularly useful when we get reviewed by line managers."But some caution is needed. "You just have to exercise common sense and not put anything that would be company-damaging or career-damaging," she says. "It stops you saying anything too rash after a bad day!"Which is also the perfect rule for personal bloggers to live by. The things we once confined to a private journal might be read by hundreds of thousands of surfers, and companies are increasingly developing ways of searching blogs.It might, of course, bring you that lucrative book deal. But after a frustrating day at work, it might be wise to close the laptop. While blogging is a great way to be creative, and engage with others, don't let your office rage get the better of you. In cyberspace, everyone - including your boss - can hear you scream.
The sales of digital music tracks went up threefold in the first half of this year, according to new figures from the industry trade group IFPI. Around the world, the overall sales of music declined a little, but the digital market continued to boom, thanks mainly to markets like Britain and the USA.This fromReuters:The IFPI said that lower CD prices, flagging DVD music video sales and competition from other entertainment sectors also contributed to the decline.The music industry has used a carrot-and-stick approach to reverse flagging music sales by promoting digital music services such as iTunes, Napster and Rhapsody while aggressively targeting illicit downloaders with lawsuits.Despite the success of the market-leading iTunes service, Apple and the music labels may be heading for a showdown when license agreements expire in the spring. The labels are pushing for the ability to charge different rates for different songs, while Apple is insisting that its flat-price model be maintained.But despite rocketing growth, digital downloads still account for just 6% of the music industry's sales. Either way, for digital music vendors tripling market share in a year is great news (the bean counters will really enjoy it).Here's a question though: is the decline of physical formats less marked than the growth in digital ones? I ask because I've probably bought more music in the past year than for quite some time, but the vast majority of it is still on CD. Why? Because that format gives me more flexibility; I rip the tracks to my computer, but I keep a physical copy. It's less restrictive (I don't want any rights mechanisms in place), it's useful and it doesn't rely on my computer remaining in operation. Basically, there are still benefits to buying physical and making digital copies. I'm going to try and find some figures on that, if I get the time.
Last week was a busy one for the Sony PlayStation. On the day after its10th birthday, the console received an Emmy from the US National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (NATAS). According to theBBC,The console was honoured with the Outstanding Achievement in Technology and Advanced New Media award for its early work on 3D polygon-based gaming.This is an interesting crossover between mainstream media in a country in which interactive entertainment is simultaneouslyvilifiedand (now) lauded.It's not the first time a computerised product has held its own in the awards ceremonies of other entertainment spheres. The Oddworld Inhabitants famouslysubmitteda short animated feature starring their interactive leading man Abe for an Academy Award. BAFTA celebrates the contributions of gaming in their specialInteractive Entertainment Awardsat an annual ceremony. I'm sure there are other examples out there.Y'know, it seems that games should stick with what they're good at and leave the adaptations to other forms of art. We reallydon'tneed a Halo movie, and we certainlyneverneeded a StreetFighter one. Don't see the critical acclaim pouring in there.
Accordingto Wired.com, Doom coder John Carmack is entering his own rocket into a space flight exhibition next week. The event, entitledX Prize Cup, is sponsored by the mysterious X Foundation which is enthusiastically endorsing the development of a commerical space flight industry. Carmack himself will pilot the craft, designed and developed by his company Armadillo Aerospace. Disappointingly, however, it's a remote control rocket. Commenting on his plans for the flight the Id founder said:"I might swing it around a little bit, moving it from side to side inside a reasonably small box"If there's an X Foundation prize for rocketry-related double entendre I'm sure the great man has just walked clean away with it.
Ten years after it launched the groundbreaking PlayStation videogames console, consumer electronics giant Sony has been handed a bitter birthday present - condemnation from the Vatican.An Italian advertising campaign intended to celebrate a decade since the machine's launch in Europe drew angry responses from Vatican officials, who said the "irreverent" images trivialised religion and insulted Italy's 56m Catholics.The advert, which is captioned "10 years of passion", shows a man wearing a crown of thorns constructed from the familiar square, triangle, circle and cross shapes of the PlayStation controller.The campaign raised the hackles of several high-profile, including 91-year-old Cardinal Ersilio Tonini. "I often hear children say that heaven is the place where people drink coffee, which they remember from an advertisement," he said. "Now children can think that the Passion of Christ is a game."He also aired concerns that Catholics were seen as easy targets in a world where religious tensions were on the rise. "Anyone is allowed to make any comparisons to Catholicism," he said. "If a similar situation had involved Islam, I'm sure the reaction would have been vehement."Sony responded quickly to the complaint, expressing "sorrow" at any insult caused by the advert. It said the campaign had already finished and would not be run again.The Japanese electronics giant has sold more than 200m PlayStation and PlayStation 2 consoles worldwide since it launched the brand in Europe in 1995. Next year Sony hopes to repeat its previous successes with the PlayStation 3, but faces stiff competition from Microsoft's Xbox 360 console, which is due for European launch in December.
Interesting post over at the Social Software weblog, which raises the passing thought that the Web could eventually be dominated byWikipedia rather than Google. Sunir Shah reckons Wikipedia is already the top ranked site on the Web, and argues thatbecause Wikipedia is the Internet's encyclopedia, many of the articles have included resources from the Google searches on that topic. Over time, Wikipedia has been slowly eating the entire Web's knowledge base until it becomes itself a faster, better, and -- most critically -- unspammed reference matter of what are the relevant and valuable resources. And unlike mere link directories, it doesn't simply list links, it tells a story about them.The "unspammed" bit is important, because Google is already useless for many product-oriented searches, where the results are dominated either by so-called shopping engines or supplemental results. (You search for product X, and most of Google's hits come from sites that basically say 'We searched our site for product X and found nothing useful.")The reference to "mere link directories" implies that Wikipedia's articles can also make it a superior directory to Yahoo.
Last year, as I wrote in acolumn, "Chip manufacturer AMD has announced a plan to bring low-cost computers to hundreds of millions of people in poor countries, starting with India, Mexico, Russia, Brazil and China. This will be done with a small, sealed $185 box called a PIC (Personal Internet Communicator).Now, reports theMercury News, "Radio Shack plans to start selling a low-cost alternative to the personal computer starting Sunday."So far, telephone and cable TV companies have begun providing subscribers with the machine in places such as Mexico, Brazil, the Caribbean and India. Soon, companies in China, Russia, Turkey and elsewhere will start selling the Personal Internet Communicator.Yes, it's the same machine. However, the US price has inflated to $299.As AMD points out, this is not a general purpose PC, and it runs Windows CE (which the Merc wrongly describes as "the stripped-down Windows CE" -- a common mistake). It's the operating system used in cheap handhelds such as the Dell Axim, and formerly used in the long-departed Sega Dreamcast games console, among other things.It will be interesting to see if it sells. Presumably, most Radio Shack buyers will not be aware that the PIC is much bigger, much more expensive, and less versatile than an Axim PocketPC, which also includes a built-in LCD screen.But many will surely be aware that you can buy a real PC for around $299 to $399, and it won't have a 366MHz Cyrix processor.
Everybody has their own routines for setting up their own computers when they first get them, e.g. installing patches/updates, installing certain programs to secure their PCs, etc. Excluding the obvious firewall &amp; anti-virus software, (a) what would your routine be with a brand new computer; (b) how would you do it (with regards to possible partitioning of the HD, etc); and (c) in which order would you do it all in?This sounds too big a query for Ask Jack -- it should probably be an article -- and it probaly depends a lot of individual needs. For example, installing Microsoft Office is a very high priority for me, but not even on the list for many.Step 1, I think, is to set my usual operating system preferences, take some sort of system snapshot, then hit the Microsoft update site to install the latest patches. After that, I'd download Avast and/or AVG, Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and/or AdAware, and a proper firewall, which has been Sygate Personal, but will be something else next time.I wouldn't partition the hard drive. I used to, with DOS/Windows, but I don't think it's needed with NT/W2K/XP.Step 2for me is to install Microsoft Office: it's where I work. OpenOffice is, of course, an alternative, if you really need an Office suite. At this point I can do most things via Yahoo Mail and/or Gmail.Step 3is to get POP3 email working, and download Firefox or Opera to provide an alternative to IE. I might also download Thunderbird, but I'm currently an old-time Eudora user.Step 4is to copy across a whole bunch of utilities that I use from time to time and mostly have on CD (copied from a folder called My Downloads). Some of these are no longer available (DiskState), or I can't remember where I got them (Power Renamer). They include old versions of programs that do what I need, so I haven't bothered with upgrades. In some cases -- such as Startup Inspector, Process Explorer and WinRAR -- I might check for updated versions and download them, but it takes too long to redownload all of them. Also, I don't do this all at once, just install as necessary.Step 5is to download a few utilities, such as Google Toolbar and Yahoo Desktop Search. At this point, I'm not such which ones I'd download, except for the free DivX (taking care not to install the media player).Step 6should be to take a proper back-up, so I don't have to repeat steps 1-5.Any thoughts? What have I missed?
"Morfik offers ground-breaking Javascript Synthesis Technology ('JST') that allows developers to use a visual design environment and a high-level language of their choice to create applications comprised purely of HTML and Javascript. This revolutionary technology combined with its tight integration of the browser, a database and web server, uniquely offers developers the opportunity to create web applications that run on the desktop after being unplugged from the web," claims theMorfikWeb site."We believe that this will usher in a new era that challenges the dominance of conventional software applications on the desktop."Comment:Morfik is being launched at the second annualWeb 2.0 Conferencein San Francisco, October 5-7, 2005. It sounds like a useful extension to Ajaxing, but it's not clear it will change the world....
"This afternoon Steven Sinofsky announced to our MVPs that we will build in native support for the PDF format in Office '12'. I constantly get asked by customers if we can build in this support for publishing documents as PDF files, and now I can thankfully say 'yes!' It's something we've been hearing about for years, and earlier in this project we decided that while there were already existing third party tools for doing this, we should do the work to build the functionality natively into the product," says Brian Jones, a program manager in Office, on hisblog.Comment:Better late than never....
"Behold the ultimate gaming mod -- an Xbox, PS2, and Gamecube all fit intoone boxwith a flatscreen display built right in," says Gear Live.
A few months ago Bill Gates let slip an interesting thought about Google in an interview. It reminded him, he said, of Microsoft in its honeymoon period - ie. the decade 1985-95. This is the first time in recorded history that Gates has dignified a competitor by actually naming it in public: generally, he speaks only in paranoid generalities. But the Microsoft chairman knows trouble when he sees it, and Google does indeed pose a long-term threat to his profitable monopoly.That's par for the course in the capitalist jungle. A more important question is whether Google spells trouble for the rest of us in the long run. And the answer to that could well be yes.To understand why, we need to look back. It may be hard to credit it now, but Microsoft was once a cheeky start-up, run by college dropouts with long hair and a penchant for fast cars. It was founded at a time when the fledgling personal computer business was a labyrinth of incompatible hardware and software systems. In 1981, IBM effectively defined a de-facto hardware standard; and its erstwhile partner Microsoft defined the software standard by providing the operating system for the new, accountant-friendly IBM PC. Thus was order brought to an unruly industry. And thus was the foundation laid of Microsoft's subsequent prosperity - and its monopoly on desktop software.We all know the rest of the story. Microsoft has grown and grown, to the point where its monopoly lock on desktop software makes it impossible for an upstart to supplant it: the world's organisations are so locked into the Microsoft Way that they cannot contemplate moving to a different operating system, even if it is cheaper or technically superior.Yet, strangely, it would be wrong to conclude from this that Microsoft's position is unassailable. Granted, it has a stranglehold on the PC platform, and anyone who tries to compete on that territory is doomed to lose. The significance of Google's challenge is that it hasn't chosen to fight on that ground. Instead, it seeks to make the platform irrelevant.And it's doing it. Here's an illustration. Ask any random audience of computer users the following questions. Who uses Microsoft software? (All hands go up.) Who uses open source software? (No hands.) Who uses Google? (All hands go up). 'Well', you say, 'that's a funny thing because you're all users of open source software: Google runs on Linux.' After the rueful laughter has died away, ponder on what that means. People want a particular computing service (in this case search), and don't really care what platform it's delivered on.Since its inception in 1999, Google has focused almost exclusively on providing services that are platform-independent in this way. Its search engine can be accessed from any browser. Ditto Google Groups, Google Images, Google News, Froogle, Blogger, Google Mail, Google Talk and Google Maps. A few of its offerings (notably Google Earth, Desktop Search and Picasa, a neat program for handling and organising digital photographs) are written specifically to run under Microsoft Windows, but the most heavily used services are all independent of operating systems and hardware. The company has taken Scott McNealy's aphorism - 'the network is the computer' - and turned it into reality.All of which is bad news for Mr Gates, whose prosperity is based on the proposition that the platform is the computer. But is it good news for the rest of us? Google's most intensively used services are accessed via the net, so all the data involved flows through Google's servers. And since these data are often fragments of intensely personal information - email, web clickstreams, instant messages, VoIP conversations - a single company is in a position to know more about each one of us than anyone would have thought possible even a decade ago.Consider Gmail, Google's web-mail service. This provides two gigabytes of storage to each subscriber - enough to ensure that you never again have to delete a message. The flipside is that your messages reside forever on a Google server. What's more, Gmail is free because it is funded by advertising: Google's software scans every email, identifies key phrases, and puts what it regards as relevant ads on the right-hand side of the screen.If you think that's creepy, you're right. Google's response is that the messages aren't actually 'read', that it's just a process akin to the one in which email messages are scanned by spam-blocking software. But that's disingenuous, because the ads selected for display are logged (they have to be, so that advertisers can be billed) and those logs will inevitably reveal something of the context, if not the content, of the scanned messages. Anyone who uses Gmail is therefore sacrificing a degree of privacy compared with someone who uses a conventional email service. That's why privacy and civil liberties groups have attacked Gmail on the grounds that it violates the trust of email service users - in particular non-Gmail users who send messages to Gmail subscribers. They point out that scanning creates lower expectations of privacy in the email medium and so establishes a potentially dangerous precedent.Google's apparently unstoppable momentum is beginning to raise alarm bells across an industry that hitherto admired the company's cheeky, upstart ethos and the brilliance of its technology. This, after all, was an outfit that declared in its prospectus that its motto would be 'Don't do evil'. The implicit message from the co-founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, was: 'We're basically good guys. You can trust us.' But that was then, and this is now, when Google has evolved into a multi-billion dollar corporation with aspirations to global domination. Its corporate mission, remember, is 'to organise the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful'. And when these guys say 'world', they mean it.So there's a strong possibility that Google will indeed turn out to be Bill Gates's worst nightmare, transforming his grip on the PC platform into a wasting asset. But the corollary of that is a world in which millions - perhaps billions - of people will become users of Google services, and that the company will become custodians of their most intimate data. The day will come when Google knows more about each of us than we realise. And knowledge is power.Should we trust a US corporation with it? You only have to ask the question to know the answer.Ten things you didn't know about Google1It's a calculator. Type '25 miles in kilometres' (without the quotes) into the search box and see what happens.2It can be manipulated to produce desired results. Try typing 'miserable failure' (without the quotes) and see what happens. This is called Googlebombing.3Googlewhacking is a game where you have to think of a single word which, when typed into the search box, will produce just a single 'hit'.4How many pages does Google index? Answer: nobody knows. Google used to publish a number under the search box (when last seen it was over 8 billion) but it has stopped doing that - possibly because Yahoo is now claiming to index 20 billion pages.5It does really useful online maps of the UK. Go to maps.google.co.uk. And you can search for restaurants, churches, bars or schools just by typing the appropriate term (e.g. 'restaurants in Bedford') in the search box.6Google's two co-founders are each worth about $7 billion. They are just 32 years old.7If you use Google's webmail, the messages reside forever on a Google server.8Google's power means that it knows more about each of us than any other internet search engine.9Google's Gmail software scans every email, identifies key phrases, and puts what it regards as relevant ads on the right-hand side of the screen.10Its services, such as Google Images, Google News, Froogle, Blogger, Google Mail and Google Maps can be accessed from any browser.
I don't often ask to see the manager. I usually pay up and over-tip and let my underwhelmed stomach and deeply excited ulcer wonder on the way home why my express insistence on 'very, very well done, overdone, burnt to a charcoal crisp if possible; I'm Scottish' has been interpreted as 'chop its horns off and have someone breathe warmly on it for half a minute'.And I certainly hadn't asked to see the manager in my bank, in case she did immensely scary shouting things: but then after the bank I had to go for a little drink with a little friend, and that was when I asked to see the manager.It was the nuts. I'd wanted some nuts. Teatime on a Friday, half a Guinness on its way and I was starving and they had a fat array of lovely nuts before me. Big glass bottles, stuffed with pistachios and cashews and chillied peanuts and those lovely ones covered in a sweet shell of sugar and salt and death: all there, in their red and fawn and nutty glory, waiting happily to have a party in my mouth.'No.'I'm sorry?'No. You can't have any nuts. No one can have any nuts yet. We haven't put them into the computer.'He was pleasant enough, but strangely deficient in having mastered logic as anything other than a foreign concept. I tried, for a few minutes. How much do you think they might be, for a wee polystyrene tub - look, look, they're right there, right beside the nuts, which are also right there, waiting eagerly to be given to me, the hungry customer with cash in his pocket? A pound? &#163;12.50? &#163;108? If I went out to the cash machine right now and got more money and gave you &#163;108, would you give me the nuts?'No. We haven't programmed the nuts.'I tried very hard not to be snotty, conscious all the time of those rich leathery old bitches in Highgate who give the poor black girl in Tesco Metro such a tongue-whipping because they have such a clear subliminal desire to be gently elbowed a few minutes later by me towards damp glistening ditches.But I did, politely, ask to see the manager, who explained that they had to wait for management to arrange for them to download the prices off some central management computer and then programme their tills, and then some days later they could sell me some nuts. He was very sweet, and his argument was poisonously mad.It's all going rather wrong with computers. It's not that the clever ones are taking us over, in some sci-fi dystopian way: it's the opposite, in that many of the stupidest people in the world, i.e. managements, are allowed to run them. When massive mobile phone companies such as Nokia can programme their predictive texting so that every time you want to write the word 'mum', which I think we all often do, it comes out as 'nun'. How many people text each other about nuns? I might be quite wrong here, be stalwartly missing the point by not reading Heat (or, now you mention it, Nuts) magazine enough and thus learning that there's a lot of hot texting action going on between young people about nuns - but I suspect instead there's just been a hefty piece of stupidity there, as with this idea that education can be solved by free laptops. They're computers, they're not actual brains, and they're only as good as the brains behind them and before them.Nice pub, though. Lovely staff. Management are, obviously, nuts.
You know the scenario. For years, nothing much seems to be happening. There's a lot of excited muttering among geeks about a particular technology, but no evidence that would compel a sensible man in a suit to pay attention. Standard market research, for example, fails to detect any important trend. Consumers profess complete ignorance when approached by persons with clipboards. The graphs meander along, hovering just above the X-axis like the Donegal mountains seen from a distance - sometimes rising slightly, sometimes falling a little, but essentially not going anywhere.Then suddenly one day all hell breaks loose. What looked like the silhouette of foothills has abruptly turned into the vapour trail of a rocket. The graphs - of take-up, media column inches, consumer adoption - have gone through the roof. Now the aforementioned suits are hollering from the same hymn sheet: 'What the hell is going on?'Welcome to the phenomenon that New Yorker writer Malcolm Gladwell has christened 'the tipping point'. In a memorable book of the same title, he described the nonlinearity of life - the way in which a small change can suddenly trigger an avalanche. Anybody who studies the history of consumer technologies has the tipping point graph - a recumbent L - etched on his or her heart.Take text messaging as an example. SMS was an obscure technology built into mobiles from the beginning, but was little used by the adults, who were the only ones who could afford mobile phones in the early days. But when pre-pay tariffs arrived - and teenagers were suddenly able to have cellphones - SMS took off like a rocket.Ditto the World Wide Web, which was the preserve of an exclusive minority from its first release in 1990 until the Mosaic browser was released in the spring of 1993.And ditto with internet telephony, aka 'voice over internet protocol', aka VoIP (pronounced 'voyp'), which has just passed its tipping point. A little over a month ago, Google launched an instant messaging service with VoIP built in. Then eBay rocked the business community by agreeing to pay up to $4.1 billion for Skype, a leading VoIP service.And this week high street chain Dixons really put the cat among the pigeons by launching its own VoIP service, Freetalk. From last Thursday, anyone with a broadband internet connection and &pound;79.99 to spare has been able to walk into any branch of Dixons, Currys, PC World or The Link and buy a gizmo that gives them free unlimited phone calls to UK landlines for a year. Thereafter, they will have to pay &pound;6.99 a month for the continuation of this agreeable service.What do you get for your money? Well, for starters the freedom to choose your own area code, regardless of where you live. Then there's free voicemail. And a fully transportable number - take your adapter with you and plug in into a broadband connection; you can then make and receive calls just as if you were at home.And you don't have to use a PC; in fact your computer can be switched off - which is one of the things that distinguishes Freetalk from Skype and Google Talk.None of this is entirely new. For example, Vonage has been offering a broadly similar service for a while. What's significant about the Dixons launch is that VoIP has suddenly gone mainstream - like wireless networking, it has become an ordinary consumer product. And that means that there are interesting times ahead.For 'interesting' read disruptive. VoIP is as threatening to the telecoms firms - the dinosaurs of the communications world - as that huge asteroid was for their prehistoric predecessors. The normally sceptical Economist put it succinctly: 'It is now no longer a question of whether VoIP will wipe out traditional telephony, but a question of how quickly it will do so. People in the industry are already talking about the day, perhaps only five years away, when telephony will be a free service offered as part of a bundle of services as an incentive to buy other things such as broadband access or pay-TV services. VoIP, in short, is completely reshaping the telecoms landscape.'The oddest thing is that VoIP is an old story. Paul Baran's original 1960 blueprint for what became the internet envisaged using the network for both voice and data. Ever since phone calls were digitised - thereby converting voice signals into digital data - it has been obvious that the internet was the natural medium for carrying them. Geeks have been doing this kind of thing for aeons.What's surprising is not that it has finally happened, but that it took so long to get here. And that it was Dixons who finally got the (tipping) point.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
I have a DigiTV card in my computer and record stuff to my hard drive. However, as the audio is recorded in MP2 format I'm unable to transfer it to my Aiwa HZ-WS200 MP3 player as it won't support MP2 files. Do you know of a program (preferably free) that will allow me to convert MP2 to MP3? Would converting it to a wave file and then to MP3 be possible, and if so, would there be a loss of quality? Kevin GibsonI haven't done this, so I haven't tried the various bits of software that claim to do the job. Searching Google suggestsUfony, but it isn't free. (There are other options athttp://www.freedownloadscenter.com/Best/_mp2-to-_mp3.html) I'd also wonder if you could usevDub(or nanDub) to convert and save out the audio.Does anyone have any better ideas. please?Converting from one lossy compression format to another lossy format will certainly lead to some loss in audio quality, but it may not matter for your purposes.
C-Span's Q&amp;A has done an interestinginterview with Jimmy Wales. You can view the program or read a transcript.
