Online auction site eBay has beaten analysts’ expectations in its last set of results before spinning off its PayPal payments division.Net revenue rose 7% to $4.4bn (£2.8bn) for the three months to 30 June, while adjusted profits were 5% higher at $931m. That figure excludes a $786m charge related to the sale of eBay’s Enterprise unit for $925m, which was also announced on Thursday.The enterprise division develops shopping websites for retailers including Ikea but this month one of its biggest clients, Toys R Us, said it would take its e-commerce operations in-house in 2016.The volume of payments handled by PayPal rose 20% in the period to $66bn, with 1.1bn transactions processed. PayPal revenue rose 16% to $2.3bn and the number of new accounts was 11% higher at 169m.The company said the steady growth of PayPal’s customer base, along with more transactions per customer, underlined the brand’s growing popularity globally.The PayPal president, Dan Schulman, said: “We continue to gain share globally in an incredibly dynamic market and … as an independent company we will continue to lead the transformation of the payments industry.”PayPal also announced an extra $1bn share buyback, taking the total to $3bn.For the full year, PayPal net revenues are expected to jump between 15% and 18%, with eBay revenues lagging behind with growth of 3% to 5%.The disparity in growth between the two businesses is one reason why activist investor Carl Icahn – eBay’s sixth-largest shareholder – called on the company last year to spin off PayPal.Despite resisting the calls for several months, eBay eventually decided that Icahn was right. Announcing the move last September, eBay’s chief executive, John Donahoe, said separating the two businesses would give them “more focus, more flexibility, more agility, more ability to move quickly”.PayPal becomes a separate company on Friday, with shares in the payments firm trading at between $34 and $40 before the formal separation, making it worth almost $44bn. The stock was up 3.6% at $38.85 in morning trading following the results.Analysts at Goldman Sachs rate the shares as a buy with a $48 price target.The market capitalisation of eBay is about $76bn, but PayPal accounts for some 60% of that sum and will therefore be worth more than its parent after the split occurs.James Cakmak, an analyst at stockbroker Monness Crespi Hardt in New York, said splitting the two companies made both “academic and economic sense” given that PayPal’s value had been held back by the recent underperformance of eBay’s marketplace business.Although the online payments sector was becoming increasingly crowded, Cakmak said PayPal had a global brand, operating in 200 markets and in 100 currencies, and hence had negotiated a “very complex regulatory framework”.However, in the future the only difference between PayPal and its rivals could be price, he said, which would limit the scope for a significant rise in the new company’s shares.In a bid to diversify its revenue streams, the company said on Thursday that PayPal was buying Xoom Corporation for about $890m in cash to accelerate its entry into the $600bn global remittance market.Ebay celebrates its 20th anniversary this year and Devin Wenig, its president, said that the company was making changes to ensure it remained “the best global marketplace and a great enduring internet business”.Despite the separation, Wenig said that eBay would maintain a “strong partnership” with PayPal.
Sometime in 1993, my beloved Morris Traveller was badly damaged and I took it toCharlie Ware’s Morris Minor Centre in Bath: I wandered into the workshop and thence into a rather untidy (and oily) office where I was welcomed and asked all about my car, how long I had owned it, my maintenance schedule etc, by a middle-aged man who was clearly enormously enthused by all things Minor-related.Rather belatedly, I realised I had actually met Charlie himself, an almost legendary figure to those of us who tasked ourselves with keeping these venerable vehicles on the road. Picking it up some weeks later, he talked again about how I had managed to keep the paint inside the chassis-boxes immaculate while the outside was in a bit of a state. It was a delight to find such boyish enthusiasm in one who spent his life surrounded by elderly vehicles and encouraged me to keep my own vehicle on the road – which I did for another 15 years.
The struggle is real. Out and about and the 4G isn’t cutting it. People used to cheekily pop into cafes to use the loo – now it’s to briefly pilfer Wi-Fi.Well, this rubbish situation might soon be fixed, with potential blanket Wi-Fi coming to the streets of New York, courtesy of … bins.Waste management companyBigbellyhas applied for a New York mayoral grant to turn rubbish bins (trash cans) into hotspots providing free internet.The bins could be ideal as Wi-Fi hotspots as their street level location would remove issues with tall buildings blocking signals. The internet – of speeds up to 75Mpbs, fast enough to download a high-definition film in around 10 minutes – would be free to users, and paid for with advertisement revenue.An example given onBigBelly’s blogwould be an advertisement for Starbucks displayed on a bin near one of its coffee stores.Andy Warhol using the pay telephone at the Factory, New York. In 2015, the city’s pay phones will be transformed into Wi-Fi hotspots. OvoWorks Inc.Photograph: OvoWorks Inc.Municipal Wi-Fi has been mooted before, but potential pitfalls – as well as signal blocking – could include opposition from telecom companies and internet service providers (ISPs) which don’t take kindly to free internet being offered around cities.However, incommentsto ComputerWorld, BigBelly vice president of global marketing,Leila Dillon, said neither had proved an impediment in trials:“We cooperate with the cellular companies – we work with whomever is willing to work with us, and has the best coverage.”In 2014, New York approved the transformation of pay phones into Wi-Fi hotspots, to be rolled out by the end of 2015. The older pay phones will be turned into Wi-Fi towers known as “Links”, which will also offer charging points and free domestic calls.Back in 2013, the City of London Corporationcracked downon startup Renew London, after it tracked data from passersby using Wi-Fi via smart bins.Meanwhile, BigBelly has already proved an embracer of technology – providingsolar-powered compactors, and bins which, when 85% full,send texts to refuse collectors. The Guardian has contacted for Bigbelly for comment.•Why have we yet to be enchanted by the internet of things?
It is 2015 and for many working in tech, it is still not a good time to be a woman.Just ask Ellen Pao, who resigned as interim CEO of Reddit last week, after being subjected to abuse from the site’s members. Or ask other women in the industry who have had similar experiences. These women are not surprised by what has happened to Pao – the abuse, the resignation, the lack of support from her company – in fact, many of them have anticipated it. Yet despite that, they are undeterred and hope that one day down the road, maybe as soon as 2020, women and men could be treated as equal in Silicon Valley.As she resigned, Pao took the opportunity to remind the site’s members that she is just another human, with family and feelings, and that she has seen the good, the bad and the ugly on Reddit.Related:Reddit chief Ellen Pao resigns after receiving 'sickening' abuse from users“The good has been off-the-wall inspiring, and the ugly made me doubt humanity,” she said. “Everyone attacked on Reddit is just another person like you and me. When people make something up to attack me or someone else, it spreads, and we eventually will see it. And we will feel bad, not just about what was said.”Women – and men – in Silicon Valley have watched with bated breath as Pao filed, then argued in court and lost her historic gender discrimination lawsuit against Kleiner Perkins. Then this month, once again, they watched as the drama at Reddit unfolded.Many articles have been written on whether Paohad been the right person for the joborwhether she had been pushed off the glass cliff– where women are brought in to save or reform a struggling company and then blamed when they can’t succeed. In a matter of days, Pao had gone from the woman responsible for the firing of Victoria Taylor, the popular moderator of the Ask Me Anything subreddit, to a victim – a woman who took the fall for a decision of another man, Alexis Ohanian,according to the former Reddit CEO, Yishan Wong.“[Ohanian] had different ideas for AMAs, he didn’t like Victoria’s role, and decided to fire her,” Wong wrote on Reddit.What had happened to Pao – both her lawsuit and her departure from Reddit – are further driving the conversation about women’s role and treatment in the tech industry, a number of women told the Guardian this week.Here is what they had to say:‘It was inevitable that they would turn on her’Not everyone is surprised by what had happened at Reddit.“Ellen was at the center of a high-profile sexual discrimination suit versus a major VC firm and she was put in charge of the teenage boy section of the internet. What did you expect was going to happen? It was inevitable that they would turn on her,” said Kaliya Young, an expert on digital identity who blogs under the nameIdentity Woman. She is alsofounder of She’s Geeky, a women-in-tech organization.While attacks on Pao and her departure might not have an effect on the industry as whole, they have further exposed what female leaders in tech deal with on daily basis, Young explained.“What it has done is made visible the vitriol that women in tech experience if they rise in prominence in almost any way in this industry,” said Young.“The dialogue is good. The fact that people are really talking about it … it makes leaders think twice about saying and doing discriminatory things,” said Stacey Epstein, chief marketing officer atBanjo, a tech company that gathers social media posts based on location in real time.Yet for some women partaking in this type of dialogue – especially by sharing their personal experience – it can be equivalent to setting off a tripwire that detonates an avalanche of online threats and attacks.Related:How Ellen Pao lost her job but survived Reddit's swamp of trolls‘Speaking out can trigger the internet troll brigade’One woman who did not want to be identified said that in 2007 she attended an ETech conference where a scheduled speaker, Kathy Sierra, who is a web developer and blogger, had toback out after receiving death threats.“I was in the audience watching this and it had an impact on me. At the time, I was younger and it was earlier on in my career and it really made me wonder about my future,” she said.When she sought advice from her female mentor, she was basically told “what happened to Kathy is likely to happen to you too – it’s normative”.“So I made a choice to continue my career and to keep my head down and not really raise my profile outside of my little niche industry. Lo and behold, years later I am an outspoken woman and am getting implicit rape threats on Twitter from men in my industry. I can handle it now. I am stronger,” she said. “We shouldn’t be in the industry where you have to be willing to accept that: ‘This will happen somewhere, at some point in your career. Deal with it.’”She went on to say that during the interview with the Guardian, she wondered what speaking out on this issue would mean for her. “Now I am like, well, if you write that, am I going to attract more of that kind of behavior towards me? I don’t want that and so even speaking out about it can sort of trigger the internet troll brigade to come at you.”Ellen Pao: villain or victim?To Epstein, the chief marketing officer, Reddit’s business model helped create what she described as an ongoing soap opera at the company and the flood of commentary from the press and the site’s members.Partly to blame was the shifting narrative. Last week, the narrative was that of Pao as a villain for firing Victoria Taylor. This week it’s of Pao as a victim after she took the fall for Ohanian’s decision to fire Taylor, argued Epstein.“It’s all because facts unfold,” she said. “If you can clearly communicate the facts and people really understand what’s really going on, then you have less of that public vocal commentary.”In their initial comment on the situation, over two weeks ago,Pao and Ohanian apologized for not properly communicating with the Reddit community. The comment, to say the least, did not satisfy their members.Related:Reddit CEO sorry for 'letting down' users after popular subforums shut downMany insist that had Pao been at another company – one less volatile and not as dependent on the unpaid labor of those who spend their days in the company’s subreddits or online forums – this would not have happened.“Look at Facebook and Sheryl Sandberg. Do you think that a tenth of this would have happened to her if she worked there?” said Brianna Wu, a video game developer and one of the women who have beenthreatenedas part of the Gamergate controversy.What many believe led to Pao’s departure was the push to monetize Reddit.“They don’t have a revenue stream anywhere near Facebook, for instance,” explained Wu, adding that Reddit in its current form is so radioactive that no regular company was going to tie themselves to it. “It makes sense that they need a strong leader to come in there and make changes to the site so that advertisers can advertise there.”“I think you have this pressure to make Reddit make money and be profitable,” said Young, the founder of She’s Geeky. “Why are we trying to exploit communities of people who want to hang out and chat? Why do we have to make money off of them?”In the end, Pao’s attempts to lead are what led to her departure, said Wu.“What we saw is a leader trying to step up and take accountability. Reddit is her ship. She is responsible for everything that happens there,” she said. “Yet at the same time, you are seeing an internal culture that is so broken that it would make it impossible for anyone to lead. It’s a situation that no one could correct.”Performance versus genderWhat has become clear for many of the women in Silicon Valley is that there are two issues at play – performance and gender discrimination. The two are often intertwined in conversation about women like Pao, but according to them should be treated as two different issues.“There is an adult conversation to be had about Ellen Pao’s performance at Reddit and an adult conversation that can be had about her being the right person for the jobs,” said Wu. She added that while she can see where those saying that Pao wasnot the right person for the job are coming from, the attacks on her are uncalled for.“It’s undeniable that the attacks on her have been really personal, sexist, and have a violent tone to them. They are racist. They are extremely gendered in nature,” she said. “For me, it’s very disheartening to watch the attacks on her. I think she was held to a standard that her male predecessors at Reddit were not. I think that really empowers people who attacked her in that way.”For some, what happened at Reddit was not really a gender issue.Epstein told the Guardian that she is especially irritated by the theory that the entire situation was a plot that set Pao up to fail.“There is no way that was masterminded to get her out of there, solely because she is a woman. If that was the case, they would have never brought her in to that position anyway. If they didn’t believe that a woman could do the job then they wouldn’t have put the woman in the job,” she said.Making everything about gender could empower those attacking women as not being fit to lead, argued Epstein.“Sometimes when you make these claims that everything bad that has happened to a woman in business is because she is a woman, then you give fuel to the other side and so it’s frustrating to me. If she wasn’t doing a good job as an interim CEO, she should resign and she should be let go. This doesn’t have to do with gender. They are two separate issues.”Epstein did admit that because Pao’s gender discrimination case against Kleiner Perkins was so public, “it is easy to jump to the conclusion that the recent Reddit situation must be based on gender too”. Instead of jumping to conclusions, people should assess each situation individually, she said.Related:Ellen Pao lawsuit loss will not slow fight for gender equality in Silicon ValleyWhat’s next?Epstein, a mother of two girls, believes that young women entering tech are not deterred by what’s playing out in the public sphere. As a woman who has been in the industry for over 20 years, she said things have changed drastically from when she graduated and the main advice available to her was to dress like a man if she wanted to succeed.“As women, we just have to go after it and do a great job. The opportunities are there for us,” she said, adding that her generation of women have created a new environment for the young women entering the sector today. “They are not reading these articles and seeing what’s going on and saying: ‘I better do something else.’ They feel empowered, they feel motivated to show that they can do it.”“Long term, women in tech are going to keep showing up and eventually we are going to change this culture,” she said.How soon is eventually? “Five years. Five years from now,” said Wu.“It is my hope that five years from now I won’t be talking to the press about this as much. We are in a period where the tech industry has hit rock bottom with the way it treats women, which is why we talked about it so much last year and this year,” she said, adding that it’s not because of women like her and Pao andAnita Sarkeesian,but because the industry is changing and men are losing ground.“Overall, we [women] are in a great place,” Epstein told the Guardian. “I think women who are looking to start their careers are feeling inspired by women before them and feeling that the opportunity is ripe for the picking.”
A video of a home-made drone firing what appears to be a pistol has been posted onto YouTube.The video, which cannot be independently verified by the Guardian, appears to show a small calibre handgun strapped to quadcopter with an elongated frame. The author of the video has not replied to requests for comment.In the video, the pistol appears to fire four times, propelled backwards with each shot by the recoil. The drone compensates for the force, adjusting its height and position after each shot.Typically quadcopters have symmetrically distributed propellers for maximum stability and control during flight. But increasing the separation between the front and rear propellers helps to overcome and control increased forces, such as the recoil of a gun, in a front-to-back direction.The home-made nature of the drone indicates that the technology could see wider use, but it is not the first of its kind. A video purporting to show a handgun mounted beneath an octocopter firing at a series of objects wascreated as an advertfor a screen protector firm in 2013.Civil drones have become a hot-button topic, with many available for less than £100 capable of carrying cameras and other payloads, which has provoked privacy fears and threats of drones being shot out of the sky.Restrictive laws on the piloting of drones are currently under revision in the US, where companies such as Amazon have sought to use them for deliveries among other activities.Their commonplace use in cinematography has led to operators requiring licences for operation within populated areas, with accidents involving drone crashes highlighting the dangers.Current UK legislation by the Civil Aviation Authority dictates that drones cannot be flown within 50m of a building or a person and within 150m of a built-up area. In addition, the maximum flight height is 400 feet, and the drone has to remain in line of sight and within 500m of the pilot.Pilots must complete a training course and apply for a permit from the CAA to fly the drone for commercial purposes.•Lords urge compulsory registration of all civilian drones
Transport for London has warned tube, train and bus passengers paying with Apple Pay on iPhones and Apple Watches not to let their batteries run flat or they could get stuck at gates and face penalty fares.TfLadvises users that, as with other smartphone payment systems including EE’s Cash on Tap, Apple Pay only works if a device has power. It warns that, if the battery runs out in the middle of a journey, a user will not be able to tap out, which means they could be charged a maximum fare.“If an inspector asks you to touch your iPhone or Apple Watch on their reader, it will not be able to be read and you could be liable for a penalty fare,” TfL says.TfL also lists having both an iPhone and an Apple Watch as a potential issue – with a risk of being charged twice. It also warns that receiving a call while attempting to touch into or out of the gates will also cause issues, and that users with multiple cards on their account must remember to use the same one or potentially be charged twice.For overseas travellers using Apple Pay, TfL warns it may not work and that users could be charged currency conversion fees.Another problem with smartphone payment systems on public transport is the speed with which they operate. One of the biggest obstacles holding back contactless credit cards and smartphones with near-field communication chips from being used on the London Underground was the time it took for the system to authenticate the user and open the gates.Oyster cards operate at sub-second times, which are faster than paper tickets and contactless cards. Apple Pay and other smartphone systems operate at a rate that is slightly slower than contactless cards, if they are pre-authorised.For the iPhone that means selecting the correct card and having authenticated it with a fingerprint before touching it on the card reader, which has led to irate commuters and queues at the gates.When you use Apple Pay on the underground but your sweaty post-tube fingerprint doesn&#39;t scan. Then the meltdown. AND THE SHAME.#neveragain&mdash; Ryan (@goldblumr)July 15, 2015Have to say apple pay is slower than contactless card due. Especially noticeable at tube barriers.  Why touchID for small transactions?&mdash; Stu Downes (@swdownes)July 15, 2015I&#39;ve tried Apple Pay on the tube a few times today and it is far too slow to thumb authorise. I feel i&#39;ll anger commuters.&mdash; Glen Greer (@glen_g)July 15, 2015And some resorting to using a card.@charlesarthurat this moment in time card seems a better option there...&mdash; Joe Asbridge (@joeasbridge)July 16, 2015For Apple Pay users whose batteries do run out while on TfL, they might also be advisedagainst trying to charge their phones on trains.•Apple Pay launches in the UK: here’s how to use it
Despite years of creative neglect, Duke Nukem remains a popular character among veteran gamers. As an unreconstructed 1980s-style action hero, he’s famed as much for his deadpan quips and visits to strip clubs as he is for fighting alien invasions.On Wednesday, Randy Pitchford, chief executive of Gearbox Software, took to the stage at the Develop conference in Brighton and said he hoped there would be another Duke Nukem game. His company bought the classic first-person shooter brand in 2010 and then finished the long-stalled title Duke Nukem Forever – but it was savaged by the critics.“I did not acquire the franchise merely to make sure we could all experience Duke Nukem Forever,” Pitchford said. “That was sort of the toll we had to pay.” He then explained that while Gearbox has carried out some concept development for the franchise, they’d need to work with the “correct developer” to make a new game.So who would be the correct partner to really explore this macho iconoclast? The answer, of course, is an indie developer.To help out the clearly very busy Gearbox team, we interviewed several candidates for the job. Here are our favourite pitches.Simon Roth, Machine Studios (Maia)I’d have Duke start off on a bus ride, because you’ve got to start every good first-person shooter on a tram. He’d be sat there reading 50 Shades of Grey, mumbling it to himself. This would be a 35-minute cut scene. Then you’d go into your job, where you’d be like, “I saved the world,” but no one would remember.Then he’d be working at a check-out, and it would be like Papers, Please. Shoppers buy random stuff and you have to take their card and put it in the card reader, and then make sure their pin is correct, then hand them their receipt. Then you get shoplifters and aliens that you can shoot at. And then everyone has to go home because you’ve shot an alien.Jay Baylis, Chucklefish Games (Starbound)Duke Nukem is a relic of a bygone age – all his cultural references are outdated. You’d have to get rid of all his They Live and Terminator quotes and replace them with more modern things. He’d have to read books. He’d have to better himself.He has to go on dates, but then he’ll reference 80s rom-coms and no one wants to hear about them anymore. He must learn to cook, probably, instead of shooting. He’ll get a job, something productive. Maybe he has to rise up from working in a shooting range, some really obnoxious job, and then he eventually ends up in the community helping out less able people. Maybe he works as a teacher by the end of it.Then he goes back to his birth name, which is probably not Duke Nukem, it’s Nathaniel Esquire, and he’s from Shropshire. Duke was his nickname when he was 14 years old, and it stuck, and he never really outgrew it because he’s still, mentally, 14. It’s about Duke becoming a better person.Jennifer Schneidereit, Nyamyam (Tengami)One thing that I like about the Battlestar Galactica reboot is how Starbuck became a woman and it completely changed the dynamic between Starbuck and Apollo. Because Duke Nukem is so sexist and 1980s boys’ club, I think it would be really awesome if you created an Imperator Furiosa-style Lady Nukem and then made a game around her.Will Porter, writer (Alien Isolation, Project Zomboid)I’d do Austin Powers with it. I’d have a man out of time. I think it would really work. I’d keep the original way of having very key locations with the Doom-style locked doors thing, but every time you opened a door I’d change the environment. I’ve thought about this so much. As Austin Powers, it would really work, right? Everyone’s really embarrassed of him because he’s got these old 1990s-style opinions and attitudes. I just think Austin Powers would really work. It’d be great. Give it to me, Randy.Sarah and James Woodrow, Utopian World of Sandwiches (Chompy Chomp Chomp)In Duke Nukem 3D, when he walked into a room and was looking for something he used to go, “Uh, uh, where is it?”. That was really funny to us, so we’d just make him look for stuff all the time. We’d turn it into a first-person find’em-up.Viki Johnson, A Little Red Panda (Princess to the Rescue)I don’t know much about Duke Nukem, but it’s a lot of guns and a lot of manly men, so it would be quite nice for him to see the error of his ways and reject the whole persona of this big horrible manly stereotype, and help poor children. I think his statistics would work like that morality system in Fable. There’d be certain things he could do, helping out in his community, that would make him a better person. But if you wanted him to be evil, he could just go and kick some pigeons.Alistair Aitcheson (Codex Bash, Dash &amp; Bash)For better or for worse, the one thing everyone remembers about Duke Nukem is the bit where he threw money at the pole dancers. So how about a physical game like Laser Quest where you’re running around a room but instead of firing lasers at each other you’re throwing digital Monopoly money, and every time some money hits you, you have to remove an item of clothing.Sam Barlow (Her Story)Duke Nukem goes into a Vegas strip club at 4am, and it’s kind of empty, and there’s only two strippers working. He throws some money at them. Then, because there’s no one else around, they sit down and they talk to him, and Duke sits there and he listens to this stripper talk about her life, why she’s stripping, her family back home and how they live a state away but she flies into Vegas for two weeks of the month to earn money, then she goes go back and looks after her kids.Then after an hour of this conversation, of him just listening to the woman talk, she asks Duke about his life, and then it flips. It’s the first time anyone’s actually asked about him, and he’s forced to look inside himself and understand why he does these things, why he feels the need to kick ass, and it’s just a lovely moment that they share. He walks away from it feeling like he understands himself a little bit better, but the ending is kind of ambiguous. We see Duke leave the strip club and we don’t know what happens next.Dan Pinchbeck, The Chinese Room (Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture, Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs, Dear Esther)Make it funny. Duke Nukem was really funny to begin with. It was fucking hysterical. It wasn’t this ponderous, horrible, awful, cynical shitbag that it ended up being. In a similar way to the stuff they’ve hopefully gone back to with Doom 4, make it really, really fast, make it really funny, stick your tongue in your cheek as firmly as it’ll go, and just make something that’s just big and stupid and fast and fun, because that’s what it’s supposed to be.The most fun I had in the remake of Duke Nukem wasthrowing actual shit at the wall. You picked up the shit and you threw it at the wall, and it made a stain, and then you did that a few more times. Then you went and played the game for a couple of hours and thought, “Actually, the most fun I had in this game was just throwing shit at a wall”. So we could just do that – Duke Nukem: Shit Wall Simulator.James Parker, Ground Shatter (SkyScrappers)The problem with Duke Nukem is that he is kind of a symbol of his day – of big, bold, stupid action heroes, which is not as acceptable as it once was. So now he would have to understand the context of kicking people through windows and exploding aliens, and he’d probably have to negotiate a lot more on their terms.So I’d make a game where each of the aliens would come into Duke Nukem’s office, he would deal with the paperwork and decide whether they needed kicking in or not, and then every now and again he’d get to go on a team away day where he could really flex his muscles, do a load of shooting, and then he’d go back to the boring office job. Deep down, he would yearn for the days when he was shooting stuff indiscriminately.Martin Darby, Strike GamelabsI’d get the entire cast of Downton Abbey involved in Duke Nukem. He could just go there on a retreat, and they would cook him meals. That’s it, you’ve got to run Downton Abbey for Duke Nukem. You’ve got to get him in good shape. He’s had a hell of a hard time. He’s just saved the world. Now it’s time to put his feet up and have the butler bring him a sherry.
Think back to when you were a child: the thought of your favourite doll or teddy bear learning your name and intelligently talking to you would be simply magical.That’s the promise of connected toys.Hello Barbieis a $75 doll that can listen to your child and respond intelligently;CognitToysoffers an artificial intelligence dinosaur for $120 that learns with children, getting smarter as they do; and theAvakaiis a €67 wooden toy that communicates over the internet.As appealing as such interactive toys may sound to little ones, they raise questions for their parents: are they really more engaging or educational than “dumb” alternatives? Are they secure or do they raise children to disregard privacy? Are they a gimmick?The parents we spoke to were not convinced. One Mumsnet member said she bought her daughter an app-enabledFurbie Boom(£65) for her eighth birthday, but it wasn’t any more engaging than more traditional toys. She said: “She only played with it for about a day, and has hardly looked at it since.”Other parents weren’t any more positive. Such toys look like they “limit the imagination potential of playing,” one said, while another said: “Teddy Ruxpin scared the crap out of me”.The research on the developmental efficacy of smart toys is still out, though two experts we asked said they wouldn’t buy such toys – that said, the opinions of child psychologists and security analysts may hold little water with a demanding toddler mid tantrum.“I’m an associate professor of cognitive development [and] I wouldn’t recommend them to parents,” said Graham Schafer, associate professor at the University of Reading. “At the moment, they’re in the world of things that companies are trying to market to parents and they’re essentially superfluous or a novelty.”Sean Sullivan agreed. The security adviser at antivirus firm F-Secure doesn’t let his five-year-old child use any technology without supervision, whether it’s a tablet or a talking bear – though that’s more for development reasons than security.Good for development?As much as your children might beg for such smart toys, don’t buy into claims that they’ll help development or education. Schafer said the small amount of research that has been done suggests such smart toys aren’t beneficial to “typically developing children,” he said, though for children with autism there might be some advantages.However, such toys would have to be developed with a specific issue in mind – what works for a child with autism won’t work for a child with a speech delay, for example. “Children with autism are a particularly special case in that they often have difficulty interacting with people and find it easier to interact with things,” he said. “I think it would be a really bad idea for a child with speech delay, because it’s so unlike speech and normal communication.”Schafer said that the interaction offered by such toys lacks subtlety, meaning they’re not ideal for children learning to speak, especially those struggling to do so. Plus, because they aren’t yet very sophisticated, they’re not much smarter than previous “talking” toys that didn’t have internet connections, so he doesn’t expect them to be much more engaging.However, he said that “you’d be a fool” if you thought robotics and computing weren’t going to improve or become a key part of children’s toys. “They may get very good, but they’re not very good at the moment.”The fact they’re web-connected could actually help. “That is obviously a big potential advantage in that they can upgrade these things online,” said Schafer. “But the idea it’s actually learning about the personality of the child, I think that’s a fatuous claim. There isn’t a very sophisticated computer [that can] do that, never mind a toy.”The smart toys on offer of course differ in their sophistication. Available later this year, the Hello Barbie is expected to use speech recognition and uploads snippets of speech to the cloud for analysis – sort of like a plastic Siri – while the IBM-backed CogniToys dinosaur connects toAI genius Watson, the computer that won US quiz show Jeopardy. Will that make it a step ahead as a toy?“I’m sceptical about that,” said Schafer, explaining that AI works well in specific domains that are well understood, such as medical diagnosis. “There isn’t a domain of conversation in culture which is understood by IBM or anybody else. It’s just what we do. It’s too big for the machine.”SecurityTraditional dolls may not have conversations with your children, but they also don’t infringe their privacy or safety.Any device with a camera that’s connected to wi-fi raises concerns though – there have been reports over the past few years of creepshacking smart baby monitors, with one doing it to scream at children, whileVivid Toy’s Cayla Dollwas hacked to swear. Imagine the ensuing nightmares if your child’s favourite doll starts screaming curses.There are key protections to look for in a connected toy to prevent such incidents. “Ideally, a webcam, camera, [or] mic device should be restricted to the local network or have strict remote access controls,” F-Secure’s Sullivan advised.“When such devices connect with the cloud, they should definitely use HTTPS encryption for that communication,” he added. “You can build it secure, but eventually, somebody will find a bug. The key question is can it be updated to maintain its security? Will toy companies go to that expense?”While there’s so far little concern that personal data will be lost, that could change in the future. “Although toys don’t store financial data, passwords and the like, toys with direct internet connectivity should give parents pause,” Sullivan noted. “And consider this, how long before such toys include in-app purchases?”In defense of smart toysJustyna Zubrycka and Matas Petrikas are building a smart toy – but the German design duo think it has more in common with traditional toys than rival IoT abominations.“We see the best qualities of the traditional toys are disappearing,” said Petrikas. “We bring in the connection and we bridge the gap between traditional toys that worked really well in the past hundreds of years, and bringing them into the 21st century with a connection.”Their Avakai is a small wooden doll that can communicate to an app or another doll via Bluetooth. The dolls can interact within 50m, but the app allows any distance. That means you can use them to play hide-and-seek – the dolls light up when you get close – or to send a message, say lighting it up in a special colour to let your little one know you’re on the way to pick them up from daycare.Because the dolls are so simple, there’s no limit to how they can be used. “There were many games they [children] just invented,” said Zubrycka. “For instance, they started to make secret messages like drawings and then they would hide one doll and then they would make whole play sessions and a whole story around it.”The toy encrypts its communications and doesn’t have a camera – a key design decision – and as there’s no data communicated and the name of the child is never used, privacy issues are less of a concern. “This is not a device that gathers information from a child and then uses it somehow in a marketing way,” said Zubrycka. “All these technological features in the child’s hand is actually... supposed to empower a child. So the child decides how to play with it and what to do with it.”“It’s not an interface to internet. It’s an interface to play,” added Petrikas. Whether that convinces parents and children of course remains to be seen, and while the project just failed to win enough backers forKickstarter funding, it’s carrying on via itsown websitewith a single doll costing €67.The way Zubrycka and Petrikas see it, Android tablets and iPhones are built for adults in mind, and someone needs to think of the children. “We are creating a completely different way for children to experience technology and it’s based on the best traditions from the past, you know – playing together with our children, inventing their own games,” said Petrikas.However, Sullivan questioned whether smart toys could truly compete with more engaging tech gadgets, from tablets toRaspberry-Pi controlled robots.“I can understand why toy companies are wanting to use cloud [or] internet tech. There are numerous types of entertainment competing for children’s attention,” he said. “The sort of ‘smart’ toys I see in development appear to be aimed at an ever shrinking market. I don’t think the cloud is going to save toy companies. Why get a talking Barbiewhen you can build your own robot?”Perhaps the real revolution in toy tech will be your daughter building her own talking doll, rather than asking for Hello Barbie for her birthday.
A few years ago, my computer packed up, so I transferred everything I wanted to an external hard drive and got rid of it. I have a smartphone for basic things like web browsing and checking emails, and for anything else I head for the local library with a USB stick. It’s saved me quite a bit not having an internet connection (and associated phone line) over the last three years. That said, I’m hankering for a laptop, but I don’t know where to start: it’s 10 years since I last bought a computer!I’d like something that is a good size for a handbag / bedside table drawer (I am in a flat and storage space is premium). I want to run Microsoft Word (I like the fancy features), Excel with macros (I tried Google docs but the sheets I’m working with are too large / sophisticated for it), web stuff -- the usual browsing, YouTube, blogging etc -- and music. I love CDs, but an external CD/DVD player is something I’ve considered. Budget? I’ve no idea, but not loads.KatieYou’ve picked a good time to buy, because Windows laptops are cheap at the moment. Sales are down compared with last year, when they were boosted by people replacing PCs running Windows XP, and have been further depressed by people waiting for the launch of Windows 10 on 29 July. Manufacturers and retailers are therefore keen to clear old stock.Today, Windows laptops start at around £159.99, and you can get reasonable machines for £200 to £400. I expect you spent much more a decade ago, probably from £650 to £1,500. (The December 2005 issue of PC Pro magazines had a group test of “bargain” notebooks at £799.)Any Windows 8.1 laptop you buy now will get afree “in place” upgrade to Windows 10, which should leave your programs and data intact.Screen sizes and CDsLaptops that fit in typical handbags have 10in to 12in screens, while a bedside table drawer will probably manage a 13.3in screen (mine does). However, the smaller the screen, the smaller the text (if we assume a screen resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels, which is the most common format for cheap laptops). Since you want to run large spreadsheets, I reckon 11.6in is the practical minimum and 13.3in would be better.If you would prefer a 13.3in screen, then theDell XPS 13 (2015)is the only one likely to fit in many handbags, but it is out of your price range.Few if any small laptops have built-in CD-Rom or DVD drives, which are common in laptops with 15.6in screens. Those are too big and too heavy for handbags, and might be too big for a bedside table drawer. However, there are plenty of external CD/DVD writers that you can plug into a USB port for £10 to £25. You could use a DVD writer to burn a couple of Windows recovery discs and make extra backups, as well as play music and movies.Checking the specsToday’s cheap laptops have relatively slow Intel Celeron N28xx processors, of which the fastest is the N2840. The Pentium N35xx range offers a worthwhile improvement and, again, the N3540 is the fastest. The Intel Atom Z3795 is another option, and comes between the N3510 and N3520. Any of these will run Microsoft Word, but could struggle with large spreadsheets in Excel. For that kind of job, it would be better to step up to an Intel Core i3 or i5 processor.Celeron and Pentium are simply brands. Architecturally, these chips areAtom Silvermont (Bay Trail)designs.NoteBookCheck’sComparison of Mobile Processors (CPU Benchmarks)is a great way to compare processor speeds. Don’t bother with the scores, just search for the code numbers to see where chips stand in the table. If you also look up the chip in the PC you use at work (search for System Information) that will give you some idea of the relative speeds.The cheapest laptops have 2GB of memory, which is enough for light use with Windows 8.1 and 10, but 4GB is obviously better.The cheapest laptops have 32GB of storage, which is basically an eMMC Flash memory chip soldered to the motherboard. Subtract the space used by Microsoft Windows and its recovery partition, and there’s very little left for your data. Laptops like this are usable if they have a slot for a 32GB or 64GB SD/microSD memory card, or you can save files directly to the free online storage in Microsoft OneDrive.Better laptops may have faster but more expensive 128GB or 256GB SSDs (solid state drives). However, if you want to store music and movies on your laptop, you might be better off with a traditional 500GB hard drive. Your laptop will be less responsive, but it will hold a lot more.Screens and keyboardsThe dramatic fall in laptop prices from £2,000 to £200 is not just down to cheaper chips. Manufacturers are also using cheaper keyboards, cheaper screens, and cheaper plastic cases. As usual, you get what you pay for. If possible, visit the computer departments of John Lewis, PC World and similar shops to see the screens and try the keyboards.It’s tempting to read the specs and go for the cheapest option. However, if you see PCs side by side, you may decide that it’s worth paying a bit more for a richer, brighter screen, a more responsive keyboard, and a more solid case.I’d guess that you will turn out to be a fairly light laptop user – you’ve developed different habits while not having one – and a careful one. If so, a cheapish laptop should be fine. The sort of person who has a heavy workload and tends not to look after things should buy something more robust, and therefore more expensive.A short shortlistAt£169.99or£179.99, the Lenovo Flex 10 looks like a “best buy” at the moment, though it’s currently sold out at Amazon.co.uk. It has a 2.16GHz Celeron N2840 processor, but unlike most cheap laptops, it has 4GB of memory and a 320GB hard drive. I used a Flex 10 with a faster N3510 processor and thought the screen quality was above average for the price. Also, it seemed quite well made.The Lenovo Flex 10 wins on portability – it easily fits my wife’s handbags – but I think you will find the screen a bit too small. However, if you like the style, you can get a redLenovo Flex 2 14with a 14in touch screen, Core i3-4030 processor, 4GB of memory and 500GB hard drive for £349.99. The 1.9kg Flex 14 would overstrain a handbag but could fit your drawer.The Flex 10’s main rival is the HP Stream 11, which is available inblueormagentafor£159.99. This is a minimum-spec machine – N2840, 2GB, 32GB eMMC – but buyers seem to like it a lot. As the name indicates, it has an 11.6in screen. There’s also aStream 13with the same specification but a 13.3in screen for £229.95.However, I think you’d be better off buying an 11.6inAcer E3-112(N2840, 4GB, 500GB) for £219.99 or, preferably, a touch-screenAcer Aspire V3(N3540, 4GB, 500GB) for £249.99.Another alternative is the 11.6in touch-screenAsus VivoBook X200CAwith an Intel Celeron 1007U, 4GB of memory and 500GB hard drive. This is an older design, though you could also say it has stood the test of time. (It’s descended from the Asus S200E, which I liked a lot.)If you decide to splash out, there are lots of variations on the Lenovo Yoga 2 convertible touch-screen design with 11.6in and 13.3in screens. TheLenovo Yoga 2 11starts at around £389.99 (N3520, 4GB, 500GB), or you could go fora silver model with a 13.3in screenfor £429.95 (Core i3-4030U, 4GB, 8GB+500GB). Is that a lot? You could spend more on a tablet or smartphone.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
It may be five years, and countless follow-ups, since the original Angry Birds catapulted the casual gaming market into the mainstream, but there’s never been a fully fledged sequel: until now.The game’s developer Rovio has tweeted a teaser image for the game, the aptly titled Angry Birds 2, including a date – 30 July – and the promise that it will be “Bigger. Badder. Birdier”.30 July is a Thursday – the standard release day for new mobile games – which suggests the game will be launched on that date. Rovio isholding media events in San Francisco and New Yorkthat week to unveil the title.#AngryBirds2- Bigger. Badder. Birdier.&#10;July 30pic.twitter.com/oIsYEKkHo5&mdash; Angry Birds (@AngryBirds)July 16, 2015The original Angry Birds was released in 2009, with its popularity spawning a franchise that expanded into toys, sweets, online videos, books, educational initiatives and even real-world playgrounds.Along the way, there have been a host of other Angry Birds mobile games. Some followed the bird-slinging gameplay of the original, including Angry Birds Rio, Angry Birds Seasons and Angry Birds Stella, as well as two Angry Birds Star Wars games.There have also been expansions into other gameplay forms: Angry Birds Go! offered kart racing; Angry Birds Transformers was an action game; Angry Birds Epic an RPG adventure; and Angry Birds Fight! and Angry Birds Pop! were match-three puzzle games.Related:Angry Birds revenues fell in 2014 due to sharp decline in merchandise salesAlong the way, however, there have been significant challenges, as Rovio tried to adapt to the growing dominance of “free to play” games on mobile devices, which made their money from in-app purchases of virtual items and currency.All of Rovio’s recent games have been free-to-play, yet the company has struggled to break into the upper reaches of the app stores to compete with lucrative games like Clash of Clans and Candy Crush Saga.At the time of writing, for example, Angry Birds Pop! is the only Rovio game in the200 top-grossing games in Apple’s US App Store iPhone chart– and it’s in 124th place.Rovio’s financial resultsreflect its battle to make money in a free-to-play world. The company saw its annual revenues rise from €6.5m in 2010 to €75.6m in 2011, and then €152.2m in 2012.In 2013, they flattened out to €156m, although the company later restated them as €173.5m. Then, in 2014,Rovio’s annual revenues fell to €158.3m.By comparison, fellow Finnish firm Supercell, which publishes the Clash of Clans, Hay Day and Boom Beach games,reported annual revenues of €1.55bn in 2014– nearly 10 times Rovio’s.Angry Birds Star Wars games were branded offshoots.Photograph: PRAt the franchise’s peak in late 2012, Angry Birds games wereplayed by more than 263 million monthly active users, but that totalfell to 200 million by September 2014. The company has not updated that total since publicly, although it has said thatits games were downloaded 600m times in 2014.In October 2014,Rovio announced plans to lay off 16% of its staff, and admitted that “we have been building our team on assumptions of faster growth than have materialised”. Chief executive Mikael Hed stepped down, and was replaced by former Nokia marketing executive Pekka Rantala.Related:Why Angry Birds are slightly miffed... 10 key facts about mobile games in 2014Angry Birds 2 is a hugely important game for Rovio, then. Not least because the company is continuing to work on the Angry Birds film, which is due for release in 2016.If the new game is a success, it will build anticipation for the film – as will one of Rovio’s bright spots, the ToonsTV online video network, which launched in March 2013 andreached 4bn views by the end of 2014.With 200 million active players, €156m of annual revenues and a growing presence in the fast-moving world of online children’s video, Rovio is far from an also-ran in the mobile entertainment space. But Angry Birds 2’s success will be a key pointer to the company’s future trajectory.
From The Great British Bake Off to the vast number of crafting magazines bulging off the newsagent shelves, the handmade look is definitely in vogue. This trend has even been reflected in games, beginning perhaps with loveable platformer LittleBigPlanet, and most recently seen in the Xbox One title Unravelled. Here’s another example: Yoshi’s Woollen World, a follow-up of sorts to developer Good Feel’s Wii title, Kirby’s Epic Yarn.In Woolly World, it’s not just about cute aesthetics: the handmade theme of the visuals adds to the tactility of the Yoshi universe. These games have always been very physical because of the character’s signature jump, not quite as famous as Mario’s, but more distinctive as he kicks his legs and audibly strains to reach higher platforms. Here, your cuddly dinosaur squishes the cushioned ground underfoot, jumps onto stitched platforms suspended between knitting needles and encounters enemy crabs with scissors for claws. Spools of thread hang on the walls, knotted seagulls fly past, and doors unzip and curl back to let you through. Even familiar world themes look more interesting in cloth: lava has a sequined sheen, its heat rays made of string, and winter hats stand in for mountains in the backdrop as Yoshi rolls a snowball made of cotton wool.Every character and scenic object is given the photorealistic look and feel of real textiles2D platformers can seem old-fashioned, but this aesthetic makes familiar moves feel fresher. Rather than swallow enemies to produce eggs (a convention of his games), Yoshi unravels them with a quick dart of his tongue and – with a noise that sounds like “bum” – plops them out as balls of yarn that bounce behind him ready for when he might want to throw them. His tongue can also unwrap presents or unravel barriers. Whenever he swallows some yarn, the resulting ball is the same colour as whatever he just ate and can be used in turn to fill in outlines to create platforms and warp pipes of the same colour, which is a nice aesthetic touch that’s even used for a simple puzzle late in the game.New features are introduced throughout, sometimes only for one level, which might make the designers seem fickle but at least ensures that the most annoying levels are one-offs. The level in which you collect fluffy white Huffin Puffin chicks and turn them into temporary cotton trails is both cute and mechanically interesting, and (fabric spoiler alert) I’m surprised the developers waited until the final world to introduce velcro (alert ends). One of the ghost levels, however, in which you’re expected to figure out that you can only add yarn to a ghost’s wireframe body through a particular scenic interaction, is just frustrating, especially in single-player. Oh and thank you for your help, those people who leave helpful messages on Miiverse.Co-op craftingYou’re not supposed to play Woolly World alone. Even in the intro cutscene, which tells the typically lightweight story of Kamek kidnapping Yoshis and turning them into bundles of yarn, there are two survivors instead of one. Solo players can use one of the expensive Yarn Yoshi Amiibo to bring a second Yoshi into the game instead, but it won’t have independent AI and will just move when you do, which is a tricky mechanic that should be reserved for games built entirely around it. Here you’ll just end up trying to eat an enemy with the Yoshi in front only to see his follower gobble him up instead, or jump one onto a platform to find the other has leaped into the mouth of a Piranha Plant.Moments like this are funnier when you can blame them on human misjudgment. Co-op play is full of slapstick humour: aim your yarn at a target and knock your friend off the platform instead, swallow them and have them struggle to escape the ball that trails behind you, hop onto Poochy’s back only to realise he’s loyal to your partner as he runs you off a cliff. Some levels are more difficult when you’ve got to consider the actions of a second player, like one in which you fly a magic carpet by standing on either side to steer and jumping to lift it, but for the most part it’s a bonus, even if only because it means you always have something handy to turn into a ball of yarn.Environments feature a range of scenic themes from rich green pastures to darker interiorsPhotograph: NintendoOverall you could consider Woolly World an easy game, but that’s because its more challenging parts are optional. Young or otherwise inexperienced players can make it through by using the badges – purchased with gems – that do things like protect you from certain kinds of danger, or by activating Mellow Mode, which lets Yoshi fly.Players with more experience can challenge themselves to collect everything as they go: flowers, which open bonus levels; stamp patches, which get you stamps to use on Miiverse messages; and bundles of yarn, which help you reconstruct different Yoshis that you can then use instead. Sometimes these items are stashed in hidden areas discovered through careful observation and exploration, or appear when you clear a screen of enemies. Sometimes they’re rewards for difficult mini challenges, like those in which Yoshi transforms into a Mole or Airplane or Umbrella or Mermaid, the last of which is the first time I can remember enjoying an underwater level in a game.Most alluring are the bundles of yarn, which you’ll want not just for the sake of 100% completion but to find out what new Yoshi design they’ll create. You can save a favourite design to your Amiibo, and I can imagine kids toiling to get the more elusive patterns so they can bring them to their friend’s house and brag.Unfortunately, the relative unpopularity of the Wii U makes that scenario unlikely, which is why despite their uselessness in the game itself I hope those Yarn Yoshi Amiibo sell well. Perhaps those overpriced but desirable toys will turn more people’s attention towards this delightful game.Nintendo; Wii U; £30; Pegi rating: 3+
One of the leading thinkers in the new computing sector known as the internet of things (IoT) can’t help but look at all the flashy, expensive, feature-packed gadgets on the market today – things like Google Glass or the Apple Watch – and keep coming away with the same thought: too many device makers keep getting it wrong.Given the nature of his chosen field, serial entrepreneur David Rose – who’s also a researcher with theMIT Media Lab, where he’s taught for six years – might be expected to want the next generation of connected devices to pick up where smartphones leave off. Indeed, that seems to be the nature of the race to figure out what the next dominant computing platform looks like, whether it’sFacebook snatching up Oculusor Microsoft working to bring itsHoloLensto fruition.It’s all a variation, in other words, on either staring at a screen or porting the screen to a new platform. It’s here that Rose diverges from many in the rest of the industry.Plenty of his professional peers with high hopes for the potential of the IoT regard it as harbinger of a post-smartphone era, of a future when almost anything we own, use and wear can be connected to the web and in turn give us some measure of value. Rose, however, doesn’t want IoT devices that become mere smartphone replacements or even primary computing hubs.Related:Tech firms need to use data ethically around the internet of thingsInstead, the framework through which he considers the IoT is actually informed partly by something surprisingly low-tech: the memory of his woodworking grandfather’s basement workshop.In a book he published last year, Enchanted Objects: Design, Human Desire and the Internet of Things, Rose sums up his hope for the future of technology: he wants it be dominated less by glass slabs and more by tools and artefacts, just like his grandfather’s space was filled with.His grandfather, for example, never hunted for the one tool to serve as an all-purpose tool hub or for a tool that would eliminate the need for other tools. His shop was filled with hammers, screwdrivers, wrenches, clamps and more – and they all enchanted the young Rose because even in their simplicity, those tools could lead to a multiplicity of imaginative creations.“It took some time for me to understand why the smartphone, while convenient and useful for some tasks, is a dead end as the human-computer interface,” Rose writes in Enchanted Objects. “The reason, once I saw it, is blindingly obvious: it has little respect for humanity.”Instead, Rose wants to see – and is working to create – more objects that draw inspiration from magic and fairy tales. To him, a good example of an “enchanted object” – never mind that it’s only found in J R R Tolkein’s The Lord of the Rings – is something like the blade Sting that belonged to the hobbit Frodo.The blade’s purpose in Tolkein’s story was straightforward. But in addition to serving as a weapon and a defensive tool, it also glowed blue in the presence of orcs, giving the object its quality of enchantment. The inspiration of Frodo’s sword can be seen in something Rose invented a few years ago – anAccuweather– connected ambient umbrella with a handle glows if rain is expected in the next 12 hours.Related:How to turn your old house into a smart home“I’ve been working on and interested in the change in how we interact with technology for a while now and am convinced it’s undergoing a giant shift,” Rose said. “We’re seeing a cultural yearning or need to solve this issue about how most of our attention is being soaked up by screens. So what I’m interested in is in taking old infrastructure, things like locks or thermostats, connecting them and making them simpler to use.“The big interface change enabled by these purpose-built, bespoke things is they can be so much simpler. They don’t have to do as much. I’ve always been drawn to human-computer interaction and interface design, making objects and services that interact in ways people feel are natural and intuitive.”Indeed, such a shift is at this point already seen as a foregone conclusion in some corners. The technology company Cisco, for example, has forecast that between50bn and 1 trillion deviceswill be connected to the internet before the decade is out, creating an economic impact of $14.4tn.For years, Rose has been at the centre of that trend. In addition to giving presentations about product innovation, at the MIT Media Lab he teaches about and researches “subtle, ambient interfaces.” He’s also currently the CEO of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based image recognition software startupDitto Labs.Before that, he co-founded a wireless healthcare company, Vitality, which he also led as CEO. It produced an internet-connected medication packaging device,GlowCap, that represents the kind of “enchanted object” Rose wrote about in his book.The IoT space he spends a considerable amount of his research and time on today is comprised of everything from wearables to so-called smart homes to connected vehicles. One reason the space is so hot – the economics has caught up with the technology. Things like inexpensive cloud computing services and the ability to pack more raw computing power into smaller devices have made it possible to connect more products than ever before.IoT for consumersBefore we even get to an entirely connected reality, though, among the obstacles in the way is the fact that plenty of such devices already have landed with a thud, met with a lack of enthusiasm and consumer buy-in.As Rose sees it, there’s a reason some of the highest profile IoT devices like the Apple Watch haven’t exactly caught fire yet.“The Apple Watch suffers from trying to do much,” Rose says. “The idea of an enchanted object really starts with something that’s ordinary. You start with something that’s familiar, and you’re adding a new sensor or display or feature.”The indispensable parts that come next include simplicity and a sense of delight.“One thing I think we can expect is that there really won’t be any product category in the future that isn’t connected,” Rose said. “One of the inevitabilities the IoT also will bring is not only changing business models but a fusion of capabilities. Now you need things like search capability and character recognition to look at the data these new devices are collecting. So, lots of interesting new partnerships will be spawned by these old school product companies.”Every year, among his usual presentations, Rose leads a workshop on enchanted objects at theCopenhagen Institute of Interaction Design. His partner in the endeavor is a magician from London, Adrian Westaway, and during the class students are set loose at retailers such as Ikea. They return with ordinary household goods they’d like to repurpose into an “enchanted object.”“The discussion we have is focused on the intersection between tropes of magic and how that could be mapped into service around the IoT,” Rose said, adding that he teams up with a magician because they’re “very good at understanding emotional arcs. Where to draw your attention, how to tell a backstory, timing”.His students have prototyped objects, such as a bench that reads online dating profiles of people sitting on it and uses that to nudge compatible strangers together.Not surprisingly, people like to ask Rose where all this is going. Those people include Hollywood producer J J Abrams, who once stopped by the MIT Media Lab to see prototypes and demos of products being worked on.Abrams followed up his visit with an email to the Lab: “Fifty years from now,” he wrote, “what will computers be called?”Some of Rose’s students and colleagues hazarded a guess. In his book, Rose recalls one student who answered, “I think they will be called nothing. They will ‘be’ us and power everything under the sun.”Whether or not that’s true, of course, Rose plans to keep working toward his vision that those computing devices of the future also end up enchanting us along the way.
It’s Thursday! Sorry about yesterday, I was at the Develop conference watching Randy Pitchford doing magic tricks (“look, I made Aliens Colonial Marines disappear!”)
“When I look five years ahead, I see computers getting smaller and smaller, and I see them really worn on our bodies. We’re going to be wearing more computers on us: I think that’s inevitable.”You would probably say the same if you were Eric Migicovsky, who runs smartwatch maker Pebble, whose business model involves selling people computers to wear on their bodies.Even so, Migicovsky’s confidence in the wider trend fuelling that business is notable, at a time when despite Apple and Google’s moves into the smartwatch market, there is still widespread scepticism about what exactly these devices are for.Related:Pebble Time review: better on Android than iPhonePebble has a number of those early adopters to draw conclusions from: in 2012 its original e-paper smartwatchraised $10.3m from nearly 69,000 backers on crowdfunding website Kickstarter.The US company went on to sell its one millionth smartwatch in February 2015, before launching a new Kickstarter campaign for its colour-screened Pebble Time,attracting more than 78,000 backers and $20.3m of pre-orders.So, whataresmartwatches for? Migicovsky compares the current state of the market with smartphones in 2007, in the early days of iPhone and Android.“There were a couple of core use cases that everyone used, and the beginnings of some new things – new experiences just squeezing into the public consciousness,” he says.For smartwatches in 2015, those core use cases appear to be activity-tracking and notifications – 90% of Pebble owners use notifications every day, according to Migicovsky – with watch-face customisation also scoring highly in Pebble’s case.He points out that there are already more than 6,000 faces available on Pebble’s app store, while an app to create your own watch face has been used more than 300k times.“People love customising their device: if you walk around and see people using a Pebble, they’ll be using a different watch face. It’s a little Swatch-like element: except where you used to buy different $50 or $100 Swatches, now you’re customising and swapping digital watch faces,” he says.It’s worth noting that Pebble’s use of customisation as a key feature also highlights a difference to the Apple Watch, which for now doesn’t have downloadable faces.Pebble CEO Eric Migicovsky.Migicovsky also mentions Pebble’s vibrating alarm-clock – which wakes people up quietly in the morning by buzzing on their wrist – as a popular feature, thus highlighting Pebble’s longer battery life compared to the Apple Watch’s need for a nightly charge.As the independent underdog in the current smartwatch market – albeit one of the first to get out of the kennel with a commercial product – Pebble needs to shout about its advantages. But Migicovsky is just as willing to speculate about how smartwatches will evolve to become much more useful to a wider range of people in the years ahead, just as smartphones did before.Related:Pebble Time review: the simple but effective answer to Apple Watch“On the early iPhone and Android devices you had some core usage: mobile browser, maps, messaging, YouTube,” he says. “But now, years later, we have Uber, Spotify and all these interesting things“We’re focusing on building a core platform that provides a ton of value to people daily. We’re building something that we want to stay on people’s wrists, and provide the platform on which other developers can build early examples of what the future will be.”He cites a project calledNightscout, which connects smartwatches to glucose monitors worn by people with diabetes, to display their blood-sugar levels on their Pebble.“Instead of using their bulky computer that’s kinda awkward and the size of a deck of cards, they can see that information on their wrists. Thousands of people are now using this, but it wasn’t something we came up with. It wasn’t even on our radar,” he says.For similar reasons, Migicovsky is bullish aboutPebble’s plans for “smartstraps”: replacement straps for its smartwatches, made by external developers and startups, that add new features. The company announced plans for a $1m fund to help turn the best ideas into commercial products earlier in the year.“Because of the size constraints, we can’t really shove everything and the kitchen sink into the watch, so there are things like sensors, functionality and features that we wanted to explore that we couldn’t fit in,” he says.“We’ll see smartstraps for those soon. The majority of people might not want a pollution sensor, an extra-long battery or a gesture detector or IR blaster, but people are experimenting [with] putting these kinds of technologies together. They were doing this with Pebble from a software perspective, but from a hardware perspective it wasn’t really open until now.”One of the most intriguing aspects of a smartwatch is whether it can help us stay more connected to the people and the world around us: a device that makes us spend less time looking at a screen, not more – a rarity in the modern mobile hardware market.Where does Pebble stand on this? Migicovsky says he checks his phone much less often than he used to – “I’m a little bit less stressed” – but admits that his company could be doing more to tap in to this trend.“We have room to grow in regard to how we filter notifications, and how we let you disconnect when wearing a Pebble. It’s that ambient-computing aspect of it, where you’re not actively sitting at a desk, so it needs to mesh more into your life,” he says.“With wearables, we have an ultimate opportunity, as well as a responsibility, to curate and nurture that ambient computing feeling.”Can devices like the Pebble Time make us look at our smartphones less?Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPebble will still face questions about whether it has the long-term runway for this kind of nurturing. The company batted offreports of stretched finances earlier in the year, but the competition posed by Apple Watch and Google’s Android Wear partners is a real challenge.Migicovsky is happy to take the fight to both those rivals. “Pebble is the Swatch of smartwatches on iPhone: it’s affordable, smaller, lightweight and colourful, and it’s customisable. It’s different to the Apple Watch,” he says, of the comparison with Apple Watch.Android Wear? “That’s a different ball-game, but Pebble, in terms of functionality, feature-set, battery life … a whole number of things, is starting to be well-recognised in the market. It’s waterproof, and it can do more than Android Wear,” says Migicovsky.Related:Five of the best smartwatches for 2015Pebble’s emphasis on e-paper devices undoubtedly gives it a battery-life advantage for now: the Pebble Time promises up to seven days of use on a single charge, with my colleague Samuel Gibbs reporting that heregularly got between five and six days’ use when reviewing the device.Compare that to the nightly charging required for the Apple Watch, or the two-day battery life that’s become standard for Android Wear devices. “Less than 1% of our users charge every night,” says Migicovsky.But it’s early days for this category, both in terms of the battery life that can be squeezed out of non e-paper smartwatches, and in figuring out the expectations of owners: will they be happy to trade increased performance for a nightly or bi-nightly recharge?Still, Pebble is looking ahead, which is how Migicovsky ends up talking about the inevitability of wearing more computers on our bodies.“As to where Pebble fits in that environment: we’re one of the companies that are wearables-first, and we’ve built an operating system that runs on a tiny controller,” he says.“We’re building what 30 years ago would have been inside a desktop computer, and now is on your body. Over the next couple of years, our mission is to bring more and more technology to your body. But a smartwatch doesn’t replace your smartphone.”The latter is clearly a key principle for Pebble, emphasised when Migicovsky defines the company against rivals “just taking a smartphone and putting it on your body”. But he admits that some of the apps that he hopes will make smartwatches more useful may have been seen before on smartphones. It’s just that they’ll make much more sense on the wrist.“You could have used Uber on a desktop or laptop to manage your cabs, but on a smartphone it took off in a way that it probably never would have if it was just on your computer,” he says.“Smartwatches and wearables open a new opportunity in exactly the same way: things that you could have done on your smartphone, but which are much more awesome on a wearable. Activity-tracking is one of the first examples of that.”So the search for the killer app goes on … “It’s not about finding a killer app in my opinion,” says Migicovsky, politely but firmly.“Once Pebble is on people’s wrists, once it’s helping people exchange notifications, keep track of the people they care about, and manage their day, that’s when the next phase kicks in, and people start imagining what the next generation of services will be,” he says.“Don’t think of it as a killer app. Pebble doesn’t have a single killer app: it’s the platform. Most people can’t live without their phones right now. In the future, we expect that people will not be able to live without their wearable.”
Barack Obama on Wednesday paid a visit to one of the largest Native American tribes in the United States to emphasize the importance of expanding economic opportunity.The president chose the Choctaw Nation area, an Indian reservation that spans roughly 11,000 miles across south-eastern Oklahoma, to launch an initiative that would increase access to high-speed internet in low-income households.“The internet is not a luxury – it’s a necessity,” Obama said. “You cannot connect to today’s economy without having access to the internet.”The pilot program, called ConnectHome, will serve as part of the Obama administration’s efforts to bridge the gap that leaves many communities – especially in low-income and rural areas – without broadband access.The plan will launch in 27 cities, in addition to the Choctaw Nation, and will initially provide internet access to 275,000 low-income households and nearly 200,000 children, the White House said.Citing an achievement gap, Obama said there were many consequences to not having internet access. It might begin with something as basic as young people not being able to complete their homework, the president said, and translate to a math and science gap and later an economic gap.“In an increasingly competitive global economy, our whole country will fall behind,” Obama said.The trip marks the second time Obama has directed attention at the Choctaw Nation, the third-largest Native American tribe in the United States. Last year, he included the Choctaw Nation among five so-called Promise Zones – an initiative directed at impoverished areas under which the federal government would partner with businesses and local governments to offer tax incentives and grants as part of a broader effort to reduce poverty.Following its Promise Zone designation, the Choctaw Nation has received $58m in federal aid that has been used to expand educational opportunities and access to healthcare facilities.Approximately 23% of individuals residing in the Choctaw Nationlive below the poverty line– in some of its communities, the poverty rate is nearly 50%. The national poverty rate was 14.5% in 2013, according to the US census bureau.“We’ve got a special obligation to make sure that tribal youth have every opportunity to reach their full potential,” Obama said in his remarks on Wednesday. “A child’s ability to succeed should not be based on where she lives, how much money her parents make. That’s not who we are as a country.”Before his speech, Obama met with youth from the Choctaw Nation, Cherokee Nation, Muscogee (Creek) Nation and Chickasaw Nation.Obama has stressed the need to improve the conditions of Native Americans before, particularly with respect to jobs and education.“Native Americans face poverty rates far higher than the national average – nearly 60% in some places. And the dropout rate of Native American students is nearly twice the national rate,” he wrote inan op-edlast year. “These numbers are a moral call to action.”Obama penned that op-ed ahead of a visit last June to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, located in both North and South Dakota. The presidentcharacterized the visitas an emotional one that he said left him and first lady Michelle Obama “shaken, because some of these kids were carrying burdens no young person should ever have to carry”.“It was heartbreaking,” Obama added at the time.According to a fact sheet released by the administration, the Obama administration is on track to meet its promise that 99% of K-12 students can use the internet in their classrooms and libraries by 2017.“There are places where internet access can be a game-changer, but where service has not kept up,” Jeff Zients, director at the White House National Economic Council, told reporters ahead of Obama’s trip. “That’s especially true in schools … Students in every community need fast and reliable internet to get ahead and learn.”According to ananalysisby the President’s Council of Economic Advisers, released on Wednesday, nearly two-thirds of households among the lowest-income quintile of Americans owns a computer, but less than half have a subscription with an internet service provider.The report further found a “strong positive association” between median income and use of the web. Minorities were disproportionately affected, according to data compiled in 2013: black and Hispanic households lagged 16 and 11 points behind white households in having internet access, while Native American households were 19 points behind white households.
Reported cases of “revenge porn”,the sharing of explicit or sexual images without consent, have risen markedly, with alleged victims ranging from 11-year-olds to pensioners, an investigation has found.Two-thirds of incidents involved women under 30, with suspects mainly former partners. There were eight female complainants to every male.Figures obtained under freedom of information (FOI) requests show 14 police forces in England and Wales recorded a total of 139 revenge porn allegations in the six months to April 2015, with 10 victims under the age of consent.This period immediately followed the publication of guidelines by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) in October on how to prosecute the crime within existing legislation until it was made a specific criminal offence in April as part of the Criminal Justice and Courts Act.But the figures are likely to be the tip of the iceberg, with only one third of police forces in England and Wales holding details on complaints for the six months before the new law was introduced.The investigation, by the Press Association news agency, showed there was a rise in police action following the publication of the CPS guidelines, a move welcomed by campaigners.A previous investigation by the news agency showed 149 incidents collated by eight police forces over an 18-month period, between January 2012 and June 2014, with many perpetrators evading justice due to loopholes in the law. Just six people were cautioned or charged over the 18 months, compared with 13 charged in the most recent six-month period.Sarah Green, acting director of theEnd Violence Against Women coalition,said: “These statistics show it is likely that awareness of so-called revenge pornography has grown and that victims likely feel more confident that this crime will be taken seriously if reported.”Urging police and courts to continue the pursuit of perpetrators, she said the government needed to step up efforts to prevent this kind of abuse by ensuring “all young people get good quality sex and relationships education in school, where they talk about respect and equality and the law on consent and abuse”.Allegations reported to Cheshire police included topless pictures of a 12-year-old girl posted on Facebook and a 13-year-old girl who discovered images of herself topless and in underwear that had been used to set up a fake Facebook account.In Hertfordshire, recorded cases included a man in his 40s cautioned for harassment after sending naked photos of his former girlfriend to her boss, and a teenage boy accused of blackmailing his former girlfriend by threatening to publish nude pictures of her online.A 39-year-old man contacted Leicestershire police after an unknown woman persuaded him to perform a sex act over a webcam, then blackmailed him to send cash or risk the video being uploaded to the internet.Related:Revenge porn does not only try to shame women –  it tries to silence them tooTwo older victims, a 61-year-old man and a woman, 67, both contacted Northamptonshire police to complain about images involving them, and in both cases the suspects were their former partners. The same force recorded complaints from 13 victims aged between 11 and 19.Revenge porn was made a specific crime following a series of high-profile cases that raised awareness of the issue. In 2012, the pop star Tulisa Contostavlos won a high court injunction to halt the online distribution of a tape featuring her and her former lover Justin Edwards.Later that year, she settled a legal action against Edwards, who apologised for releasing the tape.Last year,a hacker posted naked images of about 100, mostly female, celebritiesincluding singer Rihanna and actor Jennifer Lawrence.The Guardian revealed last month that an American woman was aiming to make legal history in Englandas the first person to seek both a civil action for damages and the criminal prosecution of a former partner she accuses of posting revenge pornography of her on the internet. YouTube star Chrissy Chambers, 24, claims that her British ex-boyfriend recorded them having sex without her knowledge and later posted the footage on an amateur porn site.Revenge porn is legally defined as the sharing of private, often sexual or explicit, photos or videos, of another person with the purpose of causing embarrassment or distress. The crime carries a jail term of up to two years and a fine. Campaigners want the law updated to mean perpetrators can be convicted regardless of whether they intend to cause embarrassment or distress.Before April, revenge porn perpetrators could be prosecuted under harassment and indecency laws.Jef McAllister at London law firm McAllister Olivarius, which represents sex abuse victims, said: “The CPS guidelines, plus the new law banning revenge pornography and the surrounding publicity, have clearly encouraged victims to come forward.”But he added that more needed to be done. “Websites that encourage and profit from revenge pornographyare not covered by the law. Victims usually can’t get the material taken down unless they own the copyright and less than 10% of allegations result in a caution or a charge.“We’d like to see a parallel civil law introduced to permit victims to sue perpetrators for damages and to take out injunctions against them.” This could give victims more options, McAllister said, “as in many cases, women do not want to criminalise the men they once loved”.The 14 police forces who provided details to the Press Association were: Cheshire, Dyfed Powys, Essex, Greater Manchester, Hertfordshire, Humberside, Leicestershire, Merseyside, North Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Northumbria, South Wales, Thames Valley and West Yorkshire. The remaining forces either had no record of any complaints or refused to provide data due to FOI time limits, the agency said.Related:Revenge porn: why the right to be forgotten is the right remedyA CPS spokesman said: “Revenge porn is a particularly nasty crime and we have been bringing successful cases to court for some years under existing legislation.“The term was included in CPS legal guidance, as it became apparent this type of offending was growing, in order to make it clear to police and prosecutors which legislation could be used to prosecute.“The new offence has added to the powers available to prosecutors, and the CPS will use this legislation to bring the strongest possible cases to court.”
The word “thing”, in Old English, means ameeting or assembly. In the epic poemBeowulf, the eponymous hero declares he’ll “alone hold a thing” with the monster Grendel, who is terrorising the Danes in the great hall of Heorot. Beowulf uses “thing” euphemistically – it is a meeting thatimmediatelydescendsinto a fight.TheIcelandic parliamentis still called Althing (Alþingi). But over the ages, “things” have gradually evolved from meetings to matter. Today, we primarily use the term “thing” to refer to objects. Even in this sense, however, things are still core to our political and social lives.An appreciation that things have always been about community and politics, whether literally, or through the creation and respect of systems of private property, provides a useful backdrop to the recent book,Pax Technica: How the Internet of Things May Set Us Free or Lock Us Up, by writer and professor of communication, Philip N Howard.Howard’s thesis is that the much-hypedinternet of things- the expanding network of connected devices throughout our homes, bodies, streets and communities - heralds a new political age he calls “Pax Technica”.Related:What is the internet of things?This pax will not be dominated by any one state, Howard argues, but by “a special kind of stability in global politics, revealing a pact between big technology firms and government”. The categories of democracy and dictatorship will fall. In their place, he claims, will be data-driven socio-technocracies, built on the intensive reporting of our behaviours, habits, tastes and beliefs,seamlessly transmittedby the devices we use, carry and interact with. We won’t need to express our political preferences and needs: our white goods and driverless cars will express them for us.‘The most powerful political tool ever created’Howard is excited by this vision; excited by two decades of work with communities empowered by social media; excited by the possibility to reinsert what he sees as civic counterpower into device networks. I am not excited by it – I am terrified, and let me explain why.The arc of Howard’s argument is that an open, interoperable, global network means that “every dictator will face embarrassing videos he cannot block and outrage he cannot respond to”, and every region in crisis or transition will involve “people using digital media to try to improve their conditions, to build new organisations, and to craft new institutional arrangements”.The consequence, he submits, is “the most powerful political tool ever created”.Howard adopts a playbook that is indistinguishable from thefreedom-to-connectnarrative fronted by US big tech and government – the valorisation of openness, interoperability, anddisruptive innovationby private companies; the demonisation of repressive regimes; and a superficial view of political economy, international relations, and institutional corruption.The argument is bolstered with an impressive array of case studies of citizen-led activism and coordination through mobile phones and social media. Inspiring stuff, certainly, but far from fully-worked examples of stable, enduring, empowering governance.Howard fails to get out of the gates on the internet of things. Apart from general handwaving to big data-enabled improvements in health, energy, environment and finance, he provides no convincing argument for the hugecorporate and governmental data heistthat will be enabled by networking everything in our physical environment, from our toasters to our coffee machines to our town squares. He claims that device networks will solve collective action problems, but there is little to show how this connectivity will empower the citizenry, as opposed to creating the greatest mass surveillance infrastructure ever conceived.Howard acknowledges the dangers of surveillance, but he offersno opt-out. His solution to nefarious parties obtaining data is to just give out more data - to civic groups that he blithely assumes will organise and operate in the public good.In this, he appears a convert to the church ofbig data; thecomputational theocracy. “Data will help us track good trends, monitor bad behaviour, and make reasoned decisions”, Howard claims. The world’sproblems are all soluble, in other words, if only we have ever-more data and handfuls of networked citizen-analysts, thrown inamongst the vast machineof corporate and governmental data-miners.Worryingly, Howard offers no challenge to the proposition thatnetworked thingswill all communicate,seemingly by default, with “the original manufacturer, the information services we subscribe to, national security agencies, contractors, cloud computing services, and anyone else who has broken into, or been allowed into, the data stream”.A nebulous trade-offAnd the reason we ought to accept this unpalatable, feudal state of affairs? The lures of big data, and the venerated openness of the network. Your toaster is hackable, yes (as may be the rest of these smoking guns in your city), but at the same time, in a nebulous trade-off, with “dictators dying off and the data trail of bad behaviour growing, the biggest dirty networks are on the brink of collapse”. And when the “modern state fails, the internet of things will provide governance”, Howard asserts, unconvincingly.Bytracking usin intensive and intrusive ways – not only in our homes, but in our vehicles andbodies– data-driven devices cannudge, manipulate and mouldour behaviours, habits and preferences, limit our autonomy, and bring quantification, segregation and discrimination to what is currently a political economy held together by social fuzziness.This fuzziness assists us individually – because we havecontrol overwho has, and importantlywho does not have, personal information about us. But it is also important socially, unless we want to turn into an intensely individualistic, segmented, micro-financialised network of semi-autonomous, tethered beings.We deserve a smarter solution that offers more than empty marketing rhetoric for “open”, “inclusive” monopolistic big tech business models.At worst, it’s a terrifying blueprint for theend of politics, depoliticising our engagement with “things”,characterising the objectsand relations that furnish our lives as “loss leaders for data flows” – data flows that offer nothing for us, and everything for a staggering, uncontrolled array of corporate and governmental actors.
Video games are as important to British culture as film, Culture Minister Ed Vaizey has claimed during a keynote speech at the Develop conference in Brighton.Speaking to an audience of developers, publishers and investors, Vaizey, who has backed the games industry since becoming Shadow Culture Minister in 2006, also highlighted the success of video game tax credits, which were introduced last year, allowing studios based in the UK to claim relief on up to 25% of their production costs.“When I took on this role, I was completely blown away when I found out about this industry; it was just sitting under politicians’ noses,” he said. “There was all this talk about whether [games] promoted anti-social behaviour, when in fact we were looking at an industry in which Britain was one of the world leaders, and which attracted people at the top of their game in all sorts of fields, from the arts to computer science to physics.“It’s also clustered – it’s not one of those industries that’s based in London, it’s everywhere from Brighton to Dundee. So it was easy for me to become a champion of the games industry, and push for games to take their rightful place alongside some of the more vocal creative industries like film.”The minister was keen to emphasise the success of tax credits since their implementation in August 2014 after years of lobbying from the games industry. “In the first full year, around 67 games have qualified for tax relief, representing a total budget of over £180m and almost all of that money will be spent in the UK or in Europe,” he said. “We’ve also seen a host of applications flooding in over the last year.”Related:Ed Vaizey announces scheme to help teens get jobs in gamingHe also reeled off stats on the expanding audience for and influence of video games in the UK, such as there are 33.5m game players in the UK, most of whom are between 8 and 74: “UK consumer spending on games is almost £4bn; the games industry has contributed almost £1.5bn in GVA (gross value added) to the UK economy, and almost 25,000 jobs. I hope it’s the case that tax breaks are helping projects go ahead that wouldn’t otherwise have happened – and certainly not in the UK. There has been an explosion of games companies: the number has grown by a fifth every year since 2011, according to NESTA, driven by mobile games.”Vaizey also mentioned the work of games industry pioneer Ian Livingstone, whose publishing company Eidos was responsible for the hugely successful Tomb Raider series. Livingstone wrotean influential report on the UK games industryfor NESTA in 2010 and campaigned to get computer science put on the national curriculum to encourage a new generation of creative programmers.“I told Ian with the full authority I have gained as a minister that he didn’t have a chance in hell,” said Vaizey. “A year later he succeeded. It’s still a work in progress –you can’t expect to introduce a new subject on the curriculum and for it to work overnight, but we are making progress and it puts the UK at the heart of the future of this industry.”The minister also mentioned the University Abertay’s $4m protoype fund, which is set to support games projects and create jobs all around the UK. It is launching shortly. He also pointed out that Creative England, the screen agency that supports creative industries throughout the country, invested £1m in 44 video game companies in 2014, creating 30 new games.A key emphasis though, was on the cultural role of games. “The British film industry – and this has been a passion of mine – has expanded its remit to support the games industry,” he said. “Games are taking their rightful place alongside the film industry as one of our most important assets.”
Notorious cybercrime forum Darkode, frequented by Lizard Squad and other hacking groups, has been taken offline in a coordinated international law enforcement clampdown across 20 countries.Related:The world's first hack: the telegraph and the invention of privacyThe site has been seized by authorities, which now displays a notice of the clampdown from the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), in conjunction with Europol and 17 other international law enforcement agencies including the UK’s National Crime Agency (NCA).Coinciding with the seizure, 28 people were arrested on Tuesday under charges of cybercrime offences by the joint cyber operation in countries including Israel, Germany, the UK, Sweden, Denmark, India and Romania, where 16 individuals were arrested,according to reports. The action brought the total of arrests under the operation to 70 across 20 countries.The NCA confirmed that a 26-year-old man from Coventry was arrested on Tuesday by West Midlands Regional Organised Crime Unit and released on bail. Police in Scotland also raided an address in Paisley. The NCA’s National Cyber Crime Unit had coordinated five previous arrests in relation to the site from around the UK, including four British nationals.Steven Laval, senior investigating officer at the NCA’s National Cyber Crime Unit, said: “Despite the exclusive nature of Darkode and the technical skills of its users, this action shows once again that we can identify and pursue those we believe are seeking to offend through an apparently secure online environment, far removed from their victims.”It is understood that the FBI’s Pennsylvania field office led the operation, seizing the site.Black marketDarkode’s forum has been used by cybercriminals as a black market to trade stolen data, credit card information, email addresses, hacking tools and information on bugs and vulnerabilities used to coordinate attacks on companies, agencies and governments.Established in 2007, Darkode operated as a place to sell hacking tools. It was an invitation-only site, closed off from the outside world and hosted on so-called “bulletproof” web servers that resist law enforcement action.Security researchers began taking an interest in 2011, leading to the site’s administrators clamping down on access. An internet relay chat server was set up, which was then used by hacking group Lizard Squad, who were responsible for a variety of cyberattacks on Sony, Microsoft, Taylor Swift and others.According toreports in Brazil, an investigation into hackers in the country was opened in March this year by Federal Police in conjunction with the FBI, leading to the arrest of several people and seizure of the site’s equipment.This story was updated at 16.45 with confirmation of arrest details from the NCA.•What will happen to the Lizard Squad hackers•Hacking Team boss: we sold to Ethiopia but ‘we’re the good guys’
Aftercutting 7,800 staff and taking a $7.6bn losson its Windows Phone division, Microsoft’s chief executive Satya Nadella intends to ramp up the company’s invasion of iPhone and Android with its apps and services.While the write-down has been seen as effectively neutering the remainder of the smartphone business Microsoft bought from Nokia in 2012, Nadella insists that his company is not exiting the smartphone market.“I just don’t want to build another phone, a copycat phone operating system, even. I want to be able to be present on every mobile endpoint,” Nadellatold technology site ZDnet.“That’s a very explicit core goal. It’s not (just) the notion of having our application endpoints, Skype, Outlook, Wunderlist, Sunrise, on every one of the two billion devices.”Microsoft has around 60 apps and games available for Apple’s iOS devices, and more than 10 apps for Android including OneDrive, OneNote, Office, Outlook and Xbox Smartglass.The company has recently been making deals with Android smartphone and tablet manufacturers including Samsung, Sony and HTC to preinstall a small army of its apps on big-name devices.‘There will be Lumia devices’Very few big-name manufacturers have adopted Windows Phone. Nokia was the primary handset partner until Microsoft bought it, although a few smaller Chinese manufacturers have shown interest.But many have speculated that Windows Phone would die without Microsoft making phones as it was responsible for 95% of Windows smartphones in the last couple of years.While Microsoft wants to provide software for others to make devices, Nadella said categorically that, “if no [manufacturer] stands up to build Windows devices we’ll build them. There will be Lumia devices.”Related:What does Microsoft's $7.6bn, 7,800-person layoff mean for Windows Phone?The Microsoft head said that if that was the case it would take the form of a Surface-like smartphone – one or two smartphones made as indicators of what can be done with Windows, rather than mainstream phones to compete with Apple’s iPhone and Samsung’s Galaxy S6.Microsoft’s problem is that it has sold Windows 10 on the premise of being available on a range of devices from smartphones to desktop computers. Its “universal apps” promise to run on every Windows device; its “continuum” system aims to provide seamless switching between PCs, phones and tablets, while its Microsoft Edge browser will be as familiar to users on phones as it is on laptops.All of those features require some form of mobile device to create a coherent experience. Nadella said that at least a few “premium” Lumia devices would be released this year, but Microsoft may have an even greater uphill battle convincing consumers to buy them now.
Randy Pitchford, the chief executive of Gearbox Software, has used a keynote speech at the Develop conference in Brighton to address the issue of vocal, highly critical gamers – with specific references to the controversy over the studio’s 2013 releaseAliens: Colonial Marines.After performing a magic trick based on the Three Card Monte street scam, the industry veteran told attendees that, while many spectators would quietly appreciate any entertainment act, a small percentage would be critical and would seek to validate that by attempting to convert others.“If you’re making entertainment on a grand scale, if you’re reaching millions, there will be tens of thousands of people who absolutely hate us, and some percentage of those will take it upon themselves to let us known how they feel,” he said.“I read it in this way: we moved those people, we touched them – even the person who hates [your game] so much, you’ve affected them. That’s why we fight, we’re creating emotion and experience - and some people thrive on that type of feeling, some people are sadists.”During his keynote, Pitchford claimed that criticism is a natural element of mainstream entertainment production. He went on to use an analogy of building sandcastles on a beach. While some people will walk past and either admire or criticise the construction, others will want to attack it – a veiled reference to vocal critics on games forums.There is always the person who’s got to stand on the sandcastle, they must crush itRandy Pitchford“There is always the person who’s got to stand on the sandcastle, they must crush it,” he said. “That’s their way of relating to that. It’s typically a less sophisticated mind. There’s a dark part of us all that likes the idea of crushing a sandcastle, but most of us will respect it and let it be. That’s why we like playing video games where we can blow stuff up and no one gets hurt.”Texas-based developer Gearbox Software, best known for the acclaimed Borderlands series, was at the centre of acontroversy over the release of its game Alien Colonial Marines. The title was heavily criticised by many gamers and reviewers who felt the final title fell well-short of impressive demos shown throughout the previous year.There were also questionsof how much of the project was outsourced to other studios. A group of purchasers launched a class action lawsuit against Gearbox and publisher Sega in April 2013, claiming that the two falsely advertised the game’s content at video game conferences such as E3 and Pax. Gearbox was later removed from the action.Pitchford made early reference to the controversy in his talk opening. “You may know us from such quality games as James Bond Nightfire and Aliens Colonial Marines,” he said.He later went on to say that he “hoped” there would be another Duke Nukem title, the shooter series that Gearbox took on from previous developer 3D Realms. “I didn’t buy the franchise to ensure we could all play Duke Nukem Forever,” he joked, referencing the critically mauled title. 3D Realms laterlaunched a lawsuitagainst Gearbox claiming unpaid royalties on the resulting release. The lawsuit was dropped months later.He claimed the hardest decision he has ever had to make at Gearbox was to fire 26 employees during the early development ofBorderlandsin order to streamline the studio.Answering questions from Twitter, he replied to one that asked his opinion on the acclaimed Creative Assembly title, Alien Isolation. “I think [it] is brilliant,” he said.Addressing the difficulty of facing harsh critics, once again he stated: “A mission to entertain the world is a good one because it’s impossible to achieve. If you’re going to take a risk, some people will like what you offer, and some definitely won’t.”
Facebook and Twitter are increasingly influential sources of news for their users, according to a survey conducted by the US-based Pew Research Center.Itsstudy of more than 2,000 Americansfound that for both social networks, 63% of users surveyed said they were getting news there – up from 52% for Twitter and 47% for Facebook in 2013.Related:Apple News app to rely on editors rather than algorithms for curationWith 66% of US adults currently using Facebook and 17% using Twitter, that indicates that one in 10 Americans are getting news from Twitter, while four in 10 are getting it from Facebook.“These changes can be tied to many factors including personal behavior, increased activity by news organisations, as well as changes in the platforms’ filtering algorithms or content structures,” claimed the report’s authors.They added that the trend cuts across demographics including gender, race, age, education and household income. “There was not, in other words, any one demographic driving the shift.”Pew also dug into how people are using Twitter and Facebook for news, and what kind of news they are finding on the two services.A growing number of American adults get their news from Facebook and Twitter.Illustration: Pew Research CenterTwitter is more popular for breaking news: 59% of people who get their news from that social network say they use it to keep up with breaking news events, compared to 31% for Facebook.On both platforms, entertainment is the most popular news category: 78% of Twitter news users and 74% of Facebook news users report regularly seeing posts about it on these services.National government and politics (72% of Twitter news users and 61% of Facebook news users); sports (70% and 55% respectively); and local people and events (63% and 69%) are also popular topics.“Roughly a quarter of both Facebook (28%) and Twitter (23%) news users at least sometimes post or tweet about news,” added the report, which also noted differences in the importance ascribed to the social networks as news sources, according to age.49% of Twitter news users aged 18-34 say it’s the most or an important way they get news, versus 31% of people aged 35 and older. For Facebook, the respective percentages are 49% and 34%.Related:Strictly algorithm: how news finds people in the Facebook and Twitter age“This reinforces findings from anotherrecent reportby Pew Research, which found that Facebook was relied on as a source for political news among Millennials more than any other news source, and at a far higher rate than both Gen Xers and Baby Boomers,” claimed the authors.The study will be pored over by news organisations, as both Facebook and Twitter are upping their efforts to deliver news to their users.Facebook recently launched itsInstant Articles initiative, which hosts stories of partner organisations (including the Guardian) on the social network, and shares advertising revenues with them.Twitter, meanwhile, has its“Project Lightning”that will organise tweets, photographs and videos around specific news events – from sports matches and award shows to natural disasters and terrorist attacks – to make them easier for users to browse.
Google is relaunching its Map Maker tool, which allows people to make edits to its Google Maps service, but will give its community of users more powers to moderate digital vandalism.The tool was shut down in May, shortly after an image of the Android robot urinating on an Apple logo wasdiscovered on Google Mapsjust south of the Pakistani city of Rawlpindi, having been added using Map Maker.At the time, product manager Pavithra Kanakarajan claimed that there had been “escalated attacks to spam Google Maps over the past few months”.She promised that Map Maker would remain suspended until “we figured out ways to add more intelligent mechanisms to prevent such incidents”. Kanakarajan has nowpublished a new blog postabout Google’s plans to relaunch the tool.“Map Maker will be reopened for editing in early August, and we’re looking for users to now have more influence over the outcome of edits in their specific countries,” she wrote.Related:Google shuts off Map Maker after urinating robot ruins it for everybody“This means that edits on Map Maker will be increasingly made open for moderation by the community... This has been a request you’ve made for a very long time, and this change should, hopefully, come as good news.”Google will choose users in each region to become “regional leads” on Map Maker, with the ability to review edits made using Map Maker in their region, backed up by the company’s automated moderation technology.“We have come to the conclusion that of all the defenses available to keeping our maps clean, the interest of a community of well-intentioned users, is among the most reliable and fast,” wrote Kanakarajan.Map Maker was introduced in 2008 as a way for Google Maps users to edit information on the mapping service directly, plugging any gaps in the information from Google’s third-party providers.
John Tawell had money worries. The £1 weekly child allowance he had to give his mistress Sarah Hart was the last straw, and on New Year’s Day 1845 he travelled to her house in Slough, poisoning her beer with a potion for varicose veins that contained prussic acid.After the murder, Tawell made his escape on a train headed to London’s Paddington station. He wasn’t known in Slough and expected to slip through the hands of the law. But he was travelling along one of the only stretches of railway in the world to have telegraph wires running beside the railway lines.Tawell was a Quaker and had been dressed in a distinctive dark coat. A witness, Reverend ET Champnes, had seen Tawell leaving the crime scene and followed him to Slough station, but not in time to stop the train. Champnes found the stationmaster and together they sent a message to the police in Paddington. Pre-dating morse code, only 20 letters could be covered by the early telegraph system, and Q wasn’t one of them.“A MURDER HAS GUST BEEN COMMITTED AT SALT HILL AND THE SUSPECTED MURDERER WAS SEEN TO TAKE A FIRST CLASS TICKET TO LONDON BY THE TRAIN WHICH LEFT SLOUGH AT 742 PM HE IS IN THE GARB OF A KWAKER WITH A GREAT COAT ON WHICH REACHES NEARLY DOWN TO HIS FEET HE IS IN THE LAST COMPARTMENT OF THE SECOND CLASS COMPARTMENT,”the message read.It took police a while to work out what a KWAKER was, but they eventually apprehended Tawell. After a trial, he was executed in front of 10,000 people; the best advertisement possible for the telegraph’s speed and security.The Times reported: “Had it not been for the efficient aid of the electric telegraph, both at Slough and Paddington, the greatest difficulty, as well as delay, would have occurred in the apprehension.”The story of Tawell’s capture jump-started the rollout of the telegraph, signalling the beginning of sweeping social change brought about by technology. Companies began to tap into the public interest around that technology, and within four years, 200 telegraph stations had been connected in Britain. By 1858, the first successful test of an undersea cable between Europe and North America was made. By 1870 a telegram could be sent from London to Bombay in a matter of minutes.The telegraph and privacyFor the vast majority of human civilisation, the scope of day-to-day conversational privacy had pretty much been whatever was beyond earshot. But the rise of the telegraph meant that the possibilities of communication exploded; by the mid-19th century you could go to a telegraph station and have a message sent further and faster than had ever been possible. The whole idea of what was “beyond earshot” changed inexorably.Along with that expanded space of communication came a newfound vulnerability. Words could be snatched from you long after they’d left your vicinity. Electrical telegraph lines could be tapped, signals intercepted. Cable workers were required to sign confidentiality agreements, but even they could be bribed to divulge messages.A telegraph at the Telegraph Museum in Porthcumo.Photograph: Thomas McMullanMessage security increased with the onset of coded languages. The Cooke-Wheatstone device used to catch John Tawell is on display at the Telegraph Museum in the Cornish village of Porthcurno, in the far south west of the UK. Its ornate, diamond-shaped console looks more like a Ouija board than a telecommunications hub, but soon became obsolete with the spread of morse code. Not only could morse account for all the letters of the alphabet, the system of dots and dashes meant that only those who understood the code could read the messages; namely trained operators.As the telegraph expanded, so did the idea of conversation privacy. “By the turn of the century, business users were concerned about privacy, and cable companies were therefore keen to ensure they knew anything sent by cable was secure,” says John Packer, honorary curator of the Telegraph Museum and a lecturer from the museum’s previous life as a telegraphy teaching school.Packer tells me that although the high cost of sending messages prevented people from exposing their personal lives, businesses increasingly expected sensitive communications to remain private and secure.Like today, this took the form of encryption. To keep information from prying operators, messages already encoded in morse could be further encrypted with a cipher – an algorithm consisting of a number of steps to turn plaintext to ciphertext. Tactics like this, along with the difficulties of tapping undersea cables, helped to keep messages from falling into the wrong hands.By the end of the 19th century, the telegraph had evolved to become the dominant – and first – technology of mass communication. The Eastern Telegraph Company, with a global hub in Porthcurno, absorbed a stream of companies connecting the British Isles to everywhere from South America to India, forming a near-monopoly over international communications.Telecommunications security had spread across the globe, but it wasn’t until a rival technology appeared that communications privacy was fully articulated as a concept within the public imagination.Privacy: a brand new conceptWithin a generation people had gone from worrying about what was heard within earshot to dealing with the potential for global interception through a complex electrical communications system. The sense of individual privacy developed rapidly, and by the start of the 20th century, the telegraph company had begun to leverage this relatively new concept to make sure competing technologies didn’t cut into its profits.One such emerging technology was wireless transmission, which was being developed by Guglielmo Marconi, also in Cornwall, near the village of Poldhu. His work worried the Eastern Telegraph Company so much that it employed Nevil Maskelyne – a London magician known to use the nascent wireless technology as part of his mind-reading act – to disrupt it.“By relaying my receiving instruments through landlines to the station in the valley below I had all the Poldhu signals brought home to me at any hour of the night or day,” Maskelyne boasted in The Electrician, where he published the intercepted messages and underlined the threat to privacy posed by wireless.According to Packer, it wasn’t until Marconi’s experiments became technically feasible that privacy was taken as a selling point for the wired telegraph. “It wasn’t until that point that there was a need to publicise the advantage of using a cable, because prior to that there was no rival: you sent it by cable or you didn’t send it,” he says. The telegraph had done more than label a standard of privacy; it had helped to create the entire concept.Maskelyne followed his trick with an even bigger showstopper. In June 1903, Marconi was set to demonstrate publically for the first time in London that morse code could be sent wirelessly over long distances. A crowd filled the lecture theatre of the Royal Institution while Marconi prepared to send a message around 300 miles away in Cornwall. The machinery began to tap out a message, but it didn’t belong to the Italian scientist.“Rats rats rats rats,” it began. “There was a young fellow of Italy, who diddled the public quite prettily ...” Maskelyne had hijacked the wavelength Marconi was using from a nearby theatre. He later wrote a letter to the Times confessing to the hack and, once again, claimed he did it to demonstrate the security flaws in Marconi’s system for the public good.Facts about dataMaskelyne may have been in the pocket of the Eastern Telegraph Company, but his exposure of security weaknesses has a lot in common with contemporary hackers and cybercriminals who set it upon themselves to find and brandish security flaws.As the amount of data transferred over telegraph increased, security measures and concerns also grew. Of course, that data is nothing compared to what we transfer today, both wirelessly and through fibre optic cables. With almost every aspect of our lives now passing through telecommunications systems, the level of concern about privacy and security has grown to become one of the most pressing issues of our age.GCHQ and mass interceptionOn Cornwall’s north coast is the seaside town of Bude, home to GCHQ’s satellite ground station co-operated by GCHQ and the NSA.GCHQ Bude’s satellites are thought to cover all the main electromagnetic frequency bands. In 2013, the Guardianreportedthat the government site had also been monitoring probes attached to transatlantic fibre-optic cables where they land on British shores in west Cornwall. According to the report, in 2011 there were GCHQ probes attached to more than 200 internet links, and these were each carrying data at a rate of 10 gigabits a second.The Guardian report claimed that GCHQ’s ability to tap into fibre optic cables consequently gave GCHQ and the NSA access to enormous quantities of communications, including records of phone calls, Facebook posts, internet history and email messages.“Despite the current furore over hacking, which is only a modern term for bugging, eavesdropping, signals intercept, listening-in, tapping, monitoring, there has never been guaranteed privacy since the earliest optical telegraphs to today’s internet,” Packer says. “There never was and never will be privacy.”The horizon of white dishes and orbs of GCHQ Bude is on a completely different scale to the interception aerials used by Maskelyne, yet they too loom behind the barbed fences on a Cornish shore like the props of a magician.When John Tawell travelled from Slough to Paddington, his pursuers were able to use the telegraph to send a message faster than the train he rode on. Today, location tracking would allow authorities to trace Tawell’s smartphone to within a few metres, his search engine history could be flagged up for inappropriate terms, his messages with Sarah Hart intercepted, extracted, pored over and stored. He could be arrested before he even woke up.
Taylor Swift wrote her famousTo Apple, Love Taylor blog postprotesting at the company’s music-streaming royalties plans without the knowledge of her record label, its boss has revealed.Big Machine Label Group CEO Scott Borchetta had no complaints about Swift’s decision to criticise Apple, however.In an appearance at the Fortune Brainstorm Tech conference, he claimed that Swift unwittingly backed up his own negotiations with Apple over its plans not to pay royalties during the three-month free trial of its new Spotify rival.“The conversation started with myself and the executives of Apple, just as a label group conversation of ‘I can’t support this: you need to pay us from the first stream’,” said Borchetta duringhis on-stage interview at the conference.“And those conversations were leading up to the weekend where Taylor posted the blog. She and I hadn’t spoken that week, so she literally texted me, she said ‘Don’t be mad’ with the link... I said ‘you don’t have any idea how good your timing is right now...”Swift’s blog post described Apple’s plans as “shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company”, following a week ofincreasingly-vocal protests from independent labelsabout the policy.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'A day later,Apple announced a u-turn, with senior executive Eddy Cue crediting Swift and independent artists with forcing the change. Borchetta claimed that he also played a role in changing the company’s mind, in a conference call that weekend.“Here’s the good news: you haven’t launched yet. You can do the right thing. And if you do the right thing, the artist community globally is going to look at you as the good guy,” he said.However, Borchetta was joined on-stage at Brainstorm Tech by music manager and tech investor Scooter Braun, who pointed out that others were also arguing with Apple about its plans.“Everyone was fighting that fight. There was a huge fight going on behind the scenes. I think that Taylor pushed it over the edge,” said Braun, adding that if Apple had not changed its policy “there would have been a lot of trouble”.
Artist Fernando Sosa has found a novel way to protest at Donald Trump’srecent comments about Mexican immigrants: he’s turned the Republican presidential candidate into a butt plug.Related:Donald Trump campaign tweets photo with Nazi soldiers – then leads pollsSosa used 3D printing technology to create the decidedly-unofficial merchandise, which he isselling from his store on the Shapeways websitefor £21.34. The plug is made from full-colour sandstone, promising “a coarse finish and a delicate feel”.“I usually make Butt plugs to insult dictators, homophobes and politicians. However, when I heard Donald Trump’s remarks about Mexicans and latinos from South America I was extremely angry,” explained Sosa in the product listing, adding that he was born and raised in Mexico before moving to the US aged 11.“Donald Trump is not a dumb man. He might have been born with a silver spoon and declared bankruptcy four or five times but he is not dumb. He decided to attack immigrants and specially Mexicans because he thinks we have no power,” wrote Sosa.Related:30 things being 3D printed right now (and none of them are guns)Trump faced fierce criticism in June afterclaiming that Mexico is sending “rapists” and drug dealers to the US– with Sosa attacking the comments too.“I’m no rapists and no drug dealer. I have a college degree in 3D animation and run my own 3D printing business and guess what? I can make you into any shape I want and 3D print you and sell you to others who share their dislike of you.You can threaten to sue me like you have done hundreds of times to others. However, you are a public figure and me making you into a shape of a butt plug is Freedom of speech. Welcome to America Mother Fucker!!”Trump joinsKim Jong Un,Toronto mayor Rob FordandVladimir Putinin Sosa’s catalogue of 3D-printed products.Trump has yet to comment on the butt-plug tribute.
On the heels ofthe departure of CEO Ellen Paolast week and its chief engineershortly thereafter, Reddit’s top executive has now said the site is not about free speech.The company’s interim CEO, Steve Huffman, flatly told users ina poston the site on Tuesday evening that Reddit does not have “an obligation” to support all Reddit communities. Huffman’s post came after days of uncertainty about the company’s direction following Pao’s apology and subsequent resignation.“The overwhelming majority of content on reddit comes from wonderful, creative, funny, smart, and silly communities,” Huffman wrote. “That is what makes reddit great. There is also a dark side, communities whose purpose is reprehensible, and we don’t have any obligation to support them.”Founders Huffman and Alexis Ohanian, who has been notable in his absence in discussions covering Pao’s departure, have seen the site stray from its original mission. Huffman said: “Neither Alexis nor I created reddit to be a bastion of free speech.”Related:Reddit: can anyone clean up the mess behind 'the front page of the internet'?That might come as a shock to the less reputable section of the site’s huge user base, which posts everything from neo-Nazi rhetoric to detailed descriptions of rape to encyclopedic collections of corpse images.For a long time, Reddit has fought on behalf of those users and their right to post whatever they want so long as it does not directly break any laws. Internally, there have been brief periods when individual subreddits were punished for misbehaving – though this was mostly for posting legally protected information or child abuse images, or for violating internal codes of conduct.But Reddit has also had to contend with users who are not content simply to post within their communities, and who have subjected others on the site, notably Pao, toseemingly unending abuse.Huffman has promised Redditors, as the site’s users are called, an Ask Me Anything (AMA) session on Thursday, when he will presumably unveil what users have clamored for and dreaded in equal measure: a firm policy detailing what is and isn’t acceptable beyond the deliberately simpleRules of Reddit.A top comment on the post was succinct: “This will go either very well or very, very badly,” wrote user Shadowfirelance. (Most who replied said they’d put their money on the latter.)“Our top priority at reddit is to develop a comprehensive Content Policy and the tools to enforce it,” Huffman wrote, saying he wouldn’t be available in the comments that evening.Reddit’smoderators often overseesubreddits that are presumably objectionable (r/watchpeopledie, r/drunkgirls) and subreddits that are popular and G-rated (r/television, r/aww).For years, it’s been taken for granted that Reddit, which has never publicly defined hate speech or obscenity, can’t survive without users who post hateful or obscene content.It appears that it’s on the verge of finding out.
Twitter’s shares jumped more than 8% on Tuesday after a fake online story said the company had received a $31bn takeover offer.The shares jumped from $36.80 to $38.60 in less than 10 minutes after thefabricated storywas posted to Twitter and began to circulate.The fake story, which mimicked the look and feel of a Bloomberg new story with some accuracy and carried the byline of Stephen Morris, one of its writers, was posted at 11.36am ET. By 11.44 the shares had spiked 8%, beforea Bloomberg spokesman tweeted: “Pls note – that $TWTRstory everyone talking about is fake.”The shares quickly fell back to roughly where they had been by 11.50am.While the fake story looked like a Bloomberg story, the web address was bloomberg.market not bloomberg.com. It also had several grammatical errors and spelling mistakes, including the surname of recently departed chief executive Dick Costolo, misspelled as “Costello”.“Last month, upon announcement that chairman and co-founder Jack Dorsey would be appointed interim CEO while they searched for a new leader, Twitter stock rose 8%,” the fake story said. “It was a clear signal from Wall Street that it was happy the company decided to part ways with ex-CEO Richard ‘Dick’ Costello. Under his leadership the company struggled to add new members and generate more revenue from its ad products.”The spoof site was registered last Friday, according to the domain search tool at WhoIs.net. The site was registered through a service called Enom.A Twitter spokesman said the company had “nothing to add” to Bloomberg’s explanation. The site continued to pull content throughout the day from the real Bloomberg page to the Bloomberg.market home, including a story with the headlineTwitter Pares Gains; Bloomberg Says Twitter Story Fake.Twitter has been in managerial upheaval in the past few weeks. In June, Costoloabruptly said he would resign effective 1 July, and at the time Jack Dorsey (now the interim CEO) told investors and reporters that the search for a new CEO was barely underway. “That process has only just begun and there is no timetable,” Dorsey said. “That firm will take the time it needs to identify candidates within the company and outside.”There has been speculation that having three former CEOs on the board (Dorsey, Costolo and Ev Williams) could be discouraging suitable candidates from the job. There appears to be tension on the board as Dorsey steps up to lead the company again: a recently released statementseemed to expressly disqualifyDorsey, also the CEO of Square, from taking the position a second time.“The Committee will only consider candidates for recommendation to the full Board who are in a position to make a full-time commitment to Twitter,” the board wrote.When the fake story broke, Williams wasat the Fortune Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen, Colorado, fielding questions about the makeup of the board.It’s the second time this year that Twitter’s own ability to disseminate information more quickly than anticipated has played havoc with its stock price. In April, the stock plummeted 20% when Nasdaqaccidentally releasedits quarterly earnings report a crucial hour before the market closed.In May, a fake bid for another company, Avon Products, sent its shares as much as 20% higher.
One of the most widely used tools for monitoring and restricting pupils’ internet use in UK schools has a serious security flaw which could leave hundreds of thousands of children’s personal information exposed to hackers, a researcher has warned.Impero Education Pro, a product that restricts and monitors’ students’ website use and searches, is used in 27% of UK secondary schools, according to the company. In a controversial pilot programme,a version of the software looks for extremism-related searches such as “jihadi bride”.But last month the security researcher Zammis Clark posted extensive details of a flaw in the company’s encryption protocols which could allow almost anyone to gain full access to computers running the Impero software, run software such as spyware on the systems, or access files and records stored on them.The company said it had released a temporary security patch and was working on a permanent upgrade.Clark said the flaw he found would leave affected schools’ networks “completely pwned”, online slang meaning in this context that the networks’ security would be fully compromised and information on it would be rendered vulnerable.He said he had posted it publicly, rather than privately disclosing it to the company, for several reasons. “One was that I was against the ‘anti-extremism’ stuff, the other was because not being a customer, I didn’t know where to send it.”Schools using Impero’s software said the company had notified them of the security flaw in the middle of last month but they were offered few details of its potential scale.One school IT manager said the response from Impero was vague and required managers to contact the firm for more information. “Impero are crap at communication,” he said.Three schools and chains using the software that were approached by the Guardian said the company had been slow to deliver promised software patches. Impero also offered fixes to schools that were using the software without contractual support, but left it up to those schools to make contact.One school said the most recent update on the situation from Impero arrived by email on Monday.The company is known on school tech forums for its pushy sales techniques, but the software remains popular because of the lack of quality alternatives.Impero stressed that no data had been compromised, it had already issued a temporary fix for the vulnerability and it would install a full solution before the start of the next academic year.“On 13 June 2015, we were made aware that someone had maliciously and illegally hacked our product, subsequently making this hack public rather than bringing it to our attention privately and in confidence. No customers have been affected by this and no data has been leaked or compromised,” it said.“We immediately released a hot fix, as a short-term measure, to address the issue and since then we have been working closely with our customers and penetration testers to develop a solid long-term solution. All schools will have the new version, including the long-term fix, installed in time for the new school term.”The company said “the methods used to identify and communicate this particular issue were not legal” and they would take a “firm stance”.“Impero Education Pro is designed to protect and safeguard children in schools and any attempt to jeopardise this by illegally obtaining and publicising sensitive information will be dealt with appropriately,”it said.On Monday, a month after Clark first disclosed the software vulnerability,lawyers acting for Impero demanded in a letter that he should remove all of his online postingsabout the company, under the threat of civil proceedings for breach of confidence and copyright infringement and criminal proceedings under the computer misuse act. The letter admits the potential seriousness of the vulnerability Clark disclosed in schools’ systems.“By publicising the encryption key on the internet and on social media and other confidential information, you have enabled anyone to breach the security of our client’s software program and write destructive files to disrupt numerous software systems throughout the UK,” it said.Impero said the hack “could only be exploited if basic network security does not exist” and would require the hacker to be physically present in a school.Because Impero and Clark disagree over whether pupils’ personal information is still at risk after the hot fix, and over its seriousness, the Guardian is not publishing details of the original vulnerability in the software, nor linking to where it is available online.Publicly disclosing details of security vulnerabilities is a controversial practice in the online security world. Some believe private disclosure is better initially, as it gives companies time to fix flaws before they are made public, but it rarely results in legal action.Mustafa al-Bassam, a security engineer and former member of the hacking collective Lulzsec, said the legal threat against Clark was bizarre, especially when such exploits can be used or sold for profit, rather than posted online to be fixed.“Responding with a legal threat to a security researcher that highlighted a serious security flaw in your software is bizarre and shows utter disregard for customers,” he said.“Unfortunately it shows a theme that is too common in the software industry: companies view security as an external PR issue because it often affects their customers more than it affects them. And they should be grateful that this security flaw was disclosed publicly instead of being sold to malware developers like Hacking Team.”Impero’s Education Pro software serves a variety of roles in schools’ systems, including blocking inappropriate web surfing – such as adult sites – and monitoring students’ activity, as well as rationing printing and making IT administration simpler.However, last month – just days before Clark discovered the flaw – the Guardian reported Impero was offering a new feature to monitor keywords potentially tied to terrorism or extremism before the implementation of new counter-terrorism legislation introducing a requirement on schools to monitor pupils for such signs.The pilot, introduced in 16 UK schools and five in the US, monitors for phrases such as “YODO” – You Only Die Once – “War on Islam”, and “Storm Front”, a neo-Nazi group.The Department for Education said: “We have been clear that schools are expected to ensure that sensitive pupil information is held securely. The Data Protection Act of 1998 is clear what standards schools are expected to adhere to and we provide guidance on this.”
Satoru Iwata, who has died aged 55 of a bile duct tumour, was that rarest of beasts: the president and CEO of a giant company who retained the human touch and nurtured a relationship with his consumers that felt personal. As the man who had held the reins at the colossal video games company Nintendo since 2002, he did more than anyone else to bring video games to a mainstream, family audience. He presided over the launches of theNintendo DShandheld gaming system – the second-most successful console to date, after Sony’sPlayStation 2– and theNintendo Wii, with its innovative, much-copied motion-sensing, TV remote-style controller, which appealed to a generation that had previously found video games intimidating.Genial, approachable and solicitous in person, and always with a humorous glint in his eye, Iwata never conformed to the stereotype of the haughty CEO – although he was forced to take plenty of tough decisions in the harsh Japanese corporate world, where shareholders’ responses to quarterly results hold sway and losing face is not an option. Uniquely among CEOs of the games industry’s leading players, he began his working life as a programmer, and retained a lifelong enthusiasm for making and playing games.In recent years, he had established a means of communicating that enthusiasm to Nintendo’s large and devoted following, via monthly web-based videos entitledNintendo Direct(in which, often against cartoon backdrops or even in full cartoon form, he would regularly perform knockabout routines with Nintendo’s US president and CEO Reggie Fils-Aimé and the company’s game designer Shigeru Miyamoto).In recent years, Iwata had to negotiate some troublesome ship-steadying exercises: Nintendo’s latest console, theWii U, failed to achieve sales targets, but Nintendo responded quickly, unexpectedlyannouncing earlier this yearthat it is working on a successor, code-named NX. The 3DS handheld, though, continues to sell well, despite dire predictions at its 2011 launch that it would fail to compete with gaming on mobile phones.And Iwata, originally reluctant to jeopardise Nintendo’s handheld console business by entering the mobile phone gaming market, earlier this year carved outa crucial deal with the Japanese mobile gaming giant DeNA, which will see Nintendo develop original games for mobile phones based on its much-loved array of characters, without impinging on its cherished back-catalogue. Faced with shareholder demands to cut staffing in 2013, Iwata dug in his heels, arguing that reduced morale would lead to lower-quality games, and took a personal 50% pay cut.Iwata showed early programming prowess: at school in Sapporo, the northern Japanese city where he was born, he created simple number games on a programmable calculator. Following a computer science degree in Tokyo, he joined the games developer HAL Laboratory, coding and producing games including EarthBound, Balloon Fight and the Kirby franchise. He also coded the prototype of what would become Super Smash Bros, one of Nintendo’s most enduring and successful franchises.Iwata was promoted to president of HAL Laboratory in 1993, and turned the company’s finances around, before joining Nintendo in 2000, as head of corporate planning. In 2002, he succeededHiroshi Yamauchias president of Nintendo – Yamauchi had run the company since 1949, and Iwata was the first president with no blood-ties to the Yamauchi family.Iwata set about dragging Nintendo into the 21st century: itsGameCubeconsole was struggling, but the innovative dual-screen handheld, the DS, introduced in 2004, proved a smash-hit, and in 2006 the Wii consolidated Nintendo’s return to the pinnacle of the games industry.After he instituted the Nintendo Direct videos in 2011, and recorded a number of incisive, albeit jolly, interviews with games developers under the title “Iwata Asks”, Nintendo’s fans felt they had developed an almost personal connection with their favourite company’s president and CEO. Although in 2014 he missedE3– the games industry’s most important showcase – through illness, Iwata’s death was unexpected, and triggered an outpouring of tributes on social media.Two quotes sum up Iwata’s approach to the games industry. He zealously maintained Nintendo’s focus on child- and family-friendly video games, keeping the company out of the technological arms race in which the rival console manufacturers Sony and Microsoft remain engaged, by following the philosophy that “engineering is not quite as important as imagination.” But his best-known statement was delivered at the Game Developers Conference in 2005: “On my business card I am a corporate president. In my mind, I am a game developer. But in my heart, I am a gamer.”Iwata is survived by his wife, Kayoko.• Satoru Iwata, businessman, born 6 December 1959; died 11 July 2015
For 24 years, the PGA Tour series has dominated the world of golfing simulations, its hegemony threatened only by the mostly PC-based Links series – and the more approachable Everybody’s Golf. Tiger Woods has been the cover star since 1998, but considering his wane in fortunes, it is understandable that he has been bundled into a golf cart and sent on his way. Now Rory McIlroy, who looks just as fiercely motivated and skilled as the young Tiger once did, will front a fresh chapter for the series.At first, long-time fans will most likely find the absence of Woods jarring. It feels strange to begin the “Prologue” section of the game and find McIlroy staring back at you recanting his own experiences, rather than reliving some of Tiger’s many achievements. But the nostalgia fades as McIlroy, directly addressing the player, talks about how it feels to stand on the opening tee in the final round of a major championship. It is unusually candid, offering a lot more insight than most golfers ever would in a TV interview.The true purpose of the opening, though, is to introduce both newcomers and PGA veterans to the game’s revamped swing mechanics. There are three interfaces to choose, catering to different skill levels. The arcade swing is the easiest to control and lets you start hitting shots with laser beam-like accuracy. You just flick the left analogue stick back and forward in a fluid motion and McIlroy does the rest. You can add shape to the ball or adjust the trajectory, but as long as you apply an easy swing, the ball will end up exactly where you want it. It’s a great option for beginners, but it will quickly leave you wanting more.One stage up is the classic style, a traditional three-click swing that will be familar to anyone who has played a golf sim in the last 20 years. Click to begin your swing, click to select the amount of power you need and, on the down swing, click again inside the markers to determine how accurately you hit the ball. It’s fine, but it feels dated, offering a simple binary control input designed for old school joypads with buttons and D-pads rather than today’s sensitive analogue sticks.The Tour swing is intended for the “hardcore” golf gamer. As in the arcade motion, players draw the left analogue stick back to begin their shot, but now they must wait until the club is fully drawn to begin the down swing. Break too early and you will come up short, too late and overshooting your target is a danger. It’s challenging but with some adjustments to timing and rhythm, a consistent result can be produced.Adding to the mechanic, however, the player must swing diagonally from left to right to shape the ball in flight – and it is tough. Any slight deviation from the line shown through the swing visualiser and you are going to be hitting a lot of shots from the thick stuff or worse. There will be a lot of frustration at first, but as you improve, hitting better shots becomes hugely rewarding and you begin to feel like you really deserve your place at the top of that leaderboard.Where the game truly comes into its own is the level of choice on offer. Each swing type is fully customisable so if you are finding certain elements of the game too tough (the dreaded diagonal swing, for example) then you can chop and change as you please to bring the game exactly to the level you wish to play it.There are also a decent variety of challenges to experience. You can create your own PGA pro and find out exactly what it’s like to grind out 72 holes of golf on a week-by-week basis, or just play the key holes in a round. Gradually, you watch your golfer’s stats grow as you shoot lower scores and finally get to go driver to driver with McIlroy himself. There are also daily and weekly online tournaments for each swing type so you can pit yourself against the world’s best virtual players – though the Country Club feature, which let groups of players form a social hub together, is missing.Another new addition is the Nightclub, which boasts 170 challenges and introduces special bonus effects to shots. It’s fun, but unlikely to hold your attention for long.Much more substantial is the way EA has opened up the environment compared to previous titles. The course itself now loads as a whole for your round so if you hit a wayward drive you don’t just end up out of bounds – you could find yourself on a completely different hole. It’s a touch that both decreases loading time and adds another level of depth to the experience.It’s disappointing that, for licensing reasons, the Augusta National course is missing so you don’t get a chance to play at the Masters. Indeed, there are far fewer courses than the 2013 version of the game (with 12 real-life options against the 20 in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2014), and the roster of players has been culled too, with no LPGA stars at all. Perhaps these were necessary compromises with the beginning of a new series on new hardware platform, and EA has promised that it is going to provide free content updates.After a two-year wait then, PGA Tour is back with richly detailed visuals, a restructured swing interface with a more expansive range and depth of shots, and some interesting peripheral features. However, long-term fans will miss the wider array of career and online tournament options, and may have to wait for downloadable content packages to get all the courses they used to enjoy. Rory McIlroy has made a strong start in the world of golf simulation but, in the parlance of sports commentators everywhere, he is not quite the complete package.Electronic Arts; Xbox One/PS4 (version tested); £45; Pegi rating: 3+
Worshippers inMeccaare streaming their stories live on Snapchat, opening up the Saudi city to non-Muslims online.#Mecca_Livebegan to trend on twitter this weekend as hundreds of thousands of people campaigned for the mobile app to feature the city as a live story.The online push was successful and Snapchat users are able to get a glimpse of the Muslim holy city on the 27th night of Ramadan – which some believe to be Laylat al-Qadr, or the “night of power”.From worshippers breaking their fast in the largest mosque in the world to streaming the call to prayer – the snaps provide an insight into a city that is closed to non-Muslims. The snaps were screengrabbed and shared widely on twitter.The story opens with the caption: “Join us as we travel to Mecca,” with users sharing their rituals of their Umrah pilgrimage. So far this year, around14 million Muslimshave traveled to the city during Ramadan.Mecca snapchatPhotograph: Snapchat screebgrabMecca snapchatPhotograph: Snapchat screebgrabMecca snapchatPhotograph: Snapchat screebgrabMecca snapchatPhotograph: Snapchat screebgrabThemobile messaging apphad launched its “live” feature last year, which allows users to contribute videos and pictures to a live stream that disappears after a short period of time. The company says the app receives2bn video views a day.Although Snapchat chooses the locations it features – today showcasing London, Los Angeles and Brasilia – users on social media have recently begun lobbying for stories from places they want to see.After aTel Aviv live stream last week, an online campaign was launched to feature aWest Bank story, which the app did the next day.West Bank livePhotograph: Snapchat screebgrab
The so-calledright to be forgottendebate has, until now, been almost entirely uninformed by data.It is repeatedlyclaimedthat dangerous criminals and shady public figures are using European law to request that Google removes information about them,abusingrightsdesigned to allowindividuals some say over personal information that isinaccurate, irrelevant or outdated, and holds no public interest.Internet companies and the media fuel the narrative by drawing attention to complex cases involving crime, fraud and politics.Related:Google accidentally reveals data on 'right to be forgotten' requestsBut new data revealed today by the Guardian categorically rebuts assertions that only unsavoury types benefit from rights concerning how we are represented on web searches.Google tells us that this was a test categorisation of data, not considered reliable enough to release publicly. Yet even with a very big margin of error, the data would still show that the right to be forgotten issue is overwhelmingly about everyday people, often with little public profile – victims of algorithmic failure on the indelible web.It confirms the root of the right to be forgotten issue: that Google is the web’s main arbiter of information, and has immense control over how we are represented and identified digitally.The vast majority of successful delisting requests concern information that Google has itself categorised as “private or personal information”. Only a tiny proportion of requests concern serious crime, political data, or public figures - and even those are more likely to come from victims, rather than perpetrators.Information for all, or no-oneThe fact that this data has only come to light now, and not of Google’s own initiative, highlights the challenges of having a private multinational company such as Google implementing private data rights. Awidelyshareddiscomfortwith last year’s European Court of Justice ruling is that it makes Google “judge, jury and executioner” of our rights.Yet Google already acts as theoverlord of our online profiles, defining us by a database of the bestdigital detritusit can find. Data rights are a modest correction against the pre-existing reality.The solution is corporate and administrativetransparency, detailed guidelines,minimising discretion and arbitrariness, and clear oversight. The first step towards this is to know the contours of the problem we are dealing with.So why has Google consistently refused to release figures, even in aggregate, about the types of requests and decisions being made?Slip and we’ll sueThere isconsiderable complexityin accommodating privacy alongside rights to freedom of expression and access to information. The balance is influenced by many moving parts: the information, time and circumstances of publication, other parties involved, and current and future interest. It depends heavily on the quality of information coming from those requesting delisting.Google hastaken this on board, expending sizeable resources towardsachieving the correct balancein its decisions. It probably shouldn’t be making these decisions without much finer-grained guidance and worked examples from the democratic organs of Europe, but there is more case law being generated all the time. While still inadequate, Google has been more active and transparent than any competitor, who seem unwilling to draw attention to their low market shares in web search.The primary reason why Google is not releasing details about its processes is that every request for delisting comes with a risk that Google could be sued. Though a valid concern, this does not detract from very significant concerns about transparency in aggregate. Consider how this latest data shifts the debate; at best, we have been discussing only 5% of cases. What are the rest of them about? How appropriate are the categories? What proportion of the requests involve intimate, health or location information? Victims of tragedy? Defamation?Such information is essential to improving the underlying decision-making framework.Data existentialismThe second, more existential reason for Google’s secrecy concerns the delicate, increasingly intrusive pact betweencitizens and information merchants. The right to be forgotten has initiated what needs to be afar-reaching debateover how data protection jives with the business models of Google and other internet companies that thrive on our data.A broader discussion of the types and frequency of delisting requests being made to Google would lead to further questions, possibly global demand, and even the evolution of international data protection standards and laws to which Google would be subject. Far better, Google may have strategised, to keep debate in theelliptical, abstract, free speech vs privacyboxing ring – regardless of how representative it is of the reality.Ultimately, this is about informational power. Google knows better than anyone the power of data. Data about the right to be forgotten reveals public demand and sentiment. It is a perfect tool to spar with data protection authorities and offers essential knowledge in negotiating new data protection laws and regulations. Google has the upper hand, and it wants to keep it.Related:How Google determined our right to be forgottenWhat we need nowGoogle has acknowledged the need to improve its transparency report. Two months ago, it welcomed aletter from 80 academicsfrom 57 institutions,asking for granular informationabout its implementation of the right to be forgotten ruling. It says it is working on releasing further data in response.This new data shows how crucial it is for Google to explain the balances being made, considerations being played and outcomes as a result. It also shows how important it is to discuss the non-controversial cases, and to not obscure the debate by focusing exclusively on the edge cases.Regulators must be involved – not only in the cases that are appealed to their offices following rejections from Google, but in the heartland of assessments themselves. They must be open to a public negotiation of workable solutions, without threatening fines or litigation. They must be transparent about when and how data protection clashes with freedom of expression. These issues must be brought out, not buried.Democracy in a data-driven age is too important to proceed without meaningful data.
Less than 5% of nearly 220,000 individual requests made to Google to selectively remove links to online information concern criminals, politicians and high-profile public figures, the Guardian has learned, with more than 95% of requests coming from everyday members of the public.The Guardian has discovered new data hidden in source code on Google’s owntransparency reportthat indicates the scale and flavour of the types of requests being dealt with by Google – information it has always refused to make public. The data covers more than three-quarters of all requests to date.Previously, more emphasis has been placed on selective information concerning themore sensational examplesof so-calledright to be forgottenrequests released by Google and reported bysome of the media, which have largely ignored the majority of requests made by citizens concerned with protecting their personal privacy.These include a woman whose name appeared in prominent news articles after her husband died, another seeking removal of her address, and an individual who contracted HIV a decade ago.The data, which has not been revealed publicly until now, was found during an analysis ofarchived versionsof Google’s transparency report and details the numeric breakdown of each request and associated link by country and issue type. The underlying source code has since been updated to remove these details.This data covers the majority of requests received by Google, which have now exceeded 280,000 since the company first started to process requests in May 2014 as a result ofa ruling by the European Court of Justice.graphOf 218,320 requests to remove links between 29 May 2014 and 23 March 2015, 101,461 (46%) have been successfully delisted on individual name searches. Of these, 99,569 involve “private or personal information”.Only 1,892 requests – less than 1% of the overall total – were successful for the four remaining issue types identified within Google’s source code: “serious crime” (728 requests), “public figure” (454), “political” (534) or “child protection” (176) – presumably because they concern victims, incidental witnesses, spent convictions, or the private lives of public persons.Breakdowns for each country reveal that within the primary category of “private or personal information”, just shy of half the requests are delisted, more than a third are refused, and the remaining are pending.By contrast, for each of the other categories, around one in five have actually been delisted. The numbers fall evenly between crime, public figures, political and child protection. Around two-thirds of these requests are refused.In many countries, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Portugal and Cyprus, 98% of requests concern private information. In only three countries did proportions of private information fall below 90%: Italy (85%), Romania (87%) and Hungary (88%). In the remaining most-populous countries, the UK and Spain, the proportion is 95%. In Italy, the second largest issue type is “serious crime” (1,951 requests, comprising 12% of the country’s total).It is not clear whether requests have been made by those who are the main subject of web links or by a third party. A link categorised as serious crime, for example, may involve a request from a victim or witness rather than the perpetrator.figure 2Between countries, there is variation in the rate of compliance. For example, more than half the private information requests through France and Germany have been successfully delisted, yet this comes closer to a third in the UK and Italy. These differences may be attributable to the requests themselves, the result of cultural and legal variation between countries, the impact of data protection authorities, or because Google doesn’t synchronise the decision criteria and processing between countries.Google said in a statement: “We’ve always aimed to be as transparent as possible about our right to be forgotten decisions. The data the Guardian found in our Transparency Report’s source code does of course come from Google, but it was part of a test to figure out how we could best categorise requests. We discontinued that test in March because the data was not reliable enough for publication. We are however currently working on ways to improve our transparency reporting.”Stefan Kulk, a Dutch researcher specialising in the liabilities of search engine providers, said: “Google is taking decisions that are publicly relevant. As such, it is becoming almost like a court or government, but without the fundamental checks on its power.”“Because we know so little about the cases, Google can push the discussion about the right to be forgotten in a particular direction – overdramatise, or play it down.”He notes that the governing legal framework is in part responsible, because it allows data controllers such as Google to be in charge of the delisting process.Related:Google's data leak reveals flaws in making it judge and jury over our rights“To me, this stresses all the more the importance of Google being more open about the requests it receives and the processing it undertakes,” said Kulk. “The company doesn’t have to put all the info of every request online – that wouldn’t work, and is clearly against data protection law itself. But it clearly needs to provide more granular information.”Dr Paul Bernal, lecturer in technology and media law at the UEA School of Law, argues that the data reveals that the right to be forgotten seems to be a legitimate piece of law. “If most of the requests are private and personal ones, then it’s a good law for the individuals concerned. It seems there is a need for this – and people go for it for genuine reasons.”The totals used for calculation are based on the sum of the individual categories presented in Google’s source code, not the totals visualised on the front page of the archived data set for 23 March 2015, which differ slightly.The non-profit investigative siteCORRECT!V has published a German-language story on this topicExplore the data.
The music industry should explore blockchain technology used in cryptocurrencies to ensure musicians are paid fairly for streams and sales of their work, according to a report published by the US-based Rethink Music initiative.The report, which is being widely circulated within the industry, suggests that embracing cryptocurrency technology could bring more transparency to the debate about musicians’ income from streaming services like Spotify.A blockchain is a public record of all transactions that have ever taken place in a currency, the most well known example is its use in Bitcoin.The report suggests the music industry to create an accurate database of music rights ownership - who should be paid for sales and streams of any given song - then builds a cryptocurrency system around it to automate royalty payments.“In addition to rights ownership information, the royalty split for each work, as determined by a mixture of statute and contracts, could be added to the database,” suggested the report.“Each time a payment is generated for a given work, the money would be automatically split according to the set terms, and each party’s account would instantly reflect the additional revenue.”The report uses the example of a song bought from Apple’s iTunes store, with $1 left for its rightsholders after Apple has taken its cut of the sale.“This money would be split between the two different works contained in the song, with a 9.1 cent mechanical royalty going to the musical work, and the remaining 90.9 cents going to the sound recording.Next, if the contract between the publisher and songwriter specifies a 75/25 split of revenue from downloads, the publisher would receive 6.825 cents and the songwriter would receive 2.275 cents.”With an identical split at the record label, The label would receive 68.175 cents, and the recording artist would get 22.725 cents. The blockchain network could also further divide this 22.725 cents between the members of a band, if applicable.This entire process would take place in less than one second, allowing all parties to access their money immediately after it is generated.”According to Rethink Music, such a system would also ensure that music labels and publishers do not hold on to royalties before passing them to musicians and songwriters, which would “eliminate concerns about accidental or intentional underpayment of royalties”.There are several hurdles in the way of setting up this kind of system, starting with the ambition to create a comprehensive, accurate database of music rights - a noble ambition that has foundered several times in recent years. The most recent attempt by music collection societies to create a “Global Repertoire Database”was scrapped in 2014.The company that might be best-placed to supply such a database now is YouTube, thanks to its Content ID system that requires music rightsholders to register rights information in order to identify videos using their music that are uploaded by users.YouTube’s up-and-down relationship with the music industry would make expanding its role into wider royalty-tracking unlikely - although note that its parent companyGoogle’s investment arm recently led a $60m funding round for music company Kobalt, which is cited in the Rethink Music report as a case study in improving transparency for music royalties.It is also unclear who would take responsibility for setting up and overseeing a blockchain network for music payments, with cryptocurrency expertise rare within the existing industry bodies.Related:Daniel Ek: Spotify and free music will save the industry, not kill itRethink Music’s report makes several other recommendations, including a “Creator’s Bill of Rights” setting out key principles of fair payment for musicians and songwriters; a proposal to certify digital services and labels alike as “transparent” if they treat creators fairly; and more education for musicians about their rights in the digital world.The report has already been welcomed by musician David Byrne, who hasspoken out several times about musicians’ rights and streaming music.“The picture the study paints is spot on and fairly devastating - as it should be. It’s essential reading, and given the lack of vested interests at work it should be explosive and wide ranging in its impact,” said Byrne.Brian Message, who co-manages Radiohead, PJ Harvey and Nick Cave, also backed the report, encouraging politicians in the US and Europe to heed its suggestions and support musicians against “the practices of major rightsholder corporations who distort the music market for their own gain”.
Facebook is testing a service called “Moneypenny” that connects users of its Messenger chat app to real people for product-buying advice, according to reports.Rather than being a virtual assistant similar to Apple’s Siri, Microsoft’s Cortana, Amazon’s Alexa or Google Now, Moneypenny is apparently powered by humans, similar to a concierge system.The service is being tested within Facebook’s Messenger app, which has recently been broken away from the core Facebook social network experience to create a separate messaging system and secondary platform that can be used without a Facebook account.It is likely to form part of the social network’s push to capture users outside its ecosystem, as illustrated by its purchase of WhatsApp and other apps and services, including photo-sharing service Instagram.According to the Information, Facebook is currently testing the system internally, which is designed to aid in the researching and ordering of products. Facebook has declined to comment.Several other services have attempted the human touch, rather than using algorithms and machine learning to deliver information via a virtual assistant-style interface.Magic, GoButler and Operator all do similar things, operating a concierge-like system.With Amazon recentlybreaking out its Alexa digital assistantfrom its Echo speaker, and Microsoft bringing itsCortanaAI to Windows and other platforms, the first major battle between humans and machines may be fought in the world of online personal assistants.•Facebook questions use of ‘right to be forgotten’ ruling
The mob is turning against Flash. Mozilla has blocked every version of Adobe’s Flash plugin from running within its Firefox browser, while Facebook’s head of security has called for Adobe to kill it off.The moves come following a series of vulnerabilities in Flash being actively exploited, includingthose exposedbythe Hacking Team compromise.Firefox users seeking to view Flash-based content, such as videos, adverts or more complex web tools for uploading images and other actions, will need to click again and accept a warning that “Flash is known to be vulnerable. Use with caution”.That means users of Firefox cannot use Flash by default and will not be able to until Adobe patches the security bugs and updates the plugin. Adobe has struggled to keep up with the number of bugs and vulnerabilities being exposed within Flash.At the same time, Facebook’s head of security Alex Stamos, who is previously credited with significantly improving the security of Yahoo’s operations, called for Flash to be killed off.It is time for Adobe to announce the end-of-life date for Flash and to ask the browsers to set killbits on the same day.&mdash; Alex Stamos (@alexstamos)July 12, 2015Stamos said that a date for the decommissioning of Flash needed to be set in stone so that the industry has time to switch away from the much maligned plugin.“Nobody takes the time to rewrite their tools and upgrade to HTML5 because they expect Flash to live forever. We need a date to drive it,”said Stamos.Many alternatives have been made available to replace Flash. Several high-profile video streaming services, including Sky TV and Netflix switched to Microsoft’s Silverlight instead of Flash. Even Silverlight, however, has been rejected by browsers including Google’s Chrome, forcing others to use HTML5.The move towards using native HTML5 for the majority of Flash uses has been welcomed by most, although some services that require digital rights management to secure licences have resisted the move.Should Facebook ditch Flash wholesale, which is still used by some of the games and apps published on the social network by third-party publishers and a few of its own upload tools, it would send a powerful message.The majority of the large US technology companies, including Google and Apple, which famously blocked Flash from existing on its iPhone and iPad, have moved towards more modern and secure technologies.Stamos and others are advocating that now is the time to put Flash out to pasture.•Adobe issues urgent Flash patch to prevent hacking attacks
Snapchat has tweaked its design to give more priority to its Discover section, sparking anger from some users.Discover offers videos and news stories from media partners, including Sky News, Mail Online and Vice, but some users find the service at odds with instant messaging and photo sharing with friends.Users took toTwitter to criticise the increased prominence of Discoverwith some complaining about the change, and rubbishing Discover as a feature more generally.Stop trying to make Discover happen@SnapchatITS NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.#UGH#snapchat#newupdatewoes&mdash; snoo (@xglossd)July 14, 2015Thanks snapchat for making it harder for me to ignore the discover snapchat page&mdash; Magic Vixen (@_EricaDonnelly)July 14, 2015@Snapchatyou fucked up SOOOOOOOOOOOO hard with this update. No one wants &#39;Discover&#39; or &#39;Live&#39;. You&#39;re ruining your own app with each update&mdash; Jonathan Kircher (@KircherCast)July 14, 2015While the response on Twitter may not be representative of Snapchat’s 100 million daily active users, the company will keenly observe how it’s users respond to its expansion beyond messaging.WhenDiscover launched in January, it occupied its own screen within Snapchat’s app, accessed by swiping right twice. While that page still exists, Discover also now appears in a sliding carousel at the top of the app’s Stories screen too.This means Discover partners now appear above recent updates from friends on Snapchat, as well as the app’s recently-introduced “Live” section spotlighting users’ photos and videos from specific events and locations.“Since we launched, we have been experimenting and learning what content works well,” a spokespersontold the Wall Street Journal. “We’re very excited about where we are today and making Discover accessible on our Stories page feels like a natural fit.”Snapchat Discover partners now appear on the app’s Stories screen.Snapchat’s logic is clear enough: it wants more of those 100 million people watching the stories produced by its partners, who also include MTV, Cosmopolitan, People, National Geographic, Yahoo and Warner Music Group.That in turn would boost revenues from advertisements running around those stories. According to tech news site Recode, Snapchat cut its ad rates from$100 per thousand views in Marchto$20 per thousand views in May, in an effort to get more brands spending money within Discover.Related:Snapchat debuts tap-to-view controls promising 'no more tired thumbs'This means that a video story within the section watched 1m times could generate as much as $20k in advertising revenues, while a video watched 10m times could make $200k - with these revenues split with publishers according to the terms of their deals with Snapchat.Discover, as well as the Live section, are key planks in Snapchat’s strategy to become a big player in the world of media, rather than just messaging.In May, the company claimedits users were watching more than 2bn videos a day, although it did not say how many of those views were of branded videos rather than clips sent between friends.
It’s Tuesday. Today’s screenshot is from Quiver of Crows, a twin-stick shooter by Orange County-based studioSheado.net.
A new contactless payment system that lets people use their iPhones to tap-and-pay in high street shops has been launched in the UK. Apple Pay will let iPhone 6, 6 Plus and Apple Watch owners pay for items costing up to £20 by just touching their gadgets to a payment terminal, much like contactless credit cards.The UK launch marks the first expansion of Apple’s contactless payment system beyond the US, where it rolled outlast October. Contactless payments have become increasingly popular in the UK with major banks offering cards that can just be tapped to pay, eliminating the need to type in a pin.Apple will hope its system proves popular by reducing the number of items people need to carry, and by offering the extra security of using fingerprint recognition.How does it work?Apple Pay is in effect a digital wallet. It lets users use their credit and debit cards through Apple’s Passbook app. There are two ways to use it: in a physical high street store and online.Only people with the latest generation of iPhones, or an Apple Watch, will be able to use it in stores. Apple Pay uses near-field communications (NFC) found in the iPhone 6, 6 Plus or Apple Watch in a similar manner to contactless cards.Unlike contactless cards, Apple Pay includes an extra security measure known as tokenisation, which ensures that the card details stored on a phone are never passed to the retailer. Instead, the payee receives a single-use “token” allowing them to debit the payment only once.The payments are secured and verified by the owner’s fingerprint using Apple’s Touch ID system. This might make it slower sometimes when authentication is required compared to using a contactless card but the security-conscious may appreciate the extra check.Which cards can I use?The first wave of banks to support the payment system in the UK include NatWest, Nationwide Building Society, Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander and Ulster Bank and MBNA. First Direct and HSBC will join later in July while Apple promises a second wave in the autumn, including Bank of Scotland, Halifax, Lloyds Bank, M&amp;S Bank and TSB Bank.A notable absentee is Barclays, which is apparently still working some things out, likely around Apple’s cut of each transaction.Where can I use it?A variety of banks, credit card companies and retailers have lined up to support Apple Pay. Most retailers that already accept contactless payments via credit and debit cards will support the new pay system.Notable companies and services include Waitrose, Co-op, Lidl, Spar, Boots, Marks and Spencer, Post Office, BP, Costa Coffee, Starbucks, LePain Quotidien, Wagamama, Nandos, KFC, Pret A Manger, Subway, McDonald’s, the Trainline, Transport for London and Liberty.For online payments the list includes Addison Lee, Argos, British Airways, Domino’s, easyJet, Hailo, hungryhouse, Just Eat, lastminute.com, Miss Selfridge, Ocado, Topshop and Zara.When used to pay online, Apple Pay will operate similar to the way PayPal works on Samsung smartphones, using a fingerprint to authenticate payments without the user having to enter credit card details on supporting sites.Is there a limit?Most payments will be limited to the £20 cap that is in force for contactless payments using credit or debit cards. That limit will rise to £30 in September.But Apple Pay will be able to support larger payment amounts using updated terminals in shops that verify the user’s payment credentials using Touch ID instead of having to enter a pin.How quickly support for larger payments rolls out has yet to be confirmed.Related:Apple Pay: a new frontier for scammersWhat’s the competition doing?Unlike the US, the UK has had robust support for contactless payments through credit and debit cards. Contactless payments were up 255% in 2014, while 58m contactless cards were in circulation.Companies such as PayPal, services operated through mobile phone operators such as EE’s Cash on Tap and smartphone manufacturers such as Samsung and Google also have their own payment solutions, but have struggled to gain traction.The launch of Apple Pay is likely to improve support and awareness of smartphone payments, but whether users will be convinced to pull out their smartphone instead of their credit card remains to be seen.•US slow to take bite of Apple Pay
There’s a mechanism for finding out about the world that we’ve all become experts in, perhaps without realising it. Maybe we learned at school how to use libraries, maybe our parents or the Girl Guides taught us how to listen for birdsong. But no one ever taught us how to Google – yet we’re all so good at it. We decide precisely which words to type to get the information we need. Defining search terms is how we touch the world.“Defining search terms” is the mechanism used to fascinating effect by the excellent gameHer Story, released this month for PC, Mac and iOS. The setup is simple. For reasons that become (somewhat) clear, you’re sitting at a mid-1990s computer with a database of police interviews to search through. The interviews are all with the same woman – played by Viva Seifert. Someone’s already typed the first term in for you and there are five results. The search term is “MURDER”. Her husband’s been murdered, and if you search long enough, and watch enough of the clips, you’ll learn who murdered him, and how, and why, and what hall-of-mirrors events led to the killing.The pleasures are manifold and fascinating. Googling is, as we all know, fairly addictive all by itself, as well as being a pacey gameplay device. There are, at points, codes to solve and notes to make, like a real (fictional) detective. The retro design is delightful; the 90s computer you’re “using” includes the proper clicky keyboard sounds and period-appropriate screen-glare.There’s an interesting fashion now for the retro-aesthetic in gaming, from pixelated characters as in Jason Rohrer’sPassage, to the text adventure game-within-a-game ofKentucky Route Zero. It’s that first generation of children who grew up with video games reflecting on their earliest gaming experiences and making deeper and more sophisticated art from them. There’s a mini-game calledMirror Gameto be discovered inHer Storytoo – another game-within-a-game that echoes the larger themes of the piece.Seifert’s performance is mannered rather than naturalistic, which feels jarring at the start; it takes a few clips to get used to her arch, often flirtatious tone. However, by the end it makes sense, both in terms of the character she’s playing, who is in some sense playing a part herself, and because the story turns out to be in many ways more a fable than crime thriller. The story is peculiar, weird, intriguing – and works brilliantly with the format because of those things. As a player faced with a police procedural, you feel you know this story: you’ll find out who the murderer is, you’ll see them brought to justice. But everyone I’ve spoken to who’s played the game has a slightly different interpretation of what actually happened. All versions have an edge that is sinister and strange, but the facts cannot be fully pinned down.Partly this is because you’re likely to place more emphasis in your interpretation of the clips you watch early on. Creator Sam Barlow – writer and designer ofSilent Hill: OriginsandSilent Hill: Shattered Memories– starts you off with those five clips under the term MURDER, but after that it’s up to you, and everyone will take a slightly different route.Related:Why BS Johnson suits the digital ageSince BS Johnson’s 1969 novelThe Unfortunates, one of the staples of interactive narrative has been to try to create a story that can be “read in any order”. But it’s exceptionally difficult to do, partly because “beginning, middle and end” just works for the human brain. We live in time, experiencing past, present and future in that order. Stories are about cause and effect.Her Storysucceeds by working with that, not against it. It encourages us to piece the story together for ourselves, promising us that the “real story” is in there somewhere. And even if it isn’t, quite, our storytelling brains will sort it out for us.Her Storyhas been excellently reviewed – and deservedly so – apart from a certain segment of gamers who apparently think this is “not a game”. Presumably because you don’t get to shoot anyone and there’s no way to “win” or “lose”. But like so much of the best literature, this is a piece of art where restriction and subtlety increase the effect rather than diminish it.With its odd fable-like quality and its reliance on the player’s interpretation,Her Storybecomes an ink-blot test. What does your perception and the search terms you choose say about you? And therefore, the game seems to ask, whose story is it, really?
Caspar Bowden, who has died of cancer aged 53, warned of online state snooping many years beforeEdward Snowden, and ran a successful campaign to stop surveillance laws becoming even worse than they are. He entered the fray in 1997, when Tony Blair went back on a pre-election promise not to demand government access to cryptographic keys. At a Scrambling for Safety conference convened at the London School of Economics to thrash out a response, Caspar emerged as knowledgable, articulate and passionate.He was born in London, the only child of Kenneth and Angela Bowden, though he had two older half-brothers, Malcolm and Simon. He attended Westminster school and read mathematics at Magdalene College, Cambridge, but spent a lot of time working on artificial intelligence and failed his degree. He found a job as a programmer at Island Logic, then moved to Goldman Sachs, working on projects including option pricing and cryptographic software. He became an active member of the Labour party in Islington, and by 1997 was chair ofScientists for Labour.The “Crypto War” had started in 1993 when the US National Security Agency persuaded the new Clinton administration to try to bully US firms into encrypting data using the Clipper chip, a device containing a back-door key to let the NSA decipher any encrypted phone call or email just as easily as the intended recipient. Industry fought back, and throughout the 1990s there were repeated tussles, with US officials claiming that unregulated crypto would make police wiretaps “go dark”, while technologists countered that giving spare keys to governments would make systems more complex and fragile, and businesses feared that regulation would kill the dotcom boom. Before the election, New Labour had promised that they would not introduce a power to demand crypto keys. But suddenly the Crypto War had come to Britain too.Caspar saw this U-turn as a betrayal, resigned from the Labour party, and set up theFoundation for Information Policy Research, of which he became director. He threw himself into the fight against the Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill andsecured several major changes. The most important was the “big browser” amendment, which defined the boundary between “content” and “traffic data”.Previously, a police officer needed a warrant signed by a secretary of state to wiretap a phone (getting the “content” of the call) but could get phone bill records of who called whom when (the “traffic data”) with a simple order. The police wanted “traffic data” to mean a whole URL, but Caspar explained patiently that a web search for “pregnancy tests”, for instance, resulted in a URL that contained those actual search terms, and would thus give the police information that most reasonable people would consider to be “content”. He got hisamendment.Caspar’s second big achievement as director of FIPR was to get NGOs to Brussels. By 2002 it was becoming clear that many digital rights issues would be fought in Brussels; export controls on software were the issue of the day. He saw that human-rights and digital-rights NGOs needed a presence there, and started the process that led to the birth of the advocacy groupEuropean Digital Rights (EDRi).In 2002, Caspar left FIPR and joined Microsoft, where he became chief privacy adviser for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Microsoft was originally keen on privacy, and Caspar got the company to sponsor privacy research in various ways. But the company’s direction changed as cloud services became important and as the Bush surveillance laws gave the agencies access to cloud data. In 2011 Caspar left. Ashe told the story, he was responsible for briefing Microsoft’s government sales managers in 40 countries about privacy, and told them that if they sold Microsoft cloud services to non-US governments, the US Fisa court (the Foreign Intelligence Surveilliance court) would give the FBI, NSA and CIA unfettered access to everything. For this, he was fired.After 2011 he went back to being a privacy campaigner, as a member of Liberty’s policy council and a board member of the Tor project, whose software lets people browse the internet anonymously. He was the first to explain how much cloud services expand state surveillance, and that the EU was wilfully blind to the NSA’s activities.Some saw this view as extremist, but the Snowden revelations of 2013 vindicated him completely. Some months afterwards, he wrote apowerful paperfor the European parliament’s committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, LIBE, setting out in detail how US law, policy and technology fit together to undermine human rights and the rule of law in other countries.Caspar was not only passionate about privacy, but was an effective public speaker and a charming man in private. He had a knack for explaining complex technical issues in language that even members of the House of Lords could understand. While he was a fan of technology, he was sufficiently clear-sighted to understand the hazards as well as the opportunities. Now that weseem headed for a second Crypto War, with both the prime minister, David Cameron, and the FBI director,James Comey, gearing up to demand government access to all our keys and data, we shall sorely miss him.He is survived by his wife Sandi (nee Cox), whom he married in 2005. It is proposed to establish the Caspar Bowden Foundation to promote privacy as a universal human right.• Caspar Pemberton Scott Bowden, privacy campaigner, born 19 August 1961; died 9 July 2015
A man has accused British Transport police of being “overzealous” and “ridiculous” after he was arrested for charging his iPhone using a socket on a London Overground train.Robin Lee, a 45-year-old artist based in Islington, was handcuffed and taken to a British Transport Police station on Caledonian Road after his arrest for “abstracting electricity”.Lee was then arrested on a second offence of “unacceptable behaviour” after “becoming aggressive” when objecting to his prior arrest.A police spokesman said a “decision on further action would be made in due course”.Speaking tothe Evening Standard, Lee said he had been confronted by a police community support officer on the overground train from Hackney Wick to Camden Road on 10 July. The Overground is part of Transport For London’s wider network that also includes London Underground and the buses.“She said I’m abstracting electricity. She kept saying it’s a crime. We were just coming into the station and there happened to be about four police officers on the platform.“She called to them and said: ‘This guy’s been abstracting electricity, he needs to be arrested’.”Abstracting electricity is anoffence under section 13of the Theft Act 1968. It carries a maximum custodial sentence of five years.Lee, who tweeted about the incident and posted a picture of his arrest sheet which hassince been deleted, went on to tell the Standard: “I was just incredulous. It was an overzealous community support officer. They should never have arrested me, they knew it was ridiculous. The whole thing was just ridiculous.”The artist was later “de-arrested” for the offence.British Transport police said in a statement: “We were called to Camden Road London Overground station on Friday 10 July to a report of a man becoming aggressive when challenged by a PCSO about his use of a plug socket onboard an Overground train.“Shortly after 3.30pm, a 45-year-old man from Islington was arrested on suspicion of abstracting electricity, for which he was de-arrested shortly after. He was further arrested for unacceptable behaviour and has been reported for this offence.”Electricity sockets on Overground trains are clearly marked with the words: “cleaners use only and not for public use”.On aforum dedicated to the London Underground, members have pointed out that plug sockets on the trains are for cleaning equipment deployed when trains are in depots. They recommend not charging electronic equipment as there is a risk of power surge: “If something was directly plugged into it (for example a standard computer, or a laptop without a battery in) the equipment would probably be damaged at any section gaps where the power supply changes from one substation to another!”Last week, 19-year-old Nick Silvestrihit the headlines in New Yorkafter jumping on stage before a Broadway play in an attempt to charge his phone – at a fake socket which was part of the set. He said his phone had 5% left as “girls were calling all day”.
Tributes forNintendo’s president Satoru Iwata, who has died from cancer at the age of 55, have been flooding in on social media.Since Nintendo announced the news on Monday morning, tributes to the self-confessed “gamer at heart” have sent the hashtag #ThankYouIwata trending on Twitter.One Twitter user, AnYlien, said: “#ThankYouIwatafor putting a little magic and colour in our grey world” with another, Zumii, adding: “#ThankYouIwatayou made my childhood a great one!” On Instagram, onceuponadavid posted: “Its crazy but I am incredibly sad#ThankYouIwatayour work defined my life.”Here are some of the most moving and poignant tributes:Goodbye, RIP and#ThankYouIwatafor putting a little magic and colour in our grey world.&mdash; Chaos-Bunny (@AnYlein)July 13, 2015As a Game collector &amp;#GamerGatesupporter, I will miss Mr. Iwata very much. Set your differences aside &amp; play games.#ThankYouIwata&mdash; Trevgauntlet (@Trevgauntlet)July 13, 2015I hold nintendo and all their games close to my heart. They are a part of who I am.#ThankYouIwatayou gave me many memories of having fun&mdash; Spunkster (@SpunkyShep)July 13, 2015fhedhtPhotograph: @the_moviebob/Twitter#ThankYouIwatafor keeping handhelds alive&mdash; Zunk (@ZunkBunk)July 13, 2015Beautiful fan art, genuinely brought a tear to my eye#ThankYouIwatapic.twitter.com/U2xndlhVZd&mdash; Kutski (@Kutski)July 13, 2015#thankyouiwatafor making me love video games again. Sad to see you go.pic.twitter.com/CuGKWogn41&mdash; Neorice (@Neoriceisgood)July 13, 2015Our generation will not forget you&#10;&#10;Thank you,&#10;&#10;#ThankYouIwata&mdash; شنبو Cule (@Shanab0o)July 13, 2015pic.twitter.com/TDBrzS4b9M&mdash; Aaron Greenberg (@aarongreenberg)July 13, 2015#ThankYouIwatafor all your hard work!pic.twitter.com/oN0b66YPt8&mdash; ☆REENeenee! (@megumegane)July 13, 2015#ThankYouIwatafor all things you&#39;re made for us. We will never forget you.. Rest in peace..pic.twitter.com/36B3JQnHO6&mdash; ほのか 。♡ (@_TwilightQueen)July 13, 2015Share your tributes and memories of Iwata and Nintendo in the comments or share images via GuardianWitness.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest newiPhoneand iPad apps and games. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection.APPSHip Hop Hen: Phonics 1 CVC (£2.99)Looking for a bit of digital backup to your children’s phonics learning at school? This app from British developer Hip Hop Hen is well worth trying. It’s a colourful, characterful app based on the key “CVC” (consonant-vowel-consonant) words that kids learn with phonics, helping them practise their skills at home.iPhone / iPadYoVivo! (Free)There are plenty of ways to browse and share photos and videos on an iPhone. This new app’s thing is bringing your various services together, from Flickr and Facebook to Dropbox and Google Drive. You can upload and download from the app, and create slideshows for easier sharing.iPhoneDeliveroo (Free)You’ll need to be in one of 14 British cities supported by this food-delivery app to take advantage, but if you are, it offers a decent selection of takeaway outlets to choose from – and not just the usual fast-food delivery services either.iPhoneStreaks (£2.99)Whatever your daily habits, this app will help you track them. Obviously, it’s supposed to be for the good ones… You set up what you want to remember to do every day, then the app will notify you, and keep track of your “streaks” – consecutive days when you’ve completed your goals.iPhoneCrayola DJ (£3.99)I’ve always associated crayons with DJing, haven’t you? Oh. Yes, the match between Crayola and the dancefloor may not be obvious, but the children’s brand’s latest app is still well worth a look for musical kids. They can blend loops and sound effects to create their own tunes, then mix and scratch them for an enthusiastic audience. That would be you, of course.iPhone / iPadHalo Channel (Free)Can’t get enough of Microsoft’s Halo games franchise? Here’s an official app to provide all manner of videos and tips, from documentaries made by the developers through to let’s play videos from the best players out there in the community.iPhone / iPadNine (£0.79)I’m still searching for the perfect to-do app (suggestions welcome in the comments) but Nine is an original take on the category: it gets you to take photos to represent the tasks you want to get done, tagging them with locations and labels to ensure you don’t forget.iPhoneWonder - London and New York (Free)While Deliveroo is about staying in to eat, Wonder is about getting out and about. It uses a Tinder-style swipe left or right mechanism to work your way through “wonders” that might be worth seeing in London or New York, saving the ones you swipe right for later reference.iPhoneIvy Big Number Calculator (Free)Here’s an interesting thing: an app produced by a team within Google using open source programming language Go – a proof of concept, possibly. Anyway, it’s a minimal calculation app that can handle complex maths with aplomb.iPhone / iPadKitCut - Visual Mashup (Free)If you lack the Photoshop and/or animation skills to create comical animated GIFs, KitCut might be just the thing: a simple way to turn photo cutouts and scribblings into “visual mashups” to share with friends on various social networks.iPhoneDon’t Starve for iPad.GAMESDon’t Starve: Pocket Edition (£3.99)Judging by the middling App Store rating, some people are having technical difficulties with this game. I’ve yet to experience any, so my main problem is that I’m a bit rubbish at it. Don’t Starve is worth persisting with though: a punishingly-challenging yet rewarding strategy game that gets you to survive in a wilderness – starting with nothing.iPadAlphabear (Free + IAP)Developer Spry Fox made the enduringly-marvellous Triple Town puzzle game, and its latest shares that title’s cutesy bears. It’s a different game though: a word puzzle where you turn Scrabble-ish letters into words to grow bears, over a succession of challenges. Superbly moreish.iPhone / iPadMagic Duels (Free + IAP)If you’ve been a bit intimidated by card-game Magic: The Gathering (or its digital versions) this may be a good place to hop on the bandwagon: a new “Origins” campaign that helps you build your virtual deck of spells to battle real people or AI foes. Its tutorials for new players are a good way in.iPhone / iPadAgar.io (Free + IAP)More scientific fusion here, albeit of the biological kind. Based on a popular web game, it sees you playing a cell and eating smaller cells to grow bigger, while avoiding bigger cells who want to eat you. And these cells are all controlled by other players, obviously.iPhone / iPadNono Islands (Free + IAP)Otherwise known as the game that will put 2 Unlimited on your internal jukebox for about a week. This is a colourful action game with lots to recommend it, as you search for treasure while avoiding spiders, sharks and all manner of traps.iPhone / iPadSplendor (£4.99)If digitised board games are your thing, take a look at Splendor – an accurate version of the inventive jewel-trading game that’s won a succession of awards in recent years. You can play alone or pass your device between up to four players, with a challenges mode helping you learn new tactics.iPhone / iPadRumble City (Free + IAP)More boardgame-inspired mobile fun here, albeit in a brand new game rather than a conversion. Rumble City is a tactical-strategy game based on American biker culture, as you batter your way through a cast of fellow brawlers.iPhone / iPadCongo Merc (£3.99)HexWar Games specialises in, yep, wargames. This latest one moves away from the familiar combat theatres to focus on 1960s-era Congo, just after independence. With four operations to complete and a range of varied units, it looks to have plenty of depth.iPhone / iPadShooting Stars (£2.29)Fed up with po-faced shoot ‘em ups? You may prefer the cut of Shooting Stars’ jib. It mixes celebrities and ridiculous power-ups with online high-score battles and daily challenges: a fresh take on a well-established genre.iPhone / iPadFlown (Free + IAP)Finally, how long has it been since a new mobile game involving a bird flapping its wings? Don’t answer that. Flown sees “Early Bird” flapping upwards rather than along, collecting characters as it goes that can be mixed and matched.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by oniOSin the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
The founder of cybersecurity firm Hacking Team has finally spoken out over the attack that saw 400GB of its data dumped on the internet, insisting: “We’re the good guys”.David Vincenzetti, 47, founder of the Milan-based company, toldItalian newspaper La Stampathat the cyber attack – which saw the code for companies hacking tools and its email archive published online – was not enabled by poor security or weak passwords and that it could have only been an organisation “at the governmental level”.Vincenzetti said: “This is not an impromptu initiative: the attack was planned for months, with significant resources, the extraction of data took a long time.” But he did not explain how Hacking Team apparently failed to notice the attack while it was taking place.•Hacking Team hack casts spotlight on murky world of state surveillanceIn response to concerns that Hacking Team supplied tools to repressive states which could be used to hack into and spy on almost anyone, Vincenzetti said: “We did [sell tools to Libya] when suddenly it seemed that the Libyans had become our best friends.” He also admitted providing tools to Egypt, Ethiopia, Morocco and Sudan, as exposed by the company’s email archive, though denied dealing with Syria.But Vincenzetti said: “The geopolitical changes rapidly, and sometimes situations evolve. But we do not trade in weapons, we do not sell guns that can be used for years.” He said that without regular updates its tools are rapidly blocked by cyber security countermeasures.In the case of the Ethiopian government, which used Hacking Team tools to spy on journalists and activists, Vincenzetti said: “We’re the good guys … when we heard that Galileo had been used to spy on a journalist in opposition of the government, we asked about this, and finally decided to stop supplying them in 2014.”Meanwhile, the impact of the Hacking Team data dump continues to affect wider cubersecurity. A further two vulnerabilities within Adobe’s Flash plugin have been exposed and are actively being exploited as a result of the attack,Adobe has confirmed.•Warning over Adobe Flash vulnerability revealed by Hacking Team leak
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatestAndroidapps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!AppsRE: Shakespeare (Free)Samsung is trying to find a new way in to Shakespeare, working with the Royal Shakespeare Company on this Android app. Purists look away now: there’s beatboxing, 360-degree filmed scenes from Much Ado About Nothing, and a hip-hop v Shakespeare quiz. It looks good fun though.Crayola DJ (£3.79)I’ve always associated crayons with DJing, haven’t you? Oh. Yes, the match between Crayola and the dancefloor may not be obvious, but the children’s brand’s latest app is still well worth a look for musical kids. They can blend loops and sound effects to create their own tunes, then mix and scratch them for an enthusiastic audience. That would be you, of course.Halo Channel (Free)Can’t get enough of Microsoft’s Halo games franchise? Here’s an official app to provide all manner of videos and tips, from documentaries made by the developers through to let’s play videos from the best players out there in the community.Hooks - Alerts for Everything (Free + IAP)If you’ve used apps like IFTTT to fine-tune the various apps and web services that you use, Hooks is well worth checking out. It’s a way to create alerts for yourself from … well, pretty much anything you want, from entertainment and sports to earthquakes and lottery results.Mickey’s Super Rocket Shapes (£3.89)This is the latest Android release from Disney’s Imagicademy series of educational apps for children. It’s not rocket science. Oh wait! Okay, it is a bit: kids have to help Mickey Mouse build rockets then fly them into space, via a spot of shape-recognition and manipulation.Streaks: Daily Habit Tracker (Free + IAP)Whatever your daily habits, this app will help you track them. Obviously, it’s supposed to be for the good ones … You set up what you want to remember to do every day, then the app will notify you, and keep track of your “streaks” – consecutive days when you’ve completed your goals.Ivy Big Number Calculator (Free)Here’s an interesting thing: an app produced by a team within Google using open-source programming language Go – a proof of concept, possibly. Anyway, it’s a minimal calculation app that can handle complex maths with aplomb.Sago Mini Toolbox (£2.49)Sago Sago is the sister studio to children’s apps publisher Toca Boca, and its apps are just as high-quality. This one has a DIY and crafts theme, with children able to virtually hammer, saw and sew among other activities.Cloudifile (Free)This could come in handy if you’re looking for more secure cloud storage for your files. Cloudifile’s desktop software synchronises folders on your computer with Dropbox while encrypting them – and this Android app lets you access those, while also uploading new files on the go.Tuber (Free)There’s a very good YouTube app for Android: it’s the one made by YouTube itself. But some people prefer to find an alternative: if you’re one of them, Tuber may be worth a look. It’s a stripped-down app for just watching the channels you’re subscribed to.Alphabear for Android.GamesAlphabear (Free + IAP)Developer Spry Fox made the enduringly-marvellous Triple Town puzzle game, and its latest shares that title’s cutesy bears. It’s a different game though: a word puzzle where you turn Scrabble-ish letters into words to grow bears, over a succession of challenges. Superbly moreish.Fearless Fantasy (£3.12)“Probably the weirdest RPG you’ll play this year,” claims the blurb for this game, and it’s not lying. This is all kinds of strange, yet it’s also a brilliant game, as you explore, battle and upgrade your character while hoping that the memories won’t keep you awake at night.Democracy vs Freedom (Free + IAP)The developers of this game describe it as a MOVA – multiplayer online vote arena – which sees you teaming up with lots of other players to vote on what moves your tanks should make next, as they battle an opponent. It’s like a strategy game crossed with Twitch Plays Pokemon, and original with it.Atomas (Free + IAP)I always struggled with Chemistry at school, but if it had been as fun as this puzzle game, perhaps I’d have done better. It sees you fusing atoms to create new elements, working your way from hydrogen to gold, platinum and silver via lots of chain reactions.Agar.io (Free + IAP)More scientific fusion here, albeit of the biological kind. Based on a popular web game, it sees you playing a cell and eating smaller cells to grow bigger, while avoiding bigger cells that want to eat you. And these cells are all controlled by other players, obviously.Splendor (£5.45)If digitised board games are your thing, take a look at Splendor – an accurate version of the inventive jewel-trading game that’s won a succession of awards in recent years. You can play alone or pass your device between up to four players, with a challenges mode helping you learn new tactics.Rumble City (Free + IAP)More boardgame-inspired mobile fun here, albeit in a brand new game rather than a conversion. Rumble City is a tactical-strategy game based on American biker culture, as you batter your way through a cast of fellow brawlers.FootLOL: Crazy Soccer (£1.99)Say what you like about Sepp Blatter, but at least he never allowed cows on the pitch during World Cups. Maybe he should have: they’re one of the features of this comical football sim that’ll raise a smile, along with aliens, mines and a host of other unsanctioned-in-the-real-world power-ups.Dead Among Us (Free + IAP)Forget hordes of zombies: there are hordes of first-person zombie shooters available for smartphones. Dead Among Us comes with some original ideas though: including controls designed specifically for one-handed play (good if you hang off a tube rail while commuting) and some clever power-ups.Quadrush (Free)Quadrush has Tetris firmly in its ancestry, but enough new features to make it worth a look for falling-block-puzzle fans. You tap or swipe same-coloured cubes to remove them, aiming for combos to clear the screen as often as possible.That’s my choice, but whatAndroidapps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Reddit’s new chief executive Steve Huffman has promised to reconsider the online communities policies “from first principles” but defended many recent changes as he tries to rebuild its reputation.Huffman returned to the company he co-founded last week, taking over the role fromoutgoing boss Ellen Pao.In hisfirst Ask Me Anything (AMA) online question-and-answer session since returning, he outlined his priorities as chief executive while also explaining that some of Pao’s controversial decisions will not be reversed.Related:How Ellen Pao lost her job but survived Reddit's swamp of trolls“I know we have a lot of work to do. One of my first priorities is to re-establish a relationship with the community,” wrote Huffman.That includes defusing the testy relationship between Reddit’s own staff and its community of voluntary moderators (mods), following the recent row whensome of Reddit’s most popular subreddits were shut down by their mods.“An adversarial relationship with the mods is the opposite of what we want,” wrote Huffman, promising to build a team of community managers to improve the relationship.However, Huffman was careful not to criticise Pao, who had become a lightning rod for criticism within Reddit’s community, for changes made during her time as CEO.“We will reconsider all our policies from first principles. I don’t know all of the changes that were made under Ellen’s tenure. I’m mostly still getting to know everyone here,” wrote Huffman.He went on to thank Pao – “she stepped up at a time of crisis for Reddit, for which we were thankful” – while explaining that some of her most controversial changes will not be reversed.For example,subreddits like r/fatpeoplehate that were banned in Juneare not scheduled to return under Huffman’s leadership.“Unlikely. Creating a clear content policy is another of my immediate priorities. We will make it very clear what is and is not acceptable behaviour on Reddit,” he wrote.Huffman outlined a three-pronged policy that is likely to guide Reddit’s policies: nothing illegal; nothing that “undermines the integrity of Reddit”; and nothing that “causes other individuals harm or to fear for their wellbeing”.He added that FatPeopleHate fell foul of the latter tenet, since it was “specifically hostile” towards other users of Reddit.“Harassment and bullying affect people dramatically in the real world, and we want Reddit to be a place where our users feel safe, or at least don’t feel threatened,” he wrote.However, Huffman intends to improve Reddit’s transparency around content that has been censored or banned on its network.“We want to keep Reddit as open as possible, and when we have to ban something, I want it to be very transparent that it was done and what our reasoning was,” he wrote.“I think mods should be able to moderate, but there should also be some mechanism to see what was removed. It doesn’t have to be easy, but it shouldn’t be impossible,” he wrote, later returning to the question.“They can ban what they want, but I’d like to make it transparent what was actually banned. Some sort of ‘garbage can’ or something.”Huffman said Reddit will not re-hire Victoria Taylor, Reddit’s former director of communications, whose departure earlier in the month sparked the subreddits shutdown in protest.“No. I know she was well-loved by many moderators, and I’m very sorry at how everything played out. It could have been handled much better,” wrote Huffman.“However, she was let go for specific reasons, which I obviously will not share, and we will stand by that decision.”Instead, Reddit is planning to hire a team to “help manage the relationships between moderators and guests”, taking over the role held by Taylor before she was sacked.Huffman gave short shrift to a question about whether Reddit feels threatened by rival Voat, whichsaw its traffic rise sharplyduring the recent turmoil.Related:Reddit: can anyone clean up the mess behind 'the front page of the internet'?Asked whether Voat could do to Reddit what Reddit did to another online community, Digg, several years ago, Huffman disagreed: “Reddit had better technology than Digg. I don’t think Voat has better technology than Reddit”.Huffman intends to fend off any such threats by making Reddit more accessible to newcomers, while striving not to alienate its core community.“I think the new user/core user dichotomy is the biggest product challenge we face right now,” wrote Huffman. “Solve it, and we are unstoppable.”Even mutant animal-hybrids won’t stand in his way. Faced with a familiar meme-question from one user – would he rather fight 1,000 duck-sized horses or one horse-sized duck – Huffman gave a confident answer.“1,000 duck-sized horses. Since they can’t climb stairs, you can easily get away from them long enough to figure out how to drown them.”
On my business card, I am a corporate president. In my mind, I am a game developer. But in my heart, I am a gamer.– Satoru Iwata, speaking at the Game Developers Conference in 2005Here is a story about Satoru Iwata. It’s just one moment from his career, but it tells us much about how he thought and why, on the news of his death, an industry is in mourning.On 2 December 2004, Nintendo launched its DS dual-screen handheld console in Japan. Designed to appeal to what the company called “the Touch Generation”, the DS was the first big product launch for Iwata as president of the veteran video game manufacturer. This was the vanguard moment for his plan to grow the gaming population. But as the stores opened early in Tokyo and the first DS units were sold, Iwata was nowhere to be seen.Instead, he was in the city of Sendai, visiting Prof Ryuta Kawashima. He knew his absence in Tokyo would raise eyebrows, but this outranked it. At the time Kawashima was author of a pair of popular exercise books, containing simple maths and language puzzles, that were marketed as ways to “train the brain”. Iwata thought these could be the basis for a game that would be popular with non-gamers and, after securing Kawashima’s agreement to the project in the summer of 2004, had now brought the prototype software. The two men discussed the project for hours.Just over five months later, Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes a Day! was released for the Nintendo DS. Rather than being an instant smash, Brain Age (renamed Dr Kawashima’s Brain Training in other territories) was a slow-burner, spreading by word of mouth and gradually attracting a whole new audience. The simple but personable style was charming, the daily structure of tasks was compulsive, and finding out your “brain age” at the end of exercises was fun. Over the coming years, Brain Age would sell just under 20m copies, with its sequel close behind. Iwata turned a maths game into an industry phenomenon, and he knew and cared enough about the project to see it through personally.Related:Nintendo CEO Satoru Iwata dies of cancer aged 55It was this perspective on the games business that saw Nintendo regain its dominant market position under his leadership. After the arrival of the PlayStation in 1994, the company had been playing catch up, blindsided by Sony’s technical acumen. The N64 and GameCube were decent, successful consoles, but they fell far behind the PlayStation and its sequels in sales. When Iwata arrived, he brought with him a “blue ocean” philosophy: instead of competing with rivals like the PlayStation and Xbox on technical specs, Nintendo would explore entirely new areas of design. He thought differently from other corporate leaders in the industry, for one very important reason: Iwata learned his trade in the trenches of game development.Born in 1959 in Hokkaido Prefecture, Japan, the young Iwata was always fascinated with technology, and as a teenager at high school would create simple games on his programmable calculator. Many years later, Iwata would reflect on how a friend’s enthusiasm for these productions had affected him. “I think it was like when members of a comedy duo find each other. When I made something, he responded. That’s how I found my first customer and awakened to the joy of making something. I often think how I would have never made video games if it weren’t for that experience.”Iwata received his first computer, a Commodore PET, in the late 1970s – and in his thirst to understand the machine, took it apart. This would turn out to be a stroke of luck: the PET used a CPU similar to the one that would later power Nintendo’s Famicom console. By this time, Iwata had left high school and was studying computer science at the Tokyo Institute of Technology, which he juggled with a part-time gig at newly established developer HAL Laboratory. While still at college, Iwata coded his first commercial game, Super Billiards, which was published by HAL for the MSX home computer in 1983.But by this time, the potentially industry-changing Famicom was imminent. HAL Laboratory exploited its Nintendo links, badgering the company for a chance to develop on the machine. Iwata himself visited Nintendo to find out more, believing even before he saw the console that he could program games for it.And of course he could. Though Iwata was a HAL employee, throughout the 1980s and 1990s he also began to work for Nintendo. He was solely responsible for coding firstparty Nintendo games like Balloon Fight and NES Tournament Golf, and was credited as producer on many others.As he gained experience of the industry, Iwata began to think of ways to make new kinds of game, however modest. One idea was to create a game that anyone could play from beginning to end, regardless of skill. Fellow HAL employee Masuhiro Sakurai designed a giant smiling puffball that inhaled his enemies, and the studio released Kirby’s Dreamland for the Game Boy – a delightful, gently challenging platformer and the debut of a beloved character.At around the same time, HAL was in some financial trouble, and 1993 saw Iwata appointed president. Over the next seven years he brought HAL’s finances back into the black and further strengthened the company’s links with Nintendo: when Masuhiro Sakurai had the idea for an arena-battling game starring Nintendo characters, it was Iwata himself who coded the Pepsiman proof-of-concept prototype, that would go on to become the legendary Smash Bros series. All this was done under the watchful eye of the formidable Hiroshi Yamauchi, then president of Nintendo Japan.Being close to Nintendo was good for HAL, but it would be even better for Iwata. Finally hired as a Nintendo employee in 2000 at the age of 41, he was initially made head of the corporate planning division and thrown into managing multiple large-scale projects that required global co-ordination. Nintendo was preparing to transition from N64 to Gamecube, entering another round of bruising competition with Microsoft and Sony.In May 2002 Iwata was summoned to Hiroshi Yamauchi’s office. The older man spoke for hours about his half-century in charge of the company and, at the end, offered Iwata the job of president. The change happened soon thereafter. “Iwata has the instincts you need to succeed in this business” said Yamuachi on his departure. But perhaps the greater compliment was that Iwata was the fourth president of Nintendo in 136 years, and the first from outwith the Yamauchi family.Within two years, Iwata repaid that faith. Despite industry doubts over the appeal of a dual-screen handheld console, the Nintendo DS was a phenomenon, going on to sell over 150m units and thriving on beautiful, accessible games like Brain Training, Advance Wars, Animal Crossing and Mario Kart DS. Nintendo had discovered that providing new ways to interact with hardware could be just as important as improving visuals. Speaking at the Game Developers Conference in 2005, Iwata said: “Making games look more photorealistic is not the only means of improving the game experience. I know, on this point I risk being misunderstood, so remember, I am a man who once programmed a baseball game with no baseball players. If anyone appreciates graphics, it’s me! But my point is that this is just one path to improved game. We need to find others. Improvement has more than one definition.”It was a lesson he built on with the launch of the Nintendo Wii console in 2006 – and the results were equally spectacular. Straight after the DS launch the company’s research and development division began to work on a home console that could make similar use of a non-traditional control interface to reach beyond the traditional market. The team began to experiment with motion controls, developing a controller that could react to player movement, allowing easy interaction with onscreen characters. Speaking to Business Week in 2006, Nintendo’s game design legend Shigeru Miyamato said that Iwata and he wanted to attract those members of a family who tended to stand back and watch. But they also wanted a machine that would fit in with the space and budgetary demands of the family, a cheap machine that would also play old games.“Our goal was to come up with a machine that mums would want: easy to use, quick to start up, not a huge energy drain, and quiet while it was running,” said Miyamoto. “Rather than just picking new technology, we thought seriously about what a game console should be. Iwata wanted a console that would play every Nintendo game ever made. Mums would hate it if they had to have several consoles lying around.”When the Wii was first revealed, the industry scoffed once again. The graphics processors were inferior to those in the latest PlayStation and Xbox machines and the Wii remote controller seemed like a gimmick. But then people started playing early titles like Wii Sports and Wii Play – they were intuitive, fun and social. Anyone could get involved. Word of mouth spread and by mid-2007, Wii had sold more units than the PS3 and Xbox 360 put together. People were holding Wii parties, and everyone who attended was going out and buying their own machine the next day. It sold over 100m units.From here, the industry became more of a challenge. The rise of smartphones and then tablets ate into the traditional handheld console market, and the online gaming explosion drew more and more gamers to Sony and Microsoft platforms. Iwata was cautious about both sectors. In 2011, the new 3DS console featuring an offbeat stereoscopic 3D display, had a difficult launch period, with too little software and a swift price cut, so Iwata took personal responsibility. He cut his own salary by 50%, apologised to fans and investors, and gave every early purchaser of the system 10 Nintendo games for free. Last year, after disappointing financials, he again took a 50% cut in salary.In 2013, following the sluggish performance of the Wii U, Iwata waspressed by investorsto cut Nintendo’s staff to save money. “If we reduce the number of employees for better short-term financial results, employee morale will decrease,” Iwata replied. “I sincerely doubt employees who fear that they may be laid off will be able to develop software titles that could impress people around the world.” Nintendo cut no staff.Most recently, Iwata finally ditched his instinctive mistrust of the smartphone games industry. His concerns had been about separating Nintendo software and hardware. But througha business relationship with sector specialist DeNA, he saw a way of capitalising on the boom in phone and tablet gaming, while still protecting Nintendo’s IP and values. There will be no conversions of current Nintendo console games on to smartphones, everything will be built especially for these platforms.And in an industry where company CEOs often become pantomime villains to a demanding fanbase, Iwata was almost alone as a universally respected and liked executive. The gaming community has an insatiable appetite for in-jokes and memes – any figure of prominence becomes known best for one or two things. It says everything about Iwata that the most frequent joke is to add “[Iwata laughs]” to forum comments – a reference to his online series,Iwata Asks, where the president very frequently finds things amusing.Iwata was a man inclined to take the road less travelled – whether that was in his innovative game code, or in revolutionising the console industry. While he was determined to bolster the Wii and DS machines with hardcore fan favourites like Super Metroid and Zelda, he never shied away from Nintendo’s child friendly reputation, believing that entertaining families was not only sensible business but a worthwhile end in itself. “Video games are meant to be just one thing,” he said. “Fun! Fun for everyone.”He cemented this belief while talking at the 2011 game developer conference. After reflecting on his early days of games programming he said that observing the sales of Miyamoto’s games had convinced him of one thing: “engineering is not quite as important as imagination.”Goodbye Satoru Iwata, you were right about that, and you were right about so much more.This article was amended on 13 July 2015 to correct the spelling of Hokkaido Prefecture.
When I left school at 16, in March 1979, my first job interview was for an admin position at a garage in Chelmsford. I was extremely nervous as I walked into a yard of men in greasy overalls, and as I was being interviewed I blushed as my eyes skipped around the office to the calendars of topless women on the walls.I loved Top of the Pops on a Thursday evening all those years ago, but wondered why there were so few women singing or presenting. “Women are no good at singing – if they were any good they would be on there,” said one. “Women don’t like singing in public or on TV because it’s not natural or feminine,” said another. I thought at the time those opinions were wrong, but kept my opinions to myself unless I was talking to one of those rare people who seemed to feel the way I did.Fast forward to 1998. I’m a single parent with three kids. I’ve just finished a degree in computing and am doing a PhD in software engineering. When I started my PhD there were about 15-20% women in tech; now, 22 years later, there are still about 15-20% women in tech. Statistically nothing has changed, yet change is in the air. Over the years, when I’ve talked to people about the lack of women in the technology industry, they’ve said things like: “Women are no good at tech, and if they were any good they would work in tech”; “Women don’t like tech – they are better at xyz”. Sound familiar?I’ve been complaining about all-male panels at conferences since I set up BCSWomen with the British Computer Society back in 2001. Recently I tweeted Computing News about one of their conferences:@Computing_newsThanks for the invitation to attend#CTGSummit, it looks like all of your speakers are men, it is 2015 you know?#womeninIT&mdash; Sue Black (@Dr_Black)May 29, 2015The response was:@Dr_Black@Computing_NewsNot very fair. We can&#39;t always feature female speakers in such a top-heavy industry. Would you prefer tokenism?&mdash; Peter Gothard (@petergothard)May 29, 2015So I nominated the conference for the #allmalepanel Tumblr, and itduly appeared. Last week I spoke at a new conference in Dublin called InspireFest: fresh perspectives on leadership, innovation and diversity in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Stem). It was a Stem conference with a difference – 75% of the speakers were women. The quality of the speakers was excellent, with subjects ranging from rockets to smart startups and what it feels like to be the recipient of hundreds of death threats. Brianna Wu’s keynote brought it home to us all that although we have made large strides in female empowerment and equal opportunities for all, there is still along way to go.And we heard from Dame Jocelyn Bell Burnell on her career, discovering pulsars as part of her PhD. When being interviewed by the Telegraph in 1968 about the “greatest astronomical discovery of the 20th century”, the questions about the actual discovery were all directed to her male supervisor. Burnell was not asked about her discovery at all, but asked to undo some buttons on her blouse when the photographer arrived. And in 1974, Dame Burnell’s same supervisor went on to accept the Nobel prize for her work. She received nothing.Related:10 of the best female role models in tech – in picturesThere were tears in the audience as we listened to this story of how one of the UK’s most talented and accomplished scientists had been treated. What a waste of that talent, and what trauma for her.Those days are gone, or at least starting to recede. We now have a multitude of fabulous female rock stars and role models of all sorts – and we have tech rock stars. That’s how I was introduced at InspireFest, though at the advanced age of 53, I’m more of a Paul McCartney than a Justin Bieber. Having been trying to make change happen in tech for 20 years now, I’m delighted to be thought of as a tech rock star. It’s a far cry from a being a scared 16 year old walking into a garage office full of page 3 posters.Dr Sue Black is a computer scientist, researcher and author with a PhD in software engineering. She is the founder ofTechmumsand the author ofSaving Bletchley Park.
