Is thisthecult game of E3 already? Atlus has announced a 'medical simulation' for the Nintendo DS in which you carry out operations on a series of patients:"Trauma Center: Under the Knife lets YOU play doctor, performing increasingly complex surgeries. At first it's just another day in the O.R., but when a mysterious outbreak sweeps the area, the patients' lives are in your hands-no pressure. The stylus will be your scalpel as you make incisions, anesthetize problem areas, remove tumors, monitor vital signs, apply bandages, and more! Of course, you'll also have to deal with human drama between appointments. Keep a cool head, or you'll be out on the street (and all those years of medical school for nothing)."What an inspired use of the touch screen facility. Sadly, however, there appears to be no multiplayer 'Capture the Diseased Appendix' mode...
A couple of weeks ago Imentionedthe news that former MTV VJ Adam Curry - a leading advocate ofpodcastingwas taking the whole thing professional.NowWired Newsis carrying what it calls "an audience with the podfather". Here's one answer that sums up why he thought he'd take up the offer:"After about nine months of building up the momentum, I figured, OK, now I'm gonna commercialize it.Podcasting is a lot more difficult than dashing off a post on a weblog. Podcasts take time. You have to record and create in real time, and invest more time editing.There are a lot of people who'd love to do this part time or full time, but that takes money.Seems that podcasting is, perhaps, something more than audioblogging... and that the increased amount of time and energy spent on creating audio posts could be reflected in the amount of support that listeners are prepared to give to podcasters.
Yes, they're all jumping on the concave white bandwagon now. First up, THQ has announced two new titles: The Outfit and Saint's Row. The former is described as 'an explosive squad-based action game' set deep behind enemy lines during World War II.The press release says:"The Outfit allows players the option to choose from three playable squad leader personalities, each with their own specific skills and abilities. With their squad leaders, players will guide two squads of battle-forged soldiers on missions ranging from reconnaissance-and-rescue to search-and-destroy across immensely destructible battlefields. Players can switch between squads at any time and can strategically use squads separately, in tandem or as one super-unit. By engaging in combat with the enemy, players will earn action points that can be used to upgrade their arsenal, order in tanks and many other vehicles, build machinegun nests and anti-tank emplacements or call for air or artillery strikes."Our E3 hype-o-meter says: it's Conflict Medal of Honor of Duty!Then there's Saint's Row, which apparently has nothing to do with arguments concerning Southampton's relegation. No, it's a third-person gang war adventure with an open-ended, dynamic mission structure, developed by Red Faction starlets, Volition.The press release says:"An evolution in open world gaming, Saint's Row provides an unprecedented amount of freedom to experience the game as the player sees fit. The game, based in the fictional urban surroundings of Still Water, is action adventure with its core as a third-person shooter."Our E3 hype-o-meter says: it's Grand Theft To Life!Finally, Activision has announced Quake IV, developed by Raven and Id.The press release says:"QUAKE 4 is the first game to utilize id Software's revolutionary DOOM 3 technology. In the game, you are Matthew Kane, an elite member of Rhino Squad and Earth's valiant invasion force. Fight alone, with your squad, and in hover tanks and mechanized walkers as you engage in a heroic mission into the heart of the Strogg war machine. But, in this epic war between worlds, the only way to defeat the Strogg is to become one of them. Battle through early missions as a deadly marine, then after your capture as a marine-turned-Strogg with enhanced abilities and the power to turn the tide of the war."Our E3 hype-o-meter says: It's...er...Quake!
The Guardian'sGamesblogis high on my hit list this week because I'm expecting it to carry news from the E3 show. If you happen to drop by, you will probably notice the new design, which is like the one used forThe Observer Blog.Onlineblog will also be changing to the new design, so by all means make any suggestions/observations below, before it's too late....
John F Kennedy moments before his assassination. Photo: APHold on to your hats, folks: there's a strange online auction thatisn'ttaking place on eBay.This time it's the infamous white picket fence from atop the grassy knoll in Dallas, Texas - the central point of any self-respecting conspiracy theorist's lexicon. The fence (the hiding place of a second assassin, according to the wilder wonks) is going on sale with online auction house Lelands.com, and is likely to prove the target of frenzied bidding from grisly JFK collectors around the globe.Here's what Associated Press has to say:The weather-beaten picket fence, along with its metal posts, goes on sale Sunday. Bidding on the fence from the scene of President John F. Kennedy's Nov. 22, 1963 assassination runs through June 16."It's an iconic item, in a macabre sort of way," said Simeon Lipman, director of Americana at the Long Island-based auction house. "It's part of the American lexicon: the grassy knoll, the white picket fence."The fence was dismantled five years ago and put in storage, and then passed on before hitting the auction house.Unfortunately for collectors and conspiracy nuts, the auctioneers cannot guarantee that the whole fence is the same as that which stood on the grassy knoll 42 years ago... "but there are certainly parts of the fence that are original".
For the last few years they've been edged out to the periphery of the show, apologetically bleeping away amid million dollar stands showing off the latest console mega sequels. But it seems mobile games are going to make a decent go of it at E3 2005. All the key publishers will be present and there are some very interesting games on the horizon. So for those with room on their E3 radars for something other than, you know, next generation console announcements and something about a Zelda sequel, here's what the mobile big guns will be shooting off this year…EAAmid much fanfare (well, a press release), Electronic Arts announced that it would be showing off its mobile titles alongside console and PC equivalents this year. The line-up includes diddy versions of Sims 2, FIFA 06, Madden O6, Tiger Woods O6 and Need For Speed Underground 2. The Sims conversion looks interesting, allowing you to download your Sim from the PC version. Also, the press release says you'll be able to, "Explore and customize locations, trade objects, and socialize with other mobile players in-game or by sending them SMS messages." Meanwhile NFSU 2 will apparently retain the free-roaming challenge-based structure of the console original, adding new gameplay modes for the mobile audience – perhaps something like Need For Speed Super Puzzle Solitaire Bowling…There will also be a handful of casual puzzle titles taken from EA's online gaming service, Pogo: Tri-Peaks Solitaire, Turbo 21 (a 'fast-paced card game') and balloon-bursting Bust A Move-alike, Poppit! (their exclamation mark, not mine.)GameloftThe veteran French mobile publisher has 'un sac magic' of promising titles including 3D versions of Splinter Cell Chaos Theory, Asphalt GT ( a really nice urban racer), Vijay Singh pro Golf 2005 and Ghost Recon Jungle Storm (a great little FPS – I played the BREW version at 3GSM and it moved and played very impressively). Of course these will only work on high-end phones running the 3D version of Java. New 2D Java titles include a conversion of Spielberg and Cruise's latest jaunt, War of the Worlds, a conversion of Peter Jackson's King Kong, and a mobile version of Rainbow Six 4. Both of the film tie-ins will be shown "behind closed doors" which, roughly translated means "they have been in development for barely three weeks so only journalists we'd trust with our lives will be allowed to see them".THQ WirelessThe mobile arm of THQ has plenty on offer, including conversions of Full Spectrum Warrior, Destroy All Humans, Evil Dead, Moto GP, Juiced and MX vs ATV (which I like to subtitle – 'battle of the extreme sports that no-one cares about!'). They'll also be showing off all the new Star Wars games, most of which I still haven't managed to get working on my phone. The force isn't strong enough maybe. There will also be a 'sneak peek' of NFL Football 2006 - possibly more exciting to our American cousins.I-playA very strong collection is headlined by Skipping Stone, the delightful pebble-skimming sim from Korea, which seduces anyone willing to actually stop and have a go on a pebble-skimming sim. Along the same 'one-thumb gaming' lines is Jewel Quest an ultra casual puzzler, which I don't know much more about.Then there's the very well-presented Maria Sharapova Tennis, which awards success in the championship mode with photos of the Russian tennis temptress. (Have you seen her in those Palmolive ads? Does shereallywear that much make-up on centre court, the foxy little minx?). I also really like Nate Adams Freestyle Motocross, a 2D motorbike stunt game that uses incredibly realistic physics to make the crashes look like they really, really hurt.Like Gameloft, I-Play has also been busy producing 3D titles to wow owners of higher end phones. Fast and Furious 3D is a racing game, with a famous license, in 3D. Also, Major Carnage is a third-person space shooter, which looks a little like Space Harrier. (God help me I loved that game.) Finally, they'll be showing off Metal Slug Advance Impact, a nice-looking new take on the legendary 2D scrolling shooter series.As for the rest, they're getting their lists to me over the next day or so, so feel free to come back and check for updates…
British schools could cut their costs significantly if they started making more use of open source software, according to the British Educational Communications and Technology Agency, BECTA.Here's whatComputer Business Reviewhas to say:The report indicated that the use of open source software could produce total cost savings of 44% per PC for primary schools and 24% per PC for secondary schools, compared to standard commercial software PC configurations.BECTA, which supports the various UK government education departments in information technology developments, came to its conclusions after comparing costs at 48 schools, including 15 currently using open source software, and 33 not.The research goes on to point out that support costs for open source PCs were actually higher at secondary schools.
In the Guardian today, Richard Wray takes a look back onBoo.com, five years after it collapsed.Probably the case study in how not to launch a dotcom, Boo seemed to do everything wrong: questionable product, overambitious, inaccessible website. As the article points out, it made only £200,000 in its final two months, and needed a further $30m to keep going at a time when the Nasdaq was falling harder than Southampton FC. Share prices aren't everything.But did it also open the door to the Americanisation of European internet companies?There is, however, a case to be made that the failure of Boo.com tarnished the reputation of European web start-ups and left the web to be colonised by internet giants from across the Atlantic and the online protuberances of existing bricks and mortar retailers such as Tesco. The top 10 most visited UK sites, for instance, include just two purely online European players - CD Wow and dabs.com.It's certainly not a story that covers its participants in glory.
Over on our sisterGamesblog, it's a big week.Quite aside from a relaunched design and snazzy new features, GB is heading along to Los Angeles to Electronic Entertainment Expo - E3: the world's premier videogame showcase.Be sure tolog inand see what's going on.
When Rupert Murdoch declared recently in a speech to American newspaper editors that they were presiding over a decaying industry and must face up to the internet or perish, there were snorts from within News Corporation.James Murdoch, currently favourite son and chief executive of BSkyB, blurted out that this is what some people (ie, himself) had been telling his dad for years. James is right. Rupert may be talking the talk but is not yet walking the walk - as anyone looking at News Corporation's miserable website portfolio can tell.In the Carnegie Foundation report that inspired Murdoch's speech, Merrill Brown says that 44% of US news consumers recently surveyed use a net portal at least once a day, compared to just 19% who use a print newspaper daily. Where broadband is available, the numbers are worse. Looking forward three years, the study found that 44% expected to use the internet more to find news, versus only 25% who expected to use newspapers more."And their attitudes towards newspapers are especially alarming," Murdoch said. "Only 9% describe us as trustworthy, a scant 8% find us useful, and only 4% of respondents think we're entertaining."This makes frightening reading for those of us brought up with newspapers. The key threat is the rapid uptake of broadband, which changes media consumption dramatically, especially among the young. With thousands of choices available to broadband homes and with news portals such as Google organised much better than newspaper websites, the efforts of Britain's national papers look distinctly faded. In fairness, the Guardian site is the best, but I do not exempt it from the charge of timidity.If newspapers are going to survive they need to confront their demons. As the public has lost confidence in government and public and private institutions, so it has become more sophisticated about its media - broadband makes this cynicism stronger.Newspapers are remote, unaccountable and impersonal. This makes them vulnerable to competition from blogs and other digital media services that can be more frank, more responsive and more engaged with their readers.So far, newspaper industry efforts have been mostly wretched. Vast amounts of money are being spent by all newspaper publishers producing websites that are typically dire. The Times and Sunday Times websites are hopelessly confusing. The Telegraph's is little better. The Independent resembles a GCSE project. The Guardian has the best look and feel and the only decent navigation. But what they all lack is proper, embedded interaction.I am not certain that blogging fully describes what newspapers must do, although to some extent, they must turn themselves partly into blogs. What I have in mind is more of a "glob" - by which I mean that newspapers must glob a genuinely interactive dimension onto the side of their print products. This involves putting journalists in front of readers. It means hosting credible, entertaining and intelligent discussions that open dimensions to more information and more authority. Newspapers that duck this responsibility are going to be rumbled by their readers.Newspapers must be prepared to take criticism and suggestions. A journalist who publishes a story should face the consequences. A reader who wishes to challenge the journalist should have the chance.This is more than letters to the editor. It is a readers' channel.This is unsettling for journalists accustomed to controlling the agenda, but it is also sound commercial sense. If, every day, the best interaction from readers is fed back into the paper, sales will increase. This is because those whose contributions are printed will rush to buy a copy.Newspapers enter this combat with some natural advantages. A newspaper-sponsored blog or something akin to it is always going to do better than most of the independent efforts. Newspapers' resources, cross-promotional ability and existing readers give them a head start.What is certain is that if newspaper editors and executives keep their heads buried in the sand, as did Murdoch until 10 minutes ago, they are in big trouble.&#183;Jonathan Miller, a recovering journalist, worked for Murdoch in London and New York from 1986 to 1996
Nintendo's Revolution console is unfortunately currently coming a paltry third place after the Xbox 360 and Sony's PlayStation 3 in the media-saturated race for the next generation hearts and minds. They have kept their heads down after the handheld DS launch, but with the topic approaching boiling point, one fan decided to take it upon him or herself to create a vision of the Nintendo Revolution that places games beyond gamers' wildest dreams. Thisvideo(via IGN) does not purport to be related to reality in any way, but it's pretty awesome display of animation (and spin) talent.
Five years ago this week Britain's dotcom dream died, killed off by a Swedish poetry critic and a former Vogue model, as fashion "e-tailer" Boo.com became the country's first high-profile internet collapse.With it went more than &#163;80m of cash from investors, including investment banks JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs, Bernard Arnault, chairman of luxury group LVMH at the time, and the Benetton family. Liquidators KPMG were called in on May 17, 2000.The stories of lavish corporate lifestyles and lack of proper management control that emerged when Boo went boom became a familiar theme as a host of so-called business-to-consumer or B2C sites and other online start-ups went to the wall in the months following the e-commerce site's demise.Funding for internet ventures dried up as share prices plummeted and bankers tightened their belts in the wake of the tech-stock crash of spring 2000. Boo.com's high-profile founders, Ernst Malmsten and Kajsa Leander, found themselves blamed for the excesses of a generation of tie-less wannabes."We were too soon and trying to do too much, but those were the times," admits Mr Malmsten, who now runs a London-based agency dealing with architects, fashion designers, graphic designers and other creative types, and prefers to stay away from the limelight.Boo.com was founded in 1998 by Malmsten and his friend Ms Leander, a former model who wanted to create the premier online location where the cool and chic would be able to buy their clothes. They saw Boo.com not just as a site where pixillated shop assistant Ms Boo would help shoppers find the togs to match their temperament, but as a lifestyle destination.The two had been in nursery school together in Sweden and briefly at the same high school, and decided to go into business after meeting outside a Paris nightclub in their 20s. Having sold their first internet venture, an online bookstore, in the early days of the dotcom boom they moved to London and formed Boo.com.They reckoned the business would need &#163;20m, 30 people and three months to launch. When it did in October 1999 it employed 400 people in eight offices, with headquarters on Carnaby Street in London, and had already swallowed four times that initial expected investment.But everyone believed the story. Before Boo.com had sold a single item, Fortune magazine had proclaimed it one of Europe's coolest companies.When the site went live, however, the hype was not matched by visitors or, more importantly, sales. Although it had spent several million pounds on advertising, research by pollsters Mori just before Boo.com's collapse showed that only 13.2% of internet users were aware of the name and among non-users that fell to a mere 1.4%.In its final two months the company made &#163;200,000 and had 300,000 web visitors, hardly sufficient to keep afloat a business selling across 18 countries. It needed $30m to keep going. But the American technology stock market Nasdaq was nosediving and shares in fellow internet high-flier Lastminute.com had failed to regain their issue price after floating at the height of the boom in March. Bankers' doors were tightly shut.Essentially Boo.com failed because it tried to do too much: building a state-of-the-art logistics business across too many countries with an online shop front that was well beyond the capabilities of most internet user's computers. At the time Boo.com launched, 20% of UK households had access to the internet but they were using slow dial-up connections that quickly ground to a halt when anyone asked Ms Boo to show them around.But the doomsayers who prophesied that Boo.com's collapse would spell the end of internet retailing have been proved wrong. Royal Mail reckons that 10% of all retail sales will be made online this year, while the Internet Advertising Bureau estimates that 16m people in the UK shopped online last year.Mr Malmsten believes the internet revolution did happen, just not fast enough for Boo.com. "The internet has really taken off now. When we did it we were too early and the internet was a very new thing. Nobody had broadband. I think it is now really taking off."TarnishedThere is, however, a case to be made that the failure of Boo.com tarnished the reputation of European web start-ups and left the web to be colonised by internet giants from across the Atlantic and the online protuberances of existing bricks and mortar retailers such as Tesco. The top 10 most visited UK sites, for instance, include just two purely online European players - CD Wow and dabs.com.But Boo.com lives on. The site itself was bought by US-based online retailer Fashionmall.com and relaunched with a team of just nine under boss Kate Buggeln. Meanwhile the technology that underpinned the business was picked up by Dan Wagner, the outspoken former head of UK-listed technology firm Bright Station, for &#163;250,000.He wrapped it in with technology being developed by his in-house team and then bought out the business for a nominal sum in April 2001. Bright Station, which Mr Wagner had founded as Maid in 1984, became knowledge management company SmartLogik. SmartLogik went bust a year later.Since then Mr Wagner has built a business, Venda.com, that gets retailers online without having to buy new systems. Instead they rent e-commerce space from Venda. He even hired one of Boo.com's senior techies, James Cronin."Although we decompiled and recompiled it, the technical implementation of the Boo.com platform was extremely good," he says. "And the reason it is good has nothing to do with the jokers at the helm."After slogging through the tough post-boom days of 2003 and 2003, Venda.com now has 140 retailers and is making a profit. "I'm just beginning to put my head above the parapet again," says Mr Wagner, who was a leading figure during Britain's brief period of dotcom euphoria. "Ready to get it shot at again."The two "jokers" from Boo.com, however, are less willing to come out of the shadows. Ms Leander now lives in Venice with her husband, raising their three children, while Mr Malmsten is maintaining a low profile at his new venture, Redgreenzebra Creative Management.He wrote a book about his time at Boo.com, Boo Hoo: a Dot.com Story, and sold the film rights to Working Title. Despite rumours that Cameron Diaz had been lined up to play Kajsa, no film ever made it into production and the rights have since reverted to Mr Malmsten."I have not been keen to do anything about it," he says. "I'm really enjoying my life and my business is really taking off now, but I like working behind the scenes."
Last week, my wife and I were invited to a sumptuous 40th-birthday party in a country house hotel.All we had to do was 'turn up and have fun'. Having spent my adult life 'turning up' in vehicles which looked as if they'd just lost an argument with John Prescott, I saw my chance to arrive in something that would freeze smiles and have old mates muttering in corridors long after I'd gone to bed. I phoned the helpful folk at BMW and their suggestion was a spanking new 630i convertible in 'Chairetto red with black Dakota leather upholstery' - &#163;50,655 worth of 'Yeah, and what are you driving at the moment?'Of course, I underestimated my friends. The only comment I overheard was: 'What do you think a burgundy-coloured car says about its driver?' No mention of its 3-litre straight-six power plant, unique Valvetronic technology, or even its rugged good looks ...Still, I at least had the pleasure of enjoying a car that's destined for a place in motoring's hall of fame. BMW has been making traditional, long-legged Grand Touring sports cars since 1937, when it produced its revolutionary 327 Coupe. Its 6 series, in particular, has been turning heads and nursing grown men through one midlife crisis or another since 1976.Its latest 6 series, the 630i, has an awesome presence. It seems to crouch on the road, coiled and ready to pounce at the next strip of unsuspecting tarmac. It has BMW's classic pointed shark's nose, double-kidney grille and bent rear pillar. This is the 'Hofmeister kink', after the designer who created it. Drop that into your next pub conversation and your friends will probably buy you a pint - not because they're impressed, but because they feel sorry for you.It's inside the 630i, however, that the fun really starts. The car is so loaded with gizmos and gadgets that just turning it on would bring about a seizure in a technophobe. Simple objects like indicators, wipers, even the seats, require Mensa-levels of IQ to operate. Take the radio, for instance. The car features Extended Voice Control (EVC), which allows the driver to control many of its functions by voice. But the car didn't seem to understand me - a not uncommon sensation. This was a typical conversation: 'Radio 4, please.' The car responded in a female voice with a slight Irish brogue - obviously chosen to be firm yet friendly: 'I don't understand.' 'Radio 4,' I repeated, trying to sound like a woman from Kerry. This time we got Vibes FM and the air filled with a DJ shouting, 'Let's big up da Brixton bruvvers - u dun know it's all good ...'There are so many three-letter acronyms in the 630i that a Scrabble dictionary should come as standard. There's HUD, DTC, DSC, PDC, SMG ... Each of these refers to sophisticated software which helps with parking, stability, traction, braking, protection and even keeping the car in front at a safe distance. The only one missing, as my 40-year-old friend dryly noted, was one for car bores - SAD.
"Microsoft Corp. is rolling out a test version of an all-in-one subscription service that aims to protect computer users from viruses and spyware and give them tools to make machines speedier. The Redmond-based software company is distributing Windows OneCare to its 60,000 employees this week. It plans to run a larger invitation-only test this summer, then launch a full-scale test by year's end," reportsAP."Microsoft hasn't set a price for an annual subscription, but ... said it would include unlimited phone, e-mail and chat support."Comment:Can't be cheap if it includes telephone support, since one "incident" will probably cost more than the OEM price of Windows.
The woman at the desk boasts all the must-have tools of the 21st-century blogger. In front of her is a high spec Sony Vaio laptop. At her ear is a hands-free phone so she can take calls without ever lifting her fingers off the keyboard. She even has that ultimate geek accessory, the bucket sized cup of Starbucks latte.But Arianna Huffington - bestselling biographer of Pablo Picasso and Maria Callas, television pundit and newspaper columnist, socialite and sometime political wife - is anything but your average geek. An elegant fiftysomething, all auburn hair, tight corduroy trousers and mid-calf boots, she is about as far from the cliched image of the techie as its possible to be. Likewise her new blog, Huffingtonpost.com, which opened for business last Monday, is anything but your average blog.Up to now the blog - it's short for web log - has been a way for those without access to the mass media to make their voices heard, by creating a personal site that links to and comments on the mess of stuff already out there on the web. In what is either a great step forward for the art of the blog, or a grand exercise in completely missing the point, the Huffingtonpost.com blog has subverted the idea.Working from her vast Los Angeles mansion and drawing on her skills as a networker, Huffington has pulled together a collection of truly A-list bloggers. In the six days since it went live there have been more than 120 contributors, including the film directors Rob Reiner and Mike Nichols, the musician Quincy Jones and the actor John Cusack, the former Vanity Fair editor Tina Brown, the Seinfeld creator Larry David and the veteran broadcaster Walter Cronkite. Huffington, who has made a career out of being notorious, is currently throwing the biggest online cocktail party in the world. And we're all invited.'I have had my own website since 1997,' she says, her voice still ripe with the lush vowels of her native Greece, 'so although I am not a very technical person I have long understood the implications of the internet.' Last year, she says, she became intrigued by the 'blogosphere', that digital army of pundits working outside the mainstream media. 'In the mainstream media two things are missing,' she said. 'Mostly journalists are assigned to stories so they don't care about them, whereas bloggers only write about the things that matter to them. They have passion which is critically important. They also have relentlessness. They keep plugging away.'This is certainly true. Last autumn the veteran American television journalist Dan Rather was forced to retire from the CBS network after a set of documents purporting to show that President George W Bush had dodged his national service were proved to be fakes - and it was a collection of bloggers who exposed the forgery, by drawing attention day after day to the provenance of the typeface used on them.'One blogger wrote something and then another added to the story and another after that,' Huffington says. In claiming Rather's scalp, the blogs came of age. 'I believe in the blogosphere,' Huffington says. 'I wanted to bring new voices to it.' The problem is that, while many of the voices she has introduced may be new to the blogosphere, they aren't exactly new to anywhere else. It hardly seems reasonable to suggest, for example, that Arthur O Sulzberger Junior, publisher of the New York Times, is short of places in which to have his say.'Yes, but for a writer like him a comment piece is a commitment. It has to have a beginning, a middle and an end. And it has to be edited. So most of the time they won't bother,' she says. 'With Huffingtonpost they wake up with a thought and they can just put it down on the blog. It doesn't have to be polished.'All too often in the opening days, that seems to have been the case. Yes, there have been some good postings. Mike Nichols wrote a thoughtful piece about the way fundamentalist Christians, by taking the Bible literally, are killing metaphor. Quincy Jones wondered, movingly, whether it was success and celebrity that had destroyed the Michael Jackson he knew when they were working on albums together. And Larry David wrote something moderately funny about the joys of abusing his staff.But there was also a lot of total - and very unpolished - rubbish. The playwright David Mamet, tackling the new digital frontier to which he had been asked to contribute, came over like a high court judge asking what the Beatles are: 'I understand that computers, which I once believed to be but a hermaphrodite typewriter-cum-filing cabinet, offer the cyber-literate increased ability to communicate.'Ellen DeGeneres raged over US government policy allowing the slaughter of wild horses, Tina Brown plugged the fact that she is writing a book and has therefore stopped doing her cable TV show (something we all needed to know), and the former Seinfeld star Julia Louis-Dreyfus and her husband contributed a few words about gay marriage, which are so obtuse they are still resisting textual analysis a week after they first appeared.But the real problem with the Huffingtonpost's first week is that these big names are few and far between. Most of the posts have been by obscure American political commentators and policy wonks. Michael Smerconish, anyone? Ethan Nadelmann? Ari Rabin-Havt? According to Nick Denton, founder of Gawker media, which publishes a number of high-profile blogs, Huffington's mistake was to talk up the celebrities in the first place.'Most of them won't post, and then the story will be how they don't post,' Denton says. 'Also, those that do are often just riding their hobbyhorses, touting their favourite charity or cause. That's as boring on a blog as it is in an interview. There's a reason those interviews are edited; there's a reason the celeb blog posts ought to be edited too, or at least the lamer writers culled.'But Huffington is determined not to edit. 'The way that we filter the material is firstly by choosing who we want to take part. We have so far invited 350 people. They each have a password and can post when they want. The only other filter we have is deciding which posts to move to the front page.'Generally, she says, she doesn't know a posting is coming until it appears on the site. As to the lack of celebrities - the 'bold face names' as she calls them - she is not troubled. 'There has been too much emphasis on the bold face names. The site is like a good book store. You go in to buy Larry David and you also get Danielle Crittenden.'This is a mixed blessing: the most recent post by Crittenden, a novelist and wife of Bush's 'axis of evil' speechwriter David Frum, was an overlong, under-funny piece about film stars being ignored by Washington politicians.Huffington's general point, however - that this is her party and people will turn up because she has drawn up the guest list - is undoubtedly true; she has a remarkable skill for drawing attention to herself.The daughter of a Greek newspaper man, Arianna Stassinopoulos went to Cambridge in the late Sixties, and became the first non-Briton (and only the third woman) to hold the presidency of the union. As a result of a speech there, arguing that feminism understated a woman's need for marriage and children, she was commissioned to write a critique of the feminist movement, The Female Woman, which became a bestseller and made her a hit in literary London. Bestselling biographies followed, and at 30 she moved to New York, where she took the town by storm.In 1986 she married the multi-millionaire Michael Huffington, a Republican who would eventually become a Congressman. They have two children. The Huffingtons moved to California where, in 1994, her husband ran unsuccessfully for the Senate.Michael Huffington was accused of trying to buy the seat because of the vast amount of his own money he spent on the campaign, and his wife was painted as some ruthless Lady Macbeth figure, furiously plotting her assault on power through him. Certainly she bought into the project, becoming a comfortable bed fellow of the Republican Congress leader Newt Gingrich. But she was never at rest. After her husband revealed he was gay, the marriage broke up; with the change in circumstances came a shift in politics as she moved from right to somewhere nearer the left. She has since become a scourge of the petroleum and automotive industries.'There is consistency in my concerns,' she said once, when challenged on this political journey. 'But there is evolution in my thinking about where I see the solutions coming from.' Her weekly newspaper column is syndicated to dozens of newspapers, and she regularly goes on television to take on scions of the conservative right such as Henry Kissinger.That doesn't mean that the Huffingtonpost is a liberal enclave. Among the posters, for example, is the conservative pundit Denis Prager, who used the example of two foul-mouthed students heckling at a recent public meeting to argue that the American left has failed to recognise the thin line between civilisation and the evils of Hitler's Nazis.'The blog is a very broad church,' says Huffington. 'Still, I was hoping there would be no comparisons to Hitler on the site.' Then she adds: 'We need to have a national conversation which includes people with whom we do not agree. On the site we are broadcasting rather than narrowcasting. I see the blog as a way of talking to each other more like we would at a dinner party than as we would on a TV show.'The media response has been mixed. The Chicago Tribune described the site as 'flawed' but still an 'irresistible' guilty pleasure. The LA Weekly newspaper was more savage, claiming her attempts to raise money for the project from superstar Hollywood liberals had met with little success, and that the end result was, in any case, an embarrassment.'She has served up liberal celebs like red meat on a silver platter for the salivating and Hollywood-hating right wing to chew up and spit out,' Nikki Finke, a columnist for the paper, wrote.No matter. Huffington is convinced that her blog is the future for the media. Though she refuses to say how many visitors the site has had, she is certain they can make money from advertising on the site. It is financed for its first year, she says, and she has a full time staff overseeing the news section of the site. They have also made a deal to have the content syndicated into newspapers, an interesting meeting point between old and new media.'Old media is not dead, but it needs to integrate what's going on out in the blogosphere. The old media is not going to be the prime source of news any more because it ages quickly. Instead it should concentrate on its strengths, which are investigations and commentary.'And then, when they have investigated and commentated, Arianna's friends on the Huffingtonpost can blog about it. 'People will blog when they blog,' she says. 'There is an element of unpredictability about it.' Much as there is about the woman who created it.Huffing and puffingJohn Cusack - 09.05.2005Goodbye Hunter SWent to Hunter S Thompson's memorial service in Aspen. The next day, we went to Owl Farm - which remained untouched since Hunter's death two weeks before. The sun was shining and gunfire echoed as friends and family gathered and shot targets on the lawn ... In the kitchen where he took his life, a huge American flag overlooked his suicide. He was looking right at it.Rob Reiner - 10.05.2005Where Have You Gone, Woodward &amp; Bernstein?The truth is, when Americans are treated with respect and receive accurate information, they make wonderfully wise decisions. The system breaks down, however, when the press fails to provide such information, as they do today. The so-called Fourth Estate is now little more than the public relations arm of a government propaganda machine in which all three branches are controlled by the same political party. Who is watching the store?Quincy Jones - 10.05.2005God Will Walk Out of the RoomCaught a little of the Elvis movie on TV. The kid from Dublin playing him was good; had the moves down ... It got me to thinking about Michael - and how difficult it is to watch what's going on with him now. When we made Thriller, he was the most beautiful person in the world. Just a beautiful little brother.
The bags are packed, and the hype-deflection shield is fully charged. I'm jetting off to LA today for the E3 show. In a shocking piece of planning I am flying at 4.15pm which means I won't know whether theSaintshave made it until 3.30am UK time. I am hoping that a hands on with Xbox 360, a glimpse of PS3 and lengthy sessions on the new Zelda and Ico (Wanda and the Colussus) titles will take away the pain of relegation. The fun starts late evening Monday (UK time) with the Sony conference, followed soon after by the Xbox one. So check back this week for jetlagged dispatches from the gaming frontline.
Drive past any secondary school in the UK and you'll see an institution that is struggling. No: this is not a column about academic standards, dumbing down, bureaucracy, Ofsted or any of the other obsessions of the  Daily Mail .In fact, many of these struggling schools are academically excellent. What they are having difficulty with is something much more mundane than teaching or learning. They are trying - and failing - to manage their IT systems.How come? Most British schools are hooked on networks that consist of hundreds of PCs running various flavours of the Windows operating system and Microsoft Office software. Now it is perfectly possible to run an effective Windows-based network, just as it is possible to dig your garden using a teaspoon - provided you employ a hundred gardeners to do the work.The problem is that keeping such a network up and running requires a great deal of technical support - the equivalent of three full-time trained technicians for an average secondary school. And upgrading the system to keep track of changes in Microsoft's operating systems is expensive. Basically it boils down to throwing out a third of your computers every three years and buying new machines that can run the latest version of Windows.Nathan Myrhvold, Bill Gates's former technology guru, used to joke that 'software is like a gas - it expands to fill the space available'. The programmer Martin Reiser put it better: 'software gets slower more quickly than hardware gets faster'. (In other words: 'Intel giveth, and Microsoft taketh away.')Although the corporate world complains about this virtual arms race, it generally pays up because it can afford to. But schools cannot - which is why when you talk to ICT co-ordinators in education you regularly hear phrases like 'running to keep still' and 'struggling to stay on top of it'.You hear stories about how difficult it is to recruit and retain IT support staff on the salaries schools can afford, about staff spending much of their time rebuilding crashed or vandalised PCs, about teachers who are contemptuous of the level of IT support, about up to a quarter of PCs being unavailable at any given moment, and about dissatisfaction with the Microsoft-supplier compa nies, which enjoy a semi-monopolistic hold on the education market.And you hear head teachers wondering what will happen when Longhorn - the much-delayed new version of Windows - arrives and renders most of their existing computers obsolete. The state of ICT in UK schools is a public scandal.In part, this is due to the fact that head teachers are expected to be chief information officers without being given any training or support. As a result they are easy meat for commercial companies touting Microsoft 'solutions' to their ICT problems. They fall for upfront discounts and wind up with systems they can't afford to support or upgrade. Only later do they realise that between 50 and 60 per cent of their annual IT budgets will have to go to keeping their discounted networks running.This last statistic comes from Becta (British Educational Communications and Technology Agency), which describes itself as 'the government's key partner in the strategic development and delivery of its information and communications technology and e-learning strategy' for schools. Until comparatively recently, Becta seemed to function mainly as a cheerleader for the proprietary status quo, effectively functioning as an agency for negotiating discounts from suppliers. But now, after a major shake-up and the installation of David Hargreaves as its chairman, Becta is finally waking up.On Friday, for example, it released the findings of its first comparative study into the savings and benefits enjoyed by the few schools in the UK that have switched to open source software.The report shows, for example, that these schools spend less than half of what their Microsoft-enthralled contemporaries have to fork out on IT support. Other benefits include lower expenditure on software licensing, and computers that have to be upgraded less frequently because they no longer dance to the beat of Microsoft's drum. The headline in the  Times Educational Supplement said it all: 'Ditching Microsoft could save millions.'So it could. But if you want to see what's really possible, take a look at Orwell High School in Suffolk, which has abandoned the PC route altogether and instead runs a network based on open source software and IBM Blade servers. Orwell has 800-plus pupils and more than 200 networked screens and provides the kind of service to its students that only affluent companies can achieve. Head teachers of the world unite: you have nothing to lose but the Start button.
If you are one of those people trying more or less vainly to follow Ajax from a distance, you may or may not not be thrilled by Ben and Dion's (aka Dion and Ben's)summing upof last week's Ajax Summit. They write:Well, the summit is over. Some people asked us going into the summit, "What exactly are you guys going to talk about? What is going to come out of the summit?" We couldn't really answer that question then, and, now that's over, we can't answer it now, either.We definitely covered a lot of issues, both from the design and development disciplines. But the event's agenda was group-driven, and unfortunately, this group never reached anything close to concensus on what to talk about and what we wanted to achieve.No dominant Ajax framework emerged, no plans for a unified Ajax framework were seriously entertained (whew!), no universal ajax architecture slides were produced (though we were threatened with one or two), and no "best practices" emerged.There's also a link to Scott Andrew's more useful summing up,Ajaxed out.
There's an interesting Xbox 360 fact sheethere. The highlights include:Custom IBM PowerPC-based CPU* Three symmetrical cores running at 3.2 GHz each * Two hardware threads per core; six hardware threads total * VMX-128 vector unit per core; three total * 128 VMX-128 registers per hardware thread * 1 MB L2 cacheMemory Bandwidth* 22.4 GB/s memory interface bus bandwidth * 256 GB/s memory bandwidth to EDRAM * 21.6 GB/s front-side busOverall System Floating-Point Performance* 1 teraflopPlus....* Digital Media Support Support for DVD-Video, DVD-ROM, DVD-R/RW, DVD+R/RW, CD-DA, CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, WMA CD, MP3 CD, JPEG Photo CD* Ability to stream media from portable music devices, digital cameras and Windows XP-based PCs* Ability to rip music to the Xbox 360 hard drive* Built-in Media Center Extender for Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005* All games supported at 16:9, 720p, and 1080i, anti-aliasingThere's also apress release.
What kind of sad individual posts their own diary on the internet, as if thousands of total strangers would ever be interested in their lives? An arrogant, self-obsessed exhibitionist perhaps? That would surely be a harsh critique of the McBride family from Berwick-upon-Tweed, who innocently update the world on their garage extension and Chloe's mumps.But one rapidly growing group of web loggers have always had those qualities in spades. They are celebrities, and they've taken to blogging with great enthusiasm, as an ideal way of appearing to keep in touchy-feely direct contact with their public without having to wash their hands afterwards. Britney Spears, for instance, recently announced her pregnancy through her website, as if writing a letter to close family.Now the craze has taken the next logical step, with a US website which promises to commission a pool of 250 of "the most creative minds in the country" to take it in turns to write a blog on the pressing issues of the day. The American columnist and socialite Arianna Huffington is the genius behindwww.huffingtonpost.com, which promises contributors such as Norman Mailer, Warren Beatty, Maggie Gyllenhaal and Gwyneth Paltrow. Surely it can only be a matter of time before the Queen herself launches a blog, to keep us updated on the latest antics of the corgis and her state visit to Fiji, and to remind us: "Don't forget to watch me on telly on Christmas day, BBC1, 3pm." So which are actually worth reading? Well, they can be roughly divided into the following categories:Self-promotionThe most obvious motivation for a celebrity blog is the same reason celebs appear on chat shows or agree to be gunged on children's TV. They have a product to plug.David Duchovny has recently been plugging his directorial debut The House Of D by blogging atwww.lionsgatedirectors.com/duchovny/. He posts daily, sometimes on video, but the entries can pretty much be summed up by the sentence "My new movie is out with a bunch of marvellous, talented actors in, I don't care what the critics say, no really I don't, go and see it and make all your friends see it."It's a similar story with Jeff Bridges' blog atwww.jeffbridges.com, but it's raised above the average by virtue of the fact it's handwritten, and accompanied by childlike and quite endearing doodle drawings. If you have a graphologist or Jungian psychoanalyst nearby when you view it, there could be a few insights to be gained.Some, of course, are fighting the good fight. Jamie Oliver recently won an award for his blog atwww.jamieoliver.com, where he has kept his "fans" in touch with his campaign to stop schoolkids eating deep-fried pigs' genitals.But it's hard sell all the way from used-band salesman supreme Gene Simmons of Kiss. He has jumped on the blogging bandwagon to shamelessly plug his TV appearances (such as his presenting role in Channel 4's upcoming Rock School) and whatever Kiss-related merchandise he's dreamt up this week. Fans even suggest their own marketing ideas. With most other bands, if they so much as sponsored a range of plectrums they'd be accused of selling out. Kiss's fans such as Alain from France say: "How about Chicken McNuggets in Kiss talisman shapes?" Ye gods.Urge to confessUnlike their "civilian" counterparts, few stars are brave enough to say what they really think, let alone name names on their blogs. One exception is big-shorted Limp Bizkit frontman and all round farce-on-legs Fred Durst, who broke one of the celebrity stories of 2003 when he poured his heavily tattooed heart out about his undying love for "really cool southern girl" Britney Spears atwww.limpbizkit.com. He probably felt he was "keeping it real", but Britney denied everything, while Durst's own fans were mortified at him dating, like, a pop star, dude. They're easily annoyed, mind. Last week their messageboards were suggesting boycotting the new LB album after he advocated they download it for free. Don't ask me why.Fat-and-proud comedienne Rosie O'Donnell, (think "gay American Dawn French"), got into similar trouble in March after speaking her mind atwww.rosie.com("the unedited rantings of a fat, 43 year-old, menopausal, ex-talkshow host"). It's a strange enough affair at the best of times since Rosie writes her entries in free verse, but her meaning was clear when she mocked fellow tent-wearer Kirstie Alley for claiming to have been "201 pounds at my heaviest". "I am 220," she wrote, as if in competition. "'Fess up Kirstie, 201 my ass." After an angry phone call from Alley, the following entry was posted:"The phoneKirstie w/hurt feelingsI am sorry4 that"My life storyThe logical conclusion to the confessional blog is the approach taken by former Smashing Pumpkins singer Billy Corgan, who not only offers diary entries, but is writing his autobiography atwww.billycorgan.com. Freed from the probing of the untermensch journalists he hates so much, he's been surprisingly revealing about his traumatic upbringing, and battles with depression, drink and drugs. He even tells the tale of ending up in bed with a pre-op transsexual: "I beg off politely, saying it's not really my trip, and I'm *boom* out the door, on the street laughing to myself." He has promised to be similarly unflinching in his descriptions of his grunge-era contemporaries and former paramours such as Courtney Love. I feel a feud coming on.Putting the world to rightsWhile the world waits for the great and the good to deliver us from evil via The Huffington Post blog, some stars have already been fighting the good fight on the web for some time now. Barbra Streisand's website features 30 pages worth of "statements" by Ms Streisand featuring endless facts, figures and opinions on everything from corporate tax rates to Dick Cheney's congressional voting record. If it wasn't for the incongruous sight of our heroine sat at the top of the page on a shiny pink throne in an off-the-shoulder dress, clutching a bunch of roses, you could be forgiven for thinking there'd been a content mix-up with the official website for Rage Against The Machine.Britney Spears, meanwhile, has been gunning for that traditional celebrity target - the press - atwww.britneyspears.com."I'd like them to ask themselves the question, 'What am I lying to myself about?' Is it that you are 50 pounds overweight? Is it that your children aren't making wise decisions? Or is it maybe that your husband or boyfriend is cheating on you?"I'm saying nothing.Verbal diarrhoeaOf course, in the world of the rich and famous just as in the real one, there are people who simply wander aimlessly around talking to no one in particular.Moby's blog is updated almost daily, full of his undeniably intelligent and quite often amusing observations on life, art, veganism and religion.A somewhat looser cannon is Aki Riihilahti, a lesser known Finnish footballer with relegation-threatened Premiership club Crystal Palace, who has become a cult figure in the past couple of years with his deep-thinking and startlingly honest weekly musings in pidgin English.How about this from September 2004?: "Someone tried to put their thumb in my arse last week. I've never before experienced such a gruel (sic) attack. I was only trying to block keepers view standing next to the wall. Luckily the finger was blocked by my shorts."Or this from October: "I want to win. It is like a drug. I could never get enough of it. The feeling of it is something between the day of graduation, drunken laugh, your first kiss and Jerry Springer show: it is mad, un-describable and over-exaggerated joy. Hiroshima! That is how I feel after a lost game."David Beckham, take note. If you'd spent your spare time blogging instead of texting, you might be far happier.
Yoshi Touch &amp; GoNintendo DSThe arrival of Nintendo's dual-screen handheld has prompted developers to think of fresh game concepts which make proper use of its touch-sensitive screen - and this ranks alongside Wario Ware: Touched! and Project Rub as one of the best examples. As Baby Mario plummets through the vertically-scrolling sky, you have to draw lines of little fluffy clouds, steering him away from enemies and towards coins. Then, in the platform-style, side-scrolling stages, you draw clouds to guide egg-firing dinosaur Yoshi across the landscape as he gallops off with Baby Mario on his back. In either type of level, circling enemies with clouds produces balloons which can be flung at Baby Mario for bonuses. If you mess up, you can clear the clouds by blowing into the handheld's microphone. There's a little bit more to the game than that, but not much. Yoshi Touch &amp; Go is simple game of anticipation and reaction, and it's lots of fun.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Enthusia Professional RacingPlaystation 2Like that certain other PS2-based racing simulation, Enthusia offers indestructible licensed cars (a mere 200 or so here), realistic handling, a mixture of city, circuit and off-road races, and even driving school-style challenges. The designers are clearly proud of the physics engine - so proud, in fact, that they've included a visual inertia and tyre pressure guide. Unfortunately, the game's chassis is a little broken - you're docked points for not only coming off the track and hitting cars, but also when other cars hit you, which seems grossly unfair. Also, game progression is based on an over-complicated ranking system, while new cars are awarded in post-race raffles. All very odd. Still, it's not like you've finished Gran Turismo 4 yet, is it?&#183;Konami, &#163;40SingStar PopworldPlaystation 2Our neighbours greet the arrival of a new SingStar game with the kind of enthusiasm normally reserved for scaffolders or road workers. For the uninitiated, it's a brilliant karaoke game which rates your performance accordingly to pitch, tone and timing. Plug in an EyeToy camera and you can look stupid, too. SingStar Party added a duet mode and pass-the-mic party games to the original formula. This one goes a little further with a medley option and a rap scoring feature, but little else has changed - the tie-in with Popworld just adds an intro featuring Simon and Miquita. The mixture of recent hits and classic songs should please everyone - except those neighbours.&#183;Sony, &#163;20 (&#163;40 with two microphones)
Blogs about music aren't  just about posting MP3s of  obscure electronica bands  from Scandinavia. Here's  some of the more unique  places in the world of  music blogging. Start atdjmartian.blogspot.com,  where you'll discover a  vast mess of hundreds of  excellent links plus news,  release information and  reviews.welove1997.blogspot.comis a  fantastic blog that focuses  entirely on the sounds  of 1997, the year of the  Verve and, sadly, also  Dario G. You can keep  abreast of the build up to  this year's Glastonbury  festival atqglastoblog.typepad.com, which  features a slightly  disturbing selection of  reader submitted pics. We likemusicthing.blogspot.com's obsessive look at  retro music paraphernalia;u2log.com, a slick information splurge on U2's world tour; andvideos.antville.org, which will point you in the direction of freshly minted videos.
"Power to the people = popular access to computers? Actually, it's not such a stretch. But how did the pieces fall into place? Explaining that is the hard task, and it's one ably taken up by John Markoff inWhat the Dormouse Said: How the '60s Counterculture Shaped the Personal Computer Industry. Markoff, a Silicon Valley correspondent for The New York Times, has produced a fascinating read, uncovering the many threads that connected the counterculture with the pioneering computer research later carried out just south of San Francisco," says Charles Cooper atCNET News.com.The book is also featured inthe New York Times, and there's a review and discussion atSlashdot.Comment:For the handful of readers who are not (at least spiritually) boring old hippies, what the dormouse said was, in the immortal tones of Grace Slick from Jefferson Airplane: "Feed your head, Feed your head". Thelyrics, however, often say "Keep your head! Keep your head!", which makes sense when there's a Red Queen around.
Sometimes you're just stuck for words when you come across some weird little corner of the internet. And so it is that I present to youSugar Bush Squirrel, the "world's most photographed squirrel".SBS is that staple of You've Been Framed and other schlocky TV shows; the performing pet. Is this squirrel abuse? Is this rodent cruelty?I'm not sure, but what's even more bizarre are the reasons that Sugarbush's owner, Kelly Foxton, gives for her flights of fancy:"Kelly has decided to continue her mission to boost the morale of our troops by photographing her pet squirrel in cute military shots.That way the guys and girls keeping our great country free and helping to bring democracy to the rest of the world, will have a little 'Military Mascot' to carry around with them in their pockets to remind them that we, back here in America, are with them all the way.It's weird, it's freaky... but I just can't stop looking.
Not to be overshadowed by the Xbox 360 announcement last night and the forthcoming Sony PlayStation 3 news next week, Nintendo has released details of their own next generation console, the Revolution, toCVG. Like last week's UK election, it seems all of the contenders are singing from the same hymn sheet.Revolution willalsofeature out-of-the-box online connectivity, wireless controllers, DVD playback (are they finally getting rid of proprietary software formats??), a sleek design and backwards compatibility.AsGregobserves, however, it's the software which'll guarantee console success, and Nintendo needs some new properties. Mario and Zelda have their long-term fans, but do contemporary and new gamers want more GTA and Halo?
So now that the truth is out there and Xbox 360 has been freed from the tyranny of forum gossip and unattributed developer quotes, people can finally analyse the goods and form a proper opinion. With this in mind I've asked a selection of industry pundits what they think about the machine. I also mailed several developers, most of whom have replied with a stern 'no comment!' (some with more than one exclamation mark), so either they're just not talking tome- entirely possible - or they're being kept quiet til E3. I'd like to go for the latter if that's okay.Anyway, here are the initial thoughts from game journos. I'm going to keep adding to the list as more replies come in.Margaret Robertson, Edge magazineWhat's clear when looking at the finished Xbox 360 hardware is how much Microsoft has taken the criticism of the Xbox to heart – there's no question many people will find the sleeker, subtler design more appealing. More surprising is the strength of emphasis the company is putting on online play and on multimedia activities – it will be interesting to see if this widens the gaming market as much as it's clearly hoping. But perhaps the biggest impact of the hardware announcement is that attention is now turning to the software. Launch line-ups are often patchy, and it won't be until we get a chance to have a proper hands-on with finished code that we'll be able to tell if the games represent a genuine step forward.BTW: the current issue of Edge features an exclusive in-depth analysis of the Xbox 360 hardware and launch gamesKieron Gillen, freelance journalistUnless the console actually comes with a fold-out snowboard, it's a stupendously terrible name. Putting aside that, as difficult as it is, reveals another interesting console from Microsoft. In terms of niggles, I do worry that the stressing of the "HD Era" is alienating to a general audience. Since this has been mentioned so much, it does - as someone who neither has a HD TV or is planning to buy one to play marginally prettier games - alienate me from it. Perhaps the biggest worry is that, at least at first glance, there's no discernable equivalent to Halo on the list of games. Maybe there will be: it's always memorable that until Edge actually lobbed that 10/10 at Halo, Microsoft didn't seem to realise exactly what they had been gifted with. But if they're not, the industry axiom has always been Software Sells Hardware. I don't see any reason to believe that'll have changed. Let's just say that say that things will become a lot clearer after E3.Jon Jordon, Develop magazineWhat's most striking for me about Microsoft's approach to Xbox 360 is how far it's moved from its previous 'We Know It All' attitude towards something that in many respects is similar to PlayStation2. There's the vertical or horizontal positioning, sleek industrial design, custom designed chipsets, webcam, plug-and-play USB ports, overblown promise of its role as an all-singing, all-dancing entertainment hub. But the one area in which Microsoft remains ahead of its rival is online services. If it gets Xbox 360's customisation, downloads and community aspects right, it will be a winning formula, at least in the US. Of course, Sony would never have chosen such a ridiculous name...Gavin Ogden, Editor, Official Xbox MagazineThe arrival of Xbox 360 will open new doors for game developers and potentially change the way gamers think about their games. We're eager to see how merging brand new cutting-edge Xbox Live features into single player games will provide new experiences that are more interactive than anything we've seen before.Joao Sanches, freelance journalistXbox 360 won't beat Sony's PS3 in terms of popularity (that's a battle for the next hardware generation) but it will significantly close the gap. That's not necessarily Microsoft's fault - the company has demonstrated it is a quick learner and is trying hard to woo the mainstream but it takes time to displace a brand as ingrained as PlayStation from the minds of the people.Specs-wise it's more or less what was expected but I can hardly claim to be an expert in these matters. As ever, i'm more interested in how well MS manages to support the development scene to maximise the potential of the hardware - that is key to the system's success.Aesthetically, it's obviously very appealing. I'm not entirely convinced by the cosmetic customisation angle Microsoft seems so exited about but I realise for some people a console's looks are crucial (the original Xbox's appearance certainly didn't help its chances in design-conscious Japan, for instance) ­ I tend to look at the screen when I play games.Ultimately, it's a well thought out system, with one obvious exception. Optional hardware upgrades (in this case the hard drive) are traditionallybad news (developers will invariably revert to the lowest common denominator, for the reasons Aleks has already pointed on the blog). Still, it's another forward thinking system from Microsoft (remember the Xbox's hard drive, broadband-ready, Dolby Digital-compatible, four-joypad connectivity as standard approach?) - the company excels at incorporating the latest technology trends in its products and tends to approach them from a genuine consumer's perspective. In this respect the multimedia aspect is particularly well timed (why buy a Mac mini when your Xbox 360 can form the hub of your home entertainment?) ­ people are increasingly au fait with the set top box/interactive TV model and this is simply builds on that. The step isn't as massive as some are suggesting. It's a model Sony will also attempt, of course, but one that is unlikely to compete with Microsoft's domination in this area.Nick Ellis, Deputy Editor, Xbox WorldWhile the whole MTV shebang was more than a little embarrassing, the machine is clearly going to be something special and it's obvious that Microsoft have learned from their mistakes with the first Xbox. Aesthetically it's pleasing, even if it does look a bit like a Sky box, and the control pad looks excellent (praise the Lord they've binned the ridiculously positioned black and white buttons). As to the games, from the snippets we've seen so far Gears Of War and Project Gotham 3 are going to be the big launch day hitters and both look fantastic while the much lauded and long-awaited Perfect Dark Zero is something of a letdown on current evidence. Sniff. The new LIVE service promises much and will probably clobber that of Sony's new console, given MS's head start and the PS2's abject online failure. Full judgement will, however, have to wait until next week's E3 show but it's looking good so far.
Lest you came here directly and won't be visiting any of the other Guardian pages while you're here - of course you will - there's a greatreviewby Rhianna of Xbox 360 and an overviewhereby Bobbie.
The chunky black original Xbox might not have been the most aesthetically pleasing thing to put in your front room, but with 20m sold worldwide, Microsoft's machine has truly earned a place in today's entertainment culture.The new Xbox 360 is an altogether sexier beast. Its Stormtrooper-white visage (the colour is called "chill") and streamlined design give it a much more desirable and futuristic appearance.The system's 20GB hard drive equals the storage of a typical iPod, and is removable so that you can take it to a friend's house. It has cable-free controllers, wireless internet, and can play music and DVDs, ready to become the hub of digital entertainment in the home.The console also embraces the era of high-definition television, with all its games supporting greater resolutions and impressive levels of realism. The basketball players shooting hoops in one game show off the incredibly realistic graphics; the rendering of the skin and movement of the players makes it almost like watching a movie.But it is the needs of the video gamer, whether casual player or addict, that are at the forefront of the 360's design.The console is easy to personalise, from the ability to choose your own soundtrack when playing all games, to clip-on panels so you can change the look of the case.The internet, too, will form a crucial part of the 360's future. When you switch on the machine, you are presented with a "dashboard" with options for home, media, games and everything you have downloaded. You can also see whether your friends are online.Users will be able to take advantage of video and voice messaging, and buy content through an online marketplace. Microsoft is also dedicated to attracting more players to its Xbox Live broadband service by allowing gamers much more freedom in managing their friends lists, profiles and preferences.While the first Xbox aimed at the core gaming market, the 360 looks to bring casual and family gamers into the ever-expanding Microsoft fold.
Remember therecent spatbetween Steve Jobs and his unofficial biographer Jeffrey Young?Wired Newsis running an excerpt from the book in question, iCon. It looks at Jobs' obsession over gadgets through a slightly strange prism --- buying a washing machine.The big decision came down to whether to purchase a European machine or an American-made one. The European machine, according to Steve, does a much better job, uses about one-quarter as much water, and treats the clothes more gently so that they last longer. But the American machines take about half as long to wash the clothes."We spent some time in our family talking about what's the trade-off we want to make. We spent about two weeks talking about this. Every night at the dinner table" -- imagine dinner-table conversation about washing machines every night! -- "we'd get around to that old washer-dryer discussion. And the talk was about design."To find out what they opted for, you're going to have to go and read the whole thing.
Microsoft took the wraps off its next generation Xbox 360 games console today - and took the gloves off in the latest round of a fight to dominate the &#163;6bn market.In a star-studded launch that was scheduled to be broadcast early this morning on MTV America and presented by the Lord of the Rings star Elijah Wood, the firm paraded a product it says will "kick the backsides" of its rivals.Xbox 360, which can play videogames, DVDs, CDs and connect to the internet, is due to arrive in US shops for Christmas but no European launch date has been confirmed. Microsoft claims it will raise the bar in gaming."It's certainly very important," said Nick Parker of the research firm Screen Digest. "Xbox has built up an incredible reputation with developers, so it should also have good support. But will it be the most exciting product this year? That's probably still going to be the Sony PSP &#91;PlayStation Portable&#93;. We don't even know when the new Xbox will launch here in Europe."Today's launch marks the latest strike in the battle between electronics giants seeking to dominate the gaming industry, which is now bigger business than cinema. Such announcements are usually made at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, to be held next week, but Microsoft brought it forward after its Japanese rival Sony said it planned to unveil its PlayStation 3 earlier than expected.The Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, signed up a stellar guestlist including the actors   Scarlett Johansson and Joseph Fiennes and the bands the Killers and Snow Patrol for the event.With PlayStation 3 thought to be hitting the high street next year, and Nintendo unlikely to move quickly with its Revolution console, Microsoft will hope to steal a march on its rivals. Indications are that Xbox 360 will cost less than the original Xbox, which, at first, cost &#163;299."I think PlayStation 3 will be more powerful," said Marcus   Dyson, the publisher of the games websitewww.Spong.com. "But what Microsoft are planning for their online service, Xbox Live, will make it more compelling."Microsoft will be confident that it can build on the qualified success of the original, which has sold nearly 20m units in 3 years. Its figures outstrip the Nintendo GameCube, but lag behind the PlayStation 2, which has sold 80m.Xbox has been a costly venture for the Seattle-based company, with each one currently   sold at a loss and the firm's home and entertainment division losing more than $1.2bn (&#163;650m) last year. But Mr Gates is convinced it remains a key plank in his corporation."Our goal in the last generation was to be in the game," he said this month. "We came out of this round a strong number two. What we've got, at some significant financial cost, was the right to play again with great credibility."
Google's getting into Dodgeball. Not the sport, but the social networking firm, according toNetimperative:Google has made further inroads into the social networking market, buying SMS-based community network Dodgeball.com, for an undisclosed sum.New York-based Dodgeball.com launched last year as the result of a grad-school project started by Dennis Crowley and Alex Rainert at New York University's Interactive Telecommunications Program.The service helps members find and chat with each other using text messages sent to phones.
Further to the security breaches in Firefox which we reportedpreviously, there is now asecurity updateavailable for Windows, Mac OSX and Linux.
Excited then? I am. The Xbox 360 looks like packing a serious punch, with powerful processors, snappier design and - to the delight of any gaming widow/ers - a lack of wires. Throw in the updates to Live, the customisation facility and the myriad playback options and you have a piece of kit that will have tech-heads drooling. And it should be released globally this year. One-nil to Microsoft then. But, one vital ingredient is missing at the moment - the games.The vast majority of purchasers won't be buying 360 to access an online marketplace or message centre - they'll be wanting to compete online in Halo 3 or role play though Fable 2. At the moment we haven't seen too much of the games themselves and there isn't a massive amount of footage around.Thelistof developers and publishers signed up is impressive, but can they deliver? Will there be the equivalent of a Super Mario 64 - a launch title that expands and redefines what we should expect from interactive entertainment. We'll find out at E3 next week, which will show whether the games can match up to the undoubted prowess of the technology. The fun starts here.
Not a good move, Microsoft. Taking away one of the Unique Selling Points of the Xbox from the forthcoming 360 - the internal hard drive - may have been fiscally safe, but the simplicity and convenience of having a machine that didn't need any add ons was a tremendous advantage over the memory card-intensive other consoles.Furthermore, asking the consumer to pay for it means that it's not default, so games development companies are going to have to assume that players don't have one, which means players are just as well using the "Memory Unit support" and not forking out for the Xbox 360's "detatchable and upgradable" hard drive. It's kinda like the PlayStation 2's modem; that machine's broadband support has floundered while the default modem in the Xbox pushed Live to the forefront. Sure, the hardcore will fork out, but the general consumer won't unless there's some kind of blinding reason. Taking it 'round to a friend's house doesn't do it for me. It's a bit of a white elephant, as someone said to me. They may as well have not done it in the first place. Harumph.
If getting the info second-hand isn't enough for you, and youmusthave all the Xbox 360 details direct from the mouth of Elijah Wood himself ("entertainment icon, seasoned gamer and Xbox fanatic"), the MTV Special,Next Generation Xbox Revealedwill be broadcast tonight at 8pm. As well as performances by The Killers, as sceptic and birthday boy Greg pointed outyesterday, the European faithful will get to see Snow Patrol pay their respects to the hardware behemoth.And while I agree with some of Greg's sentiments about being more interested in what the actual 'Box has to offer, it's still great publicity to have big names embrace the gaming phenomenon.
The wee small hours of the morning saw the launch of Microsoft's new Xbox gaming system, aswe're reporting on Guardian Online. Over there you can also find ahands-on lookat the machine itself, while over on Gamesblog you canfollow the commentary and discussion- or justwade through the specs.
Just minutes after the official unveiling of Xbox 360 on MTV last night (or 2.30am this morning for us Brits), American videogame sites were frantically uploading their definitive guides to Microsoft's ambitious entertainment machine. And having been through far too many of them this morning, the overwhelming message seems to be 'ah yes, it's just as we expected, but here's 40,000 words on it anyway'. Don't have the time or inclination towadethroughthesyruppy mire? Here are the raw specs. We'll be posting more info and comment through the day.Custom IBM PowerPC-based CPU • Three symmetrical cores running at 3.2 GHz each • Two hardware threads per core; six hardware threads total • VMX-128 vector unit per core; three total • 128 VMX-128 registers per hardware thread • 1 MB L2 cacheCPU Game Math Performance • 9 billion dot product operations per secondCustom ATI Graphics Processor • 10 MB of embedded DRAM • 48-way parallel floating-point dynamically scheduled shader pipelines • Unified shader architecturePolygon Performance • 500 million triangles per secondPixel Fill Rate • 16 gigasamples per second fill rate using 4x MSAAShader Performance • 48 billion shader operations per secondMemory • 512 MB of 700 MHz GDDR3 RAM • Unified memory architectureMemory Bandwidth • 22.4 GB/s memory interface bus bandwidth • 256 GB/s memory bandwidth to EDRAM • 21.6 GB/s front-side busOverall System Floating-Point Performance • 1 teraflopStorage • Detachable and upgradeable 20GB hard drive • 12x dual-layer DVD-ROM • Memory Unit support starting at 64 MBI/O • Support for up to four wireless game controllers • Three USB 2.0 ports • Two memory unit slotsOptimized for Online • Instant, out-of-the-box access to Xbox Live features with broadband service, including Xbox Live Marketplace for downloadable content, gamer profile for digital identity, and voice chat to talk to friends while playing games, watching movies, or listening to music • Built-in Ethernet port • Wi-Fi ready: 802.11a, 802.11b, and 802.11g • Video camera readyDigital Media Support • Support for DVD-Video, DVD-ROM, DVD-R/RW, DVD+R/RW, CD-DA, CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, WMA CD, MP3 CD, JPEG Photo CD • Ability to stream media from portable music devices, digital cameras and Windows XP-based PCs • Ability to rip music to the Xbox 360 hard drive • Custom playlists in every game • Built-in Media Center Extender for Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005 • Interactive, full-screen 3-D visualizersHigh-Definition Game Support • All games supported at 16:9, 720p, and 1080i, anti-aliasing • Standard-definition and high-definition video output supportedAudio • Multi-channel surround sound output • Supports 48KHz 16-bit audio • 320 independent decompression channels • 32-bit audio processing • Over 256 audio channelsSystem Orientation • Stands vertically or horizontallyCustomizable Face Plates • Interchangeable to personalize the console
Before we get into the real analysis following last night'sXBox 360 announcement, here's a bit of fluff:It's almost the time of year when the hairs on the back of my neck stand up and I begin to shudder involuntarily at the utter foulness of the unthinking base level of promotional campaigns for computer games entertainment. Yes, it's almost time for theElectronic Entertainment Expo.E3 is a trade event where eye candy, big announcements and over the top marketing rules, and one of the default "gimmicks" is to offer a bevy ofbooth babesfor [primarily male] attendees to have their photos taken with/to gawp at. While there have beensubtle attemptsto subvert this in the past (theWomen in Games Developmentspecial interest group of theIGDAhad the novel idea of suggesting to companies to redirect their booth babe funding towards a scholarship for female games degree students. It never panned out), this phenomenon keeps growing and growing.Being a gender-inclusive gamesblog, we'd like to celebrate notable attempts in campaigns to be more clever than simply stuffing a pretty face etc. in front of their product. Today's great idea comes from Namco who plan to promote their forthcomingWe LOVE Katamari(sequel to the ever-inventive Katamari Damacy) by asking delegates to contribute "nutty and creative" items to their Katamari (giant sticky ball) throughout the show. All suggestions for gamesblog's Greg should be added below. Note the restrictions:Items should be lightweight enough to be attached and as nutty and creative as possible. Items should NOT be x-rated in nature or include clothing, books, magazines, papers or garbage.And yes, the Namco stand will befeaturingbooth babes for other campaigns. Tsk tsk.frominsertcredit, viaboingboing
PartyGaming, the world's largest online poker company, is understood to be confident of a valuation of more than &#163;5bn should it decide to float on the stock market.Yesterday the Gibraltar-based group, which operates the PartyPoker website, said its underlying profit before financial charges reached $391m (&#163;210) last year - four times the level of 2003. Revenues made a similar fourfold jump to $602m.The group is expected to announce a decision imminently, following a three-month strategic review. It is being advised by Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and is believed to be preparing for a flotation.Yesterday the likelihood of a flotation appeared to grow after the appointment of Michael Jackson, chairman of the FTSE 100 software group Sage, as chairman. Brian Larcombe, former chief executive of the private equity group 3i, was named deputy chairman.PartyGaming's chief executive, Richard Segal, said Mr Jackson and Mr Larcombe, well-respected figures in the City, would bring experience in IT and rapid-growth businesses respectively.If PartyGaming were to be valued on a comparable multiple to Sportingbet, the quoted gambling group that operates the Paradise Poker website, it could expect to reach an enterprise value of &#163;5.1bn. With negligible debt, share equity could be valued at &#163;5bn.Asked if PartyGaming would relocate to Britain, Mr Segal said: "We are not in a rush to move anywhere. Never say never, but at present we are staying put in Gibraltar."The Treasury is thought to be in the final stages of a review of tax treatment for gambling businesses following the Gambling Act, which passed through parliament last month. The government has made clear that it wants Britain to be a hub for gambling businesses and three years ago dramatically reduced the tax on online sports bets in a deal with the major bookmakers. In exchange, they brought their online sports books back from offshore tax havens.Mr Segal said PartyGaming was a member of trade bodies in close discussions with the Treasury. They are understood to be discussing an appropriate tax rate that would attract other online betting businesses to the UK. The Treasury is believed to be keen on a tax rate of 2% to 3% on operators.However, PartyGaming is believed to consider British corporation tax at 30% too big a burden for it to consider a move onshore. In the past year, shares in Sportingbet have nearly trebled to value the owner of the Paradise Poker site at &#163;900m.Other beneficiaries of the poker craze have included CryptoLogic, a software developer for internet gaming that beat market forecasts on Wednesday with a 27% increase in first-quarter profit.London is fast becoming the de facto listing centre for internet gambling companies, partly because online gaming is strictly regulated in the United States but welcomed in Britain, even though most players are in the US. Other possible listings include Cassava Enterprises, the owner of888.comand one of the world's biggest internet gambling groups, valued at about $1.6bn.
The last major independent British dotcom business succumbed to America's online hegemony yesterday as Lastminute.com accepted a &#163;577m takeover by Sabre Holdings, owner of US rival Travelocity.The 165p-a-share deal brings to a close a five-year saga which saw Lastminute's founders Martha Lane Fox and Brent Hoberman become pin-ups for a generation of internet entrepreneurs.Many of their contemporaries from the self-styled "neterati" saw their investments vaporise as the dotcom bubble burst just after Lastminute floated in March 2000, but the founders of the online travel business will scoop almost &#163;40m from yesterday's deal.Mr Hoberman, still the company's chief executive, said yesterday that he saw the deal as another chapter in the story of Lastminute. "I'm still standing. I am going to stay to run the &#91;combined&#93; business," he said. "I would hope thatwww.Lastminute.comwill remain as an iconic UK dotcom."It seems unlikely, however, that Ms Lane Fox, who quit as the company's managing director in late 2003, but remained as a non-executive director, will have a major role in the combined business.Ms Lane Fox, who was badly injured in a car crash while on holiday in Morocco a year ago, will have to resign her directorship when the deal is completed. Mr Hoberman suggested she could retain some link with the business: "If Martha wants to have an advisory role in the business then I would love it."Over the five years of its existence, the business the two friends founded while working at internet consultancy Spectrum Strategy has eaten up more than a dozen of its rivals. Along the way it has amassed pre-tax losses of over &#163;250m and its share price has never regained the heady heights reached on its first day on the London Stock Exchange, March 14 2000.Retail investors, who had been restricted to just 35 shares each in the open offer, piled into the stock when it joined the market at 380p. The shares rocketed to a high of 555p, valuing the business, which was a mere 19 months old at the time and had hardly any revenues, at &#163;835m and the stakes held by its founders at over &#163;150m.The dotcom bubble burst just days after Lastminute came to market and a combination of missed earnings targets and cynicism about internet stocks left the stock at an all-time low of 17p just over a year and a half later.Yesterday's take-out price would leave   any retail punter who bought in the flotation and stuck with the business seriously out of pocket. But Mr Hoberman said that despite its falls, the share price has outperformed other tech stocks."The share price at this price has outperformed the Nasdaq and the Techmark indices. I think it is a bit unhelpful to take that one date in time (the flotation) and say that's the way we judge your business," he hit back.In fact, some in the City believe there could still be a counter-bid for the business, although its shares closed yesterday just half a penny higher than Sabre's offer, suggesting hopes are not very high. Under the terms of yesterday's deal Lastminute is not allowed to solicit other offers and if another bidder is successful it will have to pay Sabre &#163;5m.Expedia, owned by American online conglomerate IAC/InterActiveCorp and TUI, owner of Lunn Poly, are both seen as possibly interested in Lastminute. Another potential bidder, Cendant, owner of US travel site Orbitz and the Budget car   rental chain, is likely to have its hands full integrating last year's purchase of UK-based ebookers.Travelocity's management remained unconcerned about the prospects of another bid emerging for Lastminute last night while Mr Hoberman admitted that "the door is still open" should anyone else want to bid.Evolution Securities analyst Robin Chhabra described the Sabre offer as "fair but not generous", valuing the business at roughly the same as Cendant's acquisition of ebookers last year."We would argue that Lastminute deserves to be valued at a premium to ebookers given its scale and brand strength," he added, suggesting a valuation at closer to 200p per share.If Sabre does secure control of Lastminute it will leave the UK online travel market looking very similar to the US market with Expedia, a combined Lastminute/Travelocity and Cendant's ebookers taking up the top three positions. The American market is dominated by Expedia, Travelocity and Cendant's Orbitz business.The British and wider European online travel market is attractive to US businesses as not only is it growing faster than the American market, but it is more   fragmented. The Lastminute.com name will remain as a feature of the online world, Travelocity's president and chief executive officer Michelle Peluso stressed yesterday."Our intention is to look country by country," when deciding whether to use the Lastminute or Travelocity name, but she intends to "establish Lastminute.com as the leading brand across Europe."Lastminute sells flights, holidays and hotel accommodation across 13 European countries. Yesterday the company reported yet another widening of pre-tax losses to &#163;45m at the half-year stage, although on the basis of profits before all financial charges the company made a mere &#163;100,000.Travelocity, in contrast, is part of the multibillion-dollar Sabre Holdings conglomerate. It has been in and out of the European market but now operates in France, Scandinavia and Germany, where it has a joint venture, and has a European base in Britain.Linking Travelocity with Lastminute, which was last year forced to cut 15% of its workforce to reduce costs, will produce cost benefits, Ms Peluso admitted, but she could not speculate on jobs.
Security expert Bruce Schneier saysherethat America's: "REAL ID Act establishes uniform standards for state driver's licenses, effectively creating a national ID card. It's a bad idea, and is going to make us all less safe. It's also very expensive. And it's all happening without any serious debate in Congress."If you haven't heard much about REAL ID in the newspapers, that's not an accident. The politics of REAL ID is almost surreal. It was voted down last fall, but has been reintroduced and attached to legislation that funds military actions in Iraq. This is a "must-pass" piece of legislation, which means that there has been no debate on REAL ID. No hearings, no debates in committees, no debates on the floor. Nothing.Since his post was dated May 9, of course, it'salready happened, though the REAL ID law won't come into effect for another three years.See alsohttp://www.unrealid.com/.
There are more pics and clips athttp://www.mae.cornell.edu/ccsl/research/selfrep/morepictures.htmIt says:"Click on images to get high-resolution version. Permission is granted to use, reproduce or distribute any of these images and movies for any purpose, provided credit is given to "Cornell University, Computational Synthesis Lab". If possible, please cite: Zykov V., Mytilinaios E., Adams B., Lipson H. (2005) "Self-reproducing machines", Nature Vol. 435 No. 7038, pp. 163-164"
There's a timely story onCNETtoday claiming that developers are getting worried about the financial implications of the next gen hardware. How much is it going to cost to produce games in Microsoft's HD era? $10m? $20m? $30?m. If we're complaining about licenses and sequels now, what's it going to be like next year when games cost twice as much to produce?An interesting solution was quoted in the article:Allard also touted a new "marketplace" feature of the Xbox system, in which developers will be able to post downloadable content ranging from trailers to demos to rub-on tattoos. That will help developers and publishers make extra money for their games and could provide publishers with a way to experiment with new ideas cheaply, a little bit like pilot shows on television, Allard said.Hmm, so the solution is charging customers for downloadable demos? How very Microsoft.
I don't have any particular problem with MTV as a channel but tonight's Xbox 360 unveiling leaves me a little cold. It's nothing to do with the fact that Microsoft have chosen to showcase their new console on TV rather than the traditional launch event or press conference, but rather that it all seems a bit desperate. Elijah Wood, The Killers, "celebrity" interviews - what about just showing us Halo 3? I'm don't want to hear what some non-entity from American Idol is paid to say about the console. I want to see the games, hardware and some indication that 360 is going to offer more than just high-def racing and shooting. "We'll show the hardware - as much as you can do in a television show" says VP Peter Moore. Let's hope so.
Lecturers at Coventry University have developed a teaching technique called 'm-learning', which allows students to download course material and listen to lectures via their mobile phones.By taking the concept of e-learning a step further, media lecturers at the university now regularly send video clips, still images and sound clips to students' mobile phones.Founders Eduardo Carrillo and Harold Fricker have secured a grant to develop m-learning further, with an aim to establish international links and gain the support of industry.Mr Carrillo said: "I recently bought a new mobile phone and it was difficult to use. One of my students started to explain how to use it and I realised that I needed to learn the language of students and find out how they prefer to learn. All of my students have the latest phones and I discovered that the possibilities for downloading material are endless."Mr Carrillo now makes all video material from his lectures available for the web and for mobile phones.Mr Fricker added: "We are running our first pilot, and the results are stunning. Students are thrilled at receiving up-to-date information that keeps them in touch. The sound files allow them to listen again to lectures and tutorials."
Another Thursday marks the Guardian's technology supplement Online going, erm,online.This week we lead with look atthe rise and rise of cybercrime- the DrinkorDie software piracy ring mentionedlast weekand details on theSumitomo bank hack attempt. It's fascinating stuff: bank heists, software cracking, inside jobs and pleas of innocence... even if it's not quite got the glamour level of Ocean's Eleven.Elsewhere, we wonder whether buying music on your mobile phone isn't going to turn out to be awaste of money, and look at a rift that's developed in theopen source movement. We also look at how mobile operators are worried aboutgiving us our spectrum backand talk toWonkettebloggerAna Marie Cox.In comment, we look at whether Valve is going tokill off games publishing, examinenew battlesin thePDA marketand watch how you can trace yourDNA online.And there's much more: just clickherefor the complete listing.
The race for the public pounds kicks off tonight, as next generation console publisher Microsoft releases the details of its forthcoming Xbox 360 at the ungodly hour of 2:30am GMT on music and "yoot" channel MTV. This announcement ends months of speculation and Non-Disclosure Agreement-enforced silence, and precedes an expected PlayStation 3 announcement at next week's Electronics Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles. As a non-cable or satellite subscriber this leaves me out of the loop until The Guardian's coverage hits the digital waves, but thankfully there'll be plenty of summary and analysis here on thegamesblogand onGuardian Unlimited.
If ever there was a match made in heaven, you would think music and mobile phones would be it. Vodafone, O2 and Orange, eager to recoup their investment in high-bandwidth networks, all offer customers the chance to purchase full music tracks and store them on the handset, turning it into a mobile music player.Orange and Vodafone offer 2.5G and 3G-based downloads, while O2 customers can only use its music download service over 2.5G for now. All services let customers buy tunes via the phone without a credit card, which is convenient. But in the long term, the services may not be as convenient as customers might think.At between &pound;1 and &pound;2 per tune, customers are often paying more than the equivalent CD price for the convenience of instant music. But a CD will work in any player, whereas you will lose your mobile music collection when switching to another network using a different handset.Songs are tied to the handset by the operators' digital rights management (DRM) software, which prevents music being copied. The operators' software is not always compatible and the same goes for the file formats used for the songs.Orange uses proprietary file formats and DRM controls for its tunes, but head of music, Mark Ashford, argues that users are used to a network lock-in."You couldn't take a monophonic &#91;ringtone&#93; to another network with you, or black and white pictures, or games. We are treating the track download as a ringtone download."Orange will upgrade its technology, but even when networks adopt open standards, cross-compatibility isn't on the agenda. Vodafone uses a standard music format, AAC, and will move to AAC+, an enhanced version used by O2, which has been standardised by the mobile phone industry. Vodafone and O2 also use DRM technologies compatible with a standard ratified by the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA), a consortium of mobile companies. So why can't customers take tunes with them when they switch networks?"You have to obey the rules and licensing conditions the labels lay down," warns Ed Kershaw, head of music at Vodafone. Orange's Ashford would agree that record labels hold the cards. He says Universal Music has vetoed the alliance's DRM standard as insufficient, which affects the DRM its partners must use.In January, patent owners for the technology underlying the alliance's DRM standards announced royalty charges that increase the cost per subscriber for the networks. This presents operators with more challenges.Uncertainties around these quickly developing technologies mean that although they intend to make the tunes you purchase today playable with tomorrow's handsets, neither Orange nor O2 executives will guarantee it. Vodafone's Kershaw is the most positive. His player is designed to play different music formats so that customers can upload to the handset songs from a PC.O2 is concentrating on enabling music to be transferred in the other direction and will work with a provider of PC music player software.The mixture of inflexibility and uncertainty surrounding mobile music services could prove the networks' weakness, says Fred Bolza, senior consultant at CapGemini Telecom Media &amp; Entertainment. Instead of taking a "walled garden" approach that emphasises their content, they should focus on acting as conduits for a wider base of material, he says.Operators will be reluctant because retaining control over content is their best hope of increasing their average revenue per user in the short term. But the market could end up making the decision for them.Fonedream is a third-party service that downloads purchased music to any phone using a player customers can install. "It has no bearing on the network. It is purely a handset application," says Graham Baines, Fonedream's managing director.Or you could just listen to the radio instead. Virgin Mobile offers streaming radio over 3G using a downloaded player. But industry insiders warn that customers will need to manage 3G data tariffs carefully or they could end up paying &pound;14 per hour for the privilege.Meanwhile, Nokia is prepping a service that uses 2.5G and 3G to deliver visual data such as artist trivia and "now playing" information, synchronised with radio delivered to an FM receiver built into the handset.So perhaps music won't be the answer to the operators' prayers after all. Almost one year after launch, only 50,000 of Orange's 1m Orange World portal visitors have downloaded tunes. Four months after Apple launched its iTunes music store, with its proprietary DRM technology, it had sold 10m tracks.Orange executives have said 2005 will be the year when music downloads explode. With the year nearing its halfway point, that explosion could prove more of a muffled fizzle.LinksOrangewww.orange.co.ukO2www.O2.co.ukVodafonewww.vodafone.comFonedreamwww.fonedream.comVisual Radiowww.visual-radio.comVirgin Radio 3Ghttp://tinyurl.com/9t6emOMAwww.openmobilealliance.org
Light attackThe burning question is: Do you have a light sabre? If not, how are you going to defend yourself against the Sith? Sounds like you need to visit the HowStuffWorks site for a long and detailed account of how light sabres work. It even illustrates practical uses, such as hedge trimming. However, it remains silent on how you'd cope with a Harry Potter lookalike waving a wand - and that's not on the new Goblet of Fire site, either.http://tinyurl.com/dk4johttp://tinyurl.com/d62kvPod searchTVEyes is a well-established company that uses a program called Radio Ears to make radio and TV broadcasts keyword-searchable, using speech-to-text conversion software. Now Podscope is using TVEyes' technology to extend these search facilities to podcasts - internet sound files designed to be downloaded to any PC or portable music player. Podscope is out in beta test form, and you can read about it on its blog. It is also free, and there's no suggestion of paying for it, but media monitoring is obviously a valuable commercial business. Incidentally, TVEyes is a US company with a UK office.www.tveyes.comwww.podscope.comwww.podscope.com/blog/Iron curtainThe "iron curtain" became part of popular consciousness after Sir Winston Churchill said it had "descended across the continent" during a speech delivered in Missouri in 1946, after the allies had defeated Germany in the second world war. Churchill's speech is now available online either as a whole or in sections with extensive multimedia illustrations. Although intended as an educational illustration, it more than stands on its own merit. Flash is required.www.churchillspeeches.comVoter feedback"I voted for you because ..." says MySociety's new post-election site, and gives you some space to fill in your reasons. Stick in a post code, tick a box, click submit and the message will eventually be collated and sent to your new MP. It will also be posted to the website where other people can comment on it. If you did not vote, there is also a Not Apathetic site where you can explain why, so your silence need not go unheard. But, sadly, there's nowhere to say: "I didn't vote for you because ..."www.ivotedforyoubecause.comwww.notapathetic.comCIA guideThe 2005 edition of the popular CIA World Factbook is now online, and is useful reading if travelling abroad or doing business with a foreign company. The UK section is always interesting, and it's nice to know the UK is "slightly smaller than Oregon". If you want to hold the information locally, you can buy a copy or download free zip files from the site. If you want to compare the CIA's current entries with earlier versions, Theodora has editions going back to 1989.http://tinyurl.com/8cdw7http://tinyurl.com/d7tqtHop aboutThere is no shortage of search engines for travellers, but it's always nice to find one that concentrates on Europe to the exclusion of the Americas. Dohop is an example. It lets you search for scheduled flights to most destinations, and while it describes itself as "the low cost flight finder", its searches include the national flag carriers as well as the likes of RyanAir and easyJet. One nice touch: the To and From boxes use progressive search, so you usually only need a few letters to get a full identification. However, if you try to enter an airport it doesn't recognise, it deletes what you are trying to type. Hotels and car rentals will be added later.www.dohop.comFor quitters"Giving up smoking is the easiest thing in the world," said Mark Twain. "I know because I've done it thousands of times." Perhaps he should have tried the Click2Quit Plan, which is touting research to show that using its tailored plan and "nicotine replacement therapy" helps more people kick the habit. The site is free, but you have to buy your own nicotine patches. (Also requires willpower. Patches contain nicotine. Always read the label.) The site is sponsored by the BMW Williams F1 team "to help break the association between sporting events and smoking".www.click2quit.com
It's a pity Yahoo's new 360 online service is widely regarded as Yahoo's attempt at blogging, because it may be the worst blogging software on the web. But as the all-encompassing name suggests, Yahoo is trying to do something different. It is providing a combination of blogging, social networking, photo-sharing, mail and messaging that small groups of friends can use, without them having to make much effort. The problem is that it doesn't do any of these things particularly well.Y360 is, of course, an early beta test version, and accounts are available by invitation only. The attractions are the breadth of the mix, which is similar to Microsoft's MSN Spaces, and a level of simplicity that should be within reach of the average non-geeky Yahoo user.Developing this kind of application is something of a departure for Yahoo, which has mainly relied on buying successful companies to increase its range of offerings. Its takeovers have included Rocket Mail, WebCal, Four11, eGroups, GeoCities, Broadcast.com, Launch Media, HotJobs, Flickr, and a string of search companies - it now owns Overture, Inktomi, AltaVista and All The Web.Yahoo could have bought a blogging company such as Blogger - which was snapped up by Google - Six Apart, or Xanga, but that would not have created an integrated service. Yahoo would have ended up like Google, where there are no connections between email (Gmail), blogging (Blogger) and social networking (Orkut).What you get instead, with Y360, is a single page with a lot of elements in columns and boxes. These include your personal profile, your blog, your photo album, your reviews (for example, if you have written one of local restaurants for Yahoo Local), your lists such as favourite books), your friends (with Orkut-style pictures), your Yahoo Groups, and LaunchCast, Yahoo's "radio station". Using the Blast feature, you can also add a comment or slogan in a prominent online bubble.It's simple stuff. MSN Spaces offers about 70 templates, to vary the appearance of your Space, and you can use the mouse to grab the content boxes and move them - without learning any programming. Y360 seems to have no templates, and there is no obvious way of moving content or varying the display. Even My Yahoo offers more flexibility.Click the blog box to go to your blog page and you will find a similar lack of variation. The text editor is basic: it doesn't have spell checking, or a simple menu to change the size of the text. You can upload photos, but you can't position them where you want or put text alongside a picture - at least, not without coding.Worst of all, I couldn't find a simple way of making my blog visible to anybody who is not a friend logged on to the system. I clicked and saved the option marked "Activate my Simple URL" to use http://360.yahoo.com/Scholia, but using it produces a "page not found" error. Nor could I find anything like a permalink to link to a specific post. From a serious blogging point of view, Y360 is useless.Y360 is more likely to appeal to people who are already Yahoo users, because it is handy and free, but at the moment, it does not seem particularly integrated with the rest of Yahoo. For example, it has a mailbox for messages from other Y360 users, but it is separate from Yahoo Mail.You can see whether friends are online, and send them instant messages, but only with Yahoo's IM software. This limitation also applies to MSN Spaces, and it's a problem compounded by AOL's refusal to interoperate with other IM systems. However, it contributes to making Y360 into a closed social networking system rather than an open communications centre.Indeed, Y360 seems to be designed on the basis that you will mostly share things with friends and family. However, you can extend access to "friends of friends", "friends of friends of friends", or "public (everyone)", or restrict it to "just me (private)".These privacy options should benefit small groups such as families, networks of close friends and work colleagues. However, the system only works if you can separate the different groups of friends, and you can't. Y360 does let you create your own group categories, such as work friends, but the new category isn't added to the drop-down lists such as "Who can see your blog". In fact, you'd be better off starting a few Yahoo Groups and getting the different categories of people to sign up.And this is the real problem with Y360: far from attracting customers from Google and MSN, I can't even see it attracting many users of Yahoo's existing services.Yahoo offers lots of useful free services: its mail is excellent (and has a gigabyte of storage), its IM and groups features are very good, it has reasonable photo albums, and it has taken over the brilliant Flickr for photo sharing. Y360 would be attractive if it brought the best of these together, or improved on them. In failing to do either, it ends up as a not-very-impressive rival to MySpace.
