Council advice on computer recycling could be helping people hand their personal information over to identity thieves, according to consumer group Which?.After calling 109 local councils for advice on the disposal of old computers and monitors, Computer Which? magazine found that a significant number did not know what would happen to donated PCs, while others remained unaware of the need to fully erase data from recycled machines.One worker with an unnamed council even told researchers that computers given to a recycling scheme would simply get thrown away: "They literally go into the landfill; they get smashed apart," the magazine quotes them as saying.Investigators were told by one adviser that personal data "shouldn't be a problem", while another said that "you can easily uninstall any information".The editor of Computer Which? said both statements could fool members of the public into believing that they did not need to take extra steps to keep their information safe from identity thieves."Our investigation shows the quality of advice and availability of services vary from one council to the next," said Sarah Kidner."Perhaps more worrying is the lack of knowledge and advice on how to dispose of the data stored on your computer. This could mean that the local tip becomes a hunting ground for identity thieves."Computer recycling has become more popular as become aware of the potential environmental impact of simply discarding unwanted machines. A survey of more than 2,000 Which? members found that 32% intended to recycle their PCs, with a further 28% planning to give unwanted units away to family members. Only 15% of respondents said they would simply throw away their old computers.
The Conservatives have today unveiled plans to create a new post of a cybersecurity minister in order to combat what they call the "growing threat" of online crime.News of the scheme – which would see a single Home Office minister take charge of fighting internet crime and protecting government computer systems from attack – comes as shadow home secretary David Davis unveils a raft of policy ideas aimed at fighting internet criminals and terrorists.Speaking at the E-Crime Congress in London, Davis outlined a series of plans that could be put in place if the party were to take power at the next general election."Cybercrime is a growing and serious threat to individuals, business and government," he said. "It is a problem that will continue to escalate as technology changes."Aside from the creation of a new ministerial post, the Tories are also suggesting a number of other initiatives such as the creation of a new centre where members of the public can report any online crime.Elsewhere the proposals include the creation of a Police National Cybercrime Unit – essentially a re-instatement of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, which was folded into the Serious and Organised Crime Agency in 2006 – and the formation of a unit of cybercrime specialists inside the Crown Prosecution Service.The party is also putting forward the idea of compelling financial institutions to tell privacy watchdogs when they suspect their systems have been compromised, and considering a new offence of "reckless handling of personal data by government".This proposal, which capitalises on recent privacy debacles – including the loss of discs containing millions of personal bank details by HMRC – would make it a criminal offence for any civil servant or government contractor to lose an individual's personal data.Much of the Tory plan seems loosely modelled on arecent reportinto internet security by the House of Lords science and technology committee.Richard Clayton, a computer security researcher at Cambridge University and adviser to the committee, said he broadly welcomed the proposals but said more could be done to protect ordinary users."They've concentrated on the prosecution of e-crime, police and justice and missed some of the suggestions that you need to fix the incentives to build systems that are safer by design," he said.
A heads up for people in London this week, theBirds Eye View Festivalis running a series of games-related events, including atourney at the ICA, ascreenwriting for games workshopwith Katie Ellwood (she who penned Driv3r) and a panel discussion about that old chestnutwomen in games panel, featuring top birds (yes, I say that with irony), the inimitable Gabby Kent, Emma Westecott (a game designer, TIGA co-founder and lecturer at the University of Newport) and Helen Kennedy from the University of the West of England.Thinking caps on, people.
Don't call me you-know-whoNew to the forums? Sometimes it seems like everyone else is. So here's a little video explaining how to use them. Scarily, there really are people out there who don't know all this stuff already.Teleportation dilemmasBeing teleported means that you get created somewhere else - so the original you must get destroyed, right? But what if the original you doesn't want to be destroyed? Star Trek never dealt with this question. But this does..We're robots, singing for youFlight of the Conchords offer you their paean to humanity's demise in 2000. No, we didn't think that happened either. (Thanks, KarlWnz.)
The reviews are in the paper today. Lost: Via Domus is the biggie and not just because Ireviewedit. I'vebloggeda lot about this game over the last couple of weeks, mainly because the huge potential was never realised. Surely a free roaming island - using the Far Cry engine? - with puzzles, is what the game should have been? Ah well, at least the achievement points are easy. I'm not sure the same can be said for Lost Odyssey. I've yet to properly dive in - the lack of a "save anywhere" is not really compatible with a 4 week old baby - and tend to prefer Western RPGs. Butthe reviewis positive and I'm generally hearing good things. Anyone here playing it? Last and, let's face it, least isFlatout Head On, a Burnout style racer for the PSP.
I can't seem to leaveinternet gender swapping alone. Quiet at the back.I askedRichard Bartle, the virtual worlds guru (rememberMUD?), for his take onNottingham Trent's findingsthat many women choose to play male characters online in order to avoid unwanted attention from pheremone crazed web geeks."How does that square with the move to Voip which is so prevalent in virtual worlds these days?" he asked. "After all, you can't pretend you're not female if you only have to open your mouth and then everyone knows."Fair point, Bartle. Perhaps the next niche market in Second Life's strange economy will be supplying voice modulation software to all those gender swappingfurrieswho fancy keeping their secret identity hidden.
Bebo has linked up with BBC Radio 1 to film an episode of online drama KateModern that will include cameos from DJs Nick Grimshaw and Tim Westwood.The collaboration with the BBC will see an episode of the second series shot in Radio 1's Live Lounge studio during this Sunday's teen show Switch.This episode of the second series of KateModern, which started dramatically with the murder of the eponymous star, will also feature band Scouting for Girls.In the episode, PR girl Charlie, played by Tara Rushton, is looking after the band and managing their appearance on Radio 1's Switch show, which includes a hectic trip to get to the studio on time.The episode will feature "appearances" from Radio 1 DJ Grimshaw, who presents Switch at 7pm on Sundays, and hip-hop expert Westwood.Cadbury has already had a KateModern episode dedicated to its Creme Egg product, based on PR girl Charlie running into a series of mishaps while attempting to promote the product, culminating in an chocolate egg free-for-all in Leicester Square.The second series of KateModern, which launched in January, will run for a total of 24 weeks.About 120 episodes, each a few minutes long,will be madeand uploaded on the Bebo social networking website at an average of five per week.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The website Ask has surrendered in its effort to compete with Google and Yahoo for internet searches, opting instead to reinvent itself as a female-focused online query specialist. Ask, formerly known as Ask Jeeves, is laying off 40 people, 8% of its workforce.The California-based company will concentrate on providing answers to questions about health, children's homework, recipes and hobbies."Everyone at Ask is excited about our clear focus and the trajectory-changing results it will deliver," said the company's chief executive, Jim Safka.Founded in 1996, the site initially used a mock version of PG Wodehouse's know-all gentleman's gentleman, Jeeves, to serve up answers to users. But it pensioned off Jeeves last year and shortened its name to Ask.It positioned itself as a search engine that would answer requests posed as natural language questions instead of being entered as a string of loosely related words.But it frequently misinterpreted requests and produced nonsensical answers that triggered widespread ridicule.The venture was taken over by Barry Diller's InterActiveCorp for $2.3bn (£1.2bn) in 2005. After investing in more sophisticated technology, Ask tried to reposition itself as a cutting-edge alternative to Google and even dropped its cartoonish mascot in an effort to be taken more seriously. But, in spite of aggressive advertising campaigns, it has made little impact on the search leaders.According to the research firm comScore, Ask had a 4.5% share of the 10.5bn internet searches that were carried out in the US in January, ranking it fourth behind Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and Time Warner's sites.Charlene Li, an analyst at Forrester Research, suggested the new strategy could pay off because women make many of the household spending decisions, so are a valued target for advertisers."It's a smart move," she said. "I still think Ask has great technology, but it is just really hard to fight against Google."Ask said 65% of its users were women, with a particularly high concentration of females in their late 30s in central regions of the US. In the broader search market, women typically account for 48% of users."If we can do a better job of understanding who these customers are and answering their questions, we will grow," said Safka.
I don't want to create PDF files (last week), but I would like to edit ones I have downloaded. These often have unnecessary images, over-large fonts etc. I would like to be able to reduce them to their essentials and make them economically printable. What would you suggest?John GilderI'd suggest not bothering: it takes far more time and effort than it's worth. You can still save paper by printing only the useful pages from multi-page documents. Also, many PDFs still work well enough if they are printed half-size, so that two fit on each A4 page. (Pdf995 will do this.) Foxit, which provides a free program you can substitute for Adobe Reader, also sells aFoxit PDF Editorfor $99 (£50). A few hours with the evaluation version will give you a reasonable idea of the problems. There is also a free software (GPL) project developing Pdftk, thePDF Toolkit.Backchat: As Colin Sopp and others pointed out, John would do better to copy and paste parts of each PDF into Word as unformatted text. Colin adds: "If he has Office 2003, he can print into Microsoft Office Document Imaging (Office Tools) and use the character recognition therein to open into a Word document." Jeremy Ashcroft suggests using GreenPrint's free printer driver fromprintgreener.com/productworld.htmlComment: With hindsight, I should obviously have suggested copy-and-paste, but in my experience it rarely worked. So I tried it again this week, and it worked nine times out of 10....
Qualcomm has stopped developing Eudora and turned it over to the open source community. That's a nice idea, but I cannot find if there is a non-beta open source version available. I will be buying a new computer shortly, and I cannot find any reference to a Eudora version that is Vista compatible.Delia VenablesThe old versions of Eudora are still available fromeudora.com/download, and Eudora says 7.1 works fine on 32-bit and 64-bit Vista, except for the help file (Document ID: 2754HQ). I think this is your best bet for the near future. The open source development called Penelope is creating a "Eudora user experience" on top of Thunderbird, which you may not like, and I'm not even sure it's a good idea. You can always download the latest version of Eudora 8 from Mozilla (wiki.mozilla.org/Eudora_Releases) but I suspect it will be in beta for some time.For most Windows users, Windows Live Mail desktop (http://get.live.com/wlmail/overview) -- an upgraded version of Vista's email program -- is a reasonable solution, while Outlook 2007 generally does the job for business users. Most others will probably go with Thunderbird, so it may just be a question of when you should make the switch.Of course, there are still plenty of free alternative email programs for Windows. If you want to try a few, they include Mulberry (now open source), The Bat, Pegasus, Pine, Courier and PocoMail. The Opera browser also has an email client
With Windows XP, I was able to record programmes streamed online with Total Recorder. I have not found a way of doing this with my new Sony laptop running Vista. I did try installing Total Recorder, only to find the laptop froze.Hendrik WoolfHi-Q Recorderwill record audio streams to MP3 files in Vista and other versions of Windows, and it is freeware. However, it only works at bit rates up top 96kbps. The company also sells Easy Hi-Q Recorder 2.2 for $29.95. This offers higher-quality MP3 files and can also record to WAV, WMA, and Ogg. Audio Tools Factory also offers aVista MP3 Recorderfor $19.95 and no doubt there are more.Backchat: Richard Abrahams has offered "a 'low tech' solution: use a cable with a 3.5 mm jack at each end to feed the speaker output to the line-in socket and set TR to use this as the input device". Mike Smart says: "Issues concerning Total Recorder's incompatibility with Vista have been resolved in version 6.1." Seetotalrecorder.com/TR_and_Vista.htm. Nick Eden and others point out that you can often record streaming audio with Audacity, a free open source program (audacity.sourceforge.net/).
The market for PSP racers is already congested but this curiously titled conversion of a 360 original still manages to make an impact. With 44 vehicles and 40-odd tracks littered with falling rocks and debris from previous races, there's plenty to get your teeth into. The point-to-point structure provides a clear objective, but Demolition Derby tracks and blistering ragdoll stunt events encourage more suicidal driving to rack up the really big scores. Admittedly, crash-centric action like this has already been done by the Burnout series - but there's a lot more variety on display here and the handling and graphics are even more impressive on a handheld. Boy racers should love it.
Stung by the Japanese public's disdain for the first Xbox, Microsoft signed up Hironobu Sakaguchi, the man who created the original Final Fantasy games, whom the Japanese revere like a rock star. Lost Odyssey is the result of that initiative, which has proven partially successful - Xbox 360 sales remain negligible in Japan, but at least Microsoft's console now has a top-notch role-playing game. Unsurprisingly, Lost Odyssey is very reminiscent of the Final Fantasy games: it is epic (straddling four disks), gorgeous-looking and has a complex turn-based fighting system - hardly forward-looking in a next-gen world. But it proves surprisingly enjoyable: the fighting system has depth (bosses require a pleasingly strategic approach), the storyline (bar the occasional descent into schmaltz) is excellent and the whole experience is very meaty. Japanese-style Xbox 360 RPGs are very rare, and they don't come better than this.
Don't call me you-know-whoNew to the forums? Sometimes it seems like everyone else is. So here's a little video explaining how to use them. Scarily, there really are people out there who don't know all this stuff already.tinyurl.com/2jusbdTeleportation dilemmasBeing teleported means that you get created somewhere else - so the original you must get destroyed, right? But what if the original you doesn't want to be destroyed? Star Trek never asked this ...tinyurl.com/3xswkwWe're robots, singing to youFlight of the Conchords offer you their paean to humanity's demise in 2000. No, us neither. (Thanks, KarlWnz.)tinyurl.com/29enexSend links totech@guardian.co.uk
Portability hasn't done the quality of music playback many favours. MP3s don't have the same quality of sound (for all the fancy headphones) as a really good pair of speakers. The trend led by Apple to players that you can literally lose in the bottom of a pocket hasn't helped, since people want speakers of equal portability with which to inflict their musical tastes on the world.I tried two entrants in this already quite crowded field: the &pound;50 Nimzy Vibro Max (above) and the &pound;14 Exspect speaker for the iPod shuffle. The Nimzy is interesting because it aims to use the "soundboard" principle. Just as with a musical box, which you can barely hear if you hold it in the air but suddenly fills a room when you stand it on a resonant surface, the Nimzy Vibrio Max sounds like nothing if you hold it in your hand, but will definitely get your attention if you put it on, say, a table.To do this trick though it needs a weighty transducer, which makes it one of the heaviest tiny portable speakers I've ever seen. Put it on the end of a rope and you'd have a lethal weapon. But stick it on a suitably resonant surface and you have a tiny machine which makes a pretty big noise. The bass doesn't, of course, have the punch that you'll get from a proper ghetto blaster, but this is a surprisingly large sound from such a little package. The treble response is hissy more than precise, but again, what were you hoping for? The true downside though is that it needs a power supply, which rather defeats the point of portability.Which brings us to the Exspect. This has squeezed itself into the teeniest of niches, making a super-portable that will only work with Apple's new iPod shuffle - the quarter-biscuit-sized one, not the chewing-gum stick of yesteryear. Stick the shuffle on it and out comes the music.Barely bigger than the shuffle itself, it's never going to generate any pounding bass (for which unwilling listeners may be grateful); so this is never going to be the way to get the party started. It might satisfy as a means of listening to the music, but you have to wonder quite whether it's worth the trouble. If you have more than two people who want to listen to your iPod's tunes, perhaps.The advantage that the Exspect has is that it can be battery-powered, which at least grants it the portability the Nimzo lacks. It also has a USB port to recharge your iPod.Pros:small, cheap (Exspect), good bass (Nimzy)Cons:needs mains (Nimzy), no bass (Exspect)Available from online stores
PDF editorI don't want to create PDF files, but I would like to edit ones I have downloaded. These often have unnecessary images, over-large fonts etc. I would like to be able to reduce them to their essentials and make them economically printable. What would you suggest?John GilderJS:I'd suggest not bothering: it takes far more time and effort than it's worth.  You can still save paper by printing only the useful pages from multi-page documents. Also, many PDFs still work well enough if they are printed half-size, so that two fit on each A4 page. (Pdf995 will do this.) Foxit, which provides a free program you can substitute for Adobe Reader, also sells a Foxit PDF Editor (tinyurl.com/yc8lgm) for $99 (&pound;50). A few hours with the evaluation version will give you a reasonable idea of the problems. There is also a free software project developing Pdftk, the PDF Toolkit (tinyurl.com/6wfdv).Eudora for Vista?Qualcomm has stopped developing Eudora and turned it over to the open source community. That's a nice idea, but I cannot find if there is a non-beta open source version available. I will be buying a new computer shortly, and I cannot find any reference to a Eudora version that is Vista compatible.Delia VenablesJS:The old versions of Eudora are still available fromeudora.com/download, and Eudora says 7.1 works fine on 32-bit and 64-bit Vista, except for the help file (tinyurl.com/yogchh). I think this is your best bet for the near future. The open source development called Penelope is creating a "Eudora user experience" on top of Thunderbird, which you may not like, and I'm not even sure it's a good idea. You can always download the latest version of Eudora 8 from Mozilla (wiki.mozilla.org/Eudora_Releases) but I suspect it will be in beta for some time. For most Windows users, Windows Live Mail desktop (tinyurl.com/2zvqqg) - an upgraded version of Vista's email program - is a reasonable solution, while Outlook 2007 generally does the job for business users. Most others will probably go with Thunderbird, so it may just be a question of when you should make the switch. Of course, there are still plenty of free alternative email programs for Windows. If you want to try a few, they include Mulberry (now open source), The Bat, Pegasus, Pine, Courier and PocoMail. The Opera browser also has an email client.Recording in VistaWith Windows XP, I was able to record programmes streamed online with Total Recorder. I have not found a way of doing this with my new Sony laptop running Vista. I did try installing Total Recorder, only to find the laptop froze.Hendrik WoolfJS:Hi-Q Recorder will record audio streams to MP3 files in Vista and other versions of Windows (tinyurl.com/3asbt6), and it is freeware. However, it only works at bit rates up top 96kbps. The company also sells Easy Hi-Q Recorder 2.2 for $29.95. This offers higher-quality MP3 files and can also record to WAV, WMA, and Ogg. Audio Tools Factory also offers a Vista MP3 Recorder for $19.95 (tinyurl.com/2hcuga) and no doubt there are more.BackchatPaul Sofer wanted to back up his bookmarks from Internet Explorer and Firefox. Richard Hancock says: "I simply include my Favorites folder as part of my normal weekly backup of essential data to CD-RW." There's a separate link file on your hard drive for each IE bookmark. You can find them by running Windows Explorer, selecting C:, pressing F3 and searching for Favorites; you will usually want the folder that has a star icon. This does not, of course, back up Firefox bookmarks.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Slum interactiveSave The Children's website now allows the charity's supporters to visit Kroo Bay, a slum built on a rubbish dump on the banks of the Crocodile River in Freetown, Sierra Leone.savethechildren.org.ukRobot warsiRobot has won a US government contract to develop small networked robots called LANdroids for military purposes.tinyurl.com/ywnn62Google SitesGoogle has launched a wiki-syle information sharing site, Google Sites.sites.google.comGoggle eyesVuzix is now selling its iWear video goggles in the UK.vuzix.co.ukGender swappersA study of Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games by UK researchers has found that 70% of females have played as males, while 54% of males have played as females.tinyurl.com/2u82uvRocking futureRockstar 2.0 is "a framework for the next generation of independent digital music".rockstar2.co.ukWink controlA Kome Kami Switch small enough to be attached to a pair of glasses will allow iPods and other devices to be controlled by winking, reports AFP.tinyurl.com/2nfudkEncyclopaedia of LifeWhat will be the world's most comprehensive online catalogue of 1.8m known species is now alpha-testing sample pages.eol.org
Conservative leader David Cameron has turned to free data to boost his party's campaign in the local government elections in England this May.In a speech last Friday (tinyurl.com/2l9jlv), he promised that a future Conservative government would require councils to make basic information about their performance and spending available electronically in standard format for re-use in external websites.The idea is to give citizens' groups access to information to hold councillors to account, in the same way that MPs now come under the scrutiny of websites such as TheyWorkForYou and PublicWhip.Speaking to the Conservative Councillors' Association last week, Cameron compared UK local authorities' attitudes to data with that of their counterparts in the US. "In cities all over America, police forces regularly publish information about crimes in their area. Anyone can take this information and overlay it on an online map. This gives the public unprecedented information about crimes in their local area."By contrast, the British government is "still bureaucratic, still top-down and still old-world. It still thinks it knows best and that it should keep all the information." A Conservative government, he said, would require local authorities to publish information about the services they provide, council meetings and how councillors vote - "online and in a standardised format".He did not, however, give details of exactly what information should be made available, or how councils would be required to do it. "It will take time to implement all the standardisation and bring everything online."Local government IT experts reacted with cautious enthusiasm. Martin Greenwood, of the Society of IT Management, which publishes the annual Better Connected review of local government websites, said that some councils are already moving in this direction: "in principle it's a good idea." However, he warned against central government being too prescriptive.Local authorities vary widely in the amount of data they make available, and many charge for access. By launching the plan as one of his party's two big ideas for the local government elections on May 1, Cameron has stolen a march on the government's own programme. The idea of making council management data freely available was implicit in the Power of Information review published by the Cabinet Office last summer.But while the government accepted most of the report's proposals for a web 2.0-type revolution in government, it has so far adopted only one - the rapid launch of Ordnance Survey's free mapping product OpenSpace. Any further dithering by Whitehall could give the Conservatives more opportunities to grab the clear moral high ground offered by the free data campaign.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Based on the TV series, Lost: Via Domus captures the spirit of the show but fails to create a decent game. Playing as a new character on the island, your story intertwines with events from seasons one and two of the show. Ostensibly an old-fashioned adventure game, Lost gets you speaking to characters, solving puzzles and exploring the island. In theory, this should be great. But clunky and anachronistic gameplay - instant death and invisible barriers rear their aged heads - quell enthusiasm. The flashbacks work well, though, not least because they advance the story - the strongest aspect of the game. But the production values are mixed. The music and voices are decent - "Previously on Lost" - but the graphics are patchy. The jungle is convincing but some of the other locales can look flat. Diehards will probably still persevere, with opportunities to visit many of the locations from the show. But Lost: Via Domus is one for patient fans only.
Transports of delightYour item last week (The next stop should be Helsinki, February 28) comparing the real-time passenger information in Helsinki and London completely missed the point that such information is already available in Bradford and other cities which are Not London. Another thing missed by metropolitan journalists was the introduction in 2000 of a smart card by FirstBus Bradford three years before the London Oyster card appeared on the scene.John Illingworth,BradfordThe article seems to imply that real time information about buses via mobile phones is something new. I don't know about London, but here in Derbyshire for some years now we have had a system where each bus stop has a code allocated and you can find out when the next bus will arrive by text.Ian Mitchell,DerbyshireDid Sean Dodson really have to look to Helsinki for an example of RTPI? He may like to hear that a fully functioning RTPI system is in operation in Edinburgh. You can check bus availability at any bus stop in Edinburgh online atmybustracker.co.ukor over some mobile phones. You don't have to be Scandinavian to have a high-tech public transport system in the frozen north.Marc Bennion,EdinburghHave you ever come down to Brighton? We've had radio/GPS-based buses with digital displays on bus stops for years.Ian Brierley,BrightonPlease, no! There was an introduction of constant announcements on my bus from London Bridge to Stoke Newington last autumn. And surely the eradication of the need to ask the driver to "give us a shout" as we approach our stop is yet another step towards a society whose inhabitants need never communicate?Daniel Mudford,London&#183;The prospect of an intelligent, talking London bus is faintly terrifying.kingscrossenvironment.comSize isn't everythingI think I have a solution to Peter Douglas's problem (Tiny irritation, Letters, February 28). I have a device called a "pencil" which can be used to write on "paper". Formats can be compressed and a large amount of information can be stored in a compact and portable space. Backups are possible, though additional hardware in the form of a "photocopier" is necessary if speed is a criterion.Henry Malt,HuntingdonHere's the 221-character url I was given for BT's residential international call charges: http://www.productsandservices.bt.com/consumerProducts/displayTopic.do?topicId=15718&amp;s_cid=con_FURL_personal/pricing/international&amp;com.bea.event.type=linkclick&amp;oLName=link.search- results&amp;oLDesc=personalpricinginter-national. A tinyurl might be preferable.John Loader,ElyIt'stinyurl.com/ynmxm3- Tech.EdData isn't freeYou misquote the terms of reference of an economic study into trading funds (What has happened to the trading funds report, February 28). Trading funds are not required to make data collected in the course of their public task available at marginal cost. The terms of reference, which you show on your own Free Our Data blog, recognise that.Scott Sinclair,Ordnance SurveyDead annoyingIdentifying deceased and gone-away individuals is of vital importance to any organisation, large or small. As Michael Cross correctly highlights (Free Our Data, February 21), an organisation's reputation can be blown apart if they try to communicate offers to a deceased individual. Data specialists can provide cost-effective methods of removing deceased individuals from mailing lists. Additionally, they can identify people who have moved.Karen Webster,Mortascreen, Shipley&#183;Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyWrite to:Letters Technology Guardian119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone:  020 7239 9925Fax: 020 7239 9933Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
I've just bought a new digital SLR camera, my old one having failed, and been reminded just how fast these things change. I went for a Nikon D40 for &pound;250 (after cashback), which is less than half what I paid for my first digital camera, an Olympus Camedia compact. One thing hasn't changed: buyers still have to negotiate the pixel inflation problem. In my case, this meant choosing a D40 that records six megapixels (6MP) rather than the newer D40x, which offers 10MP.Both have the same size light-capturing sensor, much the same body and the same lenses, so the D40x is unlikely to produce noticeably better pictures, despite having 66% more pixels.You should see a difference if you print pictures bigger than 11 x 8 inches, but you won't see it on screen or in the Technology section. Maybe you would see it if you crop images, but I grew up with the Henri Cartier-Bresson Adoration Society, and always use the whole frame. Anyway, it felt like a bargain to get what was a &pound;450 camera for &pound;250.It's amusing, in hindsight, that the camera review site DP Review welcomed the D40 by saying: "The biggest news however is probably [the] fact that Nikon resisted the temptation to keep chasing megapixels (hooray for that) and instead appear to have concentrated on what makes a good camera." (tinyurl.com/yhte7g). Nikon's resistance was so strong that the D40x was launched only four months later ...Pixels are, of course, important. As someone with three Canon 35mm SLRs and more lenses than would be polite to mention, I certainly wasn't willing to pay any price for early models that captured 640 x 480 pixels or 0.3MP: the same resolution as a VGA screen. Any pixels you don't capture at the scene are lost forever.For comparison, my 1.3MP Olympus compact offered the resolution of an SXGA (Super Extended Graphics Array) screen, which is 1,280 pixels across by 1,024 pixels down.This is enough for snapshots, websites and most newspaper uses. A 6MP camera gets you up to about 3,000 by 2,000 pixels, enough for a 15 x 10 inch print, if the image is printed at 200ppi (pixels per inch).Beyond 6MP, it's the law of diminishing returns: you get more pixels, but if the pixels are smaller, you also get more noise (tinyurl.com/k2ma4). This can make the image worse rather than better. To benefit, you need a camera body/lens that delivers more resolution (to exploit the smaller pixels) or does a better job of noise reduction - preferably both.This should not be a surprise. Nobody expected a Box Brownie to produce the same image quality as a Hasselblad simply because they used the same film. In fact, a camera's megapixel rating can be misleading because it stops people from thinking about sensor size.In the days of film cameras, many or most people knew that a bigger negative generally produced a better quality image. The sensor in a digital camera is the equivalent of the film, and having a bigger sensor also makes a difference.Nikon's "prosumer" models such as the D40/50/60 have sensors that are roughly half the size of a 35mm negative, whereas the 12MP professional D3 has a full-frame (36mm x 24mm) sensor, albeit for &pound;3,300. If you want more, you can get a 39MP Hasselblad H3D-II with a sensor twice the size (48mm x 36mm), for something over &pound;20,000, and that's without the lens.Buy a compact camera, however, and the sensor could be anything from 2/3 (8.8mm x 6.6mm) to 1/2.5 (5.8mm x 4.3mm). I'm sure somebody can get 6MP out of a 25 sq mm sensor, but can it match 6MP from a Nikon D40's 370 sq mm sensor? No way.
Seven years ago I was ready to tell the gaming industry to go stuff itself. It was after yet another year of content and marketing that were ever-more violent and sexualised and utterly lacking in self-awareness. And then a feminine hygiene ad changed my mind. It wasn't an ordinary tampon commercial, with women leaping around in white trousers; no, this TV ad started with the word "Play" and ended with "Game Over". In between there were 30 seconds of incongruous computer game-influenced CGI. Oh my, I thought. These games - they're going to be big.And so I set about waiting for the medium to come to a place where adults outside the industry would look upon games as creatively inspiring, culturally challenging and an asset in the quiver of innovation. That has finally arrived.Since 2001, games have undergone a transformation. There's a flurry of excitement about them from the outside: the internet and traditional media industries, boosted by the maturation of the web, are watching these enfants terribles closely for best-practice clues.Next week, the annual South By Southwest festival kicks off in Austin, Texas, and while this event started out as a music showcase, the internet crew stepped in last year and created a hugely influential interactive sister event.The sessions last year focused primarily on virtual worlds, but this year's programme is aimed at internet professionals who want to learn how to integrate gaming with their products and how to get into the games industry themselves. At the same time, the rise and rise of independent gaming platforms harks back to the business models that the film and television industries experienced in their adolescences.At last week's Game Developers Conference in San Francisco, the three platform holders all admitted that they needed the independent games sector. Their consoles couldn't be complete without indie distribution channels providing places for home-brew developers. Meanwhile, PlayStation gamers are panting for Little Big Planet - the MySpace for game developer wanabees due out later this year.Further down the line, many of the highlights on the arts and media events calendar for 2008 are celebrating games, looking at how to integrate social media and gaming, celebrating their mechanics, stories and art and coming to grips with play.The games industry has come a long way since that tampon ad, when the most exciting thing on the market was the four-player Multitap. Sure, there may still be industry bashes in strip clubs. But at least now there are other places to go to get a gaming fix.
Nato is  treating the threat of cyber warfare as seriously as the risk of a missile strike, according to a senior official.A London conference was told that online espionage and internet-based terrorism now represent some of the gravest threats to global security.Suleyman Anil, who is in charge of protecting Nato against computer attacks, said: "Cyber defence is now mentioned at the highest level along with missile defence and energy security."We have seen more of these attacks and we don't think this problem will disappear soon. Unless globally supported measures are taken, it can become a global problem."Anil, who is head of Nato's computer incident response centre, told the E-Crime congress in London that the cost of hi-tech strikes on government communications was falling, while the amount of damage they could inflict grew.Among the chief threats is cyber terrorism, in which attempts are made to shut down online communication networks or use the internet to attack official institutions. Although some have warned of the possible threat since the 1980s, it is only in recent years that the issue has made it onto the radar of governments around the world.But Anil also warned of rogue nations who could sponsor internet-based attacks on Nato members. "There are nations who are not just working on defence capabilities, but who have attack capabilities - and that brings a new dimension to the whole issue," he said.The annual E-Crime congress is one the largest gatherings of those who work to combat cyber crime. Delegates included banking experts, police and IT industry luminaries, all keen to discover new ways to fight online crime.The prospect of internet-based warfare has come to the fore after a series of high-profile international attacks. Last year, it emerged that a gang of hackers, believed to be from China, had infiltrated computer systems at the Pentagon and launched attacks on government networks in Britain, Germany, India and Australia. US officials, who have labelled the group Titan Rain, have accused them of operating under the auspices of officials in Beijing.Another strike in Estonia, which has one of the most hi-tech governments in the world, was initially blamed on hackers backed by the Russian authorities. However only one teenager, an Estonian, has been arrested in connection with the incident so far.To coincide with the congress, shadow home secretary David Davis will today announce Conservative proposals on online crime - including the creation of a new post of cyber security minister. The Tory plans also outline the reinstitution of a national hi-tech crimes police squad, and forming a dedicated unit inside the Crown Prosecution Service for dealing with computer crime cases."Cybercrime is a growing and serious threat to individuals, business and government. It is a problem that will continue to escalate as technology changes," said Davis.Kevin Poulsen, a former hacker who is now an editor with technology magazine Wired, has accused politicians and the media of overplaying the fear factor."In some ways, Estonia's attacks were less sophisticated than previous 'cyberwars' - like those between Israeli and Palestinian hackers, India and Pakistan, China and the US," he said. "Even those attacks fell short of a cyber war, at least as experts have defined the term. I'm sceptical that real cyber war, or cyber terrorism, will ever take place."Despite the lack of hard evidence on the nature or identities of cyber terrorists, however, the threat is deemed serious enough for the White House to allocate $6bn (&pound;3bn) for strengthening its systems against attack.Those plans have been characterised by critics as a potential invasion of civil liberties. Bush administration officials say they are a necessary defensive measure. Homeland security secretary Michael Chertoff has called it "one area where we have significant work to do".
You will have already heard the sad news, but Gamesblog couldn't let it pass without a brief mention. Gary Gygax, who along with Dave Arneson, created the Dungeons &amp; Dragons phenomenon, died yesterday at his home in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin.Launched in 1974, the original dice and paper fantasy adventure had a profound influence on videogames. Most obviously, the fathers of the Japanese RPG genre took the foundations laid down by Gygax - elements such as character customisation, inventories, turn-based combat and powering-up - and used them to craft series' like Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest and Legend of Zelda. In the States, software companyStrategic Simulations Inc, bought out a range of D&amp;D-inspired proto-RPG adventures during the early to mid-eighties, before purchasing the rights to AD&amp;D in 1987 and developing a huge range of official tie-ins.As for the MMORPG genre, which, with its elements of co-operation and human interaction, gets closest to the spirit of role playing as Gygax envisioned it, the influence of D&amp;D is just as profound, from Ultima Online, all the way through to Everquest and of course,Dungeons and Dragons Online. There's a useful history of D&amp;D inspired games and lots of other D&amp;D stuffhere.Despite his undeniable influence, Gygax was ambivalent toward computer RPGs.Quoted in the New York Times, he said:There is no intimacy; it's not live. It's being translated through a computer, and your imagination is not there the same way it is when you're actually together with a group of people. It reminds me of one time where I saw some children talking about whether they liked radio or television, and I asked one little boy why he preferred radio, and he said, 'Because the pictures are so much better.'
Although the iPhone is said to deliver a desktop-like Web experience, it doesn't support eiher Flash or Java, which limits users' access to things like games and YouTube videos. Some thought Apple could announce Flash support tomorrow, but Steve Jobs's comments at yesterday's Apple shareholders meeting suggested not. He reckons it's too slow.A Dow Jones report,Adobe's Flash Player Not Suited For IPhone, Apple CEO Says, covers the current state of play.This is likely to upset Adobe, because its strategy is for Flash to be ubiquitous, but it probably doesn't matter much to Jobs. The number of lost sales because the iPhone lacks Flash is probably pretty small, because iPhone sales are themselves pretty small. If it does become a significant barrier, then Apple can easily add it. In the meantime, not supporting Flash (and Java) allows Apple more control over applications on the iPhone.
Steve Jobs is back on the cover of Fortune magazine becauseApplehas displaced General Electric as theMost Admiredcompany in America. But the magazine has addedThe trouble with Steve Jobs, which rakes over a few embers from the Pixar and Apple stock options scandals, and Jobs's "delay" in revealing that he had cancer. (It's not clear that he needed to.)Still, there's a quick skim of some elements of Jobs's personal background, career and trademark histrionics, which may not be all that widely known to Apple's new legion of fans.
YouTube is now the most popular social networking website in the UK, overtaking the user-edited encyclopedia Wikipedia with 10.4 million unique users during January.The Google-owned video-sharing site saw a 56% increase in traffic from January the previous year, cementing the popularity of online video among web users, according to newly released Nielsen Online figures.Nielsen Online estimates that nearly two-thirds of UK web users - or 20.8 million people - visited at least one of the top 10 social networking sites.Wikipedia had 9.6 million unique users during January, while Facebook recorded 8.5 million.Blogger, the DIY blogging service also owned by Google, had 5.1 million users, ahead of social networking sites MySpace, at 5.02 million and Bebo at 4.09 million users.Facebook saw by far the biggest year-on-year growth, of 712% since January 2007; and Slide, the photo display application, saw its user base increase by 207% to 3.3 million over the same period.A closer look at the fastest-growing services showed video tools accounting for five of the top 10 names, with brands including Veoh, Video Jug and Tudou all showing triple-figure growth."The fact that almost two-thirds of Britons online visited at least one of the top social media sites shows it isn't a niche part of the internet but is now the backbone supporting its growth," said Alex Burmaster, Nielsen Online's web analyst."Whilst the majority of the most popular social media sites are the networks, most of the fastest growing are video sites, which points to video being the biggest star of the 2008 social media scene."Perfspot, the Arizona-based social network, topped the list of rising UK social media stars with growth narrowly ahead - year on year from January last year - of Facebook at 713%, although the site still had just 260,000 UK users as of January.Nielsen Online measures data by using a panel of web users on connections at home and work locations, but does not include education or public web access, such as web cafes.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Already up on the site isPhorm fires ISP privacy row(previously atPhorm fires ISP privacy row), which provides an introduction to the topic wefirst aired last Fridaybut also speaks to people at BT and Phorm - including an ex-Phormer, who must remain nameless.Among the interesting points made by the latter was that Phorm has spoken at great length to the Home Office to make sure that its scheme doesn't break RIPA (the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act), and that it takes the privacy issue very seriously.Also there is some of Phorm's past incarnation as 121Media, which distributed an adware - thoughF-Secure called it spyware- application called PeopleOnPage. (121Media became Phorm last May.)One last intriguing point: the ex-Phormer notes that "The [Phorm] platform clearly has some edge-of-network technologies involved. It would be entirely feasible for an ISP to allow customers to opt out - and subsequently throttle their service."Now that really would be scary. Over to you. Who else here has worked for Phorm? Or been pitched by them?Update:you'll note comments from a shareholder and from the "Tech team" at Phorm (thanks to both for pitching in).The company now has a (rapidly-assembled, we suspect)blogwhose first and so far only post is from the chief executive Kent Ertugrul. Here's hiscompany CV; here'swhat Google knows about him. Tell us what you find different, and what you think of his blog post.
Auction giant eBay is rolling out a new system to prevent charity event tickets from being used for unfair profiteering.The company says it will begin a scheme allowing any charity organisation in Britain to recoup a slice of profit from resold tickets – handing a percentage of the money back to the charity concerned, rather than seeing it fill the pockets of touts.The idea is to prevent those who get hold of tickets to charity events from selling them for vastly inflated prices on the web without giving back to charity. That practice, widely criticised by event organisers, has become commonplace as increasing numbers seek to profit from selling access to exclusive, star-studded charity events.In the past eBay has come in for criticism for allowing such deals to take place, most notably in the run-up to events such as 2005's Live 8 concert, where free tickets to the London gig featuring Madonna and Pink Floyd were trading hands onlinefor as much as £500 each. Those sales were eventually banned after Sir Bob Geldof labelled them "sick profiteering".The new scheme lets people resell similar tickets, but forces them to return at least 20% of the auction price back to the original organisation - and deletes listings by sellers who do not donate. In recent weeks the company has started manually removing all such listings from its website, but has promised that its system will begin automatically deleting offending adverts "within a few weeks".The new scheme will also mean any event where more than 50% of profits go to charity can be registered in order to ensure that cash from ticket reselling goes to the appropriate parties."We will also introduce a ban on the sale of tickets for events where all the tickets are free," said Mark Lewis, the managing director for eBay in the UK.The system was trialled last year for the Live Earth concerts, promoted by Al Gore and aimed at increasing environmental awareness. Figures from eBay suggest around £30,000 in extra revenue was raised through official ticket re-selling. More recently the system has been used for an event put together by the Teenage Cancer Trust.Charities will have to notify eBay in advance in order to make use of the system, but not every group is likely to be convinced by the idea, however. At the time of the Live 8 debacle, concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith accused the site of "black marketeering".The effort is eBay's latest attempt to try and improve its public standing, after recent unrest from some users overits feedback policies.In January the company's chief executive Meg Whitman announced that she was standing down after 10 years in the job, following a period of stagnation at California-based web giant and gloomy predictions from market analysts.But despite potential backlash from the powerful community of touts, the company said it did not fear any reprisals over its plans."We defend the right for people to sell what is theirs, but we accept that there is strong feeling out there in relation to charity concerts," said eBay spokeswoman Vanessa Canzini."I don't think we're going to have any reaction from our community. If we lose a few users who don't agree with it, we're quite relaxed… at the end of the day, it's the right thing to do."
Rumours of a price cut for the Xbox 360 appear to be founded, withreports suggestinga 50 euro reduction. This would take the basic - no hard drive - arcade 360 down to around 150 pounds, 30 cheaper than the Wii. Microsoft is not commenting butreports suggestthe price drop could happen as soon as next week. Of course, with the Wii mopping up the casual wider market and PS3 attracting the movie buffs this 360 price cut - if it happens - makes perfect sense. But will it be enough help the 360 reach a new audience?
Forget the lag, anyone who plays Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 online will know the real problem is how inadequate the taunt buttons are. Available after goals and at the end of each half, players get a choice to send their opponent bland comments like "well played", "let's go" etc. Wouldn't it be great if you could edit your own and use them instead? So instead of "good shot" you could have "you jammy bastard". Other potentials include "wow Barcelona, I haven't played against them before" or "please, show me that replay of your goal for the 12th time". Or maybe "disconnect now and I'll send the RROD police over". Keep 'em clean, but what would you have?
The internet is aflutter with rumours about a new alternate reality game that's said to be funded by McDonalds and - incongruously - the Olympic Games.The Lost Ringbegan last week, when certain gamers received a package in the post with a web address hidden in a ball of string.FromWired:The ARG is developing around five characters who wake up with amnesia in South Africa, England, Korea, Japan and Argentina. Each finds a tattoo on his or her arm reading, in the global Esperanto language, "find the lost ring."Best thing the players have found to date, though, is theTerms of Usewhich links McDonalds with the game. And buried in the legalese is this marvellous definition of their aims:"You agree to immerse yourself in solving a global mystery and help us in our mission to bring the world together through play."All together now: "I'd like to teach the world to sing..."
Millions of internet users are using computer games to perform virtual sex changes, according to new research.A study of online gamers by psychologists at Nottingham Trent University found that a majority of them had switched gender while playing. The research, in which 125 players of complex computer games were questioned, found that women were more likely to switch their gender than men.Up to 70% of female players said they chose to use male identities while inside internet games, where they are able to design their own characters with any race, gender or appearance. Zaheer Hussain, who co-authored the study, said that subjects gave many different reasons for masquerading as a member of the opposite sex."It seems that women gender swap for a variety of reasons, such as to avoid unsolicited male approaches on their female characters, or because they felt male characters were treated better by other males during the course of the game."Although fewer men admitted to swapping gender than their female counterparts, the research found that switching was still practised by a majority of male players. Fifty four percent of men said that they had portrayed a female character online; a move they said allowed them to flirt with other players and explore a different side of their personality.The study also offered more sobering statistics on the reasons why some people play games online, with 40% of respondents saying that playing games helped them to escape from troubling issues at home or at work. It also found that one in five players said they found it easier to socialise online than in real life.Although they have been in existence since the early 1980s, online games have only turned into a major phenomenon with the spread of broadband internet access. As a result, virtual 3D environments have proved massively successful, with leading title World of Warcraft claiming more than 10 million paying subscribers around the globe."In these environments you can manipulate gender, ethnicity and even species," said co-author Professor Mark Griffiths, of the university's International Gambling Research Unit. "People do find it interesting to manipulate characteristics like gender to see what reaction they get.""In our offline lives, there are set boundaries and limits – but these synthetic worlds allow people to explore aspects of their personalities that they couldn't otherwise do."The paper, entitled Gender Swapping and Socialising in Cyberspace, is published in the latest edition of American journal Cyberpsychology and Behaviour.
This story aboutonline gender-swapping- which suggests that the majority of people do it in MMORPGs because they get to experiment with multiple personalities - might seem like it comes from The University of the Bleedin Obvious, but sometimes you need some hard figures to confirm or deny the assumptions that everybody already has.One interesting tidbit from my conversation with co-authorMark Griffiths- a professor at Nottingham Trent and the biggest expert on internet gambling sincebubble-era Henry Blodget- was how closely the results tallied with the gender swapping in online.The prof said that the study's answers correlate closely to online gambling situations, where men often pretend to be women when they're trying to hustle cash out of unsuspecting noobs (the assumption of these oafs being that women are inferior gamblers).Nice.Quick note to the scumbags: spending all day with your alter ego Christine hustling fools at CrapWebPoker.com does not mean you are Tom Cruise inThe Colour of Money.
Imperial College London is to be the home of a new £10m centre to develop robot-assisted medical techniques, it has been announced.Engineers and medical experts are using a donation from the Helen Hamlyn Trust to set up a new Centre for Robotic Surgery, which the college claims will make Britain one of the world's leading practitioners of hi-tech surgery.The centre will be overseen by two leading doctors from Imperial: health minister Lord Darzi, the college's chair of surgery and a pioneer of robot-assisted procedures, and Guang-Zhong Yang, Imperial's director of medical imaging."Medical robotics and computer-assisted surgery are used in a growing number of operating rooms around the world," said Lord Darzi."This funding will allow the team to leverage our existing research programmes in pursuing adventurous, fundamentally new technologies that will allow more widespread use of robotics in medicine and patient care."The investment builds on the college's existing reputation for robot-assisted medicine: Lord Darzi is already part of the team awarded more than £2m by the Wellcome Trust to develop the so-calledi-Snake surgical assistant.The £10m funding comes in donations from philanthropic organisation created by the wife of the late publishing magnate Paul Hamlyn, and was welcomed by Sir Richard Sykes, the college's rector."This will allow us to attract international talents and develop UK technologies that will transform the future development of medical devices," he said.
I'm not sure if this has been done before, but it's interesting nonetheless. Australian TV channel ABC2 is running a new show entitledGood Game, in which viewers are invited to submit their ideas for an online game which is then built throughout the series - there's an entry formhereand you can also download episodes of the programme. From the press release:As well as giving the audience a chance to develop a 'crowd sourced' game of their choice, the most innovative contributors will be rewarded with prizes, including two mentorships with an Australian games development company on offer. A selection of the best ideas will be judged by the online audience as well as a panel of industry judges... By the end of the Good Game series the audience will be able to play their own game online.Gamesblog readers do, of course, have their own experience of group game development, thanks to Aleks' Wikigame project; then there's Dave Perry'sTop Secret MMO, which uses input from the online community. But how will it work on the mass televisual scale? And is this sort of large scale communal development concept going to become more common in the future?Perhaps not. I can't imagine whole families gathered round their TVs on Saturday night shouting, "No, that subroutine was awful - change the parameters!"Also, the presenters of Good Game are called Bajo and Junglist - wasn't that a Megadrive platformer?
It's not often that computers are sold on their "spiritual warmth" and "refreshing fragrance" but the star of the world's biggest IT fair was something different. Instead of shiny plastic it was encased in laminated bamboo strips. The result, said its Taiwanese makers, Asus, was "both aesthetically pleasing and good for the environment".The Eco Book was the answer, they said, to the growing concern about the use of plastics."Bamboo is the most sustainable raw material there is," said Jellent Sun, a senior director."It grows very fast and therefore we decided to combine bamboo with metal, and leave out the plastic." The resulting laptop  is due to go into production in June.The computer fair, CeBIT, which opened in Hanover yesterday, took on the green theme for the first time in its 36-year history. It was met with a mixture of praise and scepticism.One company presented a notebook that claims it can "bring you to a healthier life", by "detoxifying, sterilising and exterminating the silent assassin viruses" in your working environment, thanks to its built-in ioniser."Admittedly the Anion computer is not going to save the planet," said Craig Martus of MSI, "but it will sweeten the air you breathe so that rather than being stuck in an office, you'll feel like you're in the mountains."Until now it has been aeroplanes and cars which have taken the brunt of the criticism when it comes to environmental pollution. But now the IT industry is  admitting that it has to cut users' energy costs - rising electricity bills are as much of an incentive as the environment - as well as improve its recycling capabilities."Green IT is hype," admitted Thomas Tauer of IBM Germany, "but it is an issue that will keep us busy for a long time".The industry has coined such phrases as "ecolutions" - short for the rather long-winded eco-friendly and environmental evolution and solutions - "coolerand cleaner," and "hi-tech, low carbon" in its attempt to plug the message that emissions can be reduced without computer users having to sacrifice functionality or style."Worldwide internet usage alone needs the equivalent of 14 power stations to run the required computers and servers, which means it's producing the same amount of carbon emissions as the entire airline industry," said Omur Canaltay, a marketing manager with Fujitsu Siemens.He was presenting the world's first O-Watt monitor, which uses no electricity when in standby mode and is due to go on sale in the spring.Use of similar products, he said, could reduce a family's electricity bill by 40%. Calculated on the grander scale of a multi-national company, the savings could run into millions.The environmental pressure group Greenpeace was on hand to provide a healthy degree of scepticism about the industry's claims."We're here to cut through the corporate greenspeak and find out how much is real, and how much is just PR," said Omer Einaiem, Greenpeace International media relations specialist.The organisation is using its presence at CeBIT to stress its appeal to the industry to eliminate toxic chemicals, boost energy efficiency and improve computers' life cycles so that old machines do not so readily land in unregulated and hazardous "recycling yards" in developing countries.Today it will use the fair to present a list of the most environmentally friendly IT products on the market.
The company that we now call Atari is hoping to make a comeback under the control of David Gardner, formerly of EA, and Phil Harrison, former boss of Sony worldwide studios."Atari" is really Infogrames, the French games company co-founded by Bruno Bonnell in 1983. Atari was just one of the brand names he picked up during a long career, but one that he brought to renewed prominence. Bonnell finally left Infogrames last April (2007), whenthe company announcedthat: "Bruno Bonnell leaves his positions as Chairman, CEO and Director of Infogrames Entertainment and he also leaves all his positions within Atari, Inc. and the Infogrames group of companies."The new CEO is former EA veteran David Gardner, who joined in January, and was interviewed recently by GamesIndustry.biz inAtari Reborn. Phil Harrison joined onMonday, as president of Infogrames.Some might regard this as a "second coming" for Atari, but I think it's the sixth. (1) Atari was started by Nolan Bushnell in 1972 and dominated the early games business. But (2) Bushnell sold it to Warner Communications, which (3) sold it to Jack Tramiel of Commodore fame in 1984. (4) Hasbro bought what was left of it in 1988, and (5) sold it to Infogrames in 2001.Update(Friday): GamesIndustry.biz hasA History of Atarithat covers the main points.
There are those who believe that the pattern etched by humanity across the great book of world history is one of linear progression. Of improvement. Of advance. Of some nebulous but discernible form of betterment. Those are the people who have not yet heard the news that Brick Lane in east London has started padding its lampposts to prevent those who use its thoroughfare from suffering "walk and text" injuries.In case anyone reading this is one of the 68,000 individuals who apparently interfaced thus with street furniture in London last year (mostly resulting in cuts and bruises, but with a fair proportion of broken noses, cheekbones and one fractured skull in the mix too) and therefore is self-evidently stupid enough to need the problem further delineated, these are injuries caused by people who do not understand the importance of peripheral vision. Until, that is, they compromise it by texting as they walk along the street and into lampposts, signs, bollards and other pedestrians.Researchers (admittedly the self-interested variety) from a text information company have found that 44% of people are in favour of padding street furniture, while 27% favour "mobile motorways" - coloured lines running down the pavement that texters can follow without fear of meeting immoveable objects. But why stop there? Why not take the following, equally simple protective measures:&#183;A sherpa on every corner, to usher the texter safely through the crowded streets.&#183;Replace cars with tyreless chambers running along fixed rails to enable "drivers" to text more safely.&#183;A stairlift in every home to negate the possibility of tripping up or downstairs while urgently texting your friend or family member about your plans for 2nite.Funding for all these measures could easily be incorporated in the abolition of personal responsibility (last vestiges) bill, at its third reading tomorrow in the House of Commons. Unless of course it is vetoed on the grounds that if we don't let these Darwinian thinnings of the herd play out occasionally, we are all going to drown in a pool of stupidity.We shl C.
Apple shareholders defied the company's board yesterday by approving a proposal demanding a British-style "say on pay" through a regular vote on executive remuneration at the iPod maker's annual meetings.A motion tabled by the AFL-CIO federation of trade unions won a majority at the annual meeting of shareholders at Cupertino in California, despite opposition from Apple's founder Steve Jobs and boardroom colleagues including Al Gore.The result is an indication of gathering resentment at a lack of pay discipline at the top of US companies. Similar proposals are on the table at imminent annual meetings of General Electric, Wal-Mart and Citigroup.Although the resolution is not binding, it calls on Apple to put its pay policies to an annual vote - a procedure introduced in Britain five years ago.Apple's founder takes a token salary of $1. But the company has been embroiled in a scandal over the improper pricing of share options which prompted a criminal investigation and a public apology from Jobs in 2006."I hope this say on pay will help me with my $1 a year," he joked after yesterday's vote.Unease about executive pay has been stoked by deals such as a $210m payoff for Robert Nardelli, who was ditched for a sluggish performance by the retailer Home Depot.Pfizer's outgoing boss Hank McKinnell received $200m in 2006 and Merrill Lynch's Stan O'Neal, who left after huge losses on mortgage related securities, was allowed to keep $160m in stock and options.Apple poured cold water on rumours that America's economic downturn was damaging sales of its music players, phones and computers. Jobs said he was confident of hitting a 2008 sales target of 10m iPhones. Apple's shares rose $2.89 to $124.62 on the technology-dominated Nasdaq exchange.
Thenewsthat Google veteran Sheryl Sandberg is joining Facebook as its chief operating officer is intriguing for a number of reasons.First and foremost it's yetmore evidencethat there's a brain drain across Silicon Valley as a path is worn in the carpet between Mountain View and Palo Alto. Few companies have the power to pull minted execs away from the clutches of the Google troika: Facebook is one.Secondly, Sandberg is politically connected. Acting as one of the main protagonists at Google's Washington outpost, she's a former Treasury bigwig and reported to be a formidable political operator. Is Facebook after her business smarts, her knowledge of Google's advertising moxy, or looking for some help when it comes to convincing the lawmakers to make Facebook's life easier?On a far more mundane level, perhaps it also throws some light onto why Sandberg never made it into thisMarie Claire photo spreadon the women of Google. If only we could read the runes properly...(Incidentally, Sandberg replaces Owen van Natta, who was bumped aside to "chief revenue officer" status beforeleaving the company altogether.)
a href="http://www.mygamingwebsite.com/&gt;Mygamingwebsite, with one title currently online: Dropsum, a clever puzzler that combines elements of Tetris and sudoku. Numbers drop from the top of the screen, and will disappear if you line them up to add up to a certain figure. There are of course various multipliers and special tiles to add more spice to the proceedings. It's picking up great reviews on the key flash sites mainly because you can play to quite a decent level with almost random tactics, but you have to be really good to score really highly."Nick's making about ten cents a day out of this so it's not about the money - I think it's about taking a break from overseeing multi-million dollar projects. I'm also interested in the fact that Ubisoft is happy for its staff to work on their own programming side-projects; I guess it makes for a more creative environment, plus, the experience can only give staff a more rounded appreciation of development.Nick's site gives some insight into the Flash development process, with a little 'making of Dropsum' feature, "I talk about the things I tried or failed at with the game prototypes. In fact the original game wasn't going to have the Tetris-like elements in it: you'd just try and make groups and that was it. But I realised two things - that it lacked depth and that a non-skilled player could do just as well as a skilled player by randomly clicking."Dropsum fits into an emerging sub-genre of online puzzlers dealing with sums. Games writer Margaret Robinsoncovered the phenomenonon her blog at the end of last year, namechecking the likes ofPlupon,Add 'Em UpandChain Factor(part of an ARG designed to publicise the maths-based cop showNumb3rs). I also likeI/OandArmor Picross 2.And of course, with Professor Kageyama's Maths Training performing well in the UK charts, maths games are going mainstream.So what's your favourite nerdy game?
Google has "launched Google Gears for mobile, which lets users access Gears-enabled mobile web apps offline,"says the company. It's available now "for Internet Explorer Mobile on Windows Mobile 5 and 6 devices," but "if you're not a Windows Mobile user, stay tuned -- we're working to roll out Google Gears for other platforms with capable web browsers, including Android."
"Nokia today announced plans to make Microsoft Silverlight available for S60 on Symbian OS, the world's leading smartphone software, as well as for Series 40 devices and Nokia Internet tablets. Adding support for Silverlight will extend opportunities for developers to create rich, interactive applications that run on multiple platforms in a consistent and reliable way," it says in apress release.Silverlight is also coming to Windows Mobile (as was revealedlast May), but at the moment I don't know what will appear when.
It's that time again: the Tech Weekly podcast is ready for your listening pleasure withAleks Krotoski,Jemima KissandCharles Arthur.We're always hearing about safer surfing: trying to save us from all the bad things on the web. But what's actually going on? We hear from theFamily Online Safetygroup for more. And, given the power of Google, how do you make search better? We find out from the founder of Cambridge-basedTrue Knowledge- a company that is building a search engine for facts through artificial intelligence.Plus there's news onMicrosoft's EU fine, thefall and rise of Wikileaks, the death of Netscape and a US government plan to seek out terrorists through gaming.As always, we're keen to hear your feedback on the stories and the podcast itself: What do you want to hear? What did you like? What could we do better?Don't forget to:•Post a message on this week's blog•Tell us what you think at tech@guardian.co.uk•Join our Facebook group
It's that time again: the Tech Weekly podcast is ready for your listening pleasure.·Launch the audio playerWe're always hearing about safer surfing: trying to save us from all the bad things on the web. But what's actually going on? We hear from theFamily Online Safety groupfor more. And, given the power of Google, how do you make search better? We find out from the founder of Cambridge-basedTrue Knowledge- a company that is building a search engine for facts through artificial intelligence.Plus there's news on Microsoft'sEU fine, the fall and rise ofWikileaks, the death of Netscape and a US government plan to seek out terrorists through gaming.As always, we're keen to hear your feedback on the stories and the podcast itself: What do you want to hear? What did you like? What could we do better?·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
Tuesday's Chatterbox
Penguin is planning to offer audiobooks that are free of digital copyright protection technology, which will allow buyers to play them on any digital device, dismissing fears that they could become the latest target for online pirates.The 73-year-old publishing house is also hoping for a big boost this year after one of its three-year-old titles, a new age self-improvement tome entitled A New Earth: Awakening to your Life's Purpose, was picked by Oprah Winfrey for her book club. Since the TV host chose it four weeks ago, Penguin has sent 4m copies to US retailers of a book that had sold 500,000.Announcing a strong set of annual results from Pearson, which also owns the Financial Times, chief executive Marjorie Scardino said yesterday that Penguin would follow Random House and experiment with selling "DRM-free" digital versions of its audiobooks on the internet.Though she said it was vital to protect intellectual property, "I don't think we can be worried about every incursion from electronic selling and electronic use. We have got to think about what the future is going to be and look at how to experiment with it."Scardino admitted that another potential electronic version of literature - digital books or ebooks - has yet to take off because there is still no attractive digital book-reading device.Last year Amazon tried to revitalise the market with the Kindle, but Scardino reckons it "is not quite there yet, and I think we are still waiting for that piece of kit. It's like downloadable music - iTunes came first but without the iPod I think that would not have really mattered."Pearson announced profits of &pound;549m for last year, up from &pound;502m in 2006, as revenues increased to &pound;4.2bn from &pound;4bn and margins improved across the business. Penguin increased sales by 3% to &pound;846m while profits leapt 20% to &pound;74m helped by the success of titles including A Thousand Splendid Suns by Khaled Hosseini and Don't Stop Me Now by Jeremy Clarkson. Former Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan's book The Age of Turbulence sold almost a million copies.Shares in Pearson dropped 17.5p to 648.5p as analysts fretted about its exposure to a weakening US economy. But Scardino stressed that most US educational spending is controlled by states, not the federal government, and it has not seen book budgets cut in previous economic downturns.Pearson's FT Publishing business, which includes the Financial Times, FT.com and Mergermarket, increased sales by 12% to &pound;344m with profits of &pound;56m, up from &pound;27m.Scardino said the FT has seen no drop-off in advertising despite the credit crunch and major job losses at City banks. "We are up in the first few months of the year," she said. "We have lots of forward bookings so we are very positive."
It's gone almost completely unnoticed, but the Sony PSP got a brand new function on Friday - and heavens to Betsy, it's not a gaming app! No, it's a video, SMS and audio communication system calledGo!Messenger. SaysIGN:The Go!Messenger suite of communications tools will become a key part of the PSP owner's busy lifestyle, enabling a variety of communications options to help them stay in touch with their friends, and truly bringing the entertainment potential of PSP to life. Utilising the very latest in VOIP technology, PSP users can now keep in touch with each other, for free, from any wireless internet connection.Fascinating new applicationfor handheld owners, a logical leap for the Go!Cam technology, and yet another step away from games from the company that promised that games would be their focus in 2008. Plus, it's the first output from the warm-fuzzy relationship between Sony and BT.At the moment, the service is free - for local, national and international calls - but the fine print says they have the right to change this in future. Expect Skype capabilities on the machine very soon too.More details on how the software works fromengadget.We're the guinea pigs before the North Americans get it (if they do); has anyone got first-hand experience with the new tool?
Reading about theinternal emails at Microsoft, in which its own people queried the fact that low-end laptops would be labelled as "Vista-capable", when in fact they'd only be able to runoneversion of Vista - the "Home Basic", which doesn't have the Aero interface (or most other "Vista" features apart from User Access Control and "better" wireless networking), I've realised there's a question about this stuff to which I don't know the answer.It's this: if you're buying a new machine - desktop or laptop - in a shop and it's got Vista on, which version do you get? If you say "I like Machine X" and it comes with Vista Business, but you want Ultimate, do you have to buy a retail copy of Ultimate, or can they take the machine out the back and, you know,persuadeit to have Ultimate? What's the delta (price difference to the rest of ya) between the version you're offered and the one you might want?And if you can choose, rather than being saddled with whatever's on the machine, is it enough? It seems that once you start having the choice between different machines, with different RAM and hard drive configurations and screen sizes, that if you then have to consider which version of the OS you're going for too that it all starts to move into "paralysing choice" territory.(I just had a look on Dell's site, and upgrading an Inspiron - which apparently naturally gravitates to (deep breath) Windows Vista Home Premium - to Ultimate costs an extra £70. That's about half of the difference at retail, according to Amazon UK, which offers them for £214.98 and £344.98 respectively.)So come on, enlighten us: have you bought a Vista machine recently? Did you have a choice about the OS version? Did youwanta choice? And if you did, what was the price difference?
