The ability to manage your expectations is an important skill when it comes to writing about gaming - especially previews. Too many - actually, 99.3% of them - are barely critical and willing to accentuate the positive at all times. So, when I got preview code of the newSensible Socceryesterday, I was sharpening the knives. After all, Sensi was my game of the 90s, the one that nearly made me fail my degree and certainly the game I spent most time playing. So, no pressure then. But you know what? Codemasters/Kuju have gone and pulled it off - Sensible Soccer is not a travesty. In fact, it is very good and has the potential to get even better when I can grab a mate round to try out multiplayer.For a start, it respects the heritage of the series. From the music -goal scoring superstar hero, oh yes - to the ability to use aftertouch when shooting, Sensi veterans will feel at home. Actually, the freedom of shot is one of the big differences between this and PES/FIFA. Aiming is crucial - lazy stabs at the shoot button just won't work - and aftertouch is a joyous necessity.You will have to unlearn all your PES skills when playing, although the inclusion of a sprint bar is one of the new additions to Sensi. The action is fast though, and there is none of the time to think on the ball that you get with, say , PES. The first few games are likely to be midfield scraps until you start remembering to launch those high curved balls into the channels.Even the unofficial team and player names are not a real problem - the comedy teams were always an important part of Sensi. Even so, I guided Southampton to a glorious 3-1 victory over Portsmouth and there are enough real team approximations to please most fans.Of course, there are issues. The camera is annoying, and bobbles around as it struggles to keep up with the fast -paced action. In fact I wouldn't recommend playing if you have a hangover or a stomach bug. Also it can be hard to pick out the action at the farther end of the pitch. Tackling is haphazard too, though the refs are pleasingly lenient. But overall I was pleasantly surprised by Sensi and am predicting cult status for it come release. Now if only you could play online..
"On the eve of its long-delayed China launch, BlackBerry is facing a sudden challenge from a cheaper Chinese rival called, unapologetically, RedBerry. The new service, aimed squarely at BlackBerry, was launched this month by China Unicom Ltd., the state-controlled telecommunications giant that ranks as China's second-biggest mobile operator," reportsThe Globe &amp; Mail, Canada."The RedBerry name extends the vivid name of BlackBerry that people are already familiar with, and it also combines the new red symbol of China Unicom," the company said in a press release.There is a price difference. The story says: "a standard five-megabyte e-mail account at RedBerry will cost less than a dollar a month, plus a few cents for each e-mail sent. A typical BlackBerry account in Hong Kong costs up to $64 (US) per month for unlimited e-mail."Comment: A quick Google shows there's already aRedBerry Softwareand aRedberry Digitalweb design company. We can ignore the healthyRedBerry chocolate, aRedberry Bible Camp, and many more.
You may have heard this week that a satellite named the Venus Express has reached its destination after a five-month journey and is now orbiting Earth's nearest planetary neighbour. Yesterday, most news sources illustrated this achievement with a smattering of fascinating facts about the Venusian surface. The temperature is around 460C, the atmosphere is 90 times denser than Earth and it rains sulphuric acid. According to a report on the Today programme, if an astronaut were to set foot on the planet he would be simultaneously baked and crushed - a fate not entirely dissimilar to boarding a Piccadilly line train at 5.30 in the evening.This got me thinking about the alien worlds depicted in videogames and, in fact, how tame and familiar they seem compared to the bizarre lumps of rock and ice orbiting our very own sun. The verdant forests and looming mountain ridges of Halo could have easily been inspired by the woodlands of the Lower Alps, while Planetside's rolling grasslands would not look unfamiliar to any inhabitant of Earth's more temperate zones. Meanwhile, if you've ever been on a school trip down a cave network, you'll be able to imagine yourself into Metroid's tunnelscapes with little effort. (Murderous aliens aside, of course. Unless your school cave trips were more interesting than mine...)It could be argued that, historically, graphical limitations have required videogame artists to work with figurative basics. Making the sky blue and the ground green is a computationally cheap way of telling players they're outside - we're all familiar with these colours. But if you start creating bizarre black vegetation and psychedelic skies (like the molten atmospheres imagined in Mike Hodges' Flash Gordon) the artist needs to add much more scenic detail to inform the player that they're in a natural environment. Get it wrong, and players can feel hopelessly dislocated from their surroundings - as many did on the alien levels in Half-Life, where Gordon Freeman must traverse a series of amorphous sky islands, resembling floating clods of human fat.But actually, some of the most interesting alien landscapes were created further back in gaming history when graphical limitations forced designers to take an incredibly abstract approach. The desolate angular mountains of The Sentinel spring to mind, as do the sparse vector-based worlds conjured by Paul Woakes in games like Mercenary and Encounter. R-Type's Giger-esque biomechanical domains were more naturalistic, but still had an interesting, otherworldly style. More recently, French developer Appeal used a voxel-based 3D engine to create vast and subtly offbeat wastelands for its 1999 adventure, Outcast.Now that we have the technology to create astoundingly rich and bizarre alien worlds, it seems as though the pervasive quest for realism is reining artists in. Perhaps developers are afraid of devising worlds with boiling purple oceans and two-mile high trees just in case anyone accuses them of being unable to accurately replicate the real things as they exist on Earth. Also, increases in development times and costs have forced many developers to seek out middleware to handle all the environmental design for them. The foliage creation packageSpeedTreeArtist's image of the Venus Express as it would look when orbiting the planet. Photograph: European Space Agency/PA, for example, has become a popular landscaping tool, but with lots of companies using the same basic utensils to create their worlds, surely this can only lead to a certain uniformity of style.I don't know. I just don't think I've seen anything as interesting as how I imagine the surface of Venus to look. An astronaut might be crushed into nothing by such a hellishly unearthly setting, but should that prevent designers from venturing there for inspiration?How about you? Any favourite videogame planets? I'm bound to have overlooked a few...
Forrester Research has released a new report on American consumers' trust in PC and electronic products. Surprisingly, for a nation which still refers to gaming collectively as "Nintendo" (or at least it did last time I was there), the Sony brand came out miles ahead of either Nintendo or Microsoft.As Vladimir Cole onJoystiqcomments, this report is on consumer electronicbrandsand Nintendo is the only one of the Big Three games manufacturers which exclusively makes interactive entertainment. The relative trust in Sony and Microsoft may be bolstered/reduced based upon consumer experiences with other devices/applications which the hardware manufacturers produce. The figures may have also been polarised by the prevalence of other hardware made by the companies in the home, rather than the existence of an Xbox or a PlayStation.The report can be foundhere.
Dear Matt,Living in Glasgow, I have long suffered rain-drenched toes after a daily commute, no matter what shoes I wear. Are there any kinds of shoe covers that don't look ridiculous, and where can I get them?Roy Mohan Shearer,via emailThe short answer, Roy, is no. They all look ridiculous. But if it's a choice between wearing soggy, steaming socks all day and losing your dignity ... well, let's just say I lost mine a long time ago.It helps to keep your feet dry if you have mudguards fitted, with a flap on the bottom of the front guard. Most of the water that goes in your shoes is spray flicked up by the front wheel that hits the frame and goes sideways.But for serious downpours, you need a proper overshoe. In Holland, everyone has galoshes; in Britain, the last recorded reference to these was in Beatrix Potter's Jeremy Fisher (1905). However, there are at least a couple of overshoes designed to go over ordinary shoes (as opposed to cycling shoes): a pricey one by Gore-Tex, the Gore City, and a budget one by Agu, the Bike Boot. Stay dry.
OK, so you can't buy a Blu-ray player, or a Blu-ray recorder, or a Blu-ray movie, but at least TDK has started shippping blank discs in the US.VNU Net.com reports:The 25 GB BD-R recordable discs will sell for US$19.99 while the 25 GB BD-RE rewritable discs will retail at $24.99.50 GB recordable discs will cost $47.99 and rewritables will be $59.99. The 50 GB media have a dual-layer recording material, while the 25 GB discs are single layer.Comment: If this is indicative of Blu-ray prices, no wonder the movies are going to be very expensive. And what sort of effect is it going tohave on the pricing of PS3 games? (Or will they all ship on DVD, like Xbox 360 games?)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The new all-format UK charts have been released and Tomb Raider: Legend has leapt acrobatically to the top of the pile, leaving the Godfather mumbling in its wake.Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, Lara's comeback shifted three times as many copies as EA's big retro movie license, proving the public has forgiven her for past indiscretions - or to be more specific, Angel of Darkness and Tomb Raider Chronicles.The big disappointment of the day is Guitar Hero, the hilariously entertaining music game that crawls in at 28, despite some inspired marketing japes by PR company, Barrington Harvey, including a two-hour Guitar Hero busking performance at Leicester Square tube station.Full charthere.
Thanks for your comments on our Friday Afternoon Question: "What gadget can't you live without?". It proved something of an insight into the minds of a few Technology Blog readers.Anyway, although I was tempted to give the prize to old skool commenters Jack - who said "the pencil" - and Craig (who wouldn't be parted from his turntable) I think the winner wasBarry, who managed to come up with two bits of gadgetry that I'd like, as well as taking a swipe against the mobile phone - a necessary evil of modern life:Couldn't live without my 'remote control' alarm clock. Twice a year, without fail, it adjusts itself to BST/GMT when I have totally forgotten about the change, and ensures I'm not late for work/train/bus/flight/etc.Apart from that, I have one of those wind-up radios in the bathroom (shared with kitchen as my place is 1-bed flat). My Mp3 player is great, but, I often forget to charge it. But, with the wind-up radio all it takes is 20secs of winding and I have enjoy power for a bath/etc.Gadget I could live without? Mobile phone. Just don't understand the fuss. You pay over the odds to buy it, and then pay massive amounts monthly so that anyone can get hold of *you* whenever *they* want. Nightmare. And I had 2 of the s*ds! One for private. One for work.So, the prize - kindly donated to the cause by McAfee - is an iPod Shuffle. It'll be winging its way to you shortly, Barry.
Capcom Europe has finally caught up with its Japanese division and is releasing several mobile phone conversions of classic arcade and console titles (the likes of 1942 and Mega Man have been available in the past, but through different publishers and distributors). Vintage coin-ops Gunsmoke and Final Fight have been selected to introduce Capcom's phone-based fare, along with a mobile-exclusive Resident Evil adventure entitled Confidential Report File 1. In this turn-based isometric outing, players control two STARS operatives, Tyler Hamilton and Naomi McClain, as they battle the undead and solve puzzles. All three games will be made available through various network operators in May.As with other Japanese publishers such as Namco, Square Enix, Konami and Taito, Capcom has been converting key brands to mobile for several years in Japan, but it has taken a long time for those same titles to filter through to the European market. Indeed, it was only at the end of last year that the company extended its mobile operations to the US,announcing a new mobile divisionand promising that ten games would soon be available. Most interestingly, there are plans for an episodic version of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney in which players are given new cases to work on each month. A conversion of forthcoming Xbox 360 title Lost Planet has also been mentioned.
What's so funny about videogames? Well, very little according tothis Edge magazine article, recently made digital and posted up on the edge-online website.We've tried to analyse, but never came close to this excellent feature which documents the historical attempts to bring comedy to the interactive medium.From the article:The funny moments are the moments when you sit back from the game, ready to read, hear or note whatever laugh the game maker has in store for you. Whether it's a Raiden poster tucked away in Metal Gear Solid: Snake Eater, or Tommy Vercetti biting his tongue at the lunacy of Love Fist, these are moments which, precisely because of the concerns [Ron] Gilbert outlines about controlling timing and building expectations, require no input from the player. And while they can be enormously entertaining, it's hard not to feel that gaming should be capable of more. If what sets games apart is interactivity, shouldn't their humour be interactive too? What happens if instead of a passive observer the player becomes a participant?Part of the problem, the author maintains, is that the people who are penning the guffaws are generally not trained to write for laughs. Ultimately, the article draws the same conclusions thatwe have in the past - good jokes will come from the players, rather than the bods writing them.
Spong.com has somedisappointing gossipfor those hoping to catch a glimpse of PS3 at E3 - it's going to be more elusive than one of those snow leopards featured in the BBC's current'this is why you pay your TV license'ads. From the story:"Over the last few weeks, SPOnG has heard from numerous sources within third-party publishers and at various developers, all of whom outlined that their product being readied for E3 would not be shown on Sony's stand. Furthermore, the availability of demo units to third-parties for inclusion in their own booths has not been outlined, leaving publishers and developers unsure as to what they will be able to show, even at this late stage."It seems that, instead of wandering a showfloor crowded with demo units, eager next-gen gamers may be forced to queue for hours to gaze at - and perhaps momentarily caress - a small number of heavily guarded machines. But even while holding the great unwashed at arms length, Sony Computer Entertainment America could not stop itself from issuing a come-on. When Spong spoke to a SCEA representative, the site was told:"We are expecting big queues to see the PlayStation 3 and so will be taking great care to manage the crowds in the best way possible. All press will certainly have no problems seeing everything we are showing. This year is going to be huge for us. Not just in terms of what we're showing, but in the major announcements we have planned."Perhaps we will reach the Sony stand only to find a high-ranking official crouched in a corner, angrily grasping a single PS3 demo unit to his chest, like a three-year-old with a new ball, unwilling to share it with his siblings, yet desperate to show off.
"A San Francisco finance manager stopped in at a Mission District cafe and was tapping on his laptop as he enjoyed his coffee just before noon on a Thursday. Suddenly, he was under siege," reports theSan Francisco Chronicle."I looked up, and I saw this guy leaning into me as if he was asking a question,'' he said. "I leaned forward, and out of the corner of my eye, I saw someone fiddling with the computer cord. I tried to stand up, and as I stepped back, he stabbed me in the chest.''The attack marked a violent turn in a wave of crime that has hit the city -- the "hot spots" frequented by wireless laptop users are becoming hot spots for laptop robberies.The number of laptop thefts in San Francisco is relatively small, but growing -- 18 in 2004, 48 last year, and on track for more than 70 this year. However, the story says: "Palo Alto hasn't had any, and Berkeley, another hot area for Internet cafes, had only one such crime about a year ago, investigators said. Oakland police investigators had not heard of any such crimes, either."
I got phished over the weekend, by doing what I tell people not to do: follow a link in email. But it did remind me of something, which is thatthe only thing that matters is the URL. All the rest is window dressing.Of course, it was the window dressing that took me in. I was using the Windows Live Mail beta and was invited to fill in a survey about the Windows Live Mail beta by the the Windows Live Mail beta team. It looked authentic, and apparently came from an authentic third party survey company. But if only I'd done a quick search on the link to the survey site at http://websurvey.opinionbar.com -- or at least onopinion.bar-- then I might have spotted the con.Fortunately the scam was a mild one. Opinion.bar pays people to do little surverys and give their opinions on things -- in this case, brands of flat screen TV -- and you can generate more money if you can get other people to fill them in on your behalf. It's a kind of click fraud. The personal embarassment, of course, is something else again.....Update:OpinionbarandMetrixlab.comare legitimate businesses. I've dropped MetrixLab a note to ask why they don't provide a simple way to report this kind of phishing.
I'm chatting toToby "Lara Croft" Gardtomorrow (Tuesday). The creator of the Tomb Raider heroine is in town to help promote the latest game - Legend - and will no doubt face a barrage of breast-related questions from the tabloids. Of course, you lot are more interested in the game itself, aren't you? Let me know what questions you want answered and I'll put them to him. So far my list includes a few based on Lara but also onGalleon- his ambitiously flawed post-Lara effort from 2004.I've been playing quite a lot of Legend and while it has niggles - combat generally - the puzzles, graphics and atmosphere are good enough to entice in the old fans. And either I've gone a bit soft - possibly - but the conundrums do seem fairly tough. Legend is certainly a return to form then, although after Angel of Darkness that really isn't saying much. How has it been for you so far? Oh, and please stick any questions in the comments too.
Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple Computer, is publishing an autobiography, I, Woz, later this year, and John Boudreau of Knight Ridder Newspapers hasan interview, mainly about the founding of Apple 30 years ago. It's well known stuff, but worth a read.Comment: During the interview, Woz says: "When I talk with reporters, I will talk about the pluses and minuses of an issue and, boy, sometimes they like to grab a little minus, twist the words a little, exaggerate it and make a headline."I'm sure some of that goes on, and it's not necessarily the reporter's fault. However, if Woz is thinking of therecent interview he gave Peter Nowak in New Zealandthen Woz is dead wrong. Woz backpedalled on what he'd said about Apple spinning off an iPod division, butNowak has published a transcriptandmade an audio file available.Wozniak claims:"I heartily deny saying this. The reporter asked some such question and I laughed it off as ludicrous." Well, I listened to the audio and that's simply wrong. It's not the reporter, it's Woz who introduces the topic by saying: "Maybe it should be a separate division." What Nowak says ("You think so?") can hardly be considered either leading or hounding.As it stands, Nowak is owed an apology and Wozniak's complaints about the press don't cut any ice round here.
Mainstream media are catching up with YouTube, andaccording to AP, it's an "Internet video sensation".A year ago, co-founders Chad Hurley and Steve Chen were in between jobs, a pair of twentysomething geeks running up big credit card debts as they tooled around a garage trying to develop an easy way for people to share homemade videos on the Web. Now they're flirting with fame and fortune, budding media moguls in a new entertainment era that relies on unconventional channels like YouTube -- by some measures, the leading video-sharing site, one that's cultivated a huge audience while testing the bounds of creativity, monotony, copyrights and obscenity.The porn problem is raised, with YouTube's approach being that users report it and they remove it.Hurley and Chen believe their community policing system is highly effective, pointing to similar practices used by online auctioneer eBay Inc. and Internet advertising service Craigslist. YouTube's technology also blocks repeat offenders from posting videos.Comment: DV Guru has a brief comparison of10 video sharing sites, and theMust-see bloghas an even briefer list of 40.One appeal with YouTube, as with Flickr, is that you can very easily post videos on your own blog. ThisGoogle advertseems to be the first used here.
Happy Monday everyone.
By this stage, probably most people have a favourite site that gets them up to speed on what's happening whether that's Delicious, Digg, Tailrank, Reddit, Furl or whatever.Popurlsputs a dozen on one page, plus feeds from Flickr and YouTube.Unfortunately this is kewl so it must be hard to read. However, there is a T button at the top right that lets you switch to a larger text, and a diagonal button that switches to a white (well., light) background, producing a bit less brain-ache.Oh the irony: the originaldiggdot.usis very easy to read... but you can't scan as many things at once, and unlike Popurls, it doesn't pop up the first bit of each story....Update: Popurls link added. Sorry about that!
A US Federal Trade Commission report released last week confirmed that the number of cases of unaccompanied under-agers successfully purchasing mature videogames in 2005 declined by 27% from the rate in 2003. There was also an increase in the number of shops offering information on the age ratings system and in the number of cashiers who asked the kids' ages. From theFTC report:Forty-two percent of the secret shoppers - children between the ages of 13 and 16 - who attempted to buy an M-rated video game without a parent were able to purchase one. In the 2003 shop, 69 percent of the shoppers were able to buy one. National sellers were much more likely to restrict sales of M-rated games. Only 35 percent of the secret shoppers were able to purchase such games there. Regional or local sellers sold M-rated games to the shoppers more frequently - 63 percent of the time.Unfortunately I don't know of any comparable statistics in the UK or Europe, although UK trade bodyELSPAis keen to point out its involvement in public education campaigns.One criticism I have is that this report may not be representative of the game-purchasing public. Indeed, many age-ratings bodies are all too aware that parents of under-age kids are happily purchasing 18+ titles for their little whippersnappers, sometimes in the same breath as when their child has been knocked back by the person at the cash point. I've often thought that the "average age of gamers" statistic bandied around by official organisations is inappropriately inflated, due to the number of parents who purchase products for their children.viagamepolitics
An MP3 music player aimed at children aged six to 12 is to be launched in the UK. Its volume will be capped at 60 decibels to prevent eardrum damage, according to German manufacturer Maxfield.Called the Max-Joy, the player has extra large keys designed for a child's fingers. It follows Apple's launch of new software which allows parents to set a volume cap on their children's iPods and lock them with a combination code.The Max-Joy player comes with external stereo headphones which sit outside the ear, and it has rubber edging to make it more robust.
"Privacy advocates are raising concerns about Google Inc.'s plans to cover San Francisco with free wireless Internet access, calling the company's proposal to track users' locations a potential gold mine of information for law enforcement and private litigators. The Mountain View search engine intends to use the geographic data to match users with advertising so that they would see marketing messages from neighborhood businesses such as pizza parlors, cafes and book stores," reportsThe San Francisco Chronicle.Google plans to use technology that would allow it to track users' whereabouts within a few hundred feet. The company said in its bid that it would retain the data for up to 180 days before deleting it, as part of an effort to "maintain the Google Wi-Fi network and deliver the best possible service."Privacy advocates fear the information could by used by government officials to place users under surveillance and are more generally concerned that this new power raises the specter of "Big Brother" run amok.Comment: The main problem is that to use the free Wi-Fi, you will have to log on with a Google account. So Google knows who you are and what your interests are -- because it's reading your email and logging all your Google searches -- and now it will know where you are (in San Francisco), and when. Is this the greatest invasion of privacy ever? Probably not. Your cellphone provider is already tracking you -- unless you preserve some privacy by using a pay-as-you-go phone -- and it knows where you live.
Paul Thurrott has had a look atApple's Boot Camp software, which dual-boots either Mac OS X or Windows.
There was an interesting spat recently at Amazon HQ in Seattle that has been reverberating around cyberspace ever since. What happened was this: the authors of a fast-selling new book advocating business blogging were invited to give a talk to a lunch-time meeting of Amazon employees. Werner Vogels, the chief technology officer of Amazon, asked some direct - some say rude - questions, demanding empirical evidence that business blogging was a good investment rather than just a cool idea.The visitors appeared to be miffed by his iconoclastic, sceptical tone. Up to that point on their book-promotion travels they had been listened to in reverential silence. So the meeting ended on a sour note and the participants went their separate ways - but the argument continued in, well, blogs.Amazon's guests that day were Robert Scoble, a well-known blogger and Microsoft employee, and his co-author, Shel Israel. Their book has the intriguing title of Naked Conversations. But the subtitle - 'How blogs are changing the way businesses talk with customers' - sums it up. This is about business, not psychotherapy.Scoble and Israel are evangelists for business blogging, by which they mean blogs published by individuals who work for companies. 'We are blogging champions,' they write. 'We believe that blogging is not just wise for businesses wishing to be closer to their customers, but essential. We envision a day when companies that don't blog will be held suspect to some degree, with people wondering whether they have something to hide or whether the owners are worried about what the people who work for them have to say'.The Scoble/Israel argument is simple. Blogging is 'the most powerful two-way internet communications tool yet developed' and is growing at an astonishing rate (one new blog every second). Increasingly, new bloggers are not teenagers talking about acne and angst, but workers talking about business. 'Chances are,' Scoble and Israel write, 'that if people aren't talking about your company in blogs today, they will be soon. You would be wise to join these conversations, if only to thank those who sing your praises or to correct factual errors. If you ignore the "blogosphere" you won't know what people are saying about you. You can't learn from them, and they won't come to see you as a sincere human who cares about your business and your reputation.'This was the message the visitors took to Amazon, a company that doesn't blog but rather prides itself on keeping close to its customers. So it was perhaps predictable that the gospel according to Scoble/Israel would raise some hackles. Vogels asked questions like: how does having employees blog help increase sales, reduce operating costs, improve supply chain management, reduce inventory or support-call costs? And if blogging can help in these areas, by how much? What percentage can sales increase? What percentage of employees has to blog? What is the cost of that?These are questions that any business executive would ask. But they are also deeply unimaginative ones because they are addressed to the world as it is rather than the world as it may turn out to be. Although the Scoble/Israel message focuses on blogging, it is really about how businesses need to transform themselves if they are to thrive in a networked world, a world where it is impossible to keep secrets, where prices and markets are transparent, corporate PR is ineffective and where customers empowered by search technology communicate with one another via channels that companies cannot control. Blogging, in that sense, is just a tool that companies might adopt to help them survive.But the decision to adopt that tool requires a sea change in corporate attitudes. Naked Conversations is really the next instalment of the famous Cluetrain Manifesto (www.cluetrain.com) of April 1999, the first document that spelled out the implications for business of a networked world. The basic message of the manifesto was simple: markets were originally conversations, but the arrival of mass production and of mass markets created by mass media changed that, and the gap between the people who ran businesses and those who bought their products began to widen, bringing in its train a pathological distrust that made consumers increasingly resistant to broadcast messages. 'We speak, you listen' became the mantra of the classic mass-production enterprise.The internet, by enabling conversations between consumers on a global scale - and potentially between consumers and businesses - will turn the clock back, and make markets more like conversations again.The Cluetrain Manifesto made startling reading in 1999. And it seems even more relevant today. Even to Amazon.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Britain's teenagers have a secret. The money spent by media companies buying up well-known internet chatrooms such as Friends Reunited and MySpace has missed the target. New figures show that the busiest community website is the unheralded Faceparty.Teenagers are so obsessed with the site that last year it saw more traffic than Yahoo's email service, Tesco's website and Amazon. Only eBay, Google and Hotmail are viewed more often in Britain.The site allows its 6 million members to send each other messages. Members have their own mini-sites with pictures of themselves and details of their tastes. They can browse other members' sites and start conversations with thousands of people they have never met.'I check my messages every single day,' explained 16-year-old James Hardman from Leeds. 'All my mates do it. We want to find some nice lasses and just text and email each other. We're meeting a couple of them in the school holidays.'James is one of the rare members brave enough to put his phone number on the site, but says he has only been bothered by 'weirdos' once or twice. He is more coy about the 'adult section' of his site, where members can put up naked pictures of themselves and choose who gets to see them. 'My pictures are quite rude but I haven't let anyone see them yet. I'd be very careful about that.'The popularity of the site has raised concerns: some parents are worried about inappropriate banter on the site, and the possibility that some 'young people' are adults posing as teenagers.Members are encouraged to sign up for special privileges: for &pound;24.95 a year they are no longer restricted to sending five messages a day, and for an additional &pound;38.95 over-18s can buy the right to see the site's adult content.Rupert Murdoch spent &pound;334m to buy the similar site MySpace last year, but it seems new media cannot be controlled as easily as the traditional press. 'Cat', 19, says: 'I definitely prefer Faceparty to MySpace. MySpace is all corporate now.'The technology magazine .net recently proclaimed Faceparty to be 'best community site'. Its editor, Lisa Jones, explains: 'It's really grown under the radar. Since Murdoch bought MySpace, everyone's heard of it. But Faceparty has got this underground appeal.'Gemma, 17, joined after a friend's recommendation. 'I only checked it out because one of my friends made me and now I'm hooked. It's the best way to kill time at college.' The director of Faceparty, David Bamforth, says: 'The grown-ups know all about MySpace, but very little about us. Their kids get home from school and spend hours on it. We try really hard to keep out of the press.'The site offers a rare glimpse behind the sullen exterior of Britain's teenagers. Laura, 16, from Nottingham, is happy to share her philosophical thoughts: 'I live life 2 the full, REMEMBA U NEVER MISS A GD THING TILL IT LEAVES YAH.' Members are also asked a series of questions. Most struggle to name a favourite author, with pop stars scoring highly. Laura's effort is typical: 'Jordans Autobiography is wkd bt i dnt really read.'Nick Barham, author of Disconnected: Why Our Kids Are Turning Their Back On Everything We Thought We Knew, says: 'Online communities are all about sociability. It's just a different kind of sociability. You decide how the world will see you - your best-looking, or stupidest, photo. Your favourite phrases, not your embarrassing silences.'
Naughty America: The GameA new breed of online games is combining the interaction of online games such as EverQuest with the graphic sexuality of single-player games such as Playboy: The Mansion, according to anAssociated Press.story.In "Naughty America: The Game," set to launch early this summer, players will assume the forms of alluring but cartoonish people who meet, flirt and have sex with other player characters. Characters will have their own apartment, but the world will have also have "public sex zones" and themed rooms, said Tina Courtney, the game's producer. "We've got the cowboy room, the make-your-own-porn room ... it doesn't just have to be 'Your place or mine?"' Courtney said.Other titles include Red Light Center, Stratagem Corp's SeduCity, and Rapture Online from Black Love Interactive LLC, which will have "three-dimensional characters, with a lot of attention paid to anatomical correctness."
Photo: Susanna Frohman / Mercury News"Hewlett-Packard has unveiled a computer keyboard pad that should make typing tasks like Web browsing easier for millions of people in India who read and write languages that don't translate well into a Western alphabet," reports theSan Jose Mercury News.HP's "gesture keyboard" -- a digitized pen and pad packaged with handwriting-recognition software -- allows people to quickly jot down words in Hindi script on the digitized pad that transmits them to a desktop computer screen. Indians can use it to type a report, chat on instant messengers or search the Web. The new system could prove more convenient than tediously typing combinations of characters from the Indian script-based languages that, if assigned their own computer keys, would require a keyboard with close to 1,000 buttons.The technology was developed by HP's research unit in Bangalore, India. The keyboard costs $45-$50 and is available from a third-party manufacturer for all PCs, says the story. "So far, about 100 units have been sold."
So say three of the leading game academics, Ian Bogost, Mia Consalvo and Jane McGonigal, at this year's Game Developer's Conference. The trio presented a bounty of relevant research that's being conducted in laboratories around the world which offer unique insights into how gamers consume interactive entertainment, and how developers could make products that respond to the needs and desires of their consumers.They offered accounts of ten studies that are accessible online, which range from the effects of music and voice, to control and communication strategies.Their top ten includes:10. How does music impact a player's effectiveness? 9. What do players really think about voice chat and its usefulness in gameplay? 8. Gestural and embodied controllers are fun--but are they good for gameplay? 7. Does the presence of other players make an online game more or less immersive? 6. Are game players cheating as much as developers (and other players) think they are? 5. What innovative game design uses exist for player-controlled cameras? 4. What strategies do gamers invent to communicate to other players in online games, and can games be better designed to support these strategies? 3. Can alternative controllers, like eye tracking devices, offer a PC gaming experience that is more fun and involving than mouse control? 2. How can developers generate facial animation that combines speech and variable emotion? 1. How do game events marking success versus failure affect a player's level of engagement?There's a summary of the talk atgamasutra, and further information atMcGonigal'ssite.
For a look at all last week's posts in one page, clickhereThe most-commented posts were aboutApple's battle with the music industry,The New York Times's redesign,Murdoch's MySpace,Apple's Biggest Duds, Bill Gates onHow I Work, Negroponte'sHundred Dollar Laptop, Apple'sBoot Camp, andWhat gadget can't you live without?
Everyone wants an iPod and when they get one they can't stop buying stuff to enhance the experience. Here are a few items to stretch your wallet, especially if you have an iPod wallet (tinyurl.com/qvqfz). New Zealand company Design Mobel have invented Pause (tinyurl.com/ng8do), a bed with integrated iPod docks and speakers, while the Japanese are first on the market with an iPod toilet roll dispenser (tinyurl.com/mxohy) andwww.iattire.netwill supply you with fancy dress costumes for your player.Elsewhere, taking a travel iron and an iPod on holiday? Er, why not combine the two with an iRon (tinyurl.com/f4evk)? And be sure to stock up on iBoxers, a charming merging of pant and MP3 (tinyurl.com/s5bkk). At the more sensible end of the market, the stickers atshufflesome.comare cooler than an iPod fridge (patent pending).
MondayWomen wear the trousers in the virtual worldOutRun: still running after all these yearsThe spying gameTuesdayPajitnov puts Tetris on iceGames counteract "lazy" eyeCalling all Second Lifers!Sega buys Sports InteractiveWednesdayGlu buys iFone as M&amp;A fever continuesHow to court controversy: the abortion gamePS3 to launch at 499-599 Euros?Mobile gaming in 2006: who needs a brand when you have pornThursdayHello? This is your avatar callingRoar deal?Awards for allFridayAre you a fanboy?Techno lateImagine a world without teen gamersProgrammer or serial killer?Xbox 360 to re-launch in Japan
It's Friday afternoon, so time for some Friday Afternoon Questions. I think that we all deserve a little rest and recuperation for making it through the week. Drinks all round! (That's not a binding promise, by the way, if the lawyers are looking). Anyway, to while away this short time before we all knock off and go weekending, I thought I'd ask everyone a question.What gadget can't you live without?Are you a moron without your mobile? Or have an umbilical attachment to your USB key? Let's ignore "my computer" as an answer, because we're all obvious addicts. But you can tell us what bit of software saves your life, or the gizmo you can't get enough of. Personally, I think my existence would be a worse place without my two digital radios, which make up for the fact that the FM reception in my flat is absolute pants.Answers in the comments, and the best one wins a prize.
"Booth babes" are one of the traditions of E3, the giant US games show, and Yvonna Lynn not only works as a booth babe, she's also a fan. "In 2005, I got the spot I had been campaigning for at the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess booth for Nintendo," she writes, and "If you were really lucky, like me, you got to talk with Shigeru Miyamoto. I just love him!" She wrote it all up for theRevolution Advancedwebsite, scoring1213 Diggs.She's also seems to be a TV and movieactressand an accomplishedmodel, as well as a "PR kind of girl, and journalist" -- a woman of many talents.At this year's E3, the handbook says: "Material, including live models, conduct that is sexually explicit and/or sexually provocative, including but not limited to nudity, partial nudity and bathing suit bottoms, are prohibited on the show floor, all common areas, and at any access points to the show." Which is the gaping hole in Yvonna Lynn's article.....
There were a lot of loud grumbles (can a grumble be loud? Anyway) when we publishedAndrew Brown's piece about the annoyances of OpenOfficein December.A reminder:So why is OpenOffice so dire? The project claims more than 50m downloads of the software, so let's assume that 50m people have tried it at least once. More than 50,000 bugs have been reported. And how many have been fixed by open source's uniquely efficient processes? According to the (public) bugs database, at last count, there were more than 6,000 unfixed bugs, and more than 5,000 feature requests. While the number of bugs discovered seems to rise with the number of users, the number of fixes doesn't, and the number of fixers certainly doesn't.We collected some flames - though none, to be honest, that refuted the central argument of the piece. Now, here's some fuel for the fire, from a new article from WhatPC:Meeks cited one example where a company decided to move a large Excel spreadsheet to OpenOffice. The file would perform its calculations in Excel in three hours, but it took 30 seconds in (Open Office's) Calc.Bet you're impressed, eh? That's some speed improvement, right? Except that that'swrong. I swapped the numbers around in that last quote. In reality, it'sOpenOfficethat takes three hours, and Excel which is 360 times faster.Here's the correct quote, from"OpenOffice aims to boost lagging performance"at WhatPC:Meeks cited one example where a company decided to move a large Excel spreadsheet to OpenOffice. The file would perform its calculations in Excel in 30 seconds, but it took three hours in Calc.The project got that down to about one hour, but Meeks said that there is still much work that needs to be done.(Doing the calculation in an hour means it's only 120 times slower.)In a neat irony, the Google-generated ads below the story are for OpenOffice - and for Excel. Wonder which ones will get clicked?
This is a pretty terrible quiz --link from our Gamesblog-- but it does attempt to convert the sum of some obvious questions into an obvious answer. My scores were:Sony Fanboy: 37% Nintendo Fanboy: 30% Microsoft Fanboy: 25%I'm not sure how this happened: perhaps the quiz's arithmetic is faulty. We have a PSX, a PSone, a PS2 and a PSP and plan to get a PS3, but don't have a GameCube or a GBA or a DS, and don't have an Xbox or an Xbox 360, so how come Sony is given such a narrow lead? Presumably I just don't hate Nintendo and Microsoft enough, compared with the average nutter who takes the test....
The chaps over on Technology blog are straying into our backyard again,reporting onMicrosoft's plans for what amounts to a relaunch of Xbox 360 in Japan due to poor sales. According to the usually well-informed news siteMagic Box, along with other sources, there is even a date for the big event - June 29. The company expects to have 60 Xbox 360 games available in Japan before the end of the year - of those, Chromehounds, Spectral Force 3: Innocent Rage, Bullet Witch and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter will apparently hit the shelves to coincide with June's day of truth.Microsoft is also releasing aspecial Limited Edition World Cup versionof the Xbox 360 console bundled with EA's FIFA World Cup 2006 and a FIFA face plate. It looks quite nice actually.But will all this be enough to tempt Japanese gamers? Jack Schofield over on Technology Blog is skeptical, arguing that a nation of PlayStation devotees is unlikely to switch allegiances so easily after a decade in Sony's pocket. I'm not so sure this is about loyalty to PlayStation though - I think it's more indifference to Xbox and what it has to offer...So far, this has not been a good platform for traditionally popular Japanese genres - RPGs, fighting games, survival horror, kawaii puzzlers and trading games, etc - instead, there has been an emphasis on FPS and squad-based strategy titles, neither of which tend to figure that highly in Japan's gaming charts. Still, Microsoft is making some moves in the right direction. Ninety-Nine Nights, the lush fantasy battle adventure published by MS and developed by Q Entertainment has just scored an excellent 37/40 in Famitsu Xbox 360 magazine and is much more in tune with local tastes. Ninety-nine more like that and Microsoft might be onto something...
I did rather poorly onthis quiz, which challenges respondents to choose whether 10 pictures represent serial killers or inventors of programming languages.I got 4 correct out of 10.Great juxtaposition!
Earlier this week Forbes.compostedan article delving into the findings of a survey conducted by Piper Jaffray on teen gaming habits. Apparently of the 600 high school teenagers spoken to, 80% planned to cut down on gaming, while 70% indicated that their interest in videogames was on the wane.These findings should be treated with caution, though, for two important reasons:1. The videogame industry is in a state of transition. The current hardware is at the very end of its lifespan, while the next-generation is yet to really establish itself. It could just be that the survey respondents are tired of PS3, Xbox and Game Cube...2. Teenagers sometimes lie.But let's say it's true, and it's global - certainly, in Japan, videogames are not as popular as they once were with youngsters (earlier this year,a Newsweek articlesuggested that Japanese console-software sales had shrunk from $3.4 billion in 1998 to $2.2 billion in 2005, a 35 percent drop). What would happen if videogame publishers made a seismic shift in their target demographic, from teens to mid-twenties and beyond?We could perhaps kiss a teary goodbye to the urban mod-'em-up street racer, welcoming instead, a new era of driving games based around navigating your MPV through Swindon on a busy Monday morning with the kids to drop off and the GPS on the blink. We may also have to face a future without rap star/wrestling crossovers and gangsta adventures - a future of Neighbourhood Watch sims in which the gamer lurks behind twitching lace curtains phoning the police every time someone walks past wearing a hoodie.EA might be forced to cease production of its 'Street' brand extensions, launching FIFA Executive Kickabout, where players take part in good-humored five-a-side tournaments against virtual workmates on a spotless and well flood-lit all-weather court attached to an exclusive gym complex. SSX would become a skiing simulator in which upper middle class families get the choice of staying with the masses in a crowded tourist resort or venturing daringly off-piste on the Minturn Mile.Sony will follow-up the already twenties-centric Sing Star: Eighties with Sing Star: Dinner Party, boasting a collection of inoffensive soul, jazz and blues numbers from the likes of Norah Jones and Corrine Bailey Rae. Tekken and Soul Calibre will be stripped of tricky special moves and combos - there will, instead, be three moves: 'kick', 'punch' and 'Lets talk it through over a glass of Bells, frankly we're being ridiculous'.Or will nothing change? Do we all become teenagers with a joypad in our hands?
Yes, we're late, but theTechnologysection had some good games bits yesterday. Thereviewscovered Oblivion (good), Godfather (bad) and Commandos Strike Force (ugly). The latter two were disappointing for different reasons - Godfather for being alarmingly average and CSF for proving that moving established franchises into the third dimension can still be a risk. Good job then that Oblivion is so marvellous -who'd have thought thieving cutlery and candles could be so fun? Elsewhere Aleks takes thejoypad to the cleaners, while Steve Boxerinvestigatesepisodic gaming. Anyone else as excited by the potential of this as I am?
Here's an amusing distraction for a Friday afternoon - are you a system fanboy? I have taken thesurveyand, despite not being a boy, I am no one system's fan. I expect that there are others who read the gamesblog who cannot boast such a result.Take thetestand see.viaJoystiq
It's almost the weekend! What will you do?
The Xbox 360 flopped in Japan, failing to sell as many as the original Xbox, which also flopped in Japan. So Microsoft is planning what amounts to a relaunch, under new management, with a bunch of new games. AsYuri Kageyama reports from Tokyo for APThe new head of Microsoft's Japanese video-game business expressed determination Thursday to make the Xbox 360 a success in Japan, where the console has struggled, by more than tripling the number of games it offers by the end of the year."Our message is this: We're prepared to do everything that's needed to make Xbox 360 a success around the world, including Japan," said Takashi Sensui, who became the head of Japan's Xbox operations this month.Microsoft plans to have 60 games in Japan by the end of the year.Comment: The AP story says: "Xbox 360 has a pocket of opportunity to win over Japanese gamers because Sony, which makes the market leader PlayStation 2 console, recently announced it's delaying the sale of the next-generation PlayStation 3 until November." But I suspect that's not true.Basically, Sony owns the Japanese home console (as distinct from portable) market, which is hardly surprising given the fantastic success there of both the PlayStation (PSX) and PlayStation 2. It would be surprising if consumers who have been in the PS camp for a decade decided to switch brands without seeing what Sony has to offer in the PS3 -- especially when the PS3 launch was expected to follow only a few months after the Xbox 360 launch. (A mistaken impression that Sony, naturally, did nothing to correct.)In that case, the Xbox 360 could do better once the PS3 is out, and buyers can make a fair comparison, instead of one based on hype. If the PS3 is even bulkier than the Xbox 360, doesn't deliver significantly more power, and is noticeably more expensive, then Sony could lose a few customers. Not a huge number -- fan bases don't switch overnight -- but maybe enough.Of course, if the PS3doesdeliver, Microsoft is not going to get more than a toe-hold in Japan, and it might have to do something spectacular for the next round -- like buy Nintendo.
Sony Computer Entertainment Europe is saying that Georges Fornay's comments (below) about the price of the PlayStation 3 were, according toGamesIndustry.biz, "'a mistranslation or misunderstanding of the discussion, which was actually focused on the relative value of PS3 as a Blu-ray Disc player,' according to SCEE corporate communications director Nick Sharples".[Fornay] summarised by saying that PS3 would be expensive when one looked at the current price of a video games machine, at far below 500 Euros, but extremely good value when looking at the BD and HD technology inside," [Sharples] concluded.Comment: This means the PS3 could cost less than 500 or $500, but also means it could cost 600 or $600 or more, depending on the prices of standalone Blu-ray players.
The Elder Scrolls IV: OblivionXbox 360, PC, Bethesda/Take 2, &pound;49.995/5Oblivion is an epic adventure in an offline virtual world that finally vindicates the Xbox 360 next-gen hype. Such is the beauty of the environment - knee-length grass, abundant heather and snow-capped mountains - that simple exploration is worthwhile. Highlights include exiting the sewer; riding a horse for the first time; picking herbs in distant forests; watching the sunset over Imperial City; stumbling across ruins in the rain; and sneaking around a city-dweller's basement. The sheer scope for individual freedom means every player will have their own stories to tell. The downsides are minor, though still annoying. They include intrusive loading messages, an inadequate manual and a clumsy interface. But ambition wins: Oblivion is a masterpiece.Greg HowsonCommandos: Strike ForcePC, Pyro/Eidos, &pound;34.993/5The first three Commandos games were top-down, third-person perspective games, where choosing the right member for each task and coordinating efforts was the key to success. The perspective has now changed to first person. And it is not a bad effort, albeit lacking the shock-and-awe set pieces we've come to expect from second world war games. More serious is the fact that the tension has disappeared. Now it's a matter of picking one character to complete most of a mission's objectives. As a result, it's relatively easy. Strike Force is still a good game - the shame is this franchise used to be a classic.Mike AnderieszThe GodfatherXbox 360, PS2, PC, Electronic Arts, &pound;29.993/5EA made a fuss about the technology in this expensively licensed game, but it turns out to be a clone of Grand Theft Auto, set in the New York depicted in the original film. It has some neat touches: the control system borrows from Fight Night Round 3, allowing you to swing baseball bats, strangle mobsters and chuck them off rooftops and into pizza ovens. And the back-story missions are mostly great fun. But you have to work hard to get to grips with the free-roaming mode. However, while it is easy to be cynical about how derivative The Godfather is, it proves surprisingly enjoyable.Steve BoxerIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Will Microsoft respond to tough love?Thanks for mentioning the conversation happening here at Mini-Microsoft (What's eating Microsoft?, March 30). My aim atminimsft.blogspot.comis to solve the company's problems through public tough love, in the hope that harder and harder questions will be directed towards the leadership.'Mini'Redmond, USLast week I downloaded the five CDs for RedHat's Fedora Core 5 release. It cost me the price of five CD-R disks and about 30 minutes to burn the CDs. Then I installed Fedora, which took less than an hour. Time: 90 minutes. Cost: about $10 (&pound;6). Hassles: zero.The result - a fully functional graphical workstation with all the basics: a great Office Suite (OpenOffice), a great browser (Firefox), email (Evolution) and a CD burner. In addition, there is tons of stuff I use regularly - PDF viewers, graphics viewers and editors, the Python language, a C compiler, and server software to support remote access. The equivalent cost in the Microsoft/ Windows world is much greater than my $10 cash investment.So what's eating Microsoft? Maybe they are worried that more people might invest $10 in Fedora. For that, anyone can jettison an overpriced subscription with Microsoft which is less secure, less trustworthy, and less useful.Sean ConnollyCharlotte, NC, USPrint and be damnedBiometrics for children is an outrage (Is school fingerprinting out of bounds?, March 30). Will future British children ever know what it means to be free, or is that something they will be able to look up in the history books?Mandy WorrallGuildfordYour article is based on the premise that the fingerprint is recorded. This is not the case. It is impossible to create a fingerprint from the data stored in a biometric system. Parents should always be asked, and an opt-out provided. Our company provides this technology to hundreds of schools, and it is generally accepted as a low-key way of helping to ensure transactions are not subject to dispute.Alasdair DarrochManaging Director, Softlink Europe LtdThe article made clear that the fingerprint itself was not stored, but parents had frequently not been consulted.Tech. EdDeadlier than the malesLaura Parker's tired observations on the state of women in gaming shops (Techno-bile, March 30) made me weep. Yes, there are men who work in them who think that having breasts precludes an interest in Halo. But what is the point of a piece like this if you don't offer women alternatives to the hassle? It just comes across as providing another reason for women not to buy a game lest they be violated by sexist teenage boys.Tiffany Craig, WiganGrid lockAlthough I'm undecided over the issue (Free our data, March 30), it is worth pointing out that Ordnance Survey, as well as holding and licensing UK mapping, also asserts ownership over the British national grid. As such, any use of grid references ought to be licensed by OS and should carry a statement of Crown copyright.I'm unable to find OS's policy on this directly, although to my knowledge licenses are granted freely, provided an acknowledgement of OS's copyright is given. I am aware though that current case law supports this ownership, given in Ordnance Survey vs Younger and others (Ch 10 April 1995), in which Sir Jeremy Vinelott, sitting as a Judge of the High Court, ruled that "OS copyright material includes the National Grid" and that "the OS retain the right to refuse to allow ... [someone] ... to use the National Grid", a right taken up in that case.The OS's zeal in protecting its intellectual property is widely acknowledged, but how far it extends to the countless books, websites and other materials which use grid references is unknown. Perhaps the fact that OS's ownership extends beyond data to the entire system of referencing which is so familiar may come as a shock.Aled GreenhalghUniversity of Newcastle&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Controllers have been on my mind, inspired by a presentation by Infovore's Tom Armitage, and the nomination of the one-switch game Strange Attractors at the Independent Games Festival awards. Armitage argued that the control pad interface adopted by all three major console creators is preposterous, exclusive and inaccessible.The modern controller is "designed for people who already play games", he argues, adding to the criticism of gaming's mainstream accessibility.There are exceptions to the joypad, but often they don't encourage the innovation that interactive entertainment has the potential to create. Interactive cameras, buzzers and microphones replicate existing practices. In contrast, the interface innovations of the Nintendo camp, like the touch-screen of its DS system and the baton-like controller on its Revolution console, do promote novel approaches to interactivity.Another excellent source of stripped-down interface inspiration comes from the adaptations created by and for disabled gamers. I did research for my MSc with massively multiplayer online gamers who had severe mobility limitations. I've remained in touch with accessible gaming through Barrie Ellis, owner of OneSwitch.org.uk, a resource of game products controlled using only one button. These are new designs that have a wide appeal; Strange Attractors' nomination indicates that the game was worthy of an award against competing candidates like Darwinia, and a Closed Captioned modified version of the famous first-person shooter, Doom.The UK's Entertainment Software Charity has been inspired by some of the game controller adaptations that paralysed players have been using for a decade. One of its efforts is to adapt well-known games to their needs.Some alterations are testament to the complexity that simple interfaces can support: one gamer adapted a Nintendo 64 console controller into a device that responds to sucks and puffs via a hard-wired series of straws and sensors. He's able to play high-action titles such as GoldenEye 64. Another gamer has a chin pad attached to his N64 controller, and his minute chin movements are translated into actions on the screen.Physical disability is not the only reason games are stripped down; people play games on their phones, palmtops and PCs. Play is not an exclusive practice, so why does the industry ignore those who can't, and won't, succumb to the joypad? Why, as Armitage argues, is the interface the last thing added to a game's design? Perhaps it's time to rethink the "interactive" in games entertainment and see just what novel ideas might come out of interacting from a different point of view.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For years, the phrase "episodic gaming" has been cited as one of the games industry's next big things. The concept is simple: many types of games are constructed as discrete missions or levels, stitched together by a storyline, so why not deliver them singly, at regular intervals, rather than in one dollop? This would generate a steadier stream of income for developers and publishers, and gamers could see if they liked individual games while spending much less than &pound;40. And if episodic games generated a large and dedicated fan base, they could be updated in perpetuity, raising the prospect of the never-ending game.Now, episodic games are poised to make the transition from theory to practice. Respected first-person shoot-'em-up developer Ritual is readying SiN Episodes, the first episode of which, Emergence, will be released next month via Half-Life developer Valve's downloading system Steam. A 1.5-gigabyte download, it will provide up to six hours of gameplay for around $20 (&pound;12). Ritual has suggested there will be a six- to eight-month gap before the second episode, but to place it in context, SiN Episodes is effectively the sequel to the original SiN, released in 1998.The crucial enabler behind episodic gaming is broadband and, particularly, the Steam service. Steam, which allows developers to sell games directly to customers without publisher involvement, caused a stir when it debuted along with Valve's Half-Life 2 in 2004. It triggered a bitter lawsuit with Half-Life 2 publisher Vivendi Universal Games. Valve subsequently decamped to Electronic Arts. Steam is, effectively, the industry's closest equivalent to Apple's iTunes Music Store, and points the way to a time when games will be distributed digitally. Half-Life episodeValve's marketing director, Doug Lombardi, reveals that his company is also making its first foray into episodic gaming: "This spring we will be releasing Half-Life 2: Episode 1 (aka Aftermath), a standalone episode that moves the story and gameplay of Half-Life 2 forward in a smaller (and cheaper) package." He says the plan is to deliver a new episode every few months. As building interactive experiences is time consuming, "frequency would cost something in terms of length or quality".So, the first episodic games for the PC are about to arrive, but only when they spread to consoles will episodic gaming be seen as mainstream. The update of Microsoft's Xbox Live online service which coincided with the launch of the Xbox 360 introduced the first downloadable games to consoles, via Xbox Live Marketplace."Episodic content takes various forms on Xbox Live. We have had titles that have added new missions to the storyline (such as Kola Cell for the original Splinter Cell)," says Microsoft's Scott Henson. Extra maps, weapons, characters and objects are already available through Marketplace for games including Forza, Project Gotham Racing 3, Pariah, Tony Hawk and Far Cry.But when will proper episodic gaming come to Xbox Live? Henson says: "Many in the industry have dreamed about a weekly add-on to our favourite game that keeps drawing us ever deeper into the characters and plot lines. I think you will see a game emerge on Xbox Live in the next couple of years that takes a run at this dream."Microsoft would do well to get its skates on: at the recent Game Developers Conference in San Jose, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata announced that the Revolution, its next-generation console, will feature a download service including a library of games from Sega's 16-bit Mega- Drive console, while Sony's head of development, Phil Harrison, demonstrated an iTunes-style song download service for the company's SingStar karaoke game.Henson is keen to emphasise the importance of generating communities of committed gamers, and allowing them to create content that can be made available to others: "I think you will see Machinima [mini-films made using game engines] episodes like Red vs Blue that are made by gamers, and posted and shared on the service. The tools that modify gameplay will increasingy be given to the gamer community, such that we could see episodic content created for consumption on Xbox Live by the community."Which raises the question of whether the industry will have to develop business models beyond the traditional developer/ publisher structure. Would we see more in-game advertising and product placement? Shane Dabiri, lead producer of World of Warcraft at developer Blizzard, and therefore a leading authority on persistent games, doesn't think so: "While ... a revenue stream is needed to sustain production, I don't think there's a requirement that revenue stream be based on in-game advertising or product placement."Best for lessBut Henson disagrees: "There is no question that the industry will evolve the business models that exist today. This includes embracing the new distribution models and breakthrough concepts like user-generated content. Advertising, subscription revenue, micro-transactions, and one-time purchases will all come into play. History shows that consumers will buy the best product that costs them the least amount of money."So, episodic gaming looks set to significantly shake up the games industry. But will it breed the never-ending game? Even though he is a key man behind the world's leading massively multiplayer online (MMO) game, Shane Dabiri isn't convinced: "Some massively multiplayer games have persisted for many years - many people are still playing StarCraft, a real-time strategy game we released in 1998. As for how long an episodic or regularly updated game could maintain an audience's interest, I suspect it's for as long as the game experience continues to provide value to the player."Henson is more optimistic: "A truly never-ending game only happens when the community takes over the evolution of what the game becomes." Lombardi is more specific, but ultimately sceptical: "If you break down the episodes into two or three per year and say it takes about three to six episodes to equal one game, that means you could make 9 to 18 episodes before you matched a three-game series. I think things would go stale around the same time in both formats. Even the best things must end, one day."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Theodore Peckler lives in Monrovia, California, and is one of the 1.5 million people in the US who uses Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) systems to make cheap phone calls via his cable modem connection. But last year, after five months using the VoIP service from the US provider Vonage without problems, he noticed an abrupt deterioration. "The line was choppy, very choppy and you could not understand any words spoken," he recalls. Puzzled, Peckler ran pingplotter - a program to detect problems such as packet loss and latency (delays in sending over the separate "packets" of internet traffic). It revealed major latency between his cable modem and local internet service provider (ISP)."I contacted the ISP and was told it did not support third party VoIP," explains Peckler. "Vonage ran a test. It seems the ISP was blocking the cable modem when the Vonage adapter went into use. I ran a test of my own. I ran pingplotter for 10 minutes: no blockage, then I picked up my Vonage phone and placed a call: immediately there was a 100% blockage on the cable modem. This was a continuous loss as long as the phone was used."Peckler is not alone. Users on VoIP online forums in the US and other countries, including Qatar and Mexico, have been noting similar problems since last year. For while VoIP (often pronounced "voype") might seem like a great deal for the average person, entrenched interests in the telecoms industry see it differently - and are taking action against it.ConsultationMindful of what has happened in other countries, the UK telecoms regulator Ofcom took the unusual step in February of announcing that it will look at the growing VoIP market, and report next month on whether new laws are needed to protect it. The consultation document says: "VoIP service providers have expressed concern that their ability to provide a reliable service may be impacted by internet access providers (ISPs) selectively degrading or blocking their VoIP traffic."Ofcom says it has no evidence this is happening in the UK; only about 500,000 customers use it. But the forecast is for that to rise by 3m in the next six months.And VoIP blocking happens in other countries, often those where there is still only a single telecoms company. In Saudi Arabia, for instance, national carrier Saudi Telecom is using software from US supplier Narus to block all VoIP calls.Telcos in the US and other countries are reluctant to have their bandwidth encroached on by traffic from which they earn no revenue, and have been challenged over similar alleged incidents of VoIP blocking. Blocking VoIP traffic is technically difficult, but not illegal, and blocking specific types of internet traffic is on the increase.Luxembourg-based VoIP provider Skype, now owned by eBay, has been particularly controversial. Skype is used by 75m people. But not everyone wants Skype on their network.Skype is considered by many to pose a potential security threat because it opens an encrypted tunnel out of the network and forms supernodes that sit on a network and set up VoIP calls. There is considerable debate about how much bandwidth such supernodes eat up. US blogger Paul Kedrosky (http://tinyurl.com/mjelx) noted a major impact on his main office PC, and links to warnings that in supernode mode, Skype may even saturate a 100 Mbps line."Skype calls can be very scary for the owners of the networks over which they run," says Steve Bannerman, vice president of marketing at Narus.BandwidthSkype says its software does not put undue pressure on bandwidth. "Users who have become 'supernodes' will not be able to notice any performance decreases on their computers," says Kurt Sauer, head of Skype's security operations. "A supernode will use approximately a tenth of the bandwidth of a user listening to radio on the internet. There are companies blocking or attempting to block Skype, but we believe they are making a mistake."There's a lot of divided feeling about Skype, says Louise Cooke, managing director of Blue Coat Systems, whose ProxySG software can block Skype. "Some IT managers detest it," she says. "They don't want their network becoming a super-hub for Skype. But others see it as something that may have business benefits. We use it all the time."VoIP blocking is often a function added to network or security management software, such as Narus's IP Platform, Verso Technologies' NetSpective 2.0 and SonicWall's enterprise appliances. Other providers with software capable of blocking VoIP include Bitek International, Packeteer, iPoque and Blue Coat Systems, and the list is growing.One UK organisation that has blocked Skype is Brunel University. "We had a number of concerns about uncontrolled traffic," says Simon Furber, Brunel's network manager. "Skype is unpredictable because of its uncanny ability to become a supernode, so ... we shut the front door."This is still Brunel's official policy. "But this is a balancing act: a lot of people use Skype and asked us why we were blocking it," explains Furber. "And Skype just finds another way out of the network."So Brunel has now partitioned off its Skype traffic, using Packeteer's Packetshaper software. "We have corralled it so we can keep an eye on it and see what impact it is having," says Furber.How blocking worksBlocking specific types of traffic over an IP network is usually done by blocking "ports" - equivalent to boarding up doors (if you imagine a network as a house with 65,536 doors) or denying access to specific IP addresses (equivalent to turning away particular people).But Skype traffic is hard to identify, because Skype uses proprietary protocols, is encrypted and spreads from peer to peer, using a random combination of IP addresses and ports that defeats traditional port-blocking filters.That means it can be blocked only by investigating the headers of every internet packet crossing the network to find the "Skype" ones. The challenge is to do this quickly enough so that other services aren't degraded. Narus claims its software can do this, and a major European customer confirms this.A proxy appliance, widely used to apply controls to web traffic, can also be used to block specified unwanted traffic, including voice calls, if necessary.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Does anyone remember Audrey? I don't mean a character out of Coronation Street, but the product that 3Com was on the verge of selling here in March 2001 - but withdrew just as the dotcom crash began to bite and 3Com's finances began heading south.Audrey was to be that most fabled of devices, only slightly less rare than a unicorn: a web appliance. You would plug into the mains, hook into your broadband connection and then set up to show just a few important bits of data - what email you had, a limited web browser. It ran on an operating system that was a mix of PalmOS and something else, and all for only $499 (&pound;288)!You can see the problems by reading backwards through that sentence. First the price: how much? For a non-full-featured PC, at a time when most homes didn't have a computer? And then - email, web browsing? What sort of home was this where people browsed the web at breakfast or dinner? Even a geek would worry about getting pizza grease on the screen.As for broadband connections - hello? This was 2001, and getting broadband required patience and deep pockets.But times have changed. Most homes have a computer. Though fewer than half have broadband, the hurdles to getting it have fallen dramatically - as have prices. The question most people ask now is why they need another computer. And nobody sensible is about to put one in the kitchen.Yet most homes have multiple computers - in the form of games consoles, or set-top boxes. We don't think of them as such, though, because they're appliances, limited by design to one specific set of functions.I think we're ready now for web appliances at a reasonable cost. Linux has proven itself as an embedded operating system with zero licensing cost. That's doubtless partly why Sir Alan Sugar's Amstrad uses Linux in its E3 videophone. I bet whoever pointed out to him that you'd save a bunch compared to licensing Windows CE didn't get fired; though perhaps they did on the discovery that Amstrad must also make its code available to anyone who asks for it (seehttp://tinyurl.com/fvphs).What I'm suggesting isn't the hopeless overkill of "web fridges" like that suggested by Electrolux a few weeks ago. We don't need keyboards. But there are plenty of times in the day when I could do with a web appliance in the kitchen. I'd like something stuck to the fridge that showed us the BBC's five-day weather forecast web page (www.bbc.co.uk/weather), updated from time to time. I'd like to see a web feed of the newspaper headlines (which family has time to read papers at breakfast?). I'd like to have a list of household to-dos. Four touch-sensitive buttons at the bottom should be enough to switch between the pages to be shown.What's required? A grayscale LCD screen is fine for those purposes - colour's just extra expense (and can be saved for a later improvement). Flash memory is cheap. Linux costs nothing. A built-in wireless connection costs a few pounds. Putting in the details of which web feeds and pages the appliance should check, and the passwords it needs for joining a wireless network, could be done from my own computer. What then does this need? Only two sockets - a power socket (for recharging; a small battery would be better, and safer, than being plugged into the mains all the time) and an Ethernet socket (for one-off programming: hook it to your computer). No keyboards. No muss, no fuss.Perhaps sourcing the bill of materials could be made a task for the hopefuls in The Apprentice - the BBC programme where hopefuls line up to be excoriated by Sugar. The time's right to create Audrey's child. Why shouldn't a British company do it? Creating an appliance would be much more like modern business than all that restaurant managing and car selling they do each week. Now that's an episode I'd watch.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Hollywood downloadsMajor Hollywood studios have started to offer new movies such as Brokeback Mountain for digital download via Movielink, at DVD-type prices, but only in the US. The site is owned by five of the seven largest studios.www.movielink.comSega scoresSega of Japan has bought the pride of Islington: Sports Interactive, the software house behind the original Championship Manager.Wall passAnonymizer Inc has launched Operation Anti-Censorship software "created specifically for Chinese citizens". It is designed to circumvent government filtering and "protects users from detection, persecution, and retribution by shielding their personal identities".www.xifuchun.comBlackBerry wayWest Yorkshire Police officers now have 2,500 BlackBerry handhelds so they can look up suspects on the Police National Computer while on the street. The StreetWYSE application is claimed to save 145 hours per front-line officer per year.http://tinyurl.com/fyyz9Microsoft hosts LinuxAt LinuxWorld in Boston, Microsoft announced it was making its Virtual Server 2005 software available free. This enables Windows to host "select Linux distributions" - including Red Hat and Novell SuSE Linux - free.Creative playSpace Media Arts wants to commission four artists to explore the creative use of electronic tagging technology, in particular RFID (radio frequency identification). Each fee is &pound;3,250.www.spacemedia.org.ukNokia's lateIn Helsinki, Nokia said six of its new smart phones had missed their Q1 ship dates as it sorts out the software. But the N91, the 4GB music phone due last Christmas, is expected to ship this week.Space for SimonyiCharles Simonyi, who made his billion at Microsoft, has booked a $20m trip to the International Space Station. Simonyi, 57, a trained pilot who speaks Russian, hopes to make himself useful in space. He also endowed the Charles Simonyi Chair in the Public Understanding of Science at the University of Oxford, currently occupied by Richard Dawkins.Pins for profitsPlacebase Inc has launched Pushpin LE, a commercial mapping application that works with Google Maps-style applications: Google Maps is only available for non-commercial use.www.pushpin.comIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
