Since having a string of chart hits in the 1980s and prompting a surge of babies named Kayleigh, the rock group Marillion have reinvented themselves as unlikely internet pioneers. They plan to appeal to new fans by flooding the peer-to-peer networks typically used to swap pirated songs with copies of their new album.Yesterday they claimed to be the first group to release their album legally on to the peer-to-peer filesharing networks blamed by some for the demise of the music industry.Since 1996, the band have used the internet to form a bond with their fanbase and raise money to release albums through their own label. Their 15th album, a double CD called Happiness is the Road, is being "seeded" on to P2P networks this week in an attempt to expand their fanbase.When users download the tracks, an interactive window will appear with a message from the band, telling them about the album, a forthcoming tour and the products and merchandise on the Marillion website. Those who download the album are also asked to provide an email address, so they can be updated  and offered the opportunity to make a donation, in the style of Radiohead.Keyboard player Mark Kelly said the group did not condone file-sharing but were working with the reality that more than 90% of all music acquired in the UK was downloaded illegally through P2P networks.
Kotaku has atranslationof an interview with Game Republic chief Yoshiki Okamoto. Here's what he has to say about the state of game development in Japan:It's almost too late. During the Famicom (NES) era, Japanese video games comprised 70 percent of all video games. And currently, it's like 15 or 20 percent, isn't it? Now, Western games are more advanced. For games like GTAIV, those guys are spending something like 5 or 10 years to make them. Even if we thought about catching up with them now, they'd still be making progress. But, not necessarily giving up, it's just not possible to catch up in a single lifetime.This echoesthe sentiments of Hideo Kojimawho, during a press briefing for MGS4 earlier this year said:…when you think about the future of video games, I think that you need to take some risks to move on forward. Once you halt, it's really hard to go [back on track] and take steps forward. Unfortunately, overseas game production companies, which are well-funded and extremely skilled, have surpassed us by a couple of steps. It was once said that Japan molded the world's video game [industry], but that's becoming a thing of the past. Sad as it may be, it's the truth.Okay so recently we've had Metal Gear Solid 4, Ninja Gaiden Sigma and Soul Calibur IV, but the PS3 and Xbox charts are dominated by western titles. Interestingly, Japan still dominates on Wii, or at least Nintendo does, it's own Wii Fit, Super Mario Galaxy and Legend of Zelda titles dominating the platform – although, of course, Nintendo games have always dominated Nintendo systems.The big shift was the change in emphasis from an arcade model of game design to the grander, more subtly paced action adventure. Halfway through the PS2 lifespan, as the audience multiplied and expanded beyond the hardcore, and as western developers grew in ambition and confidence, tastes changed, influences altered. Suddenly there were gamers and designers who hadn't grown up playing Street Fighter and watching Fist of the North Star. There were people who were watching Pulp Fiction and Menace II Society and who wanted games to reflect those narratives. Hence, GTA and Burnout killed Tekken and Ridge Racer.Sure, Resident Evil and Metal Gear Solid succeeded in translating the Japanese style to the adventure genre, but other big brands have failed to keep up – Devil May Cry being the perfect example. And while Okamoto blames development timelines and Kojima talks about bigger budgets in the West, neither of these is really to blame for Japan's slip down the development ladder. It's deeper than that. Japanese games are not addressing the fantasies of western gamers. The question is, can they?
Back in the early '90s I was aSensible SoccerGod – Amiga version,Competition Projoysticks, of course – and would definitely have beaten you if we'd played. Oddly I'm pretty rubbish on the 360 version but I'm blaming the pad. Anyway, back then – and we're talking what, 92-96ish? – the Guinness World Records people weren't really bothered about gaming. Shame really as I could have easily set a record for "most SWOS after-touch goals scored by Matt Le Tissier in one season" (42).  Or maybe "longest continuous SWOS session without sleep" (14 hours). Happy days.Anyway, Guinness World Records have realised the error of their ways and are looking for gamers to create and set ten new records at this year'sGameCityevent.  If you can, I don't know, complete GTA IV in 3 minutes or score 20million on Geometry Wars 2 then you'll probably stand a good chance of setting a new record. Personally I'm thinking about creating and setting the "Too Human pad survival record"  - I'm about 30 hours in and have still, just, managed to resist smashing the pad as the unskippable death sequence plays out for the 98th time...So, expert at Street Fighter 2? Super quick at Brain Training? What gaming record couldyou set?
So you can get iPod nanos in different colours - as Fraser Speirs, a Mac developer,observed, "in the exact colours of the old Apple logo, plus silver, black and pink." - and shake them to change song. Yeah, whatever.Perhaps the most interesting thing to come out of the whole event is the little piece of software widgetry underlying the "Genius" system - nothing to do with the people who fix your broken Mac in the Apple Store - which will analyse your song library and try to make recommendations for songs that will go together.If you like, it's Amazon's recommendations system, but done on your own machine. Though it also sends the data back - anonymised - to Apple's servers, which can then analyse what songs people put together and use the data gathered there to make recommendations there.Actually, think about it a bit. That's a huge, and - if mined well - fantastically valuable database. Even Amazon doesn't know whatsongspeople like to listen to together. And that's songs people have ripped from their CDs - not just things they've bought from the iTunes Store.Some people tried the Genius system out and found it was rapidly encouraging them to empty their pockets and stuff what they found into Apple's pockets. (Though one of the first to make this complaint was an Apple staffer. Not sure how that quite works, in terms of who's paying who.)Seen in that light, might Genius be the missing music subscription service that people have been expecting from Apple? After all, the former is a system where you pay a continuous stream of money so that you can choose from a wide range of music. The advantage to the provider (Apple, as it would be) is that they get a continuous stream of revenue.With Genius, Apple is trying to set up something which... gives it a continual stream of revenue. Nice twist for the user: you have the songs if you stop. But Apple wins both ways. It bumps up sales. And it gets a potentially hugely valuable database. Imagine how much it could make if it let the music companies buy access to it. "You want to know who people listen to after they listen to Elbow? Like to help you out, guys. How much can you afford?"(I haven't yet got Genius to complete going through my library. If I can work out how to update posts in the new system, I'll give my insights.)(Though as Speirsalso notes, it doesn't work for podcasts. Pity - we were going to recommend this week's Tech Weekly...)So, is Genius really an Evil Genius? And what's the weirdest pairing it's made for you?
It's not often you see Microsoft trumpeting howproprietaryits technology is, but the sales pitch for its forthcomingBlueTrack miceis that you won't be able to get them from anybody else. And the reason you might want one is that BlueTrack outperforms the old laser technology and works on almost any surface. It's "the four-wheeled drive of mice," says the designer. It will, apparently, work on your wood, granite or marble worktop, and on your thick-shag living-room carpet -- there's avideowith the inventor. More importantly, it will work on airline tray tables. It won't work, not surprisingly, on glass and mirrors.Channel 10's Laura Foy has an enthusiastic video report,Microsoft Unveils World's Most Advanced Tracking Technology. Bear in mind that Channel 10 is owned and operated by Microsoft. It's not CNN.Two new BlueTrack mice, Explorer and Mini, will go on sale at Best Buy in November for the estimated retail price of $99.95 and $79.95 respectively. In the longer run, you can expect BlueTrack to replace the lasers in most other Microsoft mice, depending on price.
You'll have noticed that the world still exists, which isn't surprising since today's switch-on of theLarge Hadron Colliderwas always going to be one of those test situations where they make sure they didn't wire the plugs up the wrong way round and so on.That said, it did produce one of the most unintentionally hilarious bits of radio ever, with Andrew Marr (who, let me say, I like and admire greatly) giving a running commentary on the Today programme on what he could see the scientists watching the screens detecting the particles whirling invisibly around the loop doing. (Thelink on the program siteisn't the one; it was at about 0830.) The reverence made me think of someone commentating on a religious service; it would make about as much sense.But anyway, now that the LHC is getting into its stride, we need to have a means of recognising when the fabric of space-time has been ripped asunder, as happens all the time in Star Trek, Time Tunnel and all those other 60s programmes. Even Stephen Hawking allowed for the fact thatthere are infinite versions of himself in parallel universes.And of course that means Evil Twins. There's always an Evil Twin of yourself. Stands to reason.So how do we know if the next-door Evil Universe has infiltrated our own? Simple: by its, or its inhabitants', actions.For example:Normal Google: provides page of search results.Evil Google: provides page of search results, every one of which is arickroll.Normal Steve Jobs:makes jokeabout not being actually dead.Evil Steve Jobs: reallyisdead, but refuses to acknowledge it.Normal new Apple iTunes: has"Genius" functionwhich makes playlists of songs that go together, and can suggest ones to buy from iTunes StoreEvil new Apple iTunes: suggests playlists where all songs are by Nana Mouskouri, and pretends to connect to iTunes Store but really downloads from filesharing network while sending your details to BPI.Normal Microsoft: aims to dominate world by crushing everyoneEvil Microsoft: er, give me a moment here.Come on then - what are your suggestions? What are the evil counterparts of our daily technology existence?
Remember 1994? Blur's Girls &amp; Boys was at the top of the charts, a new sitcom called Friends started to air and I spent a lot of time in the college computer room emailing my then boyfriend, and getting wildly excited when we found we were emailingat the same time. We'd exchange emails, rapidly click "check for mail" and, with only five minutes to wait between messages it was almost like we were having a real conversation!Times have changed, and now instant-messaging software is everywhere. Skype, Windows Live messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and Jabber have a combined total of almost 1 billion users. And that doesn't include the 783 million registered users of Tencent QQ, a messaging service most popular in China.Multiprotocol instant message programs likeAdiumorTrillianhave been created, to allow people with multiple accounts on different messaging systems to read their messages without keeping half a dozen separate programs running.  Online games like World of Warcraft have their own instant chat systems, no internet dating site would be complete without one, and even Facebook's recently jumped on the bandwagon.With all these opportunities for real-time chat, it's easier than ever to make friends online with people in different cities, different countries, and different timezones. But are instant messenger friendships "real" friendships?A study last year suggested not, saying that "90% of contacts who the subjects regarded as close friends were people they had met face to face". That's not very surprising. What interests me is that 10%: people who had not met face-to-face but nonetheless considered each other close friends.Another studyfound that 75% of online role-playing gamers  – a technophile group, admittedly – had made good friendships online.This raises the question of what a "real" friendship is. My college boyfriend and I might have communicated by email, but we did spend plenty of time together IRL – "in real life". But among my geek friends – mostly younger than me – I'm practically unique in never having made friends with someone I met purely online.My instinct remains that real-life friendships must surely be more solid, more authentic, than purely online encounters. But my experience of instant messenger communication is slowly making me change my mind. My dear friend Andrea – who lives in New York –  and I have probably spent a total of 24 hours in one another's physical company. But, after "meeting" online while working on a project together several years ago, we talk almost every day.In a way, this friendship seems purer than a real-life one: Andrea doesn't have to come over to my place to chat, and deal with my washing-up aversion, my bad-hair days, or the mess that accumulates when I'm working. We can share ideas, insights, complaints and triumphs throughout the day, becomingquasi-ambient communicatorsin a way that would probably drive me crazy if we were in the same room all the time.This form of communication does change friendship, of course. In a way, it makes us more likely to take one another's side. If we were living closer together we'd probably by now have spent a lot of time not just with each other but also with each other's friends, partners and families. And, when we reported an argument or a falling-out, that more rounded view might make us less sympathetic. As it is, we are each other's only windows on our worlds; this doesn't make the friendship less "real", but it does make it different.I can't, of course, go round to Andrea's place to babysit her children. She can't bring me chicken soup when I'm ill. But the affectionate cheerleading of an online friendship are, nonetheless, pretty comforting.
If you read the Guardian's technology section every week you may have caught my column a fortnight ago which alleged thatEA has gone insane. Not in a bad way (though opponents to the company's uber-aggressive DRM tactics with Sporemay disagree). It's just that the mega-corp has been making some odd decisions of late - like not making a Dark Knight game and doing another Godfather tie-in even though critics laid into the first one like Mafia henchmen clubbing a police informant.So it came as no surprise to me last Friday, when the companyborrowed a petrol station in Finsbury Park, converted it into a military fuel dump complete with soldiers, jeeps and camo webbing, then proceeded to give away free petrol. Yep, that's New EA, alright. The bizarre enterprise succeeded in generating lots of publicity for Mercenaries 2, but it also accidentally enraged a significant proportion of the local population, including MP Lynne Featherstone who uttered what should go down in history as the world's most entertaining anti-video game statement:Trying to recreate Venezuelan-style fuel riots on the streets of London is completely irresponsible and downright dangerous.Anyway, the real point here is, EA's stunt was brilliant because it works on so many levels of media manipulation and disruption. We know that companies have to go to extraordinary lengths these days to reach a populace that is adept at tuning out the daily advertising bombardment. But to engineer an actual news event, a news event that somehow pastiches ahistoricaldrama (the 1989 fuel riots mentioned by Featherstone)andone that causes considerable discomfort to a significant number of people, is really agenda-setting stuff.This was not just a standard PR stunt that might get in at the end of a local news bulletin - It was a fuel riot within a fuel riot. It was both real and staged. Post-modern philosopher Jean Baudrillard, who writes at length about the seamless interactions between 'reality' and simulation, would have a field day. He famously posited that the Gulf war of 1990 never actually happened, or at least itneedn'thave happened, because the blurry night-site reportage and missile-cam explosions beamed back to to the gawping masses, created a simulcra of war for home viewers that was every bit as convincing as the real thing.EA, then, didn't just hijack a petrol forecourt on Friday, it hijacked the very notion of news. The company, like many others in highly competitive consumer markets, has realised that the only thing people watch andbelieveis the news - so the news is, in effect, a channel of communication. Which makes 'real' news stories competition. News is a rival brand.In its recent Tiger Woods video spoof - which shows the golfer walking on water to mimic a bug in the game - EA conquered religious iconography. By subjagating and subverting the news, the company has now symbolically conquered reality.
Apple underwhelmed observers on Tuesday, updating its iPod nano line, shrinking its top-end iPod Classic (which now boasts a storage of 120GB rather than the 160GB versions sold previously) and offering a software update for the iPhone and iPod Touch – but not, as had been expected, a music subscription offer through iTunes.The event was introduced by Steve Jobs, chief executive of Apple, who began with Mark Twain's famous line that "Reports of my death have been exaggerated" – a reference to the accidental publication of his obituary last month by financial services firm Bloomberg.He also showed off a new version of iTunes – now up to version 8 – which includes "Genius", which automatically makes playlists of songs that "go together", based on anonymised data from other iTunes users about their playlists."Sounds like Last.FM's scrobelizer," commented Mark Mulligan, music analyst at Forrester Research, as he watched the event.Jobs also showed off the new iPod nano – now longer and with an oval profile, which has an accelerometer so that you can "shake to shuffle". They also come in multiple colours. The iTunes Store added high-definition films, while NBC, which had fallen out with the company over its pricing strategy, had now returned to the fold – though there is no indication yet of whether Apple has acceded to NBC's earlier demand to be able to price film and TV shows as it desired, rather than Apple's flat pricing scheme.Jobs also claimed that the iTunes Store is "the number one music distributor in any format". But there were no announcements about any extension of DRM-free music on iTunes, or – as Mulligan and other analysts had expected – of a subscription model for iTunes tocompete with companies such as Nokia.Jobs, making his first major public announcement since June – when his gaunt appearance sparked rumours that the pancreatic cancer that he was diagnosed with in October 2003 had recurred – still looked remarkably thin compared to his former self. But he made no reference to the rumours, apart from the Twain quote – which was his first presentation slide.
Last week,Googleshook up the browser world with the early beta release of their new offering, Chrome. Does it do the trick, or is it just another pie which the search giants has its fingers in? JoinAleks KrotoskiwithJemima Kiss,Charles ArthurandJack Schofieldto delve deeper into the shiny new application.We also speak withDaniel Burka, Creative Director of news aggregation siteDigg, about the service's growing pains, the challenges - and responsibilities - that comes with being a filter of the world's information, and how best to build a (good) reputation in the brave new online world.Listen in for these stories, plus a look at the technologies driving the Large Hadron Collider, details of the consultation that might nix the government's proposed billion-pound spend on broadband roll-out across the country, and more.
The US justice department has hired a top Washington lawyer to head up a possible antitrust investigation into the activities ofGoogle.Sanford Litvack, the well-known litigator, will be advising the government as it prepares a case challenging a recent advertising deal between Google and its Silicon Valley rival, Yahoo.The arrangement, which was made in June and lets Google sell advertising on Yahoo's site in return for a share of profits, has been widely criticised for handing even more power to the dominant force in internet advertising. One analysis suggests that it could result in Google having control of more than 80% of the American online advertising market.In a statement, Google said that it believed the impact would be much less drastic than predicted, and hoped that government officials would not kill the deal."While there has been a lot of speculation about this agreement's potential impact on advertisers or ad prices, we think it would be premature for regulators to halt the agreement before we implement it and everyone can judge the actual impact," it said.Meanwhile Yahoo responded by saying that it was monitoring the news but that "we remain confident that the deal is lawful".Litvack, 72, a former vice-chairman of Disney, has deep connections inside the technology industry. He was previously a board member of computer manufacturers Hewlett Packard and Compaq, and was also an assistant attorney general in the justice department's antitrust division during the late 1970s.It remains unclear what the scope of any possible antitrust investigation will be, with speculation that the government could widen its remit to examine Google's increasingly powerful reach across the internet industry.The announcement of the advertising deal in June was primarily seen as an attempt to disrupt Microsoft's $44bn (£25.2bn) attempt to buy Yahoo. That gambit proved ultimately successful, as the takeover was rejected soon afterwards. But the nature of the Google-Yahoo deal left a bitter taste in the mouths of many industry insiders.Complaints about the pact were widespread, including from the Association of National Advertisers, which represents more than 400 companies including Ford and Wal-Mart. Microsoft, too, protested strongly over the implications of the deal."Never before in the history of advertising has one company been in a position to control prices on up to 90% of advertising in a single medium," Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, told a US congressional committee in July. "Not in television, not in radio, not in publishing. It should not happen on the internet."That brought echoes of Microsoft's notorious antitrust case of the 1990s, which saw government lawyers primarily focused on the anti-competitive practices involving the Seattle-based company's web browser, Internet Explorer.The Microsoft investigation almost led to the break-up of the company &mdash; until the arrival of George Bush in the White House in 2001, which saw the government backtrack and reach an alternative settlement.At the same time as news of Litvack's appointment was made public, Google also announced a series of initiatives it hoped would boost its public image as it hits its 10th anniversary.The Californian firm announced today that it was joining forces with HSBC and John Malone, the communications expert and Liberty Media boss, to create a new company, O3b, which would focus on bringing internet access to the developing world.The new group plans to provide an extensive network of new satellites, dedicated to offering a web connection to the "other 3 billion" people who cannot access a traditional internet line.Meanwhile, Google also sought to allay fears over privacy by announcing that it would be cutting the length of time that it holds on to personally identifiable information on users in half, to just nine months.The company has been slowly reducing the longevity of its logs on people's internet activities, in what has become a cat- and-mouse game with regulators around the world.
I was looking for a handy place to put a bit of info from Nielsen Online: the UK's Top 10 web browsers, according to their "unique audience" (online use). Market shares are also given as percentages:1. Internet Explorer......25,169,576.....75%2. Mozilla (Firefox)........ 4,014,924.....12%3. AOL Explorer..............2,554,037.......8%4. Yahoo! Browser.........1,359,823......4%5. Opera Browser............111,443.......0.33%6. MSN Explorer................75,428.......0.22%7. Flock.............................14,356.......0.04%8. Avant Browser..............10,765.......0.03%9. Safari.............................9,826.......0.03%10. SlimBrowser..................8,840........0.03%(I've asked why Safari gets such a low score. It looks very wrong.)I think it's a pretty safe bet that Google's Chrome will soon be in the top 5, but it will be interesting to see how it turns out.
Chromeis all the news this week: a new browser from the world's foremost internet company, Google. It's no secret that the nonprofit, free, openFirefoxbrowser depends largely on Google's financial largesse and technical contributions, so lots of Firefox diehards are understandably nervous about what this might mean for the future of everyone's favourite free browser.Here's what's got me worried: Google has a vested interest in ensuring that your browser doesn't always do what you tell it to do. Tools like ad-blockers, plugins that let you change the way search results are presented, improved cookie-managers, and tools that let you print pages from Google Book Search are all examples of the kind of thing that is readily available in Firefox, but which Google seems unlikely to want to implement for Chrome.Here're some things that my Firefox does that Google probably doesn't want:• Automatically logs me out of Google when I do searches, but logs me back in again when I want to access my Google Spreadsheets documents – thus Google loses the ability to use cookies to track my travels over the web and my searches, but I retain the convenience of accessing my shared documents without having to remember to log in again• Rewrites Google Image Search pages to direct-link all the thumbnails to the full-size images• Changes the Google logo to a "Gulag" logo showing Google's place as part of the Great Firewall of China, providing a constant reminder to me that for all that I trust Google with lots of key data, I must never forget that it has demonstrated a historical corporate willingness to participate in censorship and surveillance efforts when its profits were on the line• Blocks Google Adword ads• Rewrites the style sheets on Google Book Search pages to make it easy to print and save the scanned-in book-pages.All of this is legal, and all of it comes under the general category of getting my browser to act in my interest, rather than Google's. This dynamic – the struggle between companies to control public behaviour and access to information, and the public's resistance to control and surveillance – is the thing that makes "don't be evil" more than a laughable corporate motto. In the event of Google evilness, we, the users of Google, can take measures to mitigate the evil in our browser windows.For all that Google has had a strong hand in Firefox's development, the fact that I can do all of this is a good indicator that Google's control is less than absolute: that Firefox's user advocacy reigns supreme.Google – and the companies that advertise with it, tailor content to it, and compete with it – can make more money by arrogating to itself the power to control your browser's display and behaviour, even when this runs contrary to your interests. For this reason, Firefox has my business, no matter how shiny the Chrome is.
TheTechnology,GamesandPDAblogs are going to change later today, in ways that are partly cosmetic, and partly deep plumbing; both require surgery.This means that from 4pm (BST) today you won't be able to leaves comments on the blogs. It may also mean that we completely futz up the posts (as in, slightly more than we do already) for a brief period while we get used to a different collection of levers around the back.Comments might be working from 9pm (BST) tonight, if everything works OK. We won't be able to blog until that time.Yes, I know, Apple announcement today, blah blah. But we chose this date a good while ago, and we werefirst. (Next time, Steve, just check with us before, OK?)There will though be multiple benefits from the update for you, gentle reader and commenter: 1) Comments you make here will be integrated with those you make elsewhere on the Guardian site(s),using the Pluck system, so people will be able to see how wise and insightful you are on other blogs by following links in your chosen name; 2) Cross-posting between blogs becomes much easier for us, meaning that for you there won't be the annoyance of trying to decide whether to leave that comment about Microsoft's recalcitrance over the Xbox 360 on the Games or Technology blog - it'll be on both. 3) We'll be able to open up stories in Technology (which includes games of course) to comments, rather than having to do a separate blog post for them. I understand that some people prefer only to read the blog rather than follow links to technology stories, but it makes sense for us and for you not to have two things saying the same thing in different places. 4) new look, easier sharing, easily see what's being most-commented on and most readFor more on the changes, read3,2,1...Blogs relaunchbyAmber, which explains these things, with pictures.Now I know that some of you may be worried about the old blog software. Don't worry - it's going to be taken out the back andshot, um,have a bolt fired through its head, ah, it's going to be set free to gambol in the fields with all the other furloughed blog software. So that's all right, then.
"The Justice Department has quietly hired one of the nation's best-known litigators, former Walt Disney Co. vice chairman Sanford Litvack, for a possible antitrust challenge to Google Inc.'s growing power in advertising," saysThe Wall Street Journal. "Mr Litvack's hiring is the strongest signal yet that the US is preparing to take court action against Google and its search-advertising deal with Yahoo Inc. The two companies combined would account for more than 80% of US online-search ads."For weeks, US lawyers have been deposing witnesses and issuing subpoenas for documents to support a challenge to the deal, lawyers close to the review said. Such efforts don't always mean a case will be brought, however.Later, the story says:It is relatively rare for the Justice Department to hire a special counsel from outside the department. David Boies was brought in as a special counsel to build the landmark antitrust case against Microsoft in 1998. Stephen Axinn, another well-known New York litigator, was hired to challenge WorldCom Inc.'s proposed buyout of Sprint Corp. The companies abandoned that transaction in 2000 after the department and Mr. Axinn challenged the deal.
Here's an interesting game project by Nick Diakopoulos, Kurt Luther, and Irfan Essa of theGeorgia Institute of Technology.AudioPuzzlerinvolves listening to snippets of dialogue drawn from a selection of short videos, then accurately transcribing and re-ordering the contents to make cogent sentences. Once you've completed a puzzle, you get to watch the video.It's sort of like Typing of the Dead, but with a useful purpose - Diakopoulos and co are looking into ways of creating high accuracy video transcriptions, which don't rely on automatic methods. Perhaps a game like AudioPuzzler could be used to create close-captioned videos without requiring lots of staff and financial resources.Have a go anyway - it's quite unusual.(ViaWaterCoolerGames)
Google's ambition to expand into the TV advertising market has been boosted by a multi-year deal with US media giant NBC Universal to sell ads across several of its cable networks.Under the agreement, which comes 16 months after Google struck its first TV ad sales dealwith satellite TV company Dish Network, the search engine giant will sell ads across NBC Universal cable networks Sci Fi, Oxygen, MSNBC, Sleuth and Chiller.The two companies have labelled the tie-up a "strategic multi-year advertising, research and technology partnership" and said that they would work together to develop more effective advertising metrics and "attract non-traditional advertising partners".Google's deal with NBC Universal marks a significant step in the company's ambition to become a one-stop shop for advertisers across all media by expanding its self-service AdWords system to other sectors."The Google TV ads platform is making television advertising more accountable and measurable and we are pleased with our progress to date," said Tim Armstrong, the president of advertising and commerce for Google North America."Our partnership with NBCU will help us to bring the power of television to a broader set of advertisers as well as give our current advertisers increased reach through our system," Armstrong added.The two companies said the TV ad sales deal had the potential to be expanded to other NBC Universal properties.As well as national TV ad sales the two companies have also agreed to work together to adapt Google's technology for use in local markets across the US."This is a great way to reach clients who are interested in buying television advertising but may not have previously had the resources or ability to do so," said Frank Comerford, the president of platform development and commercial operations at NBC Local Media.NBCU said it would maintain its direct relationship with ad agencies, who fear being cut out of the ad sales market by Google, stating that it "can set parameters around the purchase of the available air time".The two companies will share ad revenue and collaborate on a "series of custom marketing and research projects using the Google TV Ads platform".Under Google's partnership with satellite pay-TV operator Dish Network, struck last year, its TV Ads platform can report second-by-second set top box data to improve advertiser feedback on ad viewing.Google has existing agreements to sell adverts across dozens of US newspapers and bought dMarc, an automated network for selling radio ads.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
UPDATED:go to Charles' post on Tech for more info, but the long and short is that you won't be able to make comments between 4pm and (approx) 9pm today. Cheerio!The Guardian is implementing its brand shiny new R2 technology today, and that means a change of scene for us at the gamesblog. So hold on to your hats and pray patience for we three authors as we come to terms with the new format and the new tools.You normal service should resume presently. And with any hope, you won't even notice a thing.
Hey hey, what do you know: we've been nominated for theMCV Games Media Awards 2008! If you'd like to see us walk away with the gong for National Newspaper - Best Games Coverage, do send in your support togma@intentmedia.co.uk. The ceremony's on 16 October in London, so send your support in now!Woot.
Orange is launching a  mobile phone service aimed at the UK's burgeoning eastern European community as part of a drive by new boss Tom Alexander to take the UK's third-largest network into fresh markets.GlobalCell is a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) that will use Orange's nationwide network to run its service. With customer support staff fluent in Polish, Russian, Lithuanian and Slovak as well as English, GlobalCell hopes to grab customers from among the country's recent influx of eastern Europeans. It wants to add Bulgarian, Romanian, Latvian and Czech to its offering in the coming months.Mobile networks are looking to MVNOs to help use spare capacity and target specific parts of the telecommunications market where the network's own brand may not be appropriate. Tesco Mobile, for instance, uses the O2  network, while Asda Mobile and BT Mobile use Vodafone.The mobile wholesale market - where networks charge others to use their infrastructure to run a service - is worth an estimated &pound;1bn a year and is expected to double in size over the next four years.The market is dominated by the UK's first MVNO, Virgin Mobile, which runs on T-Mobile's network and was founded by a team that included Alexander, who took over at Orange late last year. Since joining the company, owned by France Telecom, he has made it a priority to make more use of MVNOs in the hunt for customers.Orange is also understood to be close to a deal with another MVNO aimed at the UK's ethnic community, called Lycamobile. Part of the calling-card company Lycatel, it has been launched in Europe, where it has grabbed customers with cut-price deals. Orange is understood to have lured Lycamobile away from T-Mobile, with which it has a deal in the Netherlands.Vodafone has its own virtual network aimed at the UK's ethnic minority communities called Lebara Mobile. Last week it announced price cuts reducing calls to all UK fixed lines and other mobile networks in the UK to 10p a minute for its pre-pay customers - lower than Vodafone charges its own pre-pay users.But for many operators aimed at immigrant or ethnic minority communities, the real savings come in calls to other countries. On Lebara, for instance, international calls start from 4p a minute.Orange also runs the network for Blyk, a mobile phone service aimed at 16- to 24-year-olds, which gives them free calls and texts in return for accepting targeted advertising and marketing campaigns.The mobile phone operators hope advertising will one day form a major part of their revenue. As well as potentially giving them a slice of the online search market, advertising could pay for things such as free downloads. Blyk, for instance, is believed to have amassed some 150,000 users since its launch just a year ago.But there are concerns that consumers will not take kindly to having their mobile phone turned into another advertising medium. Research from TNS to be published this week shows a significant number of mobile phone users would pay not to have adverts, and younger users are among the strongest refuseniks.More than half the mobile phone users surveyed by the market research firm said downloads should be free but 25% said they would pay for one if it guaranteed they would not have to put up with advertising. Among those aged 16 to 24, 35% said they were happier to pay for downloads than receive them with advertising; in the 35 to 44 age range, only 17% would pay for ad-free downloads.Amy Cashman, managing director of TNS Technology, reckons younger people spend more time personalising their mobile phones so advertising seems much more of an invasion of their privacy."There is a continuum," she said. "As a medium becomes more personal to you, the advertising feels more and more intrusive. You can ignore adverts on the internet but if it comes straight to your phone it's much harder to ignore."
We don't have room inprintfor all your letters and blog pingbacks, but do online. So here's the full text of those we chose from..COMPULSIVELY YOURSI sometimes wonder if reports that talk about people's compulsion to read and respond to email and produced by people with some interest in promoting email itself. In my experience it is true that many do respond to their work emails. People's personal email accounts are a very different matter. In fact I sometimes wonder if most people look at their personal email accounts from one week to the next judging by the lack of response. Sending someone a text, or, if on-line, an instant message, does however often bring results..However these are quite intrusive forms of communication so the response may not always be what you would want. Keith Flett, London&gt;&gt; I would like my e-mail to be nothing more or less than an alerting mechanism. I want my e-mail to alert me when a colleague has posted a question about a particular project in our team site, when my sister posts a message for me on Facebook or Last FM, when someone in America posts a comment in response to one of my blogposts.tfpl.typepad.com&gt;&gt; Great piece from Suw about how email now commands our lives.feelinglistless.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; That's right - email addiction is just like gambling addiction. That explains a lot.stusviews.vox.com&gt;&gt; I wonder if we will ever be in a position to do away with email? Certainly not in the forseeable future, it would seem.markwatmough.co.ukTECHNOPHILE (SANSA MP3 PLAYERS)Charles Arthur (28 August) consider that iPods and phones make MP3 players obsolescent. Neither is convenient for catching up on missed radio programmes while travelling. A programmable DAB player can capture the programmes, and Easy CD-DA Extractor software can batch convert to MP3. The iAudio U2 allows easy loading, playing and deleting of recordings, and re-charges via the USB connection. Allan Jones, Yardley GobionCAPTCHA&gt;&gt; The problem lies in usability vs. vulnerability. You want to make it as easy as possible for users while making it as hard as possible for spam bots. Captchas were never easy for users, and apparently now they're easy for bots. Group sourcing filtering isn't necessarily the answer either as you have to worry about bots being in the group. Now what? That is indeed the question.ma.tt&gt;&gt; Even when you can distinguish those shapes that are meant to be characters from the deliberately inserted wavy lines, you face something like "oo9I0g". There is no way to reliably distinguish between 9 and g, 0 and O, 1 and l and I. So you type in zero zero nine one zero g, on the offchance. It rejects you. You don't get another shot at the ambiguous letters. Oh no. A fresh bleeding captcha. This time you find you have to choose between identifying a letter as either a very thin letter j or the letter i with a slight curve at the bottom. Failed again.whydontyou.org.uk&gt;&gt; I don't use Captcha any more. I've tested it and in the WordPress plugins that use it, I drop the option. Part of the reason, initially, I admit, was because I couldn't get it to work reliably across all my sites….strangelyperfect.tv&gt;&gt; Given that AI has a reputation for non achievement and bullshit, the Turing test seemed very impractical. Of course who could have predicted that people's need to sell penis enlargement pills could have driven such dramatic progress in computer science over that made by dullards working in Universities.theorising.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; However, I also rely on a simpler test to determine if someone is a human or not mainly because it's not as annoying as a Captcha, and it prevents a lot of spam comments from making it through in the first place. It's easy to add a basic question to a form which must be answered correctly in order for the form to be submitted succesfully. Questions could be as simple as: What color is an orange? What is 3 plus 3? How many wheels does a car have?geekamongus.comZEBRAS TO AARDVARKSI need to be upfront with you that my name is William Vukmirovic. On the upside this should mean that I would receive far fewer spam messages than if I were to use my shorter name of Bill Vukmirovic. The downside is that database systems habitually allow lazy bureaucrats to process people alphabetically so that I am always one of the last people to be called at clinics, surgeries, waiting rooms etc. Try it! Bureaucrats are always tidy and will sort files, even if there is not an IT system, into alphabetic order. A bit of research would show that I have spent more time waiting to be seen than my more fortunate alter ego Arthur Aadrvark. The only upside that I can see is that when I am waiting in a queue for the firing squad I will be one of the last!!! William Vukmirovic, Wolverhampton.&gt;&gt; So change your name to zzzz.zzzz.grovesmedia.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; Conclusion, les Anne et Antoine seraient condamnés à être spammés en masse, tandis que les Zoé et autres Xavier seraient davantage protégés. [Conclusion: Anne and Antoine will be condemned to be spammed in bulk, while Zoes and Xavierslespasseurs.com&gt;&gt; The answer in my case at least is, most definitely, yes. Not only could your name affect the amount of spam you receive, if you're a politician it could affect your electability as well.spamnotes.comALL LIFE IS HERE (VIC KEEGAN)&gt;&gt; Did I mention that I routinely fill a 4GB memory card in an afternoon?ministry-of-information.co.ukSUPPLE INTERFACES&gt;&gt; It sounds like a progression of such dubious developments as Windows' 'personalized menus' (those that learn which options you use the most and display those items first), and predictive text. I have previously noted the trend towards customisable interfaces and the prospect of an interface that optimises itself for you personally is certainly alluring. But it always comes at a cost to standardisation - if we all have interfaces specific to us, how can we transfer to using someone else's computer, or even teach or communicate about a program without any common ground?blog.ponoko.comLILIPUT...ER&gt;&gt; They're called knee-tops and ultra-portables. NOBODY calls them "liliputers", and if you do, you should DIE a HORRIBLE DEATH.digg.comDOCX RAGEBackwards compatibility? It is 2008, why in the bloody world do i have to dink around trying to open a docx file! $(#*#*@&amp;@&amp; Kim Johnson (by email)
Microsoft has sneaked out some new Zune music players, or at least, Fry's has -- as spotted byZunerama. Fry'ssays:This New slim 8GB Zune (blue/silver/black) device is good to go with plenty of room for your favorite music, pictures and video. It comes Complete with an FM tuner and buy from FM capabilities, wireless sync, Zune to Zune wireless sharing, video playback and more, so you get all that Zune power in one tight little package. Holds up to 2,000 songs, 25,000 pictures, or 25 hours of video."Buy from FM" means you can tag a song you hear on the radio then buy it online later. It also seems to work as a sort of internet radio. It comes with a couple of games: Texas Hold'em and Hexic. It also plays WMA, AAC, and MP3 music files, and MPEG-4, WMV, and H.264 videos.According to theLA Times: "Zune will start offering recommendations based on the music users listen to."According toCNet: "Microsoft plans to charge $249 for the 120GB model, $199 for the 16GB model and $149 for the 8GB flash model. It also plans to chop prices on some of the remaining older devices in the channel."Maybe the new Zune has some feature that's going to be added to an iPod tomorrow. If so, Microsoft will be able to say "OK, we already do that." Or maybe not...Update: The new Zunes are now office, er,official, ie there's aMicrosoft press release. The more interesting bits are Mixview, Channels and Picks, as follows:•Mixview. Customers can select an artist, album or Zune Card to activate a dynamic, visual mosaic of related music and listeners. With each click users can take the view in a new direction, creating a fun, graphical way to discover new music. Mixview works with users' current collection of music, in addition to tracks and albums from across the Zune Marketplace.•Channels. Channels are an exciting new tool for music discovery. Customers can explore channels programmed by experts from the music industry such as the Billboard Top 100, The FADER magazine and KEXP radio, in addition to workout-themed channels tailored for high, medium and low impact, and top chart channels from all genres and subgenres. The powerful Zune software will even create custom channels for each user, based on favorite artists and genres.•Personal Picks. Now the Zune software learns what kind of music users like and makes personal recommendations. When users log onto Zune Marketplace, they'll find a new area called Picks where the Zune recommendation algorithm will suggest artists, albums and tracks based on the music they have been listening to, as well as channels they might like and listeners like them in the Zune Social.Actually it would be much nicer just to be able to (digitally) record stuff from the FM radio, but that wouldn't fit the general approach, which seems to be to sell Zune owners more tracks.Microsoft has kept updating the Zune firmware, but it's not clear whether users of older Zunes will be able to access some of the new features.
Rob Dubbin, a writer for The Colbert Report, came up with an odd way to celebrate Google's birthday: he decided to avoid it for 24 hours: "a doomed exercise that began as a challenge and morphed into a horror show," he writes inThe Washington Post.It's not that hard, is it?
If you hadn't heard, Andy Murray, the Scottish tennis player who last night reached the US Open final with avery impressive win over Rafael Nadal- who holds the French Open, Wimbledon, Olympics and world No.1 titles - isalso on Twitter. (And if you haven't heard of Twitter, starthere, and followhere.)Murray - born in May 1987 - is a paid-up member ofGeneration Y- he's got asiteandblog(though that seems pretty much defunct - no update since Wimbledon) and heloves playing videogames- to the faint despair of his former coach Brad Gilbert, one senses:His idea of a great time is studying his opponent's play on DVDs. And then he plays video games seven hours a day. So if he is not playing video games or playing tennis, he is with his girlfriend. He lives a quiet relaxed life, focused on being a tennis player. But he is obsessed with video games," he says when asked to describe his former charge, before adding a telling after-thought. "I don't play video games."And of course his mobile phone is rarely far away, though he seems so far not to have taken it on court. ("g2g, ump called time").However we're not quite sure Andy's really got the measure of this Twitter thing. Usually, people sign up, and they start "following" other people - a group of those whose views and experiences they're interested to hear about. Usually it approaches and then rapidly breaks through theDunbar number(150), while their followers may grow concomitantly, depending on how interesting their tweets are.Murray'smost recent, at the time of writing: "sat in redeye getting dinner. good to get the job done today. pumped to meet will ferrell! wish me luck!" (Ferrell watched his semifinal, and at one point pulled up his shirt to expose his biceps - echoing Murray's gesture at Wimbledon. Interestingly, he posted it via "mobile web" - sounds like a smartphone to me.)Murray, however, is following precisely1person: his brotherJamie, who reached the mixed open final in New York, only to lose to the favourites. And Jamie's following nobody. Come on, guys. Isn't thereanyoneyou'd like to hear from? Will there come a day when Nadal and Federer and Murray and Djokovic trade insults via Twitter ahead of a match? Will boxers? Well, certainly not if they don't follow anyone. It's the social thing, you see.
In 2001, a website briefly attracted attention by publishingBritney Spears' Guide to Semiconductor Physics. It was, said Scientific American, "one of the stranger approaches to teaching science that we've seen lately". For me, however, it was a sign of changing times.Originally one part of the internet (a network of networks) was SPAN, the Space Physics Analysis Network, and the web was invented at Cern, Europe's atom-smashing centre, to help make scientific papers more readily available. Today, it's used to track the orbits of Britney Spears, Paris Hilton and other "stars" unknown to space physics.Perez Hilton, Pink is the New Blog, PopSugar, Just Jared, E! Online, TMZ … There are dozens of them, all much the same, albeit some are snarkier than others. They all focus on celebrity indiscretions and wardrobe malfunctions, heavily illustrated with paparazzi photos and snatched videos.The thing is, nowadays not even high court judges can get away with not knowing who Paris Hilton is (assuming it's possible not to know), or Madonna or Amy Winehouse, but the lesser lights are harder to track. Something likeTMZis one way to keep in touch. And if TMZ misses anything, it has a terrific blogroll on its front page, with links to a vast array of sites from Absolute Punk to Young, Black and Fabulous. (Sorry, I wish it went from Aargh! to Yeeeah!)TMZ stands for the Thirty-Mile Zone around Hollywood, beyond which stars were "on location". In sum, it's the centre of the celebrity universe. However, at least one other city is known to exist – Las Vegas – mainly because H-Wood celebs go there to party or, sometimes accidentally, get married. But TMZ also has plenty of political coverage, at least during elections. Recent examples include Unprotected Sex Has Its Perks, and McCain's VP – Beaver Roundup.TMZ's blog-style home page has little news and even less to read, though stories are sometimes picked up by mainstream media. But casual visitors are more likely to be attracted by the photo and video galleries, or by the celebrity listings section. This shows Britney Spears (1,408 stories) streaking ahead of Paris Hilton (893) and Lindsay Lohan (598). Other significant figures include Nicole Richie (196), Brad &amp; Angelina (148), Madonna (137) and Pamela Anderson (120). However, any "naughty bits" are obscured by little stars.TMZ loves collecting groups of photos around a common theme, such as celebrity tattoos, or celebrity yachts. For the Olympics, it did Olympic butts. Some are presented as quizzes: can you guess the star from the six-pack? (No, I can't.)While some celebrity sites are done by amateurs for fun, TMZ is a serious business. It was launched in 2005 by AOL and Warner Brothers' Telepictures Productions, both of which are owned by the mighty Time Warner. In 2007, it followed up its web success with TMZ on TV, a programme syndicated on Fox and other local stations across America. At least for now, it seems there's plenty of cash in trash.
Today,Plastic Logicplans to preview an electronic newspaper reader with a screen around 2.5x the size of the one on the Amazon Kindle, reportsThe New York Times. (It will be at theDemo Fallshow.) However, you will have to wait until next January's CES for an indication of the price.The story says the device "uses a flexible, lightweight plastic, rather than glass, a technology first developed at Cambridge University in England. Plastic Logic, based in Mountain View, Calif., was spun off from that project."Plastic Logic hails, of course, from Cambridge, England -- to be specific, the Cavendish Laboratory -- and one of its investors is Hermann Hauser, co-founder of Acorn. However, everybodyknowsthat nothing electronic of any consequence has ever been invented outside Silicon Valley, so it helps if you look as though you're from Google country, Mountain View.....
Gartner's numbers for Preliminary Smartphone Sales to End Users by Operating System, 2Q08 (Units) -- Click for larger versionThe smartphone market is a hard one to track because of devices sold under a wide variety of names, and because research firms have different definitions of smart phones. It's also subject to change when new products take off (like the Apple iPhone) or fade. In other words, don't bet your house on anybody's "real" market share.Still, according to Gartner, Nokia is still by far the market leader with 47.5% of the smartphone market on 15.2m units sold to users. However, its market share has dropped from 50.8% in the same quarter last year.Research in Motion (RIM) has done well with BlackBerry sales growing by 126.4% to 5.6m units, year over year, and it has now overtaken Windows Mobile.Apple did not star in this quarter because it was in a product transition. Gartner comments:In the second quarter of 2008, Apple's share of global smartphone sales to end users decreased to 2.8% from 5.3% in the first quarter of 2008. The significant drop in sales was mainly due to the company having to clean the channel of first-generation iPhone units before the arrival of the iPhone 3G in June. Apple's sales figure in the second quarter of 2008 accounted for sales of inventory carried over from the first quarter of 2008. Gartner analysts expect iPhone sales to grow significantly in the second half of 2008, enabling the company to regain a top position in the global smartphone vendor rankings.It's interesting to see that Palm grew strongly from a low base, thanks to new products, while Linux declined. That may well be down to Motorola, and Google's Android will no doubt reverse the trend.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
We announced theViva Piñata competitionlast week, and the floods of entries have been awesome. Once again I'm incredibly impressed with the extreme creativity of the gamesblog's readers. You people rock.But now you're going to want to rock even more, as Microsoft have thrown anXbox Live Vision Camerainto the prize package, which means that the booty up for grabs - just for submitting a description and name of your personal Piñata - is the game, the camera and an exclusive Piñata card.We're extending the deadline for 24 hours; all existing entries are still in the pot. New entries welcome! Send your pick of the Piñata fromthis site, plus your name and your Piñata's description to gamesblog +at+ gmail.com by Tuesday 9 Sept, midnight GMT and you could be the winner.
Google, which enjoyed its 10th anniversary as a corporation yesterday, has a lot to celebrate. During that short period it has become the most interesting - and powerful - company on the planet. Its search engine, the motor for its vast advertising-generated profits, is the gateway through which most people on the internet gain access to knowledge about practically anything. From this ubiquitous base it has expanded - often by acquisition - to provide for all our web needs, including spreadsheets, email, documents, video (YouTube), blogs, calendars and news. One of its projects is scanning practically every book in the world for our perusal; it has just launched a virtual world to compete with the likes of Second Life; and in a few weeks it will release Android, its operating system for mobile phones, which could be its most important product when mobile devices become our main access to the internet.Last week it threw another pebble - or maybe boulder - into the pool with the release of a web browser, Chrome, to challenge Microsoft's Internet Explorer (which has more than 70% of the global market). Like other Google consumer products this was free, built with open-source methods and so available for any other browser, including Explorer, to adopt or adapt. This is not philanthropy. It is an each-way bet. If it upsets Explorer's dominance of corporate markets it will be a big victory in Google's aim of establishing an online alternative to Microsoft's 90% armlock on PC operating systems. If it does not, but makes all browsers more effective, then more people will use the web - thereby boosting Google's search-linked advertising.Google started off as a new kind of corporation that people could actually feel a part of. It had the motto "Don't be evil" - which it now seems to be playing down a bit - and a wonderful mission to make all the information in the world available to anyone. If it succeeds, the whole world will be better-educated. So far it has mainly kept to its principles, despite an ill-advised move to bow to censorship in China. But as it gets bigger, the awesome responsibility of curating the frightening amount of data it collects about us - which the FBI and MI6 can only dream about - becomes overwhelming. Even more urgently, Google's recent deal to let Yahoo adopt its contextual advertising capability means Google could command 90% of the web's contextual advertising. This is a monopoly - and potentially a very unhealthy one. Google, which won admirers through being a David against the Goliath of Microsoft, must be prevented at all costs from becoming a similar monopoly, even though it is giving its products away free.
This year's most eagerly awaited computer game has arrived. Sales of Spore in the US are predicted to top two million copies by the end of this month, which is surprising, considering that the game is based on evolutionary theory, and surveys consistently show that a full 50% of Americans don't believe that human beings evolved.Created by legendary games designer Will Wright, who previously produced such classics as SimCity and The Sims, Spore - originally titled Sim Everything - is an enchanting and fascinating game. It's easy to get started: simply pick a name for your tide-pool-dwelling amoeba, decide whether it's carnivorous or herbivorous, and start zooming around the water, finding food and gathering enough points for a DNA mutation. Like other simulation games, Spore rewards thought and effort, but it's also simple enough for anyone to enjoy passing half an hour growing a tiny creature into a larger one. Eventually your species will develop enough to form rudimentary legs and crawl to ground. Then it's time to mutate some more, develop intelligence, form tribes, civilizations and eventually travel off into space.With its educational subject matter, Spore is the kind of game any parent should be pleased to find their child absorbed in, and although it wears its learning lightly, the brutal truth of evolution is hard to miss. How do you succeed as a carnivorous creature? By hunting other smaller creatures, of course; even if they're squeaking pitifully as you devour them. And if you focus your creature's development on features that will help you hunt, you might find that you, in turn, are unable to escape becoming prey. In Spore, nature is red in tooth and pixel.It's even got an out-clause for those who doubt the truth of Darwin's theories. Species do change in response to their environments. But the player is also in charge of that development. One might almost say that the species in Spore are "intelligently designed". Perhaps its philosophy has enough leeway to keep everyone happy. Or alternatively, to keep everyone offended. At the very least,  it will cause debate. After all, you have to pass those long winter evenings somehow.
Building Britain's next generation of super-fast broadband network, which can download music in seconds and movies in minutes, will cost between &pound;5.1bn and &pound;28.8bn, according to the government's independent advisory group.The estimate from the Broadband Stakeholder Group, published today, comes before reports on next-generation access networks by government-appointed adviser and former Cable &amp; Wireless boss Francesco Caio and regulator Ofcom next week.BT will spend &pound;1.5bn rolling out the sort of fibre-optic network needed to achieve the speeds common in Korea and Japan to 10m homes over the next four years.Virgin Media, meanwhile, is installing technology that provides broadband at more than twice the speed possible on BT's best broadband line. But it will only ever reach about half the country.The BSG report reckons that the technology that BT plans to deploy in cities - which only connects cabinets at the end of streets to the new network - will cost &pound;5.1bn. Stretching the fibre networks all the way into every home in the country could cost &pound;28.8bn.Anthony Walker, chief executive of the BSG, said the main cost of the project is digging up the nation's roads to bury fibre, and the economic case for such deployment - based on take-up of about 30% of potential homes - can relatively easily be made for about 70% of the country.It is highly unlikely that the government will provide any financial help to plug the digital divide that looks set to appear between urban and rural areas.In a recent interview with Television, the monthly magazine of the Royal Television Society, Caio, who was asked by the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform to investigate next-generation networks, said he was minded to advise the government that it leaves the job to the market rather than recommend state intervention.
Engadget hassomething of a scoop: a photo that may well be the new iPod nano,due to be announcedthis Tuesday. It certainly looks the part: longer than the existing squab-shaped one, but with a bigger screen too.That fits with the tiny nano you can just seen in the picture in the invite: it's long and thin, not wide like the present nano. (See? Tiny clues, spread everywhere.)Intriguingly, though, John Gruber - who has some contacts within Apple through various backchannels, and just the fact of his big readership -says:Apple seems to have some leaks in the iPod division. The iPhone news, however — which the iPod division doesn't know about — hasn't leaked.Which of course gives us a wholenewlot of speculation to chew over.
Armando Iannucci'sCharm Offensiveis a pretty much form-free comedy program that airs on BBC Radio 4. (He'll either be hugely offended by that description or love it. Hmm.) It's described as "a heady mix of topical comedy, chat and outrageous fibs."Anyway, on Friday (and repeated on Saturday) the panel (Andy Zaltzman, Will Smith and Matt Kirshen) somehow - ask me not - got around to the topic of theLarge Hadron Collider. Yes. As Iannucci put it, the results will either "(a) suck the world inside-out or (b) be boring."So, what do they think of it? Well, given that it's going to be generating conditions that have only previously existed in the microseconds after the Big Bang, one of them - I don't know which - commented that it's "the most extreme historical reenactment society ever."Yeah. Take that,Sealed Knot.But the predictions can't be true? "Just as a precaution - arrange some kind of sign with your loved ones so afterwards you can identify the Evil Me." And once the experiments are done? "They should get everyone who lives within a 10-mile radius to dress as zombies when [the scientists] come out."And what will it be used for when it's been finished with? "It'll be renamed the O2 Large Hadron Collider. And Led Zeppelin will play there. At a million miles an hour."You canlisten yourself(it's at about 16 minutes). Note: it's iPlayer (hence Flash?), rather than the Real plugin thing.(Filed under "Hardware" because, well, "Out of this world" doesn't really capture something that's very much deep in this world.)I'd also say this was one of the funniest episodes of this series I've ever heard. Including his views about people who comment onhis columnsin the Observer: "it was just full of... bile!"Oh, and noting that next week's will be his last column, at least for some time. Gah. Though he does return to the LHC topic...Actually, next week may not be my last column after all. That could be the one you're reading now. The world may end before next Sunday. They're switching on the Large Hadron Collider in a few days so they can smash subatomic particles at very high speed to create a mini-Big Bang. (There's a column to be written on the rise of oxymoron in everyday discourse. How can you have something that's mini-Big? Similarly, how can Starbucks sell something called a dark frappuccino light? Surely that defies many laws of reality? Yet go into any Starbucks and you'll see their oxymoronic coffee being touted like it was the most natural thing on earth.)
(Crossposted from the Technology blog, whereJack Schofield wrote it:) Dean Takahashi has written books about Microsoft's original Xbox and the follow-up Xbox 360, so it's a topic he knows well. Now he's published a huge (6-page) piece onXbox 360 defectsat Venture Beat, which, he writes: "I view ... as the last chapter for my book on the making of the Xbox 360,The Xbox 360 Uncloaked: The Real Story Behind Microsoft's Next-Generation Video Game Console."In some respects it could be considered apost mortem. Since the body is still very much alive, however, it's a painful one for Microsoft. He writes:I asked Microsoft to confirm or deny 35 different facts contained in this story. Instead, I received a formal statement from a Microsoft spokesperson, saying the company had already acknowledged an "unacceptable number of repairs" to Xbox 360 consoles and responded to the hardware failures with a free replacement program. The statement also said, "This topic has already been covered extensively in the media. This new story repeats old information, and contains rumors and innuendo from anonymous sources, attempting to create a new sensational angle, and is highly irresponsible."I don't think this story is sensational. I have tried to verify the facts over several years.On the more optimistic side, Takahashi notes that the latest motherboard, Jasper,has both a 65nm IBM microprocessor as well as a 65nm graphics chip from AMD. The improved graphics chip may finally run at acceptable thermal limits. But it's very late in coming, compared to the rest of the chip industry, in part because Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co, the chip contract manufacturer making the graphics chips, was slow to shift to 65nm factories. Late or not, Jasper is what enabled Microsoft to cut its prices this week.Next year, or maybe in 2010, there's Valhalla. "That board will have a single chip that combines both the graphics chip and microprocessor on a single device. This is the kind of technical tour de force that Sony achieved with the chips for the PlayStation 2, a move that allowed the company to significantly reduce manufacturing costs."Ultimately, of course, the Xbox 360 has been too successful for Microsoft to be able to junk it, the way it junked the Xbox. It has to keep the show on the road in order to hold on to the advances it has made in the development and sale of console games, and the success of the Xbox Live service.
In the old days, dates fell into one of two categories: BC and AD. Now the relevant categories are BG. and AG: Before and After Google. The critical date was 1998, when Larry Page and Sergey Brin launched their PageRank system for rating web pages. It was an epochal moment. No British child knows there was once a world without Google. In fact most would be astonished that people were able to get along without it.Google is 10 years old today and it has celebrated by upsetting the world's applecart - again. Last week it entered the browser market by releasing a beta (ie test) version of its own web browser - Google Chrome. On the face of it, this might not seem a big deal: after all, the once-moribund browser market is getting pretty crowded with Microsoft's revitalised Internet Explorer (which still has about 70 per cent of the market) being jostled by Firefox, Safari, Opera, Camino, Flock and others.And indeed this is the way the mainstream media mostly treated the Google offering. The verdict was that it looked promising, but that lots of bells and whistles were missing. There are also, it seems, quite a few bugs - usefully collated by Information Week, which concluded that 'Internet users with a low tolerance for unfinished software would be well advised to temper their expectations of Chrome, at least for the next few beta releases'.To treat Chrome as just another browser, however, would be a mistake. Even in its unfinished state it heralds a radical change in our ideas about what a browser is and what it does. In its original (early 1990s) form, a browser was software that provided a passive window on to the web: a way of reading web pages. The next stage involved embedding small programs in web pages which browsers could execute (to give, for example, fancy drop-down menus). After that came Ajax - a set of programming techniques used for creating interactive web applications which form the basis for many Google applications like Gmail - and which is the current state of the art.What's happened is that the browser has morphed from a passive viewing device into a platform for running increasingly complicated applications across the internet. It's become a kind of mini operating system. Since Google's corporate future is predicated on web applications, the capability of the browser is of critical interest to the company and its geeks have clearly concluded it's no longer up to the job.  As one astute commentator (Nicholas Carr) put it, 'To Google, the browser has become a weak link in the cloud system - the needle's eye through which the outputs of the company's massive data centres usually have to pass to reach the user - and as a result the browser has to be rethought, revamped, retooled, modernised'.The software architecture of Chrome reveals the extent of Google's ambitions for the browser. Its designers really are hell-bent on creating a miniature operating system which is more stable and resilient. Does that mean - as some mainstream media were speculating last week - that Google aims to 'capture' the browser market?No - because Chrome is released as an open source product, which means that anyone can take it and build on it. In fact, Google's strategy is much more subtle: the company is aiming to redefine the browser as an operating system. Making it open source in effect ensures that Firefox, Safari, Opera &amp; Co will eventually have the same architecture as Chrome. They will thus all provide the kind of robust, resilient platform Google needs for its web applications.All of which is fiendishly clever. And, oddly enough, it brings us full circle - back to 1994/5 when Netscape, the company that brought the first major browser to the market, realised that the software could become the ubiquitous gateway to computing services and began to talk carelessly about the browser replacing the operating system. Microsoft interpreted this as a threat to its monopoly and set out to destroy Netscape - and succeeded.Google's launch of Chrome provides an interesting echo of that distant conflict. It signals that it, too, believes the browser could become the operating system of the future. In that sense, it has thrown down the gauntlet to Microsoft - just as Netscape did. The difference now is that Google is a tougher proposition than poor old Netscape ever was. Looks like Bill Gates got out just in time.
What was the internet like before Google?When I first logged on to the internet in 1990 at university, navigating it was both easy and difficult. It was easier because it there was just so much less of it. This was before the creation of the world wide web in 1991.However, life on the internet was also more difficult because you had to do everything from a Unix command line.In those early days, friends recommended sites such as the FTP servers at sunet.se and wustl.edu. Gopher, an early directory system named after the school mascot at the University of Minnesota where it was created, made it much easier to find information.In 1993, I used an alpha version of the pioneering web browser, developed by NCSA on the north side of my university, the University of Illinois at Champaign Urbana. Even in those early versions, I knew that the point-and-click ease of Mosaic would open up the web to the world.During the 1990s, traffic on the internetincreased by at least 100% almost every year, and the number of sites exploded. Internet users needed some way to find what they were looking for.In 1993, two years before Larry Page and Sergey Brin met as graduate computer science students at Stanford University, six undergraduates there created Excite. They used statistical analysis of word relationships to improve search results.In 1994, two Stanford electrical engineering students, David Filo and Jerry Yang, created a directory of their favourite sites andYahoowas born. Although more of a directory than a search engine, Yahoo became the map for many in finding their way around the early web.Search enginescame fast and furious in the mid-1990s, but one quickly rose above the others: AltaVista.AltaVista was a bit of a side project for Digital Equipment Corporation, but it showed off the power of their 64-bit Alpha powered servers. AltaVista was fast and returned lots of results, but it was almost too much of a good thing for the average user returning hundreds of irrelevant results.Inktomi rolled out HotBot, which generated some buzz because it returned more relevant results than AltaVista. There were of course other search engines, including Ask.com and AlltheWeb, but whenGooglewas launched, internet users quickly flocked to its fast-loading and simple site and excellent results.Using the almost250 year-old theoriesBritish mathematician and Presbyterian ministerThomas Bayes, Page and Brin developed an algorithm to analyse the links to a site, helping to predict what sites were relevant to search terms. The business really was started in a garage – well, after they had to move the first servers out of their college dorm room.Google hasn't solved search. There is still the so-called dark web, or deep web – terabytes of data that aren't searchable or indexed.There are an estimated19m domain namesregistered, with some 40,000 new domains registered every day. They would probably admit that they still have much work to do in their mission to organise the world's information, but Google made it much easier to find what one was looking for.I'm sure that there are a lot of internet users who can't remember what life was like before Google.
Dean Takahashi has written books about Microsoft's original Xbox and the follow-up Xbox 360, so it's a topic he knows well. Now he's published a huge (6-page) piece onXbox 360 defectsat Venture Beat, which, he writes: "I view ... as the last chapter for my book on the making of the Xbox 360,The Xbox 360 Uncloaked: The Real Story Behind Microsoft's Next-Generation Video Game Console."In some respects it could be considered apost mortem. Since the body is still very much alive, however, it's a painful one for Microsoft. He writes:I asked Microsoft to confirm or deny 35 different facts contained in this story. Instead, I received a formal statement from a Microsoft spokesperson, saying the company had already acknowledged an "unacceptable number of repairs" to Xbox 360 consoles and responded to the hardware failures with a free replacement program. The statement also said, "This topic has already been covered extensively in the media. This new story repeats old information, and contains rumors and innuendo from anonymous sources, attempting to create a new sensational angle, and is highly irresponsible."I don't think this story is sensational. I have tried to verify the facts over several years.On the more optimistic side, Takahashi notes that the latest motherboard, Jasper,has both a 65nm IBM microprocessor as well as a 65nm graphics chip from AMD. The improved graphics chip may finally run at acceptable thermal limits. But it's very late in coming, compared to the rest of the chip industry, in part because Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co, the chip contract manufacturer making the graphics chips, was slow to shift to 65nm factories. Late or not, Jasper is what enabled Microsoft to cut its prices this week.Next year, or maybe in 2010, there's Valhalla. "That board will have a single chip that combines both the graphics chip and microprocessor on a single device. This is the kind of technical tour de force that Sony achieved with the chips for the PlayStation 2, a move that allowed the company to significantly reduce manufacturing costs."Ultimately, of course, the Xbox 360 has been too successful for Microsoft to be able to junk it, the way it junked the Xbox. It has to keep the show on the road in order to hold on to the advances it has made in the development and sale of console games, and the success of the Xbox Live service.
Strong Bad is an animated Mexican wrestler with boxing gloves for hands and the undoubted star of surreal cartoon site Homestar Runner. Assisted by a strangely shaped animal-of-questionable-species and hindered by his high-pitched, fragile sister, Strong Bad's main spot is answering reader's emails - of which there are hundreds to happily plough through if you've not been here before. Most recently he was asked to perform a magic trick and shared his thoughts on "moneygicians" - people who blow their life savings on "gaze mazing" props - and their strange sub-category, "flowy sleeved moneygicians". Like South Park and Modern Toss, Strong Bad isn't exactly beautiful to look at but he's relentlessly funny.
It is rare for me to contemplate new gadgetry without a pang of regret for the early passing of Douglas Adams. I miss him both as friend and technology guru. For years, we played with digital toys together, swapping software and finding new ways to make our systems crash. Back in the 80s, we had acoustic coupler modems, capable of what we thought was a dazzling half-duplex 1,200 bps. In those pre-internet days (or, more accurately, pre-ISP days), we communicated with each other's Macs via these modems: plugging telephone receivers into the rubber-grommeted holes of the coupler, we spoke into the Mac's inbuilt microphone and waited for it to emerge from the other end as (broadly) intelligible speech. It took us a week to fine-tune the system, but in the end we could hold a conversation. We triumphantly told Douglas's wife, Jane, who asked why we didn't get rid of the computers, the acoustic couplers, the miles of wiring and the discs. "It's called a telephone conversation," she said. Doh.Douglas never lived to see his beloved Apple rise from near-collapse in the 90s to today's position. He died a few months before the arrival of the first generation of iPods; I missed his response to them dreadfully, as I have every new arrival in the digital sphere since. Some Christians have What Would Jesus Do? as a motto; I have What Would Douglas Think?I'm looking now at the SanDisk Sansa e2x0 (x=memory option, from 2Gb to 8Gb), a new media player from the flash data card people. Playing with it over the week, my mind has been turning on one of Douglas's theories. When asked if everyone should become "computer literate", he harked back to a 30s Boy's Wonder Book Of Science in which one article extolled the virtues of the new generation of brushed DC motors and how they were going to revolutionise the world. There were diagrams of a "house of the future", a huge electric motor in the attic with a series of belts driving everything from the washing machine to the rotisserie. The piece concluded that, as a result, everyone would be very handy with DC motors - "electric motor literate". What its authors failed to predict was that such motors would indeed revolutionise the home, but instead of one big master, there'd be dozens of small motors, invisible to the user. They are still with us, in our washing machines, computers, cars - even in the first six generations of iPod. We don't have to be motor literate, however - they are just there.Douglas argued the same with computer literacy. We used to believe that homes would have one great computer controlling music, lights and heating. In fact, we have them in our tumble-driers and thermostats, cars and coffee machines. But we don't have to be computer literate any more than we need to know how a car engine works. All we have to learn is how to negotiate the traffic.The Sansa is good, but it is hard to get excited about an audio video player, even a cheap one with such a good battery life (its most impressive feature). Most of us have them built into our phones, and we'll soon have them in our cameras, fridges and cars. It will be interesting to see how Apple copes with the diminishing excitement of new iPods. Meanwhile the SanDisk is fine. Small, good value, better sound reproduction than an iPod - ideal for DRM free music. But surely it won't be long before MP3 players go the way of the electronic calculator: from eye-popping novelty to consumer essential to gift from the estate agent to dusty, solar-powered in a drawer.Being flash memory, of course, the Sansa doesn't have an electric motor. Shame: Douglas and I would have enjoyed taking it apart and proving our electric motor illiteracy.Acronyms of the weekBPSBits per second. In 1985, 1,200 bps was fast; your internet connection is millions of times faster.ISPInternet service provider. In the 80s, only academe and the military provided internet service. The arrival of the first commercial ISPs ushered in the internet age.DRMDigital rights management. System that 'locks' music or video bought on the internet so it can be played only by the authorised buyer.·stephenfry.com/blog
Is there an easy way to transfer video cassettes to CD or DVD? I'd like a gadget that's easy and simple to use.The bell has been tolling for the humble video cassette for some time now, but it's simple to buy a gizmo that can shift your old home movies and back catalogue films on to disc. Which option you choose, however, is largely dependent on how much money you've got to spend and how much time you want to take.The most straightforward way is to buy a DVD recorder; a gizmo that combines a traditional player with the sort of burner you'd find on a computer. Pick one that lets you plug in a video recorder - at the basic end of the range, the Lite-On LVW-5045 goes for less than &pound;50 - and simply record straight on to DVD.If you're feeling flush, though, go for a combination recorder, such as the &pound;159 Daewoo DF4501P, which houses both a VCR and a DVD and can transfer tapes with one press of a button. Another option is to buy a video capture card for a computer. If you've already got a DVD burner in your PC, this could prove far cheaper. There's a good blow-by-blow guide on how to do it on the How To Do Things website: seeicanhaz.com/vcrtodvd.
Anyone who lives or works in London will be familiar with the gauntlet of free newspaper vendors one must slalom past in order to enter a train station. The publications are home to random news fluff of such little substance that they practically dissolve in front of your eyes before you reach the bottom of an escalator. This snarky site has their measure with sensationalist drivel on capital obsessions John Terry, 2012 and Boris Johnson. Best of all are the London Lite-mimicing ads and lists - including Simon Schama's 3 favourite throw-ins, Domestic Slave Of The Day and, for anyone missing TV Go Home, a preview of a new Channel 4 show, Alex Zane's Book Wank.
This is going to be fun - a Peugeot 308 SW Sport, with a free tank of petrol. What could be better? Living above a garage, I'd initially thought about asking the mechanics to strip it down for the most extensive car review in newspaper history, but having set eyes on the Babylon-red beauty with the leer of a lascivious Space Hopper, I think I'll take her somewhere nice. This turns out to be Mum's - and it's pouring.Having managed to switch off the alarm, I am faced with some very advanced-looking kit. There's satnav, which I've never used before; ESP - am I supposed to sense what this is? And an on-board computer to tell you when it's got a pain in the plugs. Before I'm out of the drive, it informs me I've sent a distress message to Peugeot - I'd better get out of here before the cavalry arrives.It's reassuringly straightforward to drive, with all the basic controls where you'd expect - not something you could always take for granted with French cars - and it feels surprisingly solid compared with the Peugeots of my youth. The interior is luxurious, fitted with sumptuous seats, a JBL hi-fi and leather steering wheel. Should the worst happen, it becomes a bouncy castle on wheels with seven air bags. Perhaps to cover my carbon-emitting, one-man-in-a-car shame, I should inflate them and draw faces to look like a family.The speedometer does not have 40mph on its dial, which is a bugger with all the cameras. Did I mention the six gears? On the M4, I test for grunt and, yes, there is plenty.Mother is impressed, and takes photographs. It seems to represent an upturn in family fortunes, even though it's going back next week.Around the twisting lanes of west Berkshire, it occurs to me that I wouldn't want to meet anything coming in the oppos ... ah - a removal lorry. We pass one another - perhaps this car's only wide on the inside? My confidence is growing.While I am searching for the headlight switch, it speaks to me. It says, "Sorry.""I beg your pardon?""Sorry," it replies.Ah, voice commands. "Where's the headlamp switch?" I ask in an authoritative voice."Sorry."The lights and wipers can be set to automatic, which is useful because the heavens have opened.Another spin and another surprise; I am travelling south-west at an altitude of 300ft - I hadn't noticed this feature before. As far as I can tell, we're still on the road. I'll head to Aldermaston; perhaps there's an in-built Geiger counter as well.The three back seats are a bit sit-up-and-beg, but there's plenty of room. Unfortunately I am now trapped. The locks are child-proof and the only way back is an unseemly scramble over the headrests - embarrassing. The boot is vast and contains a couple of dicky seats - I get my foot trapped. These must be to where unruly children are banished on long journeys.At last the final mysteries unravel. The satnav directs me home in the voice of a dour bingo caller, becoming excited as we cross the "Bebebebaaaysingstoke road!" The cruise control is nothing to do with Scientology, but to save you from pressing the accelerator, and the ESP control helps prevent skidding, possibly by extending a broom to sweep the road ahead - I wouldn't be surprised, it's got everything else. Not the most economical car, but a pretty good sport.
Braid, Xbox 360Braid looks like a moving oil painting and appears initially to conform to every platform game standard in existence, from killing enemies by hopping on their heads to collecting stuff - in this case, jigsaw pieces. However, beneath its unusual looks and seemingly pedestrian mechanics, beats a heart of pure invention: unlike other platform games, you can rewind time whenever you like for as long as you like. Rather than removing the game's difficulty, this instead opens up a world of exquisitely designed logic puzzles, getting you to thread your way through increasingly ingenious levels in search of those elusive Eureka moments. It's a masterpiece, from its painterly art style to the folk music that perfectly warps and distorts itself around the time-bending action, to the story, which is so oblique and symbolic you're aware that hero Tim's quest to save a princess may actually be a psychotic delusion, let alone trying to decode references to the Manhattan Project. Braid is a beautiful game.&#183;Microsoft, approx &pound;10.20 from Xbox Live ArcadeMercenaries 2: World In Flames, PC/PS2/PS3/Xbox 360 (reviewed)As the antithesis of the thoughtful creativity of Braid, Mercenaries 2 is a game about, in the words of developer Pandemic, "blowing shit up". This means choosing one of three standard-issue action game drones before heading out into the jungles of Venezuela and setting about the troops, buildings and vehicles with an endless supply of small arms, helicopters, tanks and air strikes. Everything is combustible or at least destructible and, while it's nice to be able to bulldoze trees in a tank rather than get stuck behind them, most explosions look flimsily pumped-up, with buildings resembling plywood structures stuffed with explosives. Primitive, largely texture- free graphics match clumsy implementation, with third-person aiming obscured by scenery and your character. A hollow experience.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99Pleo, Robotic dinosaurPleo bills itself as manufacturer UGOBE's first artificial life form, a rubbery-skinned baby dinosaur that responds to sounds, surroundings and petting rather than anything as mundane as a remote control. Like Sony's now discontinued AIBO robotic dog, Pleo starts life falteringly before learning about you and your house by gradual exploration. It also coos, chirrups (presumably dinosaur-style), sings, wags its tail and purrs in response to stroking, which Pleo senses on its head, chin, back and legs. Ignore him for too long and he'll make small disappointed noises and hang his little head - it's impossible not to respond. So after a shockingly brief period you start saying "he" and sending back review dinosaurs is like saying goodbye to a kitten you've recently adopted.&#183;Ugobe, &pound;249.99
&#183; How to communicatewith unhelpful cafe stafftinyurl.com/39dr4e&#183; The Thamesisn't the only river through Londontinyurl.com/5mc7e8&#183; Nicolas Cage's hairdeserves an Oscar all of its owntinyurl.com/6ktt9p&#183; How to spellaarrghwrittensound.com&#183; Some thingsare probably best kept out of the microwavetinyurl.com/68sgw4&#183; Horses scaredby planes and other excuses for Olympic failuremcwetboy.net/dfl/&#183; The worstsuntans evertinyurl.com/5pudyk&#183; Some goodand bad things to say during sextinyurl.com/6n5p4f&#183; Lego mini menare 30 years oldgominimango.com
MondayPlayTV - your questionsTuesdayRough Guides competition: Winners!Should old gaming icons be put out to pasture?WednesdayEverything you wanted to know about PlayTV but were afraid to askBond. Young Bond: An interview with ARG developer Adrian HonKorg comes to DSThursdayThe next generation of British games industry greatsCan Spore match the success of The Sims?Can Xbox 360 arcade outmainstream WiiFridaySpaceship makes its debut at Barcamp BrightonSpore release day
It's not exactly clear which day is Google's birthday -- it's amovable feast, apparently -- but we've done apackageon the basis that it's on September 7, when we don't have a paper. The articles include Richard Wray onPlanet Google(now with Chrome), me onGoogle's Doodle dudeDennis Hwang, a 10-yearTimelineand10 years in pictures, while Charles Arthur has a go atGoogle: 10 years from now.
In the next day or so you'll probably find yourself hearing a lot about how Google started 10 years ago, and, well, isn't it remarkable that a company that started in a garage has survived that long and become a household name? I'm not going to do that. Hell, that's whatWikipediaand theofficial Google historyare for.I'm more interested in Google's next 10 years – because that could define what life is like in 2018 and beyond. I'm not exaggerating. And if I'm wrong, you can come back and beat me over the head with a printout of this piece.An interesting generic forecast came from John Battelle, who wrote Search, a book about how Google catapulted to the top of the search – and more importantly search advertising pile – over AltaVista, Yahoo, Lycos (remember Lycos? Adverts used a dog sniffing stuff out) and Ask Jeeves (Jeeves got whacked; now it's just Ask).His prediction? "I'd say, by then they'd have made a couple big ass mistakes and most likely one of the key founders is gone," heforecast. "But they still [will] rule the world in terms of monetization of traffic of good intent."It's not as though Google hasn't already made some mistakes. There's been its (purposeful)concession to China's demands to filterits content; and the (accidental) release by AOL oflots of personal data gathered by Google from AOL users. Until the latter, people hadn't realised quite how easy it was to find an individual from their searches.To get an idea of what Google will look like in 10 years' time, it helps to imagine the world then. Important trends are visible already. Energy, food, and oil and coal byproducts will all be more expensive in real terms. That means first that power efficiency will be essential in any product we use; minimising wasted energy and effort will be part of daily life. Minimising waste, in fact, will be sensible; we'll reuse and recycle because it'll often be preferable to buying to buy new.In computing, there are important trends that are only just starting. Therise of ultraportables (or Liliputers)– really small yet fully functional computers, with solid-state drives – is a key trend. This will bring Linux to a wider market that would never have used it before.Mobile phones are becoming even more important; their penetration is a key indicator of economic growth in developing countries. They'll become portable internet devices for the times when we don't want to use our ultraportables.A final point before we move into the predictions: companies develop a lot less in their second decade than their first. Though it helps to be a multibillion pound company if you do want to have a stab at continuing your dramatic growth.OK, so what should we expect from Google in the next 10 years?First,Android, its mobile phone platform, is very important. Google wants to be in your mobile phone where you're making searches and calls. It wants to know what you're doing there so it can persuade companies to advertise with it. After all, if you're a company and all the mobile phone traffic you see comes via an Android phone, you're going to listen with more interest to Google's ad sales people than Microsoft's.Here's my forecast: in 10 years, Android phones will be outselling phones using Microsoft Windows Mobile or Apple iPhones. Yes, I do think that.Secondly,Chrome - its browser- is going to be preloaded, and often the default, in computers that you buy in shops, whether full-sized ones or the ultraportables. Google has the financial muscle to make that happen, which Firefox (owned by the Mozilla Foundation) doesn't.In fact the ultraportables are important to this story. They are the real incarnation of what Bill Gates thought the Tablet would be. His 2001 forecast that in five years the Tablet would be the dominant model on sale waswrong. But I'll pick up his wonky prediction cap. I think that it will be true of the ultraportable in five years or so; in 10 years, surely.And I think that ultraportable, like the Android phones, will be running Linux, because there's a lot of effort gone into developing low-power versions of it already. And they'll have Google as a default search engine, and run Chrome, which will be used to write documents and do spreadsheets and check email and work collaboratively – with the data stored both in the "cloud" (on Google's or other servers) and also saved locally, on theSQLite database that underlies Google Gears. (Data in two places. It'ssafe.)Meanwhile, Google's other initiative is going to be in energy. It uses colossal amounts of energy for its server farms. It's going to be walloped by rising energy costs, which is a key reason why last November it began its "RE&lt;C" program – with the aim ofmaking renewable energy cheaper than coal. At the time Larry Page said: "With talented technologists, great partners and significant investments, we hope to rapidly push forward. Our goal is to produce one gigawatt of renewable energy capacity that is cheaper than coal. We are optimistic this can be done in years, not decades." (One gigawatt can power a city the size of San Francisco. Or a few Google server farms.)And, quite possibly, Google will sell some of that energy to the electric grid. How would you like to have your Google-laden ultraportable powered by green Google electric juice? Now there's a capture of the market for you.Into this scenario I can see a couple of clouds that will loom. Larry Page and Sergey Brin have had their differences; I suspect that Battelle is right that one of them will leave within the next decade, and how Google reacts to that will be key to its future.The other two things that will be a problem are that China will resist Google, because its authoritarian government cannot contemplate the openness of information the search engine represents. China, already the largest internet nation, will be stubbornly closed to Google's best endeavours.The other is that there is going to be one hell of an antitrust case coming. Google's in so many places at so many times, and so dominant particularly in search, that it cannot avoid this: it'll move into some new market, and someone will raise a huge stink about how it is using its power in search to take over a new market. (A reminder: having a monopoly isn't illegal. Using that monopoly to force others out of other markets is.)As Microsoft discovered, fighting an antitrust case takes the creative wind out of your sails; it becomes all you can do to row to shore. The Microsoft of 10 years ago was cocky, confident; today it's vast, but uncertain, overwhelmed by its bureaucracy. That could be Google's fate – even as in 10 years we use its tools all the time, and a significant number of people  use phones and computers based around its products, it will be becoming sclerotic.And then it will be time for something completely new to burst onto the scene. Very probably the people who are going to do that have only just started their first day at secondary school (high school to our American readers).You can't guess what it will be. But if some kids ask to use your garage for a computer project, my advice would be to let them – and ask if they'll let you fund them in exchange for a few shares. Ask for 10%. If it pays off, by 2030 you'll never need to work again.
Not many people have heard of graphic designerDennis Hwang, but he has millions of fans, and probably more than a billion people have seen his work. But the 29-year-old has a unique platform for his skills: he does the "Google doodles" – variations on Google's colourful logo - that appear on the search engine's popular home page.The doodles that celebrate special days such as Christmas, Halloween and Google's birthdays signal that Google is a different kind of company: a playful one. "It's not a gimmick," says Hwang. "It really grows from the core culture. It comes from the founders, Larry and Sergey, their quirky personalities and drive for innovation. At a time when the company logo is considered sacred, they're saying 'Let's have fun with it'."I met Dennis in 2005 when he judged a Doodle 4 Google competition, which invited British schoolchildren aged four to 18 to design their own logo. It was a delight. Google's office filled with kids, and 11-year-old Lisa Wainaina got to see her winning design on the Google UK home page."These kids are competition I wasn't aware of," quipped Hwang. "My job security just went out the window."In reality, doodling is a sideline, and started by accident in 1999 when Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin were going to the Burning Man festival in Nevada. "Sergey added a tiny symbol to the home page logo to communicate directly with the users," says Hwang.The next doodles were done by outside contractors, but then Brin discovered that Hwang was studying art at Stanford, as well as computer science. "He said: 'Hey, Dennis, why don't you give this a try'," says Hwang. He did Bastille Day in 2000, and he's been doing them ever since.The staples are Chinese New Year, St Valentine's Day, Easter, Independence Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year. These are supplemented by major events such as the Olympics, where there can be half a dozen doodles telling a little story.Painters are an obvious temptation for a graphic artist, and there have been doodles to celebrate the birthdays of Vincent van Gogh, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Picasso, Andy Warhol, MC Escher, Claude Monet and Piet Mondrian, among others. But often Hwang surprises us: there have been doodles for Ray Charles's birthday, Bloomsday, the transit of Venus, leap year and the opening of Google's lunar office – on April 1. One 2001 doodle that attracted particular attention celebrated Korean Independence Day, and Hwang was interviewed for the Korea Herald. Although born in Knoxville, Tennessee, he grew up as Hwang Jung-moak in Gwacheon, South Korea. "When I was at school, the teachers didn't like my doodling habit, but my parents always supported me," he says. "Something that used to be frowned on turned out to be my greatest asset."Hwang returned to the US in 1992 when his father was awarded a Fulbright scholarship, and had to cope with the American education system while unable to speak English. He still made it to Stanford University, where Google was founded.The doodles are produced on computer, but "everything I do is hand drawn", says Hwang: "I have some tools and tricks to make it look as though it's done on pencil and paper." He's been using a Wacom graphics tablet and a stylus for input, and adopted a Tablet PC so he could work directly on the screen. "That's my secret weapon," he says. "It shaves two to four hours off how long it takes to draw one."•Google's doodle competition
