Although there are isolated examples going back to the heady days of the Commodore 64, the special edition (or the even more spurious, 'collectors edition') videogame has only recently become a regular sight on shop shelves. These days, it seems every major release - and quite a few not so major ones - is accompanied by an expensive and lavishly packaged version, complete with such desirable extras as art books, action figures, posters and soundtracks.A few weeks ago, Activision upped the ante considerably by announcing its Modern Warfare 2 Prestige Edition, complete with functioning night goggles. No-one has adequately explained to me how 'prestige' can be bestowed upon someone merely for owning a computer game and a night time snooping device, but maybe I'm not moving in the right social circles.But really the question at the heart of all this is - who buys these things?For a while, I knew the answer. In the Playstation 2 and Dreamcast eras it was usually the big Japanese titles that came with special editions - the likes of Metal Gear Solid and Final Fantasy XII, but these games are enjoyed by fanatical zealots who reallydosee value in owning a version of a game that will be coveted by their community. Also, the Japanese publishers used to be amazing at producing special editions - you got lovely packaging, incredibly stylish concept art booklets and usuallyreally goodaction figures, rather than shapeless blobs of plastic bearing only a passing resemblance to the game's hero.And some gamesdohave a wider cultural value and an aesthetic appeal that somehow warrants this marketing approach. Gears of War came with a decent hardback book looking into the game's 'destroyed beauty' art style, while Halo 3 Legendary Edition was packed with extras in a really quite impressive case. Both look like arresting pop culture artefacts when placed on your shelves, which is what you want from a special edition.I also quite like the 'behind the scenes' and 'making of' documentaries that come with some games. It's obviously an idea nicked from the DVD movie market, but it also draws on the sense of community and ownership that developers like to build with their fans - these can actually provide some valuable insight into how triple A games are made; you're actually learning something - rather than just trying to figure out what area of your home you're going to violate with a Guildwars Nightfall poster.Nowadays it's becoming more common for special editions to come complete with access to downloadable content. The recently announced Ratchet and Clank: A Crack In Time special edition offers a PSN voucher that allows you to download an in-game area entitled Insomniac Moon. But this feels less like an attempt to create a desirable consumer product and more like a straightforward bundle deal.Mostly though, you're just falling into the trap of perceived value. Game publishers know that many gamers are men, and that many men are sad, anally retentive hoarders for whom the phrase 'collectors edition' holds exciting promise of exclusivity and elite social status. But can true happiness and peer respect really be located within a Tales of Vesperia Special Edition metal case?If it's not kudos that's sought, is it actual monitory gain? I hope not. I had a quick look on ebay just now and it's not stuffed to the brim with desirable rare editions going for hundreds of pounds - most are on there for no more or less than standard editions of the same titles. This, I think, is partly because - unlike similar DVD editions - you're rarely getting extra content with the product itself. You don't get five extra levels with the Resident Evil 4 Premium Edition, you won't get deleted scenes with the Assassin's Creed Limited Edition. So once the initial excitement of taking something nice and metallic to the counter at Game Station subsides, you're left with a white elephant - and a white elephant that won't file nicely next to your other games.But what do you think? Are you a fan of special editions? Have you a favourite example? What is it I'm not seeing?
There's a singular set of first memories that many of us share of our first experience with a home computer. The satisfying give of the keys on the black, cumbersome keyboard; a constantly whirring cassette tape, or pleasingly tactile floppy disk; the jarringly vivid palette of sprites and characters burning their way out of the shiny abyss, and an array of otherworldly, synthesised sounds not yet familiar to our untrained ears.Whether sheathed in an ungainly dustcover at the back of a classroom or secreted away in your friend's brother's basement, it's more than likely that these formative experiences were taking place on a BBC Micro or ZX Spectrum. In an age of iPhones and Windows, the ubiquity of these machines during the early 1980s and the indelible mark they etched on a generation is all but too easy to forget.Micro Men, screening on BBC4 tonight, follows the stories of the two men briefly catapulted to the forefront of the computer industry by these new-fangled "personal computers". It attempts to explain how Clive Sinclair and Chris Curry, played in the film by Alexander Armstrong and Martin Freeman, managed, for a couple of years at least, to divert the world's gaze away from the Silicon Valley and towards a couple of small, unglamorous East Anglian tech companies.Clive Sinclair (now Sir Clive to you and me) was, by 1978, established as an inventor and businessman with his company Sinclair Radionics. Clashes with his government backers led him to set up shop with one of his most talented employees, Chris Curry. While Sinclair's interests had until this point revolved around smaller gadgets like pocket televisions and calculators – along with his longstanding dream of pioneering the electric car – the two men were quick to see the potential in the growing home computers industry.Their first product, developed by Curry, was the MK14, a basic computer kit released to satisfy the growing interest in personal computing. It sold out immediately. However, disagreements over future projects and Sinclair's legendary temper (which makes frequent appearances in Micro Men) meant this was their last joint venture.The two men parted ways acrimoniously – Curry branching out on his own to form the company that would become Acorn Computers. Backed by entrepreneur and then Cambridge student Hermann Hauser (a charming fop in the film) Curry set about raiding Cambridge University of its most talented minds. The two former colleagues' rivalry would propel them to taking command of a market in its infancy.Sinclair's masterstroke was to focus on reducing costs for its new machine, the ZX Spectrum, to allow it to be available to buy for around £100. Released in 1982, suddenly the new item everybody was talking about was also universally affordable. A generation of "Speccy" programmers was born.That same year, Acorn competed by securing a coveted BBC license for their new system. With Auntie and the newly elected Margaret Thatcher's approval, one of Curry's machines was pledged to every school in the country. Sales went through the roof. Their BBC Micro, made initially for an expected sales run of 12,000, went on to sell 1.5m units. Many could still be found in schools around the country in the late 1990s.These new must-have items for a brief time held a unique position in the national consciousness. News reports and magazines were full of stories on these new and exciting technologies. With computers affordable, accessible, and getting more and more sophisticated, it seemed like anything was possible.Acorn and Sinclair's period at the top was short-lived, however, as the home computer market crashed in 1984, taking the two companies with it. Sinclair was eventually sold to Amstrad, Acorn to Olivetti, and neither ever managed to again make such an impact on the home computer marketplace.Sinclair's and Curry's lasting legacy is unquestionable. The acceptance of the idea of playing "computer games" as a relaxing solo pastime in the UK was thanks largely to those initial systems. The belief of a personal computer as being an item every home should have another.The ARM chip created by Acorn has also left a lasting imprint, having gone on to be the most used microchip in modern electronics. The phone you have in your pocket almost certainly has one in it – a design based around that made by the same Cambridge boffins that created the BBC Micro back in 1983. An incredible 10bn have been produced.We also have Acorn and Spectrum to thank for many of the current generation of British programmers. The Spectrum and Micro were the first widely available systems to capture the imagination of inquisitive would-be-programmers – and opened up for the first time the possibility of a earning a living by making games. Chuckie Egg and Jet Set Willy were both created using these platforms.With such a firm grip on the market, the question has to be asked – could they have hung on? You could argue of course that the strength of the Apples and IBMs of the time were inexorable forces that were always destined to take control of the industry – nevertheless, Acorn's and Sinclair's collapses from two of Britain's leading computer companies to near dissolution in five years has to be attributed somewhere.For Sir Clive, of course, you could perhaps blame the doomed Sinclair C5 – an electric buggy which was supposed to reinvent modern transport but ended up selling a mere 12,000 units. His belief that every person in the country would want one was hopelessly misguided. Curry perhaps took his eye off the ball, assuming that demand would continue to grow. Neither managed to successfully enter foreign markets. But ultimately, both were victims of there own success. By 1983, every person who wanted a "microcomputer" had one. And with no marketable leap in processing power or new selling point, the bottom was always going to fall out of the market.Micro Men ends on a poignant note as Sinclair, riding his C5, is overtaken by two hulking articulated lorries, labelled Microsoft and Apple. Perhaps it's foolish to think that two small Cambridge-based companies could ever keep up. But it's important not to forget that, for a few months at least, they managed to poke their noses in front.•Micro Men screens on BBC4 tonight at 9pm. Jack Arnott attended a special preview screening at Bafta.
A Japanese high court overturned the conviction of the developer of afile-sharing program called Winnyon Thursday in a high-profile case over copyright law.The high court reversed a 2006 ruling by a lower court that imposed a fine of 1.5 million yen (£10,600) on Isamu Kaneko, 39, according to a court official, who declined to be named, citing department policy."Today's ruling helps not only myself but also other computer engineers in pursuing the development of computer technology," Kaneko told a news conference outside the court in Osaka, western Japan.Kaneko's program, Winny, allows users to trade files without revealing their IP address – the online equivalent of a phone number, which has been used by copyright owners to track down people suspect of illicitly trading copyrighted files online. Digital content providers say Winny infringes on their copyright by giving users access to their material for free.Kaneko, a former instructor at the prestigious University of Tokyo, was arrested in 2004. He became the first file-sharing software developer arrested in Japan. He was accused of helping two users disseminate copyrighted material on the internet with Winny, which can be accessed from his home page.In the 2006 ruling, a judge said Winny assisted in the perpetration of crimes. Violating copyright laws in Japan can bring up to three years in prison or a maximum fine of 3 million yen.But Presiding Judge Masazo Ogura rejected the initial verdict, saying it "cannot be said that the defendant published the software to encourage copyright infringement," according to Kyodo News agency.Around 200,000 users, mostly in Japan, are believed to use Winny daily, according to the Association of Copyright for Computer Software, a Tokyo-based industry group for over 220 computer software makers.The association voiced "regret" over the decision. "It is crystal clear that allowing people to use this network further encourages copyright violation," the association said in a statement.The reversal runs counter to recent rulings elsewhere. There has been a spate of cases in the U.S. in which people who run file-sharing sites or illegally share content have been ordered to pay fines. In addition, several members of a music piracy group, Apocalypse Production Crew, have been convicted for copyright infringement. Most recently, a man was sentenced to 18 months in prison for his involvement with the group. In Sweden, four men connected to The Pirate Bay, one of the world's largest file-sharing venues, were sentenced in June to one-year prison terms for abetting violations of copyright law. They were also ordered to pay a fine of 30 million kronor ($3.9 million). Their conviction is presently the subject of an appeal.
Europe's antitrust regulators say they have tentatively accepted Microsoft's concessions to settle two antitrust cases, which the company said left both organizations free to focus on the next generation of technology giants, including Google.The dispute had at one time threatened the launch of Windows 7, as the EU had threatened to prevent its sale in Europe if Microsoft did not remove its Internet Explorer browser, citing antitrust concerns; in June Microsoftsaid it would remove it.  That raised the question of how non-technical users would download a browser so they could run a browser: Microsoft then suggested a "shop window" of browsers, though other companies objected. But that has now been settled.Nellie Kroes, the European Union competition commissioner, said at a briefing on Wednesday that concessions made by Microsoft to give European computer users a choice of browsers appeared to address many antitrust concerns. She said another case against the company could be settled this year.In a telephone conference call with reporters, Microsoft's chief lawyer, Brad Smith, did not mention Google by name. But he said clearing the decks in Brussels meant the company could turn its attention to the market for internet search technologies and winning approval for its proposed merger with Yahoo. That deal would allow Microsoft to become a bigger player in online advertising, a market currently dominated by Google."It is very important for us to resolve competition law issues that have been on the agenda for more than a decade," Smith said. "I don't think that hurts, and it probably helps as we address some other issues."''There are still loose ends to tie up, but it looks like the battle with Microsoft is in the end game and there is a clear vacancy for antitrust poster child in Europe," said Stephen Kinsella, an antitrust partner with the law firm Sidley Austin. "My money is on Google."Earlier, Kroes said she had "good grounds for thinking we are moving towards a very satisfactory resolution" of two cases, one concerning the way Microsoft bundles Internet Explorer with Windows, and the other involving the way other brands communicate with Microsoft products.But a coalition of Microsoft's competitors, the European Committee for Interoperable Systems, which has an outstanding complaint against Microsoft over failure to provide information necessary to achieve compatibility with its products, remained wary.Thomas Vinje, the legal counsel for the organization, which represents companies like .BM, Nokia and Oracle, questioned whether consumers would have a "real and unbiased choice" of browsers and whether competing companies would be able to enforce the commitments made by Microsoft on interoperability.Vinje said the commission still had "to ensure that Microsoft lives up to its part of the deal."Smith of Microsoft said, however, that the European Union should be able to drop the complaint by Vinje's group without further action as part of the wide-ranging settlement.Kroes said she would spend the next month holding formal testing of the Microsoft offer with consumers and clients. She said she intended to reach a so-called commitment decision on the browser case enforceable with fines if Microsoft wavered in its compliance.
[Update: I've revised this in the light of a long talk with the head of We7, who gave me some very insightful numbers.]The other day someone came to talk to me who said they were looking at building an online music business, but wouldn't try Spotify's model. Why not? I asked. Because, they replied, its costs were vast. And they said a number that made left me open-mouthed - and those were just for its licensing costs.But I thought that I should investigate more closely: there's lots of misinformation around. So let us work out, for ourselves. (If you want a little background, Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC's Technology/Business correspondent, haswondered who is making money in online music streaming.)Let's see if we can figure it out. Spotify (and Napster and We7, who we can also treat in this) have two principal costs: streaming (for which they have to pay a per-track fee to the MCPS/PRS, the music licensing group, representing the authors of the music; plus whatever their bandwidth costs are) and storage/hosting. [Update: and also payments to the record labels, representing the performers.] In Spotify's case, it has two income streams: subscriptions, and adverts.Let's look atstreamingfirst. Spotify says that the average user listens to its product for70 minutes per day. Itstreams at 160 kilobits per second.Per user, that means that it is streaming 160*60*70 = 672,000 kilobits per day = 84 MBytes per day.It says ithas 5 million users(as of early September; probably more now).If they all listen for 70 minutes per day, that's 5,000,000 x 84MB per day =420,000 GB per day of streamed data. And rising.But that assumes that everyone's using the service all the time. A more reasonable assumption is that 1 in 5 users actually uses it to that extent. So assume around 1 million streams online at any one time, and divide our streamed data by 5. That gives us 84,000 GB per day streamed. (Yes,84 terabytes per day.) Per month, multiply by 30.If you look for streaming costs, you find that it'sprobablyaround $0.05 per GB(the link is to an analysis of Netflix, reckoned to be paying $0.03 per GB; but Netflix is big).So that means that Spotify is spending $0.05*84,000*30, orabout £126,000 per month on its streaming alone.Next are themusic licensing costsper track. These werereduced as of July 1from 0.22p per track to 0.085p (= £0.00085) per track, a cut of roughly two-thirds. We're assuming that the rates are the same across Europe here; the MCPS/PRS was vague about what other countries charge, and Spotify is of courseactivein Sweden (where it'sjust announced a tieup with the Swedish ISP Telia), Norway, Finland, the UK, France and Spain. But assume for a minute that streaming licensing charges are harmonised across the EU.So those 70 minutes of music represent roughly 24 tracks (3 minutes each, plus the 24th just getting started).You have1m people listening to 24 tracks per day: that's 24m tracks per day, 720m tracks per month. That will cost 720m * £0.00085 =£600,000 per month.That might seem scary - but actually there's a clause in the MCPS/PRS licensing system that could let Spotify off that big per-track charge. My understanding from a long conversation with the MCPS/PRS is that the per-track charge only applies if your revenues are less than your streaming charges would be; otherwise, you pay 10% of your revenues.That is, if you stream 1,000 tracks in a day, so your charges are 85p, but you have revenues of 86p, then you have to pay the MCPS 8.6p, not 85p. This seems bonkers to me, and I did ask the MCPS/PRS if I had it right. They seemed to think I had. Musicallypoints to the "headline royalty rate". But it seems to depend on what sort of licence you have.So if Spotify can somehow push its revenues above that £600,000 per month, then the amount it has to pay will suddenly plummet - to about £60,000 per month.All completely wrong - MCPS/PRS misled me. (I did ask if I was really hearing it right.) The clause says it's the streaming costs, or 10.5% or revenues -whichever is greater.Then there's hosting and storage costs.Rackspace's calculator(see the right-hand side of the page) suggests costs of around £100,000 per month.Add it up, and what do we have?Streaming costs: £126,000 per monthMusic streaming licence costs: £600,000 per monthHosting costs: £100,000 per month.[UpdateBut as Steve Purdham, chief executive of We7.com points out, that misses out the payments due to theperformer. These are about ten times larger than the MCPS costs. In other words,at least £6m per month.(These numbers, I should say, are far, far smaller than the headline number I mentioned at the top of this piece. Which is why I didn't give them: I didn't want people to go away thinking that was the true figure. Of course we don't have the true figure here, but the envelope is better-formed.)And now, where is it getting its revenues?According to an interview in early September with Daniel Ek,2% of users were premium subscribers. (We're checking that he did actually say "2", rather than his usual "not in double digits".) That was before the Spotify app for Android, iPhone and also the offline option for computers were introduced; that may start pushing up the numbers.From 5m users, 2% = 100,000 premium subscriptions.At £10 per month from each of those, that's £1m per month.Of course if that is the case, then the licence costs will change - to £100,000 per month, a saving of £500,000 per month. You see how important it is for Spotify to get those premium users, and why it's been focussing so hard on finding sticks to push people away from freemium, and carrots to get them over to paid-for.Revenue from adverts? Hard to know. If you're in advertising and know what you'd pay to get heard by 1m people every day, let us know your estimate of the value.Surprise! These rough calculations suggest that Spotify isprofitable...er, burning large amounts of moneyif it has to pay full price to record labels for each track.But the suggestion by Pardham, and the industry (see thelater blog post) is that Spotify has done some deals with the labels so that they either take reduced money, or a chunk of Spotify, or both, to see if it can't reach profitability.- though we've very likely substantially underestimated the costs of hosting, and the model is very liable to:- fluctuations in time spent listening per day (affects  licensing costs and hosting/streaming costs);- fluctuations in number of simultaneous users (affects licensing costs and hosting/streaming costs)For instance, if all 5m users are listening to 70 minutes per month, then your streaming licence costs rocket to £3m per month. This is probably why Spotify occasionally turns off its "come one, come all" system and makes itself invite-only: to limit growth. (That would also make the licensing costs explode too.)And in this we haven't factored in the costs of building the software, marketing (though most of that is done virally) and maintaining staff all over the place. I think too that if it were anywhere near being profitable, we'd be hearing it by now - which suggests that these numbers are off. (I can't find precisely where. That's where I'm looking to your help, if you're an expert on streaming/hosting/storage costs).Even so, it looks like Cellan-Jones's puzzlement at how anyone can make money - and indeed,Napster's insistence to me that freemium just can't work- isn't justified. Spotify can break through if it gets enough people to subscribe. And the number it needs to convert might be lower than we think. Plus, as I've said, Spotify's premium offering seems like a pretty good deal when you consider how many tracks you can listen to.Your turn. Where are the errors in my working?[Update: as has been pointed out in the comments, I missed out a huge cost: per-track payments to record labels. I'm writing a followup post on that. Suffice it to say that you can multiply all those streaming costs by a factor of about 10.]
Betting site Paddy Power has announced its odds for this year's Christmas videogame number one. The list offers fewer entertaining surprises than a Katherine Heigl comedy. If you were hoping to make a fortune from your predictive brilliance by backing Activision's Modern Warfare sequel, for example, you'll be sorely disappointed - with odds of 13/8 it'll require a sizable upfront investment.Here's the top ten:Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 - 13/8Assassin's Creed II - 9/4FIFA 10 - 6/1Halo 3: ODST - 10/1Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games - 12/1Wii Fit Plus - 14/1New Super Mario Bros Wii - 18/1Need For Speed: Shift - 18/1Planet 51: The Game - 20/1James Cameron's Avatar: The Game - 25/1Where wouldyourmoney go?[ViaMCV]
If you play PC games you've probably usedSteam. Run by Half Life developer Valve, the digital distribution and multiplayer service has become hugely successful on the PC. But not everyone is happy with the situation. Gearbox developer Randy Pitchford - currently working on the much anticipated Borderlands - iscritical of the relationshipbetween Steam and Valve.It would be much better if Steam was its own business. There's so much conflict of interest there that it's horrid. It's actually really, really dangerous for the rest of the industry to allow Valve to win.He goes on.I love Valve games, and I do business with the company. But, I'm just saying, Steam isn't the answer. Steam helps us as customers, but it's also a money grab, and Valve is exploiting a lot of people in a way that's not totally fair. Valve is taking a larger share than it should for the service its providing. It's exploiting a lot of small guys. For us big guys, we're going to sell the units and it will be fine.The likes ofMetaboliare competing in the same space but Pitchford clearly has a point. Should Valve and Steam go separate ways? Any Steam users here? What do you think?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; In a press conference on Wednesday, two ofGoogle's top dogs - Eric Schmidt and Sergey Brin - spoke at length about a number of issues,  including the fact that the company isrebounding from the recessionand ishiring again.&bull; You may have been wondering what people wouldreallydo with   Microsoft'sSurfacetouchscreen table... well, a team of scientists Sweden have shown that it could be usedto conduct a virtual autopsy. It's a great video.&bull; Thursday heralds, as always, the arrival of the latest printed edition ofTechnology Guardian, featuring the lowdown onNasa's mission to smash a spacecraft into the moon, a look atweb TV application Boxee, while Vic Keegan argues forshorter copyright terms in the digital age. All thatand more, just £1 from your newsagent.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I've just spent a frustrating week troubleshooting a home wireless network and I wonder if I'm trying to solve the wrong problem. I mainly use my internet access for emails and Facebook, so is it time to lose the landline and just have a mobile phone for calls and a 3G broadband dongle for the internet?Andrew CowieIt is certainly possible to use a 3G dongle instead of a landline, but it depends on what you do online, and where you live. In my experience, with dongles from O2, 3 and Vodafone, a 3G connection is relatively slow: as a rule of thumb, assume you'll get about a third of the headline speed. This should be good enough for email, Facebook and Twitter, but you may find YouTube videos stutter, unless you download them first. It's not a good solution if you like to download large files. Also, a 3G connection suffers from more latency problems than ADSL broadband, so it's not the best choice for action-based online games either.Another problem is that – as with ADSL – coverage is uneven. Depending on where you live, you may not be able to get a 3G connection inside your house, or in a particular room. I live on the edge of Greater London and the Vodafone dongle has never managed a 3G connection indoors, though fortunately it falls back to GPRS. (That's one feature to check.) If you live outside the M25 or another large conurbation, you might be unable to get 3G at all. Look up the network suppliers' online coverage maps to check that you live in a well-served area.According to a recent survey of around 750 mobile broadband users by thinkbroadband.com, 76% were not satisfied with their mobile broadband speeds and 60% felt coverage was poor.Also, check that your chosen supplier's 3G dongle will work with your computer. The ones I've tried have worked first time with Windows XP and Vista, just by plugging them in. Mac OS X and Linux are not as well supported. Search the user forums for the specific dongle and operating system version before buying.However, a 3G connection will only work with one PC. This doesn't solve the same problem as Wi-Fi, which is one way of sharing an internet connection between several devices. You could use a gadget such as NovaTel's MiFi to convert 3G to a Wi-Fi hotspot, but you'd still be using Wi-Fi. A better solution might be a couple of Ethernet cables or HomePlug devices, which use mains power cables. Both are more reliable and less bother than debugging Wi-Fi.
My desktop PC with a 200GB hard drive is beginning to complain about shortage of disk space. The Windows XP Pro SP3 folder is 129GB in size, containing 88,012 files. A Dell laptop running the same version has 24.7GB in 46,569 files.Denis SmithTry running CCleaner (CCleaner.com), which is a free program designed to remove rubbish from your computer. If that doesn't make a big difference, try running a disk analyser such as the freeware version ofTreeSizeto find out which folders have the biggest files.The numbers suggest something is very wrong with your XP installations. Perhaps you have an antivirus update that is being downloaded every day, and failing to install, or a program log has been running for years. For comparison, the Windows XP Pro folder on my four-year-old Dell desktop is 6.6GB with 26,089 files, including 1.6GB (7,708 files) of Windows auto-updates. On my somewhat older ThinkPad X31, the Windows XP folder is 6.0GB with 25,674 files. These numbers should be on the high side, because I install a lot of software and have not made any effort to save space.The ultimate solution is to implement a clean installation of Windows XP, or use the option to "restore to factory condition", if available. However, that will mean re-installing all your applications, too.
Can you recommend any free software for drawing tables, graphs and flowcharts as an alternative to the Microsoft Office suite? Even with the changes made in Office 2007 the range of styles and options can be limited and difficult to use.Louis AutyThe Microsoft Office suite may have what you need, but it's a separate program called Visio. Microsoft bought the company to get it, and it seems to be in a different league to anything else. You could also look atDiaas a developing open source alternative , andInkscape, which is more like Adobe Illustrator and CorelDraw.
As Britain tucks into its lunch on Friday, hundreds of scientists, engineers and astronomers on the other side of the planet will be nervously watching the skies. Across California and Hawaii, hundreds of eyes will be trained on the moon, watching for the moment when a hi-tech orbiter – weighing more than 2 tonnes and travelling at 9,000kph (5,600mph) – plunges headlong into the lunar surface. The collision will throw a massive cloud of dust and debris up into space before, just a few minutes later, another, smaller, spacecraft follows suit and plummets to its doom.For most people, it sounds like the stuff of nightmares. But when the impact takes place, the scientists working on the LCROSS mission will not be weeping but cheering – because this crash is happening on purpose.Indeed, smashing into the moon's surface is the primary objective of LCROSS (the name stands for Lunar CRater Observation and Sensing Satellite). The basic idea behind the project, which launched into space in June, is to try to find out where water might exist in the darkest recesses of the moon's south pole. The best way to do that, apparently, is to throw a spacecraft at it and then examine the debris thrown up by the impact.More precisely, LCROSS hopes to plunge itself into an area of the moon that appears to be the most likely candidate for harbouring water, and push up a cloud of dust (known as the ejecta) that will allow scientists to photograph and study it for evidence of H2O."When the impact occurs there is a brief flash that lasts about 100 milliseconds, followed by the material that has been excavated by the event is lifted up and will fall back into the moon – back into the crater," says Dr Kim Ennico, a scientist based at the Nasa Ames research centre in California, where most of the work on LCROSS has taken place.That flash of light won't be visible to the naked eye, but for those west of the Mississippi and lucky enough to have a telescope of at least 25 centimetres, it will be the first time that sunlight has ever been cast on the material scooped out of the shadows that cover the moon's south pole."We just get a brief glimpse of it; it will travel, we hope, as high as 10km above the surface," Ennico says. "That ejecta curtain, that plume, is going to last only one to one and a half minutes before it falls down and it's out of view."Extraterrestrial balletIt is easy to imagine that crashing a spacecraft into the moon involves little more than flinging it in the right direction – much like, say, throwing a ball or firing a missile. In fact, the opposite is true: when the mission reaches its climax at around 12.30pm UK time on Friday, it will be the culmination of more than two years of precise planning.Indeed, the entire mission reads like a delicate extraterrestrial ballet. Soon after taking off from Florida, LCROSS used gravity to slingshot itself into a wide orbit around the Earth that would eventually coincide with the moon.As it closes in on the moment of impact, the craft will divide in two. The Saturn fuel tank will detach from the body of the main LCROSS unit – which, stuffed with cameras and sensing equipment, acts as the mission's brain. The empty fuel tank will then hit the moon at a sharp angle while the shepherding craft spends several minutes filming the first impact, analysing the dust cloud and sending information back to ground control. In addition to those observations, an array of telescopes and cameras on Earth and in space will be watching to grab images.Then the second vehicle will also smash into the moon's surface – providing another bite of the cherry for those observing from thousands of miles away."These and several other telescopes participating in the LCROSS observation campaign will provide observations from different vantage points using different types of measurement techniques," says Jennifer Heldmann, who is leading the observation effort.This is not the first time that a spacecraft has been used as an ad hoc missile. Four years ago another Nasa mission, Deep Impact, purposely collided with the Tempel 1 comet to try to unlock the "primordial soup" inside it. Earlier this summer, meanwhile, the Japanese Kaguya satellite was purposely crashed into the moon after having spent a year orbiting it.But LCROSS is different from preceding kamikaze missions: bigger, more complex and – perhaps – more important than similar previous ventures.After all, finding water on the moon has long been a dream for scientists, who want to understand more about its history – important for its own purposes, but also as a way of shedding more light on our own planet's background.But LCROSS could also have more practical applications if it succeeds in providing evidence of water deposits in the unseen trenches of the lunar landscape.The target being tracked by the team at Ames is a 98km-wide hole called Cabeus, which lies just a short distance from the Shackleton crater – the proposed location for Nasa's crewed lunar outpost, which it hopes to have completed by 2024. Discovering a potential water supply has obvious benefits for that scheme, not least providing astronauts with a potential reservoir that they can tap into rather than rely on shipments from Earth.And while the existence of usable water inside Cabeus is still a hypothesis, the decision to target that crater is based on detailed information. Just a couple of weeks ago, the Indian Chandrayaan satellite appeared to confirm the existence of water in the region – subsequently confirmed by data from the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, the vessel that LCROSS hitched a ride into space alongside.Bigger impactFinding water on the moon would be a major breakthrough – LCROSS lead Anthony Colaprete has called it the "principal resource" in space exploration.Jack Burns, a University of Colorado astrophysicist who heads the science committee for Nasa's advisory council, goes even further."I rank this as a game changer for lunar science," he said in the wake of Chandrayaan's findings. "In my mind this is possibly the most significant discovery about the moon since the Apollo era."With all this at stake, the team behind LCROSS hopes it can find water rather than just evidence of it. But even if it does not, the mission has already broken new ground – not simply because of its unique objective, but also in the way it was put together.Only approved in 2006, the project could herald a new generation of fast and inexpensive space missions. Although the numbers involved in bringing LCROSS to fruition are not small – the project has cost around $79m (£49m) and occupied a team of more than 50 for more than two years – it is a drop in the ocean compared with the $18.69bn the agency has budgeted for 2010 alone.Such high speed and low cost is rare, and while LCROSS did not have to fund its launch directly (it piggybacked on an empty slot in the LRO mission instead) it defrayed other costs by using off-the-shelf components and constructing the satellite in an innovative way. Ennico, who worked on some of the cameras and instruments on board the craft, says that while the time and cost constraints proved challenging, they also helped shape a new view of how to approach space missions."I am used to the old Nasa paradigm of taking lots of years to build instruments – but that's usually when you're going after something you've never done before: you don't know what you're going to expect, it's new science and it's new areas you're going to probe, so you have to build a unique instrument," she says. "We found that there were instruments available that are used in industry – they're used in auto car racing, they're used in the military, they're used in environmental fieldwork ... in a sense, we turned it upside down."That flexible approach also meant that many of the usual, rigid frameworks that apply to space travel have been dropped for LCROSS. For instance, the team has tweaked its target: just last week, they shifted from a plan to crash into the 48km Cabeus A crater to its larger neighbour, Cabeus proper, after data from LRO suggested that the new target would have a higher concentration of hydrogen.A faster, cheaper future"It's definitely a different paradigm for Nasa," Ennico says. "But it is a part of the Nasa of old – in which Nasa was launching a lot of missions very quickly on very tight time schedules."That is an important message for Nasa, at a time when America, and the world, is again scrutinising space exploration. The shuttle project is about to shut down, and interest in expensive space missions faces opposition from politicians faced with more straightforward economic problems.The age-old criticisms of the agency – expensive, slow and pointless – remain. Even a recent report from the group reviewing America's plans for human space flight, the Augustine Committee, suggested that Nasa simply doesn't have the money to do what it plans to.It's nearly 50 years since John Kennedy made one of the great rallying cries for space exploration on the field at Rice University in Houston. Why do humanity's best choose to undertake difficult tasks, such as climbing mountains and crossing oceans?"We choose to go to the moon," he said, famously. "We choose to go to the moon in this decade, and do the other things, not because they are easy but because they are hard."And while it is unlikely that Kennedy would ever have got away with suggesting that we choose to go to the moon to crash, LCROSS does offer some hope of a faster, cheaper future for space exploration. So when those telescopes watch the moon on Friday, they won't just be anticipating a plume of dust – they will also be hoping that the hard things are about to get a little easier.
3G to replace landline?I've just spent a frustrating week troubleshooting a home wireless network and I wonder if I'm trying to solve the wrong problem. I mainly use my internet access for emails and Facebook, so is it time to lose the landline and just have a mobile phone for calls and a 3G broadband dongle for the internet?Andrew CowieJS:It is certainly possible to use a 3G dongle instead of a landline, but it depends on what you do online, and where you live. In my experience, with dongles from O2, 3 and Vodafone, a 3G connection is relatively slow: as a rule of thumb, assume you'll get about a third of the headline speed. This should be good enough for email, Facebook and Twitter, but you may find YouTube videos stutter, unless you download them first. It's not a good solution if you like to download large files. Also, a 3G connection suffers from more latency problems than ADSL broadband, so it's not the best choice for action-based online games either.Another problem is that – as with ADSL – coverage is uneven. Depending on where you live, you may not be able to get a 3G connection inside your house, or in a particular room. I live on the edge of Greater London and the Vodafone dongle has never managed a 3G connection indoors, though fortunately it falls back to GPRS. That's one feature to check.) If you live outside the M25 or another large conurbation, you might be unable to get 3G at all. Look up the network suppliers' online coverage maps to check that you live in a well-served area.According to a recent survey of around 750 mobile broadband users bythinkbroadband.com, 76% were not satisfied with their mobile broadband speeds and 60% felt coverage was poor.Also, check that your chosen supplier's 3G dongle will work with your computer. The ones I've tried have worked first time with Windows XP and Vista, just by plugging them in. Mac OS X and Linux are not as well supported. Search the user forums for the specific dongle and operating system version before buying.However, a 3G connection will only work with one PC. This doesn't solve the same problem as Wi-Fi, which is one way of sharing an internet connection between several devices. You could use a gadget such asNovaTel's MiFito convert 3G to a Wi-Fi hotspot, but you'd still be using Wi-Fi. A better solution may be a couple of Ethernet cables or HomePlug devices which use mains power cables. Both are more reliable and less bother than debugging Wi-Fi.Drawn to OfficeCan you recommend any free software for drawing tables, graphs and flowcharts as an alternative to the Microsoft Office suite? Even with the changes made in Office 2007 the range of styles and options can be limited and difficult to use.Louis AutyJS:The Microsoft Office suite may have what you need, but it's a separate program called Visio. Microsoft bought the company to get it, and it seems to be in a different league to anything else. You could also look atDia's open source alternative , andInkscape, which is more like Adobe Illustrator and CorelDraw.Huge XPMy desktop PC with a 200GB hard drive is beginning to complain about shortage of disk space. The Windows XP Pro SP3 folder is 129GB in size, containing 88,012 files. A Dell laptop running the same version has 24.7GB in 46,569 files.Denis SmithJS:Try running CCleaner (CCleaner.com), which is a free program designed to remove rubbish from your computer. If that doesn't make a big difference, try running a disk analyser such asthe freeware version of TreeSizeto find out which folders have the biggest files.The numbers suggest something is very wrong with your XP installations. Perhaps you have an antivirus update that is being downloaded every day, and failing to install, or a program log has been running for years. For comparison, the Windows XP Pro folder on my four-year-old Dell desktop is 6.6GB with 26,089 files, including 1.6GB (7,708 files) of Windows auto-updates. On my somewhat older ThinkPad X31, the Windows XP folder is 6.0GB with 25,674 files. These numbers should be on the high side, because I install a lot of software and have not made any effort to save space.The ultimate solution is to implement a clean installation of Windows XP, or use the option to "restore to factory condition", if available. However, that will mean re-installing all your applications, too.
One of the fastest ways for a technology to gain attention is to be either smaller, faster or cheaper, and if a new gadget ticks several of these boxes, all the better. Pico-projectors, palm-sized versions of the projectors used for presentations and home theatre, have been around since 2003, but it is only recently the technology has matured to the point where the excitement over their tiny size has been matched with acceptable performance.3M has announced its next-generation pico-generator, theMPro120. It usesliquid crystal on silicon technology, often referred to as LCoS, as opposed to the other primary technology for pico-projectors,digital light processing (DLP).LCoS usually boasts slightly higher resolutions, lower costs and faster response rates, but on the downside, LCoS devices have been larger in the past and draw more power. DLP advocates say the colour balance is better and power consumption is lower, but the technology uses thousands, sometimes, millions of tiny mirrors, making them slightly more fragile.The MPro120 is a more business-focused projector than some palm-sized projectormodels from Samsungor theCinemin Stick from WowWee Technologies. Those devices have a memory card slot for playing video files.However, that's not to say that the MPro120 is all business. It can connect to a range of devices, including laptops, netbooks, mobile phones, digital cameras and games consoles, and the projector comes with a wide range of connectors.The MPro120 has its own battery and 3M says that it will run up to four hours, though as we all know with battery life, mileage may vary. You'll only be able to achieve four hours from the battery if you lose the lower brightness setting. Brightness can be switched from 10 up to 12 lumens.With that brightness, you'll only be able to see the image clearly in a lit room if the projector is close to the screen or surface you're projecting the image on. Get it more than a foot away from the screen in a lit room, and the image will wash out.In a darkened room, the image can scale up to 50in or slightly less than 1.3m. Playing video at that size, the image was crisp and the action fluid, but I did notice that it got unacceptably blurry as it approached the advertised 50in limit.It has a small flip-down stand in order to raise the image up, and includes a small flexible tripod, which I didn't find stable or robust enough. The resolution is full VGA, and that's more than most pico-projectors.It costs £299, which places it around the middle of the pack. To do better than that you will have to move up to slightly larger "mini" projectors, such as thebigger, brighter and more expensive Dell M109S, which sells at £400.As many reviews have found, the MPro120 is a step up from the models of a year ago. It's brighter, has a higher resolution and better battery life than the models in 2008. Pico-projectors are moving beyond the realm of being petite playthings, but they still should be seen as devices that make necessary compromises for their size.Kevin AndersonPros:Portable, better resolution than many competing devicesCons:Only works in lit rooms at short distances, unstable tripodwww.3m.com/mpro
The worst is over for PCsThe Gartner research group says it expects this year's PC market to decline by just 2% to 285m units, and 12.6% growth next year.Creative ChildlineThe Childline charity has launched an online creative toolbox "to help children visually express any issues they are going though".Quadcore for under $100AMD has launched the first quadcore desktop PC processor, the Athlon II X4, that sells for $99.Inside the hardware labsMicrosoft's Channel 10 has started a series based on visiting Microsoft's new&nbsp;hardware labs.Android on MotorolaThe Motorola DEXT, the first Android-powered device from the phonemaker, goes on sale in the UK this week.Packard Bell heads upmarketPackard Bell, now owned by Acer, will move upmarket with the launch of a £399 Windows 7 notebook called dot m/u, based on an Acer Timeline.HTC comes to its sensesHTC has announced the HD2, its first Windows mobile phone to employ the Sense user interface.The digital Domino effectRevo's latest multi-format digital radio, the Domino, features iPod/iPhone docking and access to Last.fm stations.
Only when you put the numbers in perspective does the remarkable nature of Spotify's offering becomes clear. If you're a premium user – paying £10 a month – you can store more than 3,000 tracks offline, to listen to as and when you want (and they're portable if you have an iPhone, iPod Touch or Android phone).Buying that many from the iTunes Store would cost £2,370. You'd have to subscribe to Spotify for20 yearsbefore it became a lossmaking deal. Sure, if you stop paying the £10 for one month, those 3,000-plus tracks won't be there. But start paying again the next month and you're back where you were. Try doing that with your CD collection.Yet people have a visceral reaction to the idea of "renting" music: see the comments onmy Spotify articlelast week. People tend not to like the idea; we seem to think that if we spend any money on music, it should be there all the time – despite the experience of going to gigs (does the band keep playing as long as you want?) or listening to commercial radio (where you "pay" with your attention to the ads; that doesn't make your chosen music keep coming).But there are signs that Spotify's nudgings (the stick of adverts and the carrot of better audio quality, storage and zero ads) is getting people interested. Although Spotify admitted a while back that only 2% of its users were premium payers, I think the number will be significantly higher very soon.At which point you can hear the people who work for Napster spluttering and spitting tacks. Napster, they'll tell you, was offering back in 2004 exactly what Spotify is doing now. They're relaunching their offering this week: for £5 a month you can get unlimited streaming and five MP3s a month to keep. For £9.95 a month you get unlimited streaming, tethered downloads and 12 MP3s a month to keep.I sensed frustration when I spoke to Thorsten Schliesche, Napster's European vice-president of sales and marketing, earlier this week. "We used to offer tethered downloads," he said. "Customers told us they loved unlimited access to music. But they didn't like DRM" – the technology that stops you transferring all those files onto CD. "And the big argument was that if they stopped paying, all those songs were gone." Yes, I replied, but – 20 years! "What we're doing here" – moving away from DRM-based downloads — "is in response to our users and the market," insisted Schliesche.The monumental irony is that Spotify, of course, uses DRM (but not Microsoft's; cleverly, it's sneaked its own past Apple onto the iPhone and iPod Touch), and no ownership. And yet it's hugely popular, with more than 5m users. How many does Napster have? "Since our purchase by Best Buy, we can't give numbers," said Schliesche, unhappily.You'll have spotted the key difference between Napster's offering and Spotify's: the latter uses "freemium". You can use the ad-supported version forever (or as long as it lasts).  Did Napster consider a free version, to lure users? "We don't think the ad-funded model is viable," said Schliesche. Perhaps — but if Spotify doesn't last 20 years, think of all the money you'll have saved.
Take a guess at what would make up the top 10 of an all-time sales chart for this generation of consoles – the Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, DS and PSP. Halo 3 caused a stir, that probably figures, right? Grand Theft Auto IV and Gears of War must be there or thereabouts – perhaps a football game or two?Believe it or not, a chart of the 50 bestselling seventh-generation video games compiled byVGChartz.comshows that Nintendo games take up every single one of the top 10 places.Wii Sports, sitting at number one, has sold nearly 50m copies, almost four times as many as its nearest non-Nintendo rival, GTA IV, peering up menacingly from 11th place.Wii Sports is bundled with Wii consoles – boosting sales tremendously – but looking further down the list it isn't as easy to make excuses. Wii Fit? Fourth, with 22m sold. Mario Kart titles for the DS and Wii take up seventh and ninth. Two Brain Age games at sixth and 10th. How is it that Nintendo, the company responsible for the GameCube, has managed to achieve such total domination of the market?Mario and co have created platforms for simple, fun titles that attract what could dismissively be referred to as "casual gamers" or, perhaps, "normal people". While Microsoft and Sony have competed on graphics and increasingly sophisticated gameplay, the Wii has (thanks largely to the innovative controller) brought back the pick-up-and-play element to gaming not seen since the 1980s. What Super Nintendo or PlayStation title could your mum or dad have given you a game on, let aloneHarry Redknapp?Nintendo has also single-handedly cornered the children's market – the DS, in particular, is the number one choice of handhelds for your average eight-year-old. Kids like playing colourful games with cuddly characters, and, more importantly, parents like buying games that they think won't corrupt their child's fragile mind. The fact that these games, aimed towards the younger end of the market, are still of a sufficiently high quality to garner critical admiration and respect from dedicated gamers is a credit to Nintendo.It's easy to say with hindsight, but it's strange that no one realised sooner that the more realistic and complex games became the more people they alienated. Of the millions that enjoyed Space Invaders or PacMan, only a small percentage would have had any interest in playing World of Warcraft or Call of Duty.Ostracising dedicated gamers may seem like console suicide, but, as you'll probably be aware if you've ever told one of these so-called "normal people" that one of your hobbies is "computer games", we are in the minority.The Wii has made video games more popular than they've ever been –  NintenDogs, for example, has sold more copies than Super Mario 64, Zelda: Ocarina of Time and the entire Pikmin series combined, while New Super Mario Bros is on course to outsell both the game's classic Land and World instalments.Nintendo has managed to take video games away from the bedrooms of teenagers and single men and back into the family living room, where a previous generation once marvelled at Pong. If there was a chart of the most impressive achievements in the games industry, you'd have to put this one pretty close to the top.
It seems that everyone is excited about social networks. But not quite in the same way as Harvard graduate student Erez Lieberman, whoseevolutionary graph theoryis encouraging people to think about social networks in a different way: as an evolving population.Lieberman developed the theory with Harvard mathematics professor Martin Nowak, who helped to lay its foundation through the observation that while most of evolutionary theory deals with populations that have either simple shapes or no structure at all, the world around us is full of evolving systems with all kinds of internal structure – whether it's the networks of cells present in the human body or the social networks that occur in cyberspace."Our work was the first really systematic attempt to study Darwinian evolution on arbitrary networks," says Lieberman. "The problem for theorists is that when you try to account for the network, the maths can get much harder. There's a back-and-forth that goes on between networks and Darwinian evolution. On the one hand, the network structure affects the direction evolution will take; but on the other hand, over time evolution will remodel the network."Lieberman and Nowak's work builds on that of 1950s mathematicianPaul Erdös, which shed light on the question of how networks change as they grow, and the work of Peter Clifford and Aidan Sudbury, who developed some of the underlying maths in their studies of competition in the 1970s.Changing networksAt its simplest, evolutionary graph theory deals with the future of a network and the individuals that live at its nodes when the network begins to evolve and its individuals start moving, mutating and influencing their neighbours. A network can evolve in two ways: either individual nodes evolve while the network stays the same (a new strain of flu enters a population; one person gets 10 friends to vote for Obama), or the network itself changes (as continents drift, they separate subpopulations of the same species; someone makes 10 new friends on Facebook)."People sometimes think of networks in terms of a concept called a replicator," Lieberman says. "A replicator is an entity, be it an organism, a computer virus, or even an idea, that can somehow make copies of itself. Networks are a way of thinking about where the new copy can go."It wasn't a big surprise when evolutionary graph theory found applications in biology, which abounds with these replicators. One context where it has been applied is the study of cancer.Lieberman explains it like this: "A really crude way of thinking about cancer is that cancer cells are ordinary cells that reproduce too fast. When you frame it that way, you see that cancer is an evolutionary problem: what makes an individual cell fitter (reproducing a lot) makes the organism a lot less fit (death from cancer). Natural selection at the level of the cell is in conflict with natural selection at the level of the organism.""By severely restricting cellular reproduction to a small collection of cells called stem cells, the human body actually reconfigures its own network in a way that dramatically weakens natural selection at the cellular level. This enables the organism to survive without cancer for far longer."But now evolutionary graph theorists are beginning to think about applications beyond biology. After all, the theory applies to replicators, things that somehow manage to make copies of themselves. But no one says that to be a replicator, you have to be alive.Enter web-based social networking. On websites such as Facebook and MySpace, networks evolve as people influence one another (changing the configuration of the nodes) and as new friendships are made (changing the network as a whole). Sites such as these are just teeming with replicators. "Vampires", a Facebook application, can spread as easily as the flu: when people "bite" their friends, the "Vampires" app gets passed along the friendship network.Evolutionary graph theorists have already begun to make progress. "One of the interesting things we've found about social networks is that the presence of network structure can give rise to pro-social behaviours," says Lieberman."This is an idea now called 'network reciprocity'. There's an inverse relationship between the number of connections you have in the network and the extent to which you'll 'stick your neck out' for them: the ties that bind are tighter if there are fewer ties."Despite their ability to encourage network reciprocity, Facebook and other online social networks have been plagued by the problem of how to make money. Where is the value in a social network?"What online social networks do is to dramatically accelerate and amplify our existing capacity to influence and co-operate with one another. And this influence is worth a lot of money," according to Lieberman.In the recent US presidential election more than $1bn was spent by candidates trying to influence the electorate to vote in a particular way. Although the impact of a site such as Facebook has often been cited as significant, the reality is that election candidates made up only a small percentage of the total number of discussions on Facebook during the election. But while this indicates the sum total of all the influence that a site such as Facebook exerts on people is worth a lot of money, this does not always mean this value of a social network is reflected in the sale price of a social networking site, or in the site's capacity to generate revenue. This could explain why a site such as Facebook has one model of its external value, and another for its internal value – Microsoft's stock purchase valued the firm at $15bn, but Facebook's own internal valuation was just $3.7bn. But then why isn't Facebook more profitable?"Part of the reason might be due to an economic notion called 'externality', says Lieberman. "When a company pollutes, it is often the case that they don't have to pay for the pollution they generate. By destroying a collective resource without paying for it, the company does us all a disservice. Economists call this a 'negative externality.' But companies can create 'positive externalities,' too, and social networking sites might be one example. They create all this wonderful collective resource, without really getting paid much to do it."It's hard to quantify the influence that people exert. Ideas are replicators, and influence makes them replicate: but when that happens, there usually isn't a birth certificate."That's another way in which evolutionary graph theorists may have an impact. Evolutionary graph theory provides a quantitative language for describing how replicators behave on networks – and may lead to new ways of quantifying the value of influence on the web."Scientists are just beginning to jump into the trenches, trying to measure and quantify the spread of ideas on Facebook and other sites. But it's a long road in waters we've only begun to chart."Friends predictedSo it may be a while before Lieberman and like-minded theorists begin making any predictions about social networks and what exactly they're evolving into. What we do know is that more measurements need to be made, spread out over the next two to five years. According to Lieberman, the only way to predict how a social network will evolve is to construct an artificial one and track the flow of ideas within it.What is the likelihood of people forwarding on items that they receive in a social network such as Facebook (news items, links, video clips)? What is the likelihood of people responding to messages, or re-tweeting other people's tweets on Twitter?"The idea we need to explore is this: what is the likelihood that a particular stimulus within a social network leads to a particular response?" says Lieberman."In my opinion, as we get better at measuring what happens within social networks, I predict a lot more organised marketing efforts on social networks as well as systematic influence campaigns."
Google's search algorithm works on a simple principle: on the web, sites link to other authoritative sources, and the more sites link to something the more authoritative they think it is. That's great if you're dealing with sites that actually follow that rule – as the vast majority do.But what do you do to make your search engine useful when you have a class of websites that produce almost identical content but which barely ever link to each other? What does Google do about news websites?They generate new content all the time, sometimes using (or copying) each others' work without acknowledgement – particularly without those links to each others' sites that Google's standard algorithm relies on to measure authority. What do you do with a chunk of the web that doesn't really behave like the rest of the web?That's the problem facing Josh Cohen, senior business product manager for Google News. He can't win. SinceGoogle Newsarrived in April 2002, and in its more current form that September, publishers have had a love-hate relationship with it. They complain that it is "stealing" readers by providing a product similar to their own but without producing any content, yet desire prominent placement so that people will come and read their stories by clicking through from it.Cohen notes that people don't use Google News as they do Google's main page: "The user base on Google News is split. One half is using it in a browse mode and the other half is actively searching."But one returns to that problem about news sites: the rules of journalistic production are not compatible with Google's algorithm, based on the link culture of the web. And even though Maile Ohye, Google's developer programs technical head, has said that in news searching Google values the original source which broke the story first, Google News shows something different.Fresh angleBut Google, where 97% of revenues come from advertising and just 3% from licencing and other sources, isn't giving up on journalism. While news portals are still moving their editorial staff from evening deadlines to the early morning shifts that are relevant for an office medium such as the internet, Google is taking another approach to journalism.It is insistent, for example, that humans don't choose what stories appear: computers do. And computers also inform its other experiments with how to present journalistic output, most recently Spotlight (which follows an algorithm focusing on filtering special-interest articles, opinion pieces, investigative journalism and other articles of "lasting value") and Fast Flip, which creates an ad-hoc magazine of screenshots of news organisations' webpages — where, it's hard not to notice, those with prominent pictures of women often feature among the most-clicked.Cohen agrees that Google is trying to emulate certain journalistic qualities alongside breaking news: "Yes, the Spotlight feature attempts to bring interesting pieces to the surface. And here it overlaps with Fast Flip, which is like browsing through a magazine."So is Google moving away from breaking news? "I wouldn't call that a shift of strategy," says Cohen. "Indeed with Spotlight, Google News is not focusing on news, but on the serendipity you get from picking up a newspaper."Fast Flip follows a similar approach. By flipping through, you start reading a story you never would have thought of to read. It's the fun element of discovery. We think of it as a hyper-personalisation that brings to readers the serendipity they know from print."Previously, Google has concentrated on being a search engine and delivering breaking news from other organisations. Now it is delivering something that the reader hasn't actually searched for – another way in which news is unlike normal search.So is Google really not moving away from simply searching the news? Cohen (who was hired when Google recognised that it should put a face to its algorithm) sounds evasive: "Well, the reader would not search for it, but still it works like a request for a hyper-personalisation of news. It is not easy to develop an algorithm for it. It keeps the programmers busy. It is very tough to figure out, how to do it and import it into the service."When you are talking to Google, sooner or later you come across this argument: it is the algorithm, regardless of whether you are asking about privacy issues, the ranking within Google News, or Google's plans on expanding within journalism. You've got a problem? Well, there is an algorithm for it. And Google is not only programming an algorithm for new ways of delivering journalism but products that might as well affect its production.New wave of journalismThis year, Google has rolled out nine new search options. These are hidden in the left sidebar and allow users to filter their results by hour or date range, or to look only within blogs, or for reviews. This means that Google's search can now be filtered to show results indexed minutes or seconds ago – ideal for researching a story."There is a lot of high-quality information out there," says Cohen. "Not only journalism, but blogs and other services. And our task is to bring this information to the reader. So ask yourself: Is Twitter journalism? I don't know. But there is no question that it is part of the dialogue."Besides that there is alsoGoogle Wave, a browser-based tool that could be used for real-time collaborative journalism, which has just gone into public beta testing (with mixed results).Cohen says of the product, which hardly anyone had seen when we spoke: "We had a lot of publishers reaching out to us, asking if they can use Google Wave. There is clearly an interest there."And certainly newspapers have made good use of collaborative journalism – including theGuardian's investigation of 458,832 pages of documents about MPs' expenses.So could Google News use Google Wave as a reporting tool and, following a disaster, for example, publish the results immediately via the new live search?At the moment, Cohen says not: "We will always draw the distinction: we are not journalists. We don't want to become editors. We understand ourselves as a service or a platform. There is no overarching goal in becoming something like the iTunes of journalism."As a company it is just really important to play with different angles and continue to try new things. We develop things, a lot of different things, and we put them out to learn from our failures. That's simply what we do."And, as the market position of Google is a lot better than that of many publishers, technology will keep on chasing journalism. The relationship might not be easy, but apart from the future arriving here much faster, it is here to stay.
Perhaps notRoyal Mail, which this week hired London law firm CMS Cameron McKenna (2008 revenues: £235m) to send legal warning letters to the two developers behindernestmarples.com, which was scraping postcode-to-location data from other websites on the net.Royal Mail claimed that Richard Pope and Harry Metcalfe, the duo behind the site, had caused it "loss". As the PostZon database being accessed via ernestmarples.com – named after the man who introduced postcodes to the UK – costs about £4,000 a year to license, could it be right?Some simple calculations show that in fact everyone else, including the government that owns Royal Mail, and perhaps even Royal Mail itself, would benefit from the data being free.Pope and Metcalfe point out that ernestmarples.com, which queried other websites that provide PostZon data for its postcode-location conversions, fed a number of their other websites – including Job Centre Pro Plus (which used a postcode lookup to find jobs near you), Planning Alerts (which alerts you to new planning applications in your area) and The Straight Choice (used to file election leaflets by area).Job Centre Pro Plus had 437,354 searches for jobs since March this year, according to Metcalfe. If only 0.001% of those led to someone finding employment and saved £100 in benefit payments, then ernestmarples.com has, overall, saved the government money.And Pope points out that professional property developers used PlanningAlerts "since it allows them to look for opportunities/competition".If that led them to work worth more than £20,000, the 25% corporate tax rate means the government has received more in tax revenue than it has lost from Pope and Metcalfe's non-licensing of PostZon. Pope also notes that "few councils were using the PlanningAlerts API [programming interface] since it was easier and cheaper than paying external consultants to hack they achingly bad internal systems." He points to Lincoln City Council, where PlanningAlerts was used to generate the RSS feed and map for planning. Would it cost more than £4,000 for Lincoln to build a system to do the job PlanningAlerts enabled?Furthermore, "I was told by someone at the Electoral Commission that they used the Straight Choice during the Euro elections to monitor parties," Pope said. "The alternative would be paying for hundreds of field agents (which they can't afford)."Rufus Pollock, a Cambridge economist who co-wrote a study for the government on the economic benefit of making trading funds' data free, calculates that making PostZon free would bring an economic benefit 50% greater than Royal Mail's present revenues.The only question now is whether Royal Mail – and the government – have noticed and will do something about it.
A wall divides broadcast television and broadband video: the wall between the living room and home office. The living room is home to what was once considered the small screen, television, and the home office is now home to even smaller screens on laptop and desktop computers.The plans to bridge those worlds are slowly coming together, but keep running into obstacles. The BBC is trying to marry its iPlayer broadband catch-up service with broadcast digital television viaProject Canvas. This is facingstiff resistancefrom consumer electronics manufacturers and others in the television industry, such assatellite television giant BSkyB. While the players in the electronics and television industry jockey for position, developers are moving into the gap.Changing channelXBMC, formerly XBox Media Centre, is one of several projects to create a media centre platform using common computer hardware. Despite the name, the media centre is cross-platform and runs on a number of platforms including the Xbox, Linux, Windows, Apple's Mac OS and Apple TV OS. It organises all of your music and video files, and with plug-ins, it can be used as a digital video recorder or as a viewer for online video from traditional broadcasters and online video providers.  XBMC has a huge range of plug-ins, but they lack the simple installation process of adding a plug-in to Firefox or installing an iPhone app. However, XBMC has spawned a number of spin-offs that are pushing innovation well beyond that of the television establishment.MediaPortalon Windows,Plexfor the Mac, the commercial movie serviceVoddlerand social media player Boxee all have their roots in the XBMC project.The XBMC spin-offs were created by developers looking to solve a specific problem.MediaPortal developer Erwin Beckers began the project in 2004because the XBox didn't support TV cards. Since the project forked from XBMC, the code has been almost entirely rewritten.In December 2007, developer Elan Feingold was looking for a media centre application for his Apple Mac and began porting XBMC to the platform. He worked under the auspices of the XBMC project until May 2008, whenthere was a decision to split his work to a new fork.Plex was born.After becoming captain of his own ship as  put it, he Feingold began work on a media centre component to aggregate not only local content but also to bring together web-based multimedia services.Plex has 120 plug-ins or applications, and growing.Boxeewas also born out of the developers' frustration with existing applications, according to CEO and founder Avner Ronen. Microsoft had its media centre software and Apple had Front Row, but Ronen said, "We thought there is a place for product that puts the user first and enables access to all content, not for Apple or Microsoft to decide what you can and can't access."Boxee also takes a trick from social networking and social media services such as Last.fm, which allows you to rate music, pictures and videos and recommend content to your friends. When you log into Boxee, you see what your friends have watched and what they recommend.Installing applications is easy in both Plex and Boxee. You can browse a list of image, audio or video applications that allow viewing or listening to a range of traditional and internet-based media.Once you've connected your computer to your flatpanel TV, you can switch easily from catching up on a BBC show you missed last week, and then listen to music on Last.fm or a Shoutcast radio channel and then watch a funny video from the Onion News Network, all from your sofa.Plex and Boxee also have applications for services such as Hulu, a US-based video-on-demand service that features content from NBC, Disney's ABC and News Corporation's Fox network. CBS is the only network without a presence on the increasingly popular service. Neither Plex nor Boxee circumvent the regional restrictions of services such as Hulu, but that hasn't prevented a running battle between Hulu and these media centre applications.Hulu has never officially contacted Feingold, but has deployed what he called "behind the scenes counter-measures". Once, when it looked at the source of Hulu after the service stopped working with its software, it found an HTML tag named PLEX, which presumably broke the service.The relationship with content companies is not completely adversarial, with some companies contacting Feingold to add their content to Plex. "Most people get that having more eyeballs is better," he said.Boxee's conflicts have been a bit more public, but Hulu is working again.Dis-contentedRonen wants to help content owners to make money, while Boxee is working with content companies for premium services such as Major League Baseball's on-demand service. He also sees that there is the opportunity for content companies to sell their own premium applications, much like Apple's iPhone app store."Content owners will need to follow the users. If users are on internet, on computers watching TV, they will need to be there," Ronen said.Both Feingold and Ronen know that users wanting to use their software face a conundrum. The flexibility of media centre applications comes at a cost – and that's the cost of dedicating a computer to Plex or Boxee."I'm highly cognisant that to run software, you need to buy a $500 Mac Mini, completely aware of the barrier to entry," Feingold said. He wants people to be able "to have the Plex experience" without having to buy themselves another computer.Online and download services are now developing their own set-top boxes for video download rental services such asNetflixand Vudu in the US. "I don't think that people want another box," Feingold said. Connected TVs are now able to display a limited amount of online video content, but in five years, Feingold sees apps as part of television's future.Feingold would love to work full-time on Plex, but for now it remains a labour of love. Boxee landed $6m in a second round of funding in August. One of its goals for 2010 is to get on additional devices beyond computers and Apple TV. It won't be building a Boxee set-top box, but it is working to get Boxee on a number of devices, including set-top boxes, games consoles and connected TVs.
Forty years ago, the moon was the site of one of humanity's greatest triumphs as Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin took their first steps on another world.On Friday, however, the Earth's nearest neighbour is set to stage one of the strangest moments in space exploration, as Nasa prepares to send a 2.3 tonne satellite smashing into the lunar surface.If all goes to plan, officials at the space agency say the strike will take place at around 12.30pm UK time, with a booster rocket and $79m satellite slamming into a huge crater near the moon's south pole.The scheme – called "a very exciting mission culminating in a real crescendo event" by Nasa project manager Dan Andrews – is certainly a long way from the landing of the Eagle module in 1969. But the LCROSS (Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite) mission could eventually have a similarly dramatic impact on space exploration.That is because the spectacular crash is actually an attempt to uncover water that scientists believe is hidden on the moon – a discovery that would not only shed light on the moon's history, but also open up exciting new possibilities for manned missions into space.By examining the huge cloud of dust that will be thrown up after the impact takes place, experts hope to find evidence of water ice that previous observations have indicated exists on the lunar surface.The area targeted by LCROSS is believed to be one of the richest in potential water deposits, and is also close to the Shackleton crater – the planned home of a Nasa moon base scheduled to be in operation by 2024. Finding water nearby would not only reduce the cost and complexity of setting up a lunar colony, but would also help it become a staging post for future trips further into space.Although the crash itself will not be visible from Britain, even for those with powerful telescopes, it may be possible to see the separation event in the early hours of the morning – when the LCROSS satellite and its booster rocket split from each other before beginning their descent.For those who cannot see the event themselves, Nasa will be offering the opportunity to watch a live relay of images online from LCROSS itself, which will film the impact of the Centaur rocket before plunging into the same crater.The crash is expected to displace around 350 tonnes of debris, pushing a cloud up as high as 10km above the surface and casting the dust into direct sunlight for the first time in millions of years."The rocket has roughly the mass as a Transit van, and it will hit the moon at 5,600 miles per hour – the energy of the collision is roughly equivalent to two tonnes of TNT," said Dr Vincent Eke of Durham University, whose analysis of data from previous lunar expeditions helped to pinpoint the areas of the moon that are most likely to harbour water."While this sounds dramatic, the impact of this will simply create one more dimple on the moonscape," he said. "The cratered surface of the moon shows it has a history of violent collisions with asteroids and comets ... such collisions frequently occur, but the difference is that this time we know precisely where and when to look."The impact will be visible to telescopes across California and Hawaii, and space scientists will be camped out at observatories across the western US – where it will be the middle of the night when the impact takes place.To boost excitement around the mission, Nasa has been encouraging people to hold so-called "impact parties" – offering videos, stickers and posters for those interested in what will be taking place. Those gathered at such events will be hoping that the mission makes it all the way to its conclusion — particularly since it has not been smooth sailing since LCROSS took off from Florida in June.In August, a technical glitch led the spacecraft to burn up half of its remaining fuel – a moment that endangered the entire project for several weeks.Now the mission appears to be back on track, and closer than ever to uncovering physical evidence of water on the moon. Last week the Indian satellite Chandrayaan confirmed the existence of what appeared to be water ice across the south of the moon – and further data from Nasa's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter also indicated that water appears to exist. Nobody, however, has ever managed to actually find ice.That is something LCROSS hopes to change, although analysing the information gathered during the four-minute window between the two crashes will probably take some time. The potential is huge, said Dr Kim Ennico, one of the scientists working on the mission."Finding resources on the moon – be it water, hydrogen, oxygen, helium or any type of resource for building, for crops, for fuel – if it's there and you can live off the land," she said. "That's what we did when we explored other continents on our own planet — and if we're going out to explore other places in the solar system, if you can live off the land, it's more beneficial than trying to take it with you."
Digital Radio UK, the radio industry alliance that aims to make digital radio the leading format in the UK, insists that it is taking a "wider perspective" and that the shift from FM will bring more consumer choice, interactivity and better sound quality.Responding to Jack Schofield, who last week quoted an Ofcom study that found 91% of radio listeners are already satisfied with their choice (Radio industry's digital plans need radical retuning, 1 October) the chief executive ofGMG Radio, Stuart Taylor, said that "Tempting as it is to base industrial policy on narrow technological debates, the UK radio industry is instead taking a slightly wider perspective." (Disclosure: GMG Radio is owned by Guardian Media Group, which also owns the Guardian.)In a letter to Guardian Technology, Taylor said: "Upgrading to digital radio … will benefit consumers with more choice, interactivity and better sound quality (more than three quarters of consumers agree digital radio sounds as good as or better than FM); create a more competitive UK radio industry better able to invest in content; and support the wider economy from design studios to retail outlets."Taylor argues that the UK's ageing FM networks will require replacement costing "hundreds of millions of pounds", meaning that "we are faced with a simple choice: invest in FM which is full and has reached the limits of its possibilities, or in digital radio, which has room to grow and exciting potential."He added: "It may be true that 'FM already works pretty well', but so did analogue mobile phones. And if we hadn't moved to digital phones there would be no BlackBerrys, no email, no Messenger, no Facebook on your phone."We had faxes before the internet, five TV channels before satellite, Filofaxes before PDAs and Walkmans before iPods. So to suggest that the real debate is between DAB and DAB+ is simply a red herring."But the upgrade to digital is actually not planned for at least six years, and he added: "The 46m analogue radios in regular use … will still receive small local stations, or will be upgraded with a plug-in converter or, in some cases, will need recycling."
Is your glass four-fifths empty or a one-fifth full? According to ourfabuiously unscientific pollof readers of this blog and ourGuardiantech twitter stream, just 130 out of 639 people will buy a Kindle from Amazon.That's a touch over 20% saying yes to a product that has had a lot of coverage - and being offered to an audience which of course is likely to be more technically inclined than the average person.Some provisos at the top: the poll simply asked "Will you buy a Kindle?" and then asked people to explain why. It's not scientific: it's self-selecting, as we haven't yet worked out how to force you to answer - though one might expect that the self-selecting nature could push up the number who said yes.We also asked people to give a reason, though this was optional.A rapid sample of reasons in favour (there were 45 in the yes responses, or 34% of those saying yes):"Useful to carry a large library around with you in a small container.""It's the first decent e-reader to hit the UK. The Sony reader whilst [having] better support of file types is a pretty dull and ugly device. The Kindle is cool and sleek looking and has remedied file type concerns.""It's less than I paid for my first iPod and does lots more.""Mainly out of intrigue. I want to see how I react to downloading books, reading them off of this advice and being linked to a single bookstore.  Also want to experience the functionality of this product.""I've been waiting for a good way to read newspapers and magazines without having to look at my (painful) laptop screen for quite some time now.""I've been using Stanza on the iPhone for eBooks on trains and planes for a while and I can't wait for a larger screen with much longer battery life."OK, and now some of the negative responses. Here we had 283 responses (55%of those answering no). Clearly, people actually feel strongly."Too expensive - and far more likely to become obsolete than a book.""I look at a computer screen all day long...why would I read a book on it.""Too expensive to ship here.""DRM [digital rights management]. When I spend 200 quid on a device I don't want someone telling what I can and can't use it for." (Recall the1984 fiascowith the Kindle.)"We've been treated like second class customers by Amazon. It'd a bit of a kerfuffle to get one and besides it's not even the latest Kindle and don't really want to carry an extra piece of hardware around with me.""It doesn't support a wide enough range of formats. Comes with a US charger, a browser that probbly won't work in the UK, and I would prefer to have Wi-Fi support rather than 3G.""It's too big and ugly looking and on top of that it seems pricey. Maybe a couple generations down the line it'll be worth it, especially once I'm done reading the thousands of books I have got already.""Call me old-fashioned. Love the feel of a book, the excitement of putting a new hardback on the shelves. Lending to a friend. Taking a Kindle to bed just seems wrong."And there you have it (in our very small sample): the reality is that people still like books. At least, for leisure reading. One can see enormous uses for ebooks in work: how terrific for someone repairing a plane not to have to carry the entire manual for it around (and they can get graphics on the screen too).But as far as the ebook goes - or at least the Kindle - the jury is out. Around the back, reading a physical book.Update: in the time it's taken me to compose and get this post up, the figure has changed: it's now 146 out of 646 buying (a slight uptick, at 22%).Compare that toour (also fabulously unscientific) poll in September, which found that 77% of people aren't interested (ie 23% are).We seem to have a pretty solid baseline here: something between 20-25% of Guardian readers (online) will buy them. How that compares to the general population - well, Amazon is about to find out, along with Sony and Interead (maker of the comparatively new Cool-er).
Amazon'sKindle announcementhas excited many - but a number of key questions seemed to be left hanging. Such as: which mobile network will it use in the UK? Why can't you buy it from the Amazon UK store? And will it offer you only US content?I spoke to Steven Kessel, Amazon's senior vice president in charge of the Kindle.First item: though the announcement is being made today, the Kindle (the small Kindle 2, not the large-screen Kindle DX) will not actually start to ship until October 19th - the week after theFrankfurt Book Fair(where publishers meet to talk about what's going on, and lots of publishing deals get done). Yet if you're in the US, you can get a Kindle in 2-4 days.Why the 12-day delay? Was the launch timed to attract attention at Frankfurt? "We're excited to make the announcement," said Kessel. "Our approach is to start with the customer and work outwards. We make announcements when we believe the products are available for customers."And it's only the Kindle 2, not the large-screen Kindle DX; the latter will be available "some time next year", "as soon as it's ready".Next: you won't actually be buying the Kindle from Amazon UK. Instead you'll have to order it in dollars, and pay any import taxes that it attracts. Why isn't Amazon selling it from the UK?"In the future we plan to introduce a UK-centric experience to allow people in Britain to purchase Kindle and Kindle books," Kessel said. And in a statement, Amazon UK previously saidWe know that customers all around the world have been looking forward to being able order the Kindle and offering from Amazon.com is the most expeditious way for us to get Kindle to them. The Kindle Store on Amazon.com offers international customers over 200,000 English-language books, including New Releases and New York Times bestsellers, which are typically priced less than physical editions. Over 1,000 different rights-holders now have books available in the Kindle Store, including leading publishers Atlantic Books, Bloomsbury, Canongate Books, Faber &amp; Faber, HarperCollins, Harlequin, Hachette, Lonely Planet, Penguin, Profile Books, Quercus, Simon &amp; Schuster and Wiley.  Each customer has a content catalogue associated with their region or country, and we display the appropriate catalogue for each customer.Another mystifying question: which mobile network is Amazon going to use? AT&amp;T, its partner in the US, doesn't have a presence in the UK. So who is Amazon's UK mobile network? Its earlier statements this morning were models of non-clarity:"Kindle with international wireless uses advanced 3G GSM technology to power Amazon's wireless delivery system 'Whispernet' over the AT&amp;T Global Network."Could Kessel elucidate? Is Amazon going to be a mobile virtual network operator in the UK, like Virgin, renting airtime from the main four networks (O2, Orange, Vodafone and 3)?"AT&amp;T is through their network of partnerships providing 3G network coverage to Kindle and Whispernet across 100 countries." Er, OK, so which network in the UK? "You'd have to ask AT&amp;T." We intend to. But he said that there will be no "roaming" charges; if you're a UK Kindle buyer you won't get any charges using it in the UK from a mobile network. What about a UK Kindle owner in the US - would they see roaming charges? "You pay no roaming charges."Then there's the final question, relating to books and publication rights, which has exercised publishers and authors and agents. You'll know that some books are published in some countries, but not in others. These are often the subject of big rights bids.Amazon is going to tailor its store depending on where your Kindle is: if you're in the UK, your available catalogue will be limited to books that have been published in the UK for the Kindle.So what if you take an Amazon UK-bought Kindle to the US: will you be able to buy stuff from the Kindle US store? In other words, does each Kindle identify itself by country of purchase, or by the country it finds itself in - rather as you can be a British national but buy US-published books if you hop on a plane and go to the US? Yes, according to Kessel.Even so, we've heard that if you subscribe to UK papers on a Kindle in the UK that you may not be able to get images downloaded (there might be copyright issues). We're seeking confirmation on that.The price? More than £200 once you factor in the exchange rate and customs charges.So is it worth it? Why not take our poll and tell us?
Yes, due to Craggy Island and Beardofbees submitting their respective weeks almost simultaneously (was it something to do with the postal strike, chaps?), here's a fortnight's worth of banter, debate and politically incorrect debauchery culled from the Gamesblog Chatterbox. Topics include the rebirth of Far Cry 2, employment law and how to get away with murder. Literally.Remember, if you're out and about and spot an interesting videogame ad, someone dressed as Sonic the Hedgehog, or something else vaguely game-related, take a photo (in landscape format), then send it to gamesblog + at + googlemail + com. There's no prize beyond the pride of seeing your masterpiece on a national newspaper website...Chatterbox - w/e September 25By Craggy IslandThe week began with the controversy surrounding Manchester United's late, late winner in the derby win over City[Arghhhhhh! Just as I'd recovered! - Keef]as well as other chat about the weekend's results.  Sheep also embarrassed himself with his list of who the most annoying 'cockney' teams are. Spurs only 5th and the Hammers as bad as Millwall. He is, as the Cockneys themselves might say, 'having a laugh'. Here is the list in full:1= Millwall, West Ham3) Chelsea4) Crystal Palarse5= Spurs, Arsenal7) Fulham8) QPR9) Charlton10= Brentford, Barnet, Leyton OrientMercifully, talk then turned to the big event of the weekend: the London Skyride and the small blog meet-up in Waterloo afterwards. In attendance were myself, Lazybones, Crispycrumb, Davefalse and CunningStunt. We were also joined by MrsCraggyIsland and MrsCrispycrumb.  In the words of Crispy,"@Meeting bloggers Awkward. Long uncomfortable silences. Weird stares. But enough about CunningStunt! Lovely to meet Craggy and davefalse yesterday after the bike ride"Much booze was consumed and this may have led to Crispy's next comment, "Lazy you fool. I had so much of your Bloody Mary down my leg it looked like I'd been dry humping a bottle of ketchup. Did you manage to get your bike home?"  In the end it was decided that it was Davefalse who was actually responsible for the spillage and the tipsy Lazybones was blameless.  Unfortunately we couldn't get Cunningstunt's take on the incident as by this point he had made his slightly sudden drunken exit. Let's hope that he managed to get the tube in the right direction this time!BeardofBees then tried to turn conversation on to more 'game-y' matters by mentioning a TV show named Second Skin, all about online gamers:"One guy was 35, and had no job, no relationship or family, all of his utilities had been cut off and then his house foreclosed, and had to hobble around on a zimmer frame because he'd done his back in playing World of Warcraft too much. Amazing. A few weird couples that had met and got married through games. Also some more normal folks and some good commentary about games and online worlds in general.One guy who'd written a book about 'synthetic worlds' made a telling point - if we lose people so entirely to these worlds - which they love because they're not judged for being ugly, or shy, or whatever - what kind of comment is that on the real world we've built for ourselves on the outside? Some sad stories. Recommended."Spinky led us onwards into a discussion about the ethics of 'rubbing' in racing games after he received abuse from what he termed "Gotham snobs" online at NFS: Shift. Some boxers thought that it was acceptable to do whatever it took to win, whilst others were firmly of the opinion that it was game wrecking. I guess that it depends on the game?There was a renewed enthusiasm for Far Cry 2 this week as well, probably helped by the fact that it was less than a tenner in HMV at the time. Lots of love for it from a lot of people, though it does sound as though you have to devote an awful lot of time to it?Then things careered off on a slightly grisly tangent. Prospective criminal mastermind BeardofBees provided his thoughts on getting away with murder:"Mrs bees asked speculatively recently what I'd do if you accidently killed someone? As in, would I cover it up or go to the police?"I said I'd go home whilst making various phone calls to mates saying I was in the pub or something. I'd go around the back and into the garden whereupon I'd strip off and rub myself all over as thoroughly as possible with dirt, mud etc. Totally scrub hair and nails and everything. Then leave the clothes in the garden and go indoors, trying to touch as little as possible. Up to the bathroom, under the shower for 20 mins cleaning thoroughly. Back out with a pair of tongs and put the clothes into a bin bag, tongs in the bag too, and take the whole thing to the tip at the earliest opportunity. Go home, relax. The wife was pretty horrified. Do normal people not think these things through?"Apparently some of the 'normal' people on here do. Alfie, Rusty and Mollocate all seem to have something planned for 'accidents' and so does Davefalse: "If I ever 'murder' someone accidentally I'd probably go straight to the police and admit manslaughter. Not sure I could handle the guilt otherwise."[This quote then descends into an American Psycho-esque fantasy that i thought more sensitive readers could possible live without... Keef]Luckily, there was an alternative conversational thread on offer: which 'Soap' is the best and/or boasts the most attractive cast. Talk then turned to celebrity bore-fest Strictly Come Dancing. Davefalse was on a bit of a roll at this point:"This will possibly be the most embarrassing comment I'm ever likely to post, but I really quite enjoy Strictly. Sit around with my housemates bitching about how rubbish everyone looks and dances while being entertained by Bruce's 'funny' comments, and fit dancers wearing very little. I even voted one year when Mark Ramprakash was on. Worryingly, it's one of only about a couple of shows I make sure to watch."To add to the odd nature of the days chat, a 'discussion' then broke out about what is acceptable language/humour for use on the blog.  It is best not discussed any further except to say that at the end of it opinions were still very divided.Uncleben had the last word: "Good lord. Your various employers must have suffered today."11 pages of chatter, and little that can be safely repeated. Possibly the most foul-mouthed day in Chatterbox history.The next day things got back on topic with a discussion about game length.  The dilemma was short and sweet (Dead Space, Batman etc) versus massive and time consuming (Oblivion etc). Obviously both sides had their champions and it isn't impossible to love both.From the type of characters that we get on here I would have predicted that there would be a fair bit of anal-retentive ordering/alphabetising of things and I wouldn't be wrong.  We seem to have some that are worse than others but StainlessStyle's take on it is quite interesting:"@Putting things in order. I do it by colour. Which really doesn't help you find anything unless you can remember what colour the spine is. However looks pretty. I am becoming a female cliche."whilst Simian has a different take on things:"DVDs are organised by genre on specific shelves (from top to bottom it goes Porn (yes, I admit they're on permanent display which the missus just laughs at). Under that is martial arts, action, thriller, drama, TV series, comedy, chick flick. Then, within each shelf they're organised by A-Z from left to right as you look at them."Smellavision takes the prize though:"I have 6000+ comics. Alphabetical ordering, by title, is the only way to go. It's a bugger when a title gets a name change, or when an issue 0 comes out, or they start renumbering. I've spent weeks with piles of comics on the floor sorting them out - now I just need to record which issues I actually have!"Or so he thought. Here comes Beardofbees..."I feel I should comment on OCD stuff as I have a reputation as a high-ranking geek to uphold and my lapsed DVD/CD/Book collections don't do the job. Board games then. My board games, of which I have about 60-70, are organised by size. Mostly they are stood on their side like books which takes more space but stops the dreaded box compression which happens when you stack them. All a publisher's titles are generally together, more because they are the same size than anything else. Some games have very large boards, and sideways storage can warp these, so some are stacked horizonatally, but always making sure that equal size boxes only are stacked, so their corners line up exactly and take the weight."All components of the games are carefully bagged up in polythene bags or paper envelopes. No rubber bands are used on cards as they dig into them, and over time also degrade and go sticky. After playing, all bits must be carefully sorted and put back into bags before the box goes away.There. I am your king once more."This fascinating conversation about alphabetising and storage couldn't last forever though, and eventually, in that charming Chatterbox way, talk turned to something much more scintillating... keyboard layouts. And then specifically the 'windows key'. If anyone has ever wondered about the power that it holds let Cunningstunt and Beard fill you in:"I use windows + e to open explorer and windows + L to lock the pc all the time. Also windows, up, enter, enter to shutdown.""From Vista onwards it's invaluable. Don't bother clicking to launch a program. Want to launch powerpoint? Hit windows key, type "powerp" or something, hit return. Job done. Also windows-M minimises so you can see the desktop."Another of the blog's perennial favourite topics also raised its head with Silveryfox after advice about quality TV shows to watch on DVD. Most of the usual suspects were mentioned (The Shield, West Wing, Deadwood, Generation Kill, I Claudius (HenryPootle), Band of Brothers, Prison Break, Dexter, Rome, Sopranos, Firefly, Madmen). In the end, lucky little Foxy got sent Band of Brothers as a loaner from the exceptionally generous Supersmashin. Nice fellow.[Lost, for heaven's sake, Lost! Every gamer should watch it - Keef]Friday morning could offer up no more excitement than chatter about the rumoured inclusion of cross-game chatter on the PS3. Opinion on it seemed to be divided. Those with 360s were bigging it up and saying that it would be a great addition. This from Umboros:"@PS3 Voicechat This could well be the final step in matching 360's online capabilities. Like others have said, voice chat in games where it is a necessity is often poor on PS3. This could fix it. I might need to get a better headset when this comes through. Lack of headsets is still an issue, but at least I can annoy friends who have the black machine to get one now."Meanwhile, those with PS3s didn't really seem all that fussed, such as Pootle:"@Voicechat in front of others... Mrs P knew I was sad before she started going out with me (I worked in the IT department, while she was all glamorous in Buying) and has now known me intimately for eight years... There is no shame any more. She does find it funny though."We also got into a discussion about downloading from the interwebz, brought on by the excessive pricing of new games like Uncharted 2 and MW2. This then moved on to music and videos etc. A lot of people found agreement with what Sheep had to say on the topic:"It's tricky, especially with stuff you can see or hear for free on radio or TV, but I am happy to say that if something is available to buy then you should not be downloading it using torrent sites. If it's not available (i.e. because there is not a large enough market, not because it is awaiting release) then I don't see the problem"Whereas a lot of people will find more sympathy with the returning RobLindsay:"Unfortunately £45 seems to be par for the course with regards to new 'AAA release' games these days. Rip off Britain is alive and well, might try to import things from Gamestop again now our prices have risen so much..."Only other news from the week was that Goody apparently won some competition or other on a football game on the PS3. I guess that he should be congratulated?Games:Uncharted 2 chatter, Infamous, Footy game demos, Batman AA, Halo ODST, Trine, Monkey Island, C+C3, IL-2 Sturmovik, More MHFU, Prof Layton 2 and Pandora's box, Fallout DLC, MUA2...Music:John Martyn, Editors, Interpol, Joy Division...Films:Blackbook, Frost/Nixon, Black Hawk Down, Miami Vice, Warriors, Outlander, Religious, Crank 2, Ironman, Sin City...Quotes of the week"Gemma Atkinson is kind of attractive, but I had only really noticed her in that 'Calendar Girls' advert. Having said that - it's Jill Halfpenny who really caught my attention ... so much so that I dreamt I had won a date with her. At the end of the night she seemed intent on me coming in for 'coffee' but I couldn't work out if this was part of the prize, whether she thought I was genuinely charming; or maybe she would want me to pay her for sex. All this confusion woke me up."Lazybones"Batman - I need to get this back off a mate. He has grand ideas of 100%. Not on. I have grand ideas of £25 trade-in, and soon. He's also in the throes of a new relationship after a looong wait. The idea of me losing money because he's having lots of new sex doesn't sit well with me."Uncleben"I don't like it when radio or TV volume levels are on odd numbers. It sounds funny."HenryPootle"A man behind the counter at Foyles bookshop engaged me in conversation. Looking back I think he was hitting on me. I've still got it..."CrispycrumbBest of chatterbox - w/e October 2By BeardofbeesAs the darkening of days heralded a farewell to September and a final drawing-down of the last lazy summer nights, the Gamesblog did not mourn the loss of the season's warmth or the fading evening light. For in the videogame calendar, this is now a special season; the beginning of Gametember, that magical interlude when major release after major release hits the shelves for the consumption of the gaming public. Some would say these releases are timed to be Christmas purchases, but only the most feeble of true believers would wait to be given a new game when they can buy it themselves on release day. Reinforcing this stance through the validation of our peers, Chatterbox was on hand as ever to usher in the new month.'Kicking off' the week with what would later be revealed as an auspicious first post, silveryfox began a discussion on the demos that landed over the weekend. At last we came to it - the great battle of our time - as the newest titles in the FIFA and Pro Evolution Soccer franchises waged war for the hearts and minds of gamers. Of the two, it seemed that FIFA was doing a number on the gamesbloggers' minds; the new advances and robust gameplay convincing many that the series is now the one to beat. But for loyal fans, their hearts still belong to PES after all these years, and toppling such emotional attachment will be tough indeed.Gaming chat was soon interrupted by moral outrage, as Simian revealed that his annual leave at work is frequently cancelled at the eleventh hour by the powers-that-be, such a thing again being threatened this week. Rallying around in a defence of worker's rights that would have made the Tolpuddle Martyrs proud, the Gamesblog encouraged our ape-like chatterboxer to stand up and stick it to the man this time. It remains to be seen how the fallout of this develops, but I think we can speak collectively when we say to Simian: no employment law advice is given or implied by the chatterbox and the Gamesblog cannot be held responsible for the consequence of any action arising out of its usage. We're behind you all the way, buddy.As Monday developed, work didn't seem to want to play fair for any chatterboxer. "Anyone else know what it feels like to have stress physically pulsing out of your eyeballs?" asked Makar27, to some weary nods in reply. Even TonyHayers claimed to be very busy, and when this happens there is clearly something wrong with the world.Luckily, FerrisSaved was able to restore good humour with a tale of woe that had befallen a double-glazing fitter doing some work at his property, who had discovered a wasps nest, gotten stung, and suffered an allergic reaction requiring the attendant gamesblogger to inject him full of medication. Fast-thinking enough to do all of this and still report live on the chatterbox during the ongoing emergency, the blog was impressed with the performance even as they questioned the man's priorities in a crisis.Into Tuesday, where silveryfox claimed another first post of the day, and where the games of the moment were Halo: ODST, picking up both praise and critique from the gamesblog, and Far Cry 2, which despite having been released for a long while saw something of a second surge in popularity within the chatterbox. Perhaps the discovery of the game in a major retailer's sale for ten pounds this week had something to do with getting the tight-fisted 'bloggers to give it a chance.[I'm getting deja vu - Keef]Conversation took a surreal turn in the afternoon, with the gamesbloggers debating (inspired by Call of Duty: World at War's "Nazi Zombie" mode) the likely attributes of various nationalities' zombies, as well as, for some reason, the subscribed religion and acting prowess of Whoopi Goldberg. Actual real-world concerns were never far away however, as the ongoing saga of Roman Polanski then reared its head. Those calling for his prosecution and severe punishment were balanced against those who still owe the man a debt of gratitude for making it possible to see vast arrays of bare flesh during an English lesson at school, thanks to his 1971 film adaptation of Macbeth. Whatever his dubious personal history holds, such fine treatment of the bard's work will not idly go forgotten, Mr. Polanski.A high-spirited and obviously entirely hypothetical conversation about what sorts of substance intakes were acceptable in Amsterdam these days soon gave rise to Wednesday, where silveryfox surprised precisely no-one by taking the first post of the day once more. A dedicated hat-trick for the Gamesblog's earliest riser and speediest presser of the F5 key indeed.Chat soon began in earnest around the broadcasting of Gameswipe, a satirical look at the world of videogames by Charlie Brooker that had been aired the night before and was well covered by the Guardian Gamesblog writers themselves. Those who had enjoyed the programme pointed to its sharp writing and comprehensive coverage of the medium, the remainder feeling short-changed by the light touch of the piece and lack of substance for the already die-hard gamer. Almost unanimously however, the chatterbox agreed that a full series of Gameswipe would be no bad thing, allowing him to write more segments for the veteran gamer and to silence the voices of the critics crying for such material. Brooker's hands are as safe as any, it seems, in which to place responsibility for the rescue of games from the current mainstream media.As the afternoon jogged over the horizon, the chatterboxers fondly remembered gaming milestones from their past; those glorious memories of victories over friends or achievements earned back in the days when Microsoft or Sony didn't even pop up a little window in recognition of your effort.  ToMadeira elegantly encapsulated the spirit of the debate with the following tale of misery:"One of my mates once picked Dhalsim for me on SF2 and claimed I had picked him myself. Things kicked off, our respective brothers joined in and we were sent home after a massive scrap. We all didn't speak to each other for literally months after that. I did NOT choose Dhalsim."Those who've grown up around games have all been there, my friend; the bitter memories run deep indeed.Into Thursday and you could have knocked us all down with a feather as silveryfox was out of the traps like a bullet yet again, claiming first for the fourth time in a row. It was talked about only in hushed whispers, but barely could the 'boxers wait another day to see if he could pull out an entire week's worth of victories.But wait we were forced to, although talk of the Uncharted 2 demo which had been released kept us all amused for some time. The press seemed to consider this title the second coming of gaming, with ten out of ten reviews piling in thick and fast. Lots of love for the demo was found on the Gamesblog too, and it was soon proven that a great many chatterboxes are getting suitably hot and sweaty about this title being released.To counterbalance such geeky joy, several chatterboxers then took to proving themselves not entirely antisocial, and discussed an upcoming Gamesblog meet-up scheduled over the next few weeks in London. Veterans of the chatterbox will remember several previous episodes where the 'bloggers dared to meet, although these were historically still based around games - Capcom's Monster Hunter events in London during August. This time, an entirely games-free evening of meeting, boozing, and trying to appear normal awaits those brave enough to attend. "I'll be slumped in the corner shouting at the TV," promised TonyHayers, by way of identification and to alleviate the doubts of anyone having second thoughts about the quality of the company on offer.The afternoon's chat was occupied with cats: owning, admiring, feeding, having them run away and/or despising the entirety of their species with an unchecked and terrible loathing, depending on who you asked. CBPodge was on hand with a valiant attempt to get cultural: "Books written in first person are better than books written in third person. Discuss." he instructed, although nobody did. A frothy-mouthed and energetic discussion about grammardidoccur however, the main battlefields being the usage of apostrophes and the acceptability of beginning a sentence with a conjunction. Nobody can accuse the chatterbox of disregarding the arts entirely.Time was called on the day to the chorus of eager discussions around both TV personality chefs and spouses that are purchased over the Internet, both groups being feared and mistrusted in equal measure. "Do they come with a cooling off period?" asked SuperSmashin, "Do John Lewis do a price match?" although it wasn't clear whether it was chefs or Thai-brides he was interested in. An attempt to bolster the PR image of both groups through a television series depicting various chefs buying, and then cooking for, mail-order brides of various nationalities was sadly not formulated by the chatterboxers, taking the prize for missed opportunity of the week.[Or how about a show in which TV chefs are offered as mail order brides? Imagine paying your cash and having Antony Worrall Thompson turn up on your doorstep with his suitcases and a hopeful glint in his eye... Keef]Finally into Friday where, as if there was ever any doubt, silveryfox triumphantly claimed his five-in-a-row of first posts. "It's going on my CV," he proclaimed proudly, to the cheers of his adoring public. FIFA was available on shelves, leading to a good deal of chatter around where to procure it from, and plans were formulated for online fixtures over the weekend. Amipal took the opportunity to show off some online pictures he snapped at the 'Bovington Tank Fest', an event that split the gamesbloggers right down the middle as to whether it was the best and most enthralling show on Earth, or a depressing indictment of humanity.Mention of the remake of The Taking of Pelham 123 quickly led to a savage attack upon the person of John Travolta, RustyJames declaring that the actor has only ever been in one good film. With gusto the Gamesblog set upon the task of identifying the highlights of his career, hitting upon Michael, Phenomenon and Battlefield Earth along the way. Soon, the names of other A-list actors with a history of making rubbish films were being bandied about, and it was a good thing that the Gamesblog readership doesn't seem to include Kevin Costner, Harrison Ford or Eddie Murphy, all of which took a savage verbal beating from the chatterboxers.As the week dwindled away like the resolve of any chatterboxer who hadn't yet come to terms with the concept of buying FIFA 10 that evening, the flow of conversation turned to night terrors: those incidents of waking in fright, or experiencing a loved one walking about or otherwise acting oddly in their sleep. The end-of-week lull then brought many weary employees to the Gamesblog for solace, where fighting for control in a sudden explosion of chat were topics such as escort services, European cities to visit to enjoy the company of escorts, European cities to visit to enjoy a nice wholesome Christmas market, the lack of major advances in the current generation of gaming, cures for acid heartburn, the best musical acts to see live, and a moment of pure consumerist rage from OfficePest which ended with, "Get the f**k out of my personal space before I batter you with my tub of chicken and sweetcorn sandwich filler."A more fitting end to the week could not be found, and so with that, the chatterboxers slunk off once more to their dens for a weekend of wine, women, song, and the playing of football games until their brains dissolved into head-porridge.Quotes of the Week"I agree, there is something unnerving about him, but then again I feel unnerved sitting by myself. Have taken to pulling the hairs out of my ears and worrying about the contrasting greys and blacks. I think it's slater's alcoholic eyes brooding over the puddings, he's a petri dish for resentment."mollocate focuses his keen analytical mind upon TV chef Nigel Slater."I did hesitate with recommending the whole of Norfolk. I can't not associate it with Bernard Matthews's fat, ruddy, farming face. And the wafer thin turkey ham he produces ..."Lazybones puts his finger on the Eastern county's image problem.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Personally I'm not so sure. Do gamers really want to be checking their Facebook news feeds on their 360? MTV have posted someimpressions of Facebook on the 360and it looks like a mixed bag.First of all the good.Probably the most useful aspect of Facebook on the 360 is being able to browse your list of Facebook friends to see which of them are on Xbox Live. It's as simple as scrolling down the list of names, and the ones with GamerTags will have an Xbox icon next to them. With a tap of a button you can then invite that person to be your friend on Xbox Live. The Xbox rep demonstrating the system wouldn't confirm whether the much-debating Xbox Live friend limit would be increased for this update, given the likelihood that you'll be making many more connections through Facebook that you could before.But the details are less impressive.You're able to browse through the Facebook News Feeds of friends, but currently it appears that only status updates will be shown (since links and videos won't be viewable on the 360). You can then comment or "like" a status update. Given the wide proliferation of Facebook on mobile devices, this seems like something better left to another platform, as commenting on anything using a 360 controller (or even the Touch Pad) is not exactly convenient.The review concludes that - as you may expect - accessing Facebook via a PC or phone is a better experience.Despite all the excitement over Facebook on the 360, viewing photos on your TV and finding real life friends that have Xbox Live gamer tags seem to be the only two draws...at least for me. Everything else on there can be handled much better on a computer or mobile phone.The Facebook and Twitter update should be hitting the Xbox within the next few weeks so we'll see how it works in practice. Who knows, it could be one of those features that becomes a real habit. A quick check of your Twitter updates before playing Modern Warfare 2, that kind of thing. But what do you think? Excited by Facebook and Twitter on your 360? Or is it just a pointless distraction from the gaming?
British book fanatics will soon be able to get their hands on Amazon's popular Kindle electronic book reader, after the company unveiled an international version of the gadget.In an announcement today, Amazon boss Jeff Bezos said the Kindle will be available worldwide on October 19, selling through the company's American website and shipping to the UK for $279 (£175) - although import duties will push the price up to around £200.Although customers will have to order from the United States for the time being, Bezos said in a note to British customers on Amazon.co.uk that the gadget would eventually be sold through the company's British outlet."In the future, we plan to introduce a UK-centric Kindle experience, enabling you to purchase Kindle and Kindle books in sterling from our Amazon.co.uk site," he said.The Kindle offers readers the chance to carry up to 1,500 books simultaneously, reading them on a 6-inch electronic ink screen and using the built-in wireless access - now compatible with Europe's 3G networks - to browse catalogues and download books without plugging in to a computer.The device became a surprise hit after it went on sale in the US just under two years ago. A second, more popular version was launched earlier this year to much acclaim and experts have suggested that Amazon has sold hundreds of thousands in America alone.Despite such enthusiasm, however, plans to take the Kindle worldwidesoon became bogged down in negotiations with mobile networks, which provide the wireless connection that allows the gadget to download new material over the air.Astring of reportshad suggested that an announcement could be made to coincide with the opening of the Frankfurt Book Fair, the publishing industry's biggest event. However, the American internet retailer jumped the gun by making an announcement a week before Frankfurt - and with some unexpected details.An Amazon spokesman confirmed that instead of negotiating individual deals with mobile operators, the company has instead linked up with American telecoms giant AT&amp;T, which works alongside a number of partner networks in 100 countries around the globe."We have millions of customers in countries all over the world who read English-language books," Bezos said in a statement. "Kindle enables these customers to think of a book and download it wirelessly in less than 60 seconds."A number of publishers have enthusiastically embraced the growth of electronic books, and said that they were looking forward to expanding readership internationally."We are delighted to be extending that successful partnership to the rest of the world," said John Makinson, the chief executive of Penguin. "The publishing industry is experiencing explosive growth in digital book sales in the US, and we hope to stimulate digital buying elsewhere by making our content widely available on new devices."The Kindle has also provided a new avenue for a number of British newspapers,with the Times, Telegraph and the Daily Mail - although not the Guardian - offering subscriptions to read digitally.But although the Kindle has been widely regarded as a success - lifting the category of electronic books out of the doldrums and sparking fresh interest in the medium - its progress has not been entirely smooth.This summer Amazon came under fire after itdeleted books bought by Kindle usersafter the company mistakenly allowed digital copies of the George Orwell books Nineteen Eighty-Four and Animal Farm to be sold by a publisher who did not have the rights to do so. Despite the fact that customers bought the books without any knowledge that they were breaching copyright, Amazon secretly removed the infringing copies from their Kindles without prior notice and then refunded them the cost of purchase.The episode caused anoutcry among readers and online rights campaigners, who said that Amazon's actions showed "a big disconnect" between companies and consumers.Bezosmade a public apologysoon after, calling the move "stupid", but the story only came to an end when the companyrecently settled a lawsuitrelated to the deletions.
&bull; WithWindows Phonenowofficially out there, the question is whether Microsoft's latest hits the mark. Early reviews suggest no: MobileCrunch's verdict is that "it still sucks", SlashGear thinks it "falls short of a knock-out blow" while Gizmodo says "there's no excuse for this". Ouch.&bull; Here's an odd one. If you ever play games online, the chances are you'll have played something byPopCap, the Seattle company behind hits like Bejewelled. But here's the strange part - after 10 years of profits and with 240 employees, VentureBeat says PopCap hasjust raised $22.5m in venture capitalto fund its expansion plans. That money has certainly turned up late in the game (arf).&bull; The latest episode of ourTech Weeklypodcast isnow online, featuring an interview with one of the Nasa scientists involved in Friday'smission to crash a probe into the moon, as well as Charles getting to grips with the MiFi mobile hotspot.Listen here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It is one of the most eagerly awaited mobile phones of the year, theclosest anyone has come to rivalling - perhaps besting - the iPhone, and for its creator it is a last throw of the dice, a make or break handset, an attempt by the company that introduced us to the concept of a personal digital assistant - PDA - to recapture the glory days.So with all that in mind, the question is: why on Earth did Palm choose to make the Pre available exclusively on O2 in the UK?Most (not quite all) the problems with the Pre are to do with a network that seems to have slowed down dramatically in the last few weeks, and I speak as an O2 customer who - despite living and working at different ends of London's Zone 1 cannot get decent reception at home or in the office.The network is as riddled with holes as Emmental, and I don't think in the week or so that I used the Pre it ever got five bars of wireless coverage.But switch on the Wi-Fi and suddenly one of the Pre's big selling points - multi-tasking - leaps into life. Applications, from browser pages and downloadable apps such as Twitter client Tweed to email and the camera, appear as individual "cards" on the phone's screen that you can scroll through. It means you no longer have to stare at a blank screen while waiting for your email to update or a web page to load, you can go and do something else.The processor only seemed to suffer significant lag when scrolling through photos and playing music at the same time.Sticking music on the device involves plugging in a USB cable and dragging MPs files over to the device, given that Apple regularly cuts it out of iTunes. Migrating contacts was a doddle (something that can not be said of most smartphones) and it seamlessly merged phone contacts with Facebook.The touchscreen is as good as the iPhone's - though it is smaller, so web pages are hard to read unless you switch to landscape mode -and the addition of ripples when an icon is touched helps navigation.Palm has obviously taken some touch staples from Apple, such as zooming in by placing two fingers on the screen and moving them apart, but introduced some new variants such as a "gesture" zone at the bottom of the screen. This means that swiping from the small button at the bottom of the device to the left acts as a back button, while swiping the whole length in either direction moves between apps.The Palm store, by the way, is easy to navigate, but sparsely populated.For a phone with a slide-out qwerty keyboard, the Pre is still surprisingly thin and light, but despite its polished black look it feels a bit plasticky when the keyboard is out. Incidentally the bottom ridge of the keyboard is weirdly sharp for a phone that is supposed to resemble a polished pebble.I know Americans love physical keyboards, but I can't help feeling the Pre would be better without it. I have never had issues with writing emails, texts or even newspaper copy with the onscreen keyboard onthe iPhone.As with so many smartphones (including the iPhone) however, the Pre falls down when it is actually used for its basic purpose - making calls. The sound quality is poor - the person called sounds like they are stuck in a dustbin full of duvets - and reception is patchy, though again that may all be O2's fault. Perhaps they are giving all their network capacity to the iPhone. If so, that is a terrible disservice to the Pre, which - of all the touchscreen devices to follow Apple's lead - is by far the best.Pros:Multi-tasking; great touchscreenCons:Under-stocked app store will have you looking in envy at iTunes; It's only available on O2's network at the moment
This Friday, a Nasa mission boldly goes where no one has gone before - by deliberately crashing a satellite into the moon's surface to see what happens. TheLCROSS missionis due for lunar impact, but it's not just about smash, bang, wallop. Your presenter,Bobbie Johnson, talks to Nasa scientistDr Kim Ennicoabout the mission - and how it could herald new things for space exploration.Elsewhere,Charles Arthurgets to grips with thenew MiFi gadget from 3- a gizmo that promises to turn you into a walking internet hotspot. Sounds like fun, but does it really work in real life?As always, we also take a turn through the week's big news stories and dive into your comments,Facebook messagesandtweets.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Microsoft is launching a full-frontal assault on Apple's iPhone andGoogle's embryonic mobile phone platform Android with a global advertising campaign to promote the launch of its new Windows Phone software that will run to "several hundred million dollars".Windows Phone - technically Windows Mobile version 6.5 - will appear on over 30 devices in 20 markets across the world, including the UK, by the end of the year. Deals with handset manufacturers including Toshiba, Samsung, LG and HTC were unveiled onTuesday.As well as press and poster advertising across multiple markets, Microsoft is using TV spots in the UK, US, France and Germany to push its mobile platform for the first time.The new range of Windows Phone devices will battle with a slew of new handsets to be released in the next few weeks, in time for the crucial Christmas trading season. On Wednesday Orange will launch the Motorola Dext, which uses Google's Android platform, while Sony Ericsson will launch the Satio, which has a mammoth 12.1 megapixel camera, and the rather more compact Aino. From next week, meanwhile, O2 will be selling the Palm Pre.Tuesday, meanwhile, saw America's largest mobile phone network Verizon - which is part owned by Vodafone - join forces with Google to create, market and sell a range of consumer devices using Android. Verizon Wireless chief executive Lowell McAdam said it wants to create a range of smartphones and netbooks using the software, with the first two phones appearing in the next few weeks.Phones using Microsoft's software have actually been available since 2002, but the company has failed to grab anything like the market share it has in the PC world. In addition, the recent emergence of the iPhone and Android phones have made Windows Mobile look very stale and tired.Microsoft has shipped about 50 million Windows phones in the past few years, but recently its annual shipments are estimated to have been overtaken by sales of the iPhone.To appeal to the wider consumer market and move away from its roots as a business tool, Microsoft has updated its mobile phone software so that it sits easily on the new generation of phones with touchscreens.Windows Phone, which was initially revealed in a 'beta' test version in February, sees the company jettison the traditional Windows menu system in favour of a new 'today' screen which gives the user a quick overview of their email, calendar, calls, instant messages and texts and provides easy access to web browsing through a new version of Internet Explorer which - crucially - supports Flash, unlike other devices such as the iPhone and Pre.Microsoft has also made use of the 'lock' screen to provide the user with notification of calls missed as well as new emails, texts and instant messages received. It is also looking to capitalise on the boom in downloadable mobile applications with its own WindowsMarketplace. At launch, however, it only has 60 applications in the UK,compared with over 85,000 for the iPhone, and British customers will have to pay by credit card if they do download anything - unlike their American counterparts who are offered the chance to pay through their phone bill.Windows Phone also includes a service called MyPhone which allows a user to automatically store all the content - including contacts - of their phone on the web so that it can be retrieved if the handset is lost or stolen. MyPhone also allows users to track the location of their handset - handy if it gets left in the back of a taxi, for example.Kevin Keith, general manager of Windows Mobile Marketing, said Microsoft believes the emergence of touchscreen handsets has heightened consumer interest in the actual software and services that run on new devices and this could give the company an edge over some of its rivals."What's great about a smartphone is that it is the software and theservices that people start to get attached to and that plays to our corestrengths," he said.He admitted that the company has performed poorly in the mobile space up until now."People don't know that Windows has a phone," he conceded, with less than 10% of people who use Windows PCs understanding that there is a mobile phone variant they could also use. "Our main goal with the launch is to make people aware Windows Phone exists."He refused to put a figure on the global marketing push, saying only that it runs into the "hundreds of millions of dollars".But Microsoft's push to present a unified front against Android and theiPhone is likely to suffer as some of its handset partners will continue to put their own 'skins' on top of Windows Phone in order to personalise devices either for particular markets or particular operators.Microsoft's mammoth marketing push also hardly received a ringingendorsement from one of the software company's own UK retail partners, Phones4U, at Tuesday's launch event in London. The retailer's marketing director, Russell Braterman, said it will be selling Windows devices on its website rather than in its store."It is quite a subtle story which we will lead with the handset," he said, adding that the company will be pushing the Samsung Omnia II phone.In the UK, Windows Phone is available on the HTC Touch II and HTC Touch HD II from T-Mobile, the LG GM750 from Vodafone, the Toshiba TG01 from Orange and the Samsung Omnia II and Samsung Omnia Lite across several of the mobile phone networks.Customers with an existing T-Mobile HTC Touch Diamond II can upgrade to the new version of the software, as can Vodafone customers with an HTC Touch Pro II. The HTC Snap S552 can also be upgraded.At the end of the month, Windows Mobile will also appear in the UK on the Samsung Omnia Pro and Sony Ericsson X2, from Vodafone, while in late November, O2 will start stocking the Samsung Omnia Pro B7610.
More than a quarter of a million email accounts on the biggest webmail services are believed to be at risk from online criminals after thousands of passwords belonging to users of the Yahoo, AOL and Gmail services were posted online.The breach, likely to be the accumulation of a number of separate phishing attacks using fake sites to lure people to leave login details, is believed to be one of the biggest of its kind.Graham Cluley, a consultant for the security company Sophos, said: "The danger is that people will be using the same password on many different sites, so the criminals will go and try them on Amazon or PayPal or wherever."Users of those services, and of Microsoft's Hotmail service, are being urged to change their passwords and the security question they use as a precaution.The discovery comes after 10,000 passwords belonging to Hotmail users with accounts beginning with A or B were found posted online over the weekend. That list suggests there could be about 130,000 compromised Hotmail accounts in all, from its total of 250m.It emerged today that Yahoo, the biggest online email provider, with about 260m users, Google's Gmail, with about 100m users, and AOL, with 50m, have also been targeted. If the proportion of successful phishing attacks on those users is similar to those affected on Hotmail, more than 250,000 account details would have been captured.Phishing uses emails with credible-looking web links which lure the reader to click on them and enter personal details. Some masquerade as coming from banks or PayPal, for example, and take the user to fake sites that use the same images as the genuine ones. There they are asked to enter personal information, which can be used to log in to the original email account, and take control of it and other services that use the same details.Tom Warren, a writer at Neowin.net, which discovered the breaches, noted that many of the Hotmail passwords seemed to come from Europe, suggesting that British users could be substantially affected.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Microsoft has confirmed that the publication of thousands of Hotmail passwords was the result of a phishing attack against users of the popular email service.Precise details of the strike, whichwas first uncovered on Monday, remain unclear. But in a statement, the American software company said that the culprit had not breached its security, and had instead fooled Hotmail users into handing over their details."Over the weekend, Microsoft learned that several thousand Windows Live Hotmail customers' credentials were exposed on a third-party site due to a likely phishing scheme," it said."Upon learning of the issue, we immediately requested that the credentials be removed and launched an investigation to determine the impact to customers. As part of that investigation, we determined that this was not a breach of internal Microsoft data and initiated our standard process of working to help customers regain control of their accounts."Phishing attacksare common online, and usually begin with the arrival of a legitimate-looking email containing a link to a realistic-looking website - often a bank or email provider. Users who click onto the fake website are then encouraged to log in - unwittingly handing their details over to the perpetrator in the process.However, the full extent of the Hotmail attack is not yet fully understood.Initial reports from the NeoWin website,which broke the story, suggested that 10,000 accounts had been compromised. But it appears that more account details are also online. The Guardian has seen a series of several hundred passwords posted online, while NeoWin is now claiming the existence ofanother file containing 20,000 passwords.This confirms experts' suspicions that the initial 10,000 accounts posted online were just a portion of a larger breach, since that anonymously-produced list only included Hotmail accounts beginning with the letters A and B.If the criminal behind the theft had also stolen details from usernames from the rest of the alphabet, it could potentially affect hundreds of thousands of people worldwide.Security experts haveurged Hotmail users to change their passwords immediately- as well as any other websites where they use the same login details. Microsoft, meanwhile, said it was shutting down access to the affected accounts temporarily as a way of protecting those users who had been tricked.The stolen account details appeared on a website,Pastebin.com, which is normally used by programmers to share pieces of computer code with each other.Paul Dixon, the British software developer who runs Pastebin, told the Guardian that he had already taken measures to block the information."There are filters in place to spot abusive posts," he said. "I've enhanced the filters to ensure the list which is doing the rounds cannot be reposted."Dixon added that he would "assist any law enforcement agencies which want to try and find the miscreants".
&bull; Some more details have emerged about theHotmailattack that left thousands of users' account details exposed online. Yesterday it emerged thatmore than 10,000 users were affected: Microsoft has now confirmed that it was the result of a phishing attack and that it would beblocking the accounts that had been exposed.&bull; We all know that spending too much time online can be unhealthy for anyone - but researchers in Taiwan have found thata number of conditions increase the likelihood of internet addiction among children. According to New Scientist, research suggests that depression, ADHD and social phobia are among the leading indicators - in a study that is, admittedly, based on self-reported diagnoses.&bull; This week is the 40th anniversary of the first ever episode ofMonty Python's Flying Circus- and what better way to celebrate than by watching some classic moments on thePython YouTube channel? A couple of my favourites:Job Interviewand, of course,The Ministry of Silly Walks. Forty years, still funny.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The first review ofDragon Age, the long awaited RPG from veteran developer Bioware, hasgone liveand things sound positive.Attempting to summarize the experience of Dragon Age in a few paragraphs is almost ridiculous given the depth of the game's content. Six distinct openings depending on your character (each lasting a couple hours), cool specializations for each class, plenty of tactical variety, and a vast array of sidequests keep you immersed in the world as time flies by. The central narrative arc and the characters involved serve the setting well, but don't deviate far from expectations. On the other hand, the subplots have some great hooks that I won't spoil here – though I will say that the mages' tower is awesome. A speed demon could blow through the main story in 40 hours, but thorough players can expect about 70.Sounds promising then and a must-buy for RPG fans who own a PC. Console owners should be more wary though as the review is of the PC version, not the 360 or PS3 edition.  Sure, it's highly unlikely that we'll have anotherRisen situationbut there's always that nagging fear that the console versions will suffer. I'm crossing fingers though, as Dragon Age sounds the perfect console game to have on the big screen during the winter.What do you think then? Interested in Dragon Age or is Modern Warfare 2 the only November release for you?
Hotmail users are being advised to change their passwords, after thousands of account details were posted online.A list containing more than 10,000 apparently genuine account names and passwords was posted to a website last week, where it remained until being spotted over the weekend by Microsoft security researchers.The list, which has been seen by the Guardian, appears to be genuine.It only contains usernames beginning with the letters A and B, but covers accounts ending in @hotmail.com, @msn.com and @live.com - three services owned by Microsoft which have more than 280m users worldwide.Although the stolen details have since been taken offline, copies of the list are already available elsewhere on the web - meaning that the details are potentially in the hands of criminals. There are also concerns that the details that have been published could be just a portion of a larger body of compromised information.Microsoft said it had been "made aware" of the situation, and was investigating the leak. In the meantime, security experts suggested that users should change their passwords to avoid the possibility that their email accounts could be accessed by other people."Change your passwords - and if you use the same password on other websites, change it there too," said Graham Cluley, a consultant with security company Sophos."It's still unclear how they got the passwords - but it could be embarrassing for Microsoft," he added.It is not yet clear how the individual behind the leak obtained the passwords - whether through hacking into the service, installing a Trojan program onto victim's machines or through a phishing attack.But the theft of information is a blow to Microsoft, coming just days after the American software giant launched its own suite of free anti-virus software, Security Essentials.The company's head of consumer security, Amy Barzdukas, told the Guardian last week that it would be impossible to eradicate viruses and internet worms entirely, since "consumers aren't that technical"."I don't think anybody in the antivirus area of the company thinks there will be a time when there will be no more malware,"she said."What we look forward to is continuing our ability to protect against malware, and to make those protections more robust and less prone to requiring constant updating."The British programmer behind the pastebin website, which is normally used by software developers to share snippets of code, did not respond to a request for comment.
Have you ever taken magic mushrooms? I haven't, so please bear with my shameless and ill-informed flippancy, but this week I have nonetheless been – ahem – tripping balls.Katamari is one of those Japanese game franchises that has made the leap to Western popularity, but either become mind-bendingly surreal in translation or has been weird all along. Yes, I'm looking at you, Pokemon. The King of (all) the Cosmos is in some kind of (assumedly drug-induced) coma. So, like, the Prince and his cousins construct a groovy robo-King – but it had a bad trip, man, and destroyed every star in the galaxy. Though not in an evil way, dude. It didn't mean to. It's gone into hiding. It's chill-axing in a book, man. And it wants you to help rebuild the galaxy.Far out.The unlikely way you must repopulate the cosmos with stars is with a Katamari: a magical adhesive ball to which objects stick when rolled over. It's like a snowball in a child's comic-book, gaining exponentially in size as it careers down a mountain absorbing snow, trees and errant skiers. You get the idea. You start off tiny, collecting safety pins and bits of fluff from under the sofa. Pretty soon, however, you've rolled the sofa itself, and the house, into your ever-growing junk-ball. Before long you're well on your way to absorbing the entire town, picking up skyscrapers and factories as you roll unstoppably on. There are a few extras, but that's essentially the entire game.If you want to keep your sanity, it doesn't do to investigate the conceptual undercarriage too closely. It's a game primarily aimed at a younger audience. It's difficult to tell, because some of the commentary is quite funny and clearly aimed at adults. What kind of toddler understands an RSI joke? But for the most part, anyone who's ever watched the Tellytubbies will understand the "cute first, ask questions later" approach.But to compare Katamari Forever to something as banal as the Tellytubbies is to do it a disservice. Despite a little clumsiness in the control system, there is something incredibly soothing about rolling around the gorgeously-rendered world, lovingly absorbing everything in your path into your gigantic Katamari. It's unabashed: simple, satisfying and indulgent, like a long soak in a bath of warm honey. This is partially down to the music, which is just brilliant. Katamari Forever has one of the best soundtracks in the business. It has all of the addictive, get-inside-your-head-ness you expect from a Japanese-import game, but there's an ethereal, soothing quality to it as well.I found myself leaving the game running in the background just to listen to this psychedelic music, while I lie back on the sofa and watch the little purple robots push absorbent sticky balls around the light-fittings. God, they're beautiful. Look, they're slowly getting bigger and bigger, absorbing everything in their paths, round and round and round and round and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger...Whoa. Tripped out for a minute there. Sorry.Anyway, all of this makes Katamari Forever a satisfying plaything, albeit one lacking real staying-power. Simple mechanics, great music and trip-happy graphics make it less a "game" in the conventional sense of the word, and more a healthy alternative to hallucinogenic substance abuse.
Web activists warned yesterday that sites which help people to find jobs and to discover planning applications in their area face legal threats from the Royal Mail to a two-man company.The Royal Mail claims that the site, ernestmarples.com, is breaking the law by piggybacking on other online sites which offer free access to its database which holds a list matching the UK's 1.8m postcodes to geographical locations – and that Royal Mail is suffering "loss" as a result.The Labour MP Tom Watson called the move "idiocy" at a time when Royal Mail is looking to cut its workforce, on the basis that websites such as Job Centre Pro Plus, which lets people search for jobs near their postcode, are powered by ernestmarples – named after the man who implemented postcodes in the 1950s.Tom Steinberg, who has just been appointed an adviser to the Tories on their computing policy, was critical of the Royal Mail – and of the government culture that treats data as something to be locked up. "The economic study for the Power of Information review suggested that some of these big charged-for data sets are a drain on the economy. There's a need for reform, really. There's no point in locking these things up if they're not achieving their goal."The Royal Mail said in a statement:  "We have not asked anyone to close down a website. We have simply asked a third party to stop allowing unauthorised access to Royal Mail data, in contravention of our intellectual property rights."Three sites – Job Centre Pro Plus, which lets people search for jobs near their postcode, Planning Alerts, which shows nearby planning applications, and The Straight Choice, which details election leaflets and their cliams by postcode – are all threatened by the action. In ablog post, Richard Pope and Harry Metcalfe, the developers behind the site, say that: "We are not in a position to mount an effective legal challenge against the Royal Mail's demands and therefore have closed the ErnestMarples.com API [which lets computers look up postcodes without visiting the site itself] effective immediately.""We understand that this will cause harm and considerable inconvenience to the many people who are using or intend to use the API to power socially useful tools, such as HealthWhere, JobcentreProPlus.com and PlanningAlerts.com. For this, we apologise unreservedly."Planning Alerts had more than 6,000 users. The Open Rights Group (ORG), which campaigns for digital rights, said: "These services would have to pay around £4,000 a year to use postcode data legally, which raises Royal Mail around £1.3m a year. It is easy to see that large numbers of small business ideas and not for profit services are being blocked by these license fees – it is in effect a tax on innovation."The Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, which has the aim of making non-personal data collected by government-owned bodies available for free without copyright, has repeatedly pointed out that the postcode database is created in effect for free by local government authorities and was initially created with public money. Charging for it now produces a comparatively small amount of revenue and profit, while holding back the development of huge numbers of web services such as Job Centre Pro Plus. Large companies such as Yahoo and Google can afford to pay the postcode database licence, but that shuts out smaller would-be British startups.ORGcondemned the Royal Mail move: "It is particularly galling that Royal Mail are simultaneously trying to make people redundant, and closing a service which could help their ex-workers get a new job," said Jim Killock, its chief executive.Last month the entire database containing the postcode-to-location details was leaked on Wikileaks, although there is no suggestion that ernestmarples has ever used it. Many web developers think that the database is "poisoned" with purposely inaccurate details that could be quickly discovered by Royal Mail in a web search to identify an unlicensed copy.CMS Cameron McKenna, a solicitors based in London, sent the letter to Pope and Metcalfe. Now other activists aretrying to find out how much it coststhe Royal Mail to send the threatening letters - and whether the move is actually profitable.The Guardian asked CMS Cameron McKenna and Royal Mail to specify the amount of loss that it has suffered through the postcodes' use by ernestmarples.com. They had not replied by the deadline for this story.
You've got to admire Gameloft's chutzpah. In Blades of Fury they've created a game that's is not just a bit like Soul Calibur (Namco Bandai's much loved fighting series) – it feels like the same game to me.It looks like Soul Calibur, it plays like Soul Calibur, but unlike Soul Calibur the whole thing is imbued with a faint whiff of the naff; the experience of playing it is rather like watching a remake of Reservoir Dogs with all the main roles taken by the cast of the Vicar of Dibley. While the dialogue and story arcs featured in the Soul Calibur games were never going to win any prizes for originality, their equivalents in BoF seem to have been scribbled absent-mindedly on the back of a receipt during a mildly distracting phone call – rather than Soul's titular sword, here there's some nonsense about an "all powerful armour of chaos" being fought over by an assortment of chiselled hero-types, buxom geek fantasies and daft monsters with cringe-worthy names like "Skorn" and "Enemia".The characters and their weaponry appear to be modelled closely on Soul Calibur's, the main noticeable difference being that some of the female characters seem to have been voiced by men doing their best female impersonations, and sounding a little too much like characters from the Dick Emery Show. As the game starts you're presented with the option of a story mode, arcade mode, survival mode and practice mode, and five levels of difficulty running the gamut from stupidly easy to stupidly hard. Once into the game, on the screen there's a choice of using either a D-pad or virtual joystick, opposite which are two normal attack buttons, a "magic" key for special attacks and a shield for blocking blows. While the easier settings can be got through via some lazy button bashing, the harder settings are likely to require a degree of serious effort to pull off some elaborate combos – far more challenging on a small touch screen than on a grown-up console's game pad, and likely to cause a fair amount of frustration.The plot, characters and their weaponry all seem seem to have been scribbled absent-mindedly on the back of a receipt during a mildly distracting phone call. The 3D graphics are very good, as we've come to expect from Gameloft, and there's an awful lot of gameplay for your £3.99, with a handful of characters and several extras to unlock, and scores of different attacks to get to grips with. Multiplayer battles are available via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi(although there was no-one online to play against on three separate occasions looking in). Original it most certainly is not, but Blades of Fury is much better than it has any right to be, and, once you get past the overall sheen of naffness,  it's unlikely to disappoint anyone looking for a decent, robust fighting game for the iPhone.
Fans of the Rock Band series and, er, Lego will be pleased to hear that the two game franchises are combining forces for the upcoming Lego Rock Band.The videogame will take the guitar strumming antics of the popular series along a more family orientated theme – eschewing hard metal anthems for more familiar rock and pop fare.Warner Bros and MTV Games will hope that a simpler, more child-friendly Rock Band will make the game more accessible to kids, while maintaining its appeal to adults with a new set of tracks to master and the customisation and charm you've come to expect from previous Lego games.Our exclusive clipfeatures a Lego David Bowie performing his 1983 hit Let's Dance – and though the Duke himself hasn't been made available for comment, he can take some comfort from the fact that it'scertainly not the strangest he's ever looked.
Last year's Dead Space took everyone by surprise – the third-person horror-shooter, despite being made in-house at Electronic Arts, proved to be brilliant, and sold accordingly.Dead Space Extraction represents a clear attempt by EA to shed its reputation as a corporate sausage-factory, as it is a surprisingly risky undertaking. For a start, it's a proper, 18-rated adult game – that rarest of objects on the Wii. And, given the Wii's graphical shortcomings in comparison with the Xbox 360 and PS3, you would expect it to lose its edge in the translation. But it is every bit as impressive as the original, which is no mean feat. Extraction is a prequel to the first game, which explains how the scary state of affairs on board the SS Ishimura came to pass.You start off on the mining-colony planet where the "Marker" artefact which turned its inhabitants into cannibalistic aliens originated, although soon you make it to the Ishimura, where most of the action takes place (this time mainly in its bowels, which are even scarier than the parts Dead Space explored). Extraction has one major, enforced gameplay difference: it is "on rails", so does all the movement for you – necessary in order to control the camera and keep the graphics, which are as good as any ever seen on the Wii, acceptable. Clever Wii-specific touches abound: turning the Wiimote on its side switches you to alternate-fire; audio logs play back through the Wiimote's speaker; the little access-puzzles are solved by tracing solder-paths, requiring a steady hand on the Wiimote; you wave the Nunchuk to launch melee attacks; and in dark areas, shaking the Wiimote lights a glow-stick.The combat mechanics remain intact – as before you judiciously freeze enemies with the stasis-beam, before parting their limbs from their bodies. Cleverly, as you play several characters, you're forced to use most of the weapons, which are as quirky as before. Again, there are plenty of impeccably-judged boss-battles. This time around, the storyline is more prominent – you join a rag-tag bag of survivors which, for once in a videogame, uniformly ring true – and half-way through, the obligatory twist kicks in. And above all, Dead Space's fabled atmospherics, conveyed by fantastic audio and occasional weird visual effects, have more than survived the jump to the Wii.Possibly the best Wii game of the year so far – and perfect for those craving something adult to play when the kids have gone to bed.
Tom Steinberg, one of the founders of the mySociety group, has confirmed theGuardian's reportthat he is to advise the Tories on IT policy.But despite Steinberg's insistence that his role will be separate of mySociety - best known for creating sites such as theyworkforyou, which makes Parliamentary proceedings more comprehensible, whatdotheyknow (for filing Freedom of Information requests) and FaxyourMP, to let constituents get in touch - the decision has been criticised by Tom Watson, the Labour MP and former Cabinet Office minister, whocommentedof Steinberg's new role that "I think it is incompatible with his position as boss of MySociety."Steinberg, in aposting on his personal blog, says "As the Guardian has just reported, I've been asked to advise the Tories on IT policy, and I've accepted."He emphasises though that "it ismethat is doing the advising,notmySociety. And mySociety isstrictlynon-partisan."The position is not paid, and is not full time.Steinberg also emphasises that "I am not a political partisan", saying that party politics "bored me rather"; he is not, and has never been, a member of a political party. Instead, he says, his passions relate to how citizens and state interact: "if you've met me or read anything I've written, you'll know my passions tend to get raised around things like Freedom of Information, open data, open source and open standards. A bit sad, maybe, but they're things that matter to me a great deal because I believe they can improve lives immeasurably, here and abroad. I also don't believe that they are an issue owned by any one political party: they're something we should all be striving towards."But Watson indicated anger at the timing of the decision - coming just after some in the Labour party are smarting by the Sun's decision to end its backing for Labour after Gordon Brown's speech. "To allow yourself to become part of the electoral positioning between the two parties, is at best naive. And to announce his appointment at the Conservative Party conference, is about as partisan as it gets," he said. "The manner of his appointment will leave an air of mistrust between him and supporters of MySociety who are not Conservatives. That's a very great shame for him, but more importantly, for MySociety."Steinberg reacted to Watson's criticism by remarking that "mySociety will continue to be rigorously impartial, just as it was when I was advising ministers like you in the current government. Apart from anything else, I don't have the power to make mySociety be anything else other than impartial – the staff and volunteers are way too independent minded to allow a dubious change in direction."He is already being urged to make publish his advice online - a challenge that he has indicated he may agree to.Guardian Technology profiled Steinberg in October last year:the former insider who became an internet guerilla.
I had been looking forward toRisen. A sprawling RPG in theOblivionmould with a huge world to explore and questing galore? Yes please. Unfortunately the Xbox 360 version is a mess. Details of why below, but what makes this is even more annoying is that the PC version is really rather good. Challenging, inconsistent and infuriating yes, but rewarding and rather pretty too. Sadly the 360 version is rarely rewarding and certainly no looker.So where to start with the 360 version then? The obvious place is the graphics. Sure, I wouldn't expect a 360 game to match the visuals of a high end PC but still. Low-res textures? Incessant and off-putting popup as the world comes into view? Ugly and poorly animated characters? Yup, Risen 360 has them all and more. Almost worse is the resolution issue. On an HD screen the fonts and icons are barely legible. On a standard def TV Risen would be practically unplayable.  Then there are the fiddly controls, and general lack of polish throughout.Get past these issues - probably by getting the PC version – and there is a solid enough game here. It's challenging though. Perhaps this was to be expected given the developers were also responsible for the unforgivingGothicseries. And to be honest I can live with this. It encourages you to tread carefully and to feel like you are living in a hostile environment. Unfortunately constant maneuvering to the savegame screen dampens the atmosphere considerably.I can live with the Oblivion-style recurring faces and voices too, although this seems to be a problem that affects most RPGs.Risen feels retro in so many ways. There is the challenging difficulty level and lack of hand-holding for a start. Then there is the need to read the manual (how many games require that today?). And also the glaring disparity between the PC and 360 game is reminiscent of the difference between a Amiga and a C64 game.Despite this the game comes recommended for PC owners who like the genre and fancy a challenge. It probably helps if you are German too. 360 owners who enjoy their RPGs would be well advised to wait for Dragon Age and Mass Effect 2.Anyone here played Risen then? Disappointed by the 360 version? Or a satisfied owner of the PC game?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
