Test Drive Unlimited 2, PC, PlayStation 3 &amp; Xbox 360Test Drive Unlimited billed itself as the world's first massively multiplayer online racing game, featuring a realistically rendered island of Oahu on which to tear up the tarmac. Its sequel also gives you Ibiza's towns, motorways and twisting mountain roads, which is helpful given its focus on exploration alongside more conventional races, time trials and police chases. As well as random traffic you'll also see other players tooling around, who can be challenged to races by flashing your headlights at them. Gain experience points by winning races; explore the island and buy up houses, then marvel at why anyone would want to spend their time shopping for virtual Hawaiian shirts rather than racing simulated Lamborghinis. With plenty of distractions, Test Drive Unlimited 2 is an unusually mellow driving role-player that is the opposite of the white-knuckle adrenaline fixes provided by the outwardly similar Burnout Paradise.Atari, £34.95-£44.95Mario vs Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem, Nintendo DSiMario vs Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem.In Mario vs Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem, you help a mechanically plodding troop of mini Marios march through different levels to reach their goal by building and demolishing things around them. Your task is complicated by the addition of springs, warp pipes, enemies, crumbling blocks that can only be walked on once and clockwork Donkey Kongs, which hurl tiny Marios into the air. You'll also come across Princess Peaches and Toad, who need to be herded towards their respective doorways, and as puzzles get larger and more complex, the order and timing in which you activate your miniature charges becomes a consideration. Starting out as no more than a pleasant diversion, Mini-Land Mayhem's levels get more testing until each becomes an intense trial of ingenuity and perseverance. With no multiplayer or online frippery to distract attention, this is fully formed brainteasing  for one.Nintendo, £29.99Games newsUndead Labs logo.Jeff Strain, co-creator of the blockbusting World Of Warcraft franchise, has been touting a new "online world" game centred around the zombie apocalypse. Codenamed Class3, it promises to let players help each other survive a widespread zombie infestation, and controversially has been announced as an Xbox-only title, excluding the very PC-gamers that made World Of Warcraft the global mega-hit that it still is. Strain sees this as an opportunity for his new company, Undead Labs, to explore how persistent worlds can be remade for a console-playing audience. Traditionally that has meant simplifying games for use without mouse and keyboard, and making them more accessible for players who dabble with rather than obsess over games. How that translates apparently won't be solved until at least next year.
Shapers Of The 80sFocusing on the new romantic era of 1978 to 1984 – what author David Johnson calls "the swinging 80s" – links, cuttings and videos begin at the birth of the Blitz nightclub and take us to the making of the Band Aid single. Although the period has been comically reappraised in recent times, here is a tone of utter conviction that the pompodoured children of The Blitz not only changed fashion but also derailed the political and cultural landscape of Britain and the world. While there's not much to back up that claim, there are tales of Spandau Ballet's record sleeves, some spectacularly pretentious quotes ("The music is APPLAUSE for the audience"), the covers of short-lived new romantic mag New Sounds New Styles, the ingredients of a "psychedelic snakebite", and photos of Sade smoking her way around Europe.Their Questions AnsweredTheir Questions Answered.Seeing as you're reading this, you may be familiar with Weekend magazine that comes with the Saturday Guardian. Some time ago, social game designer Holly Gramazio noticed its letters page features a lot of rhetorical questions. Here, she goes to ludicrous lengths to answer them: Xan Brooks has indeed seen Wall Street 2; yes, the point of moisturiser is to hydrate the skin; and no, it's unlikely Jon Ronson's Justin Bieber interview was commissioned as a "deliberate attempt to induce apoplexy". There is also occasional sadness: "No rhetorical questions were posed in the Letters page of the Guardian Weekend magazine, Saturday 15 January 2011. As a result we are going to spend the next week reassessing our lives and purposes."Blog roll: RomanceUnfortunate Valentine Cards.Unfortunate Valentine CardsA gallery of cheesy romantic greetings from yesteryear.How Hipsters DateThe awkward liaisons of America's elite iPhone users.Dating Is WeirdIs it kosher to wear knickers given to you by an ex on a new date and other pressing concerns.101 Covers Of Bad RomanceLady Gaga's classic tune played on a harp, death metal style, whistled, in French and by toddlers, teens and grandfathers.Uncle WalterBreathtakingly bad quotes from romantic fiction.The Art Of KissingKissing tips, movie snogs and how to tell if someone wants to you to pucker up.What we learned on the web this weekThe 100 Greatest Film Noir Posters.The 100greatest film noir postersAll theMcBain clips in The Simpsons make the best movieEat + Buy= BeautyTraffic policeare so distractingThe AngryBirds are outAn Americanexplains the difference between the United Kingdom and Great Britain70% ofNew York sex workers use BlackberrysWhere tomatch music to moodsPandas loveto party
The British scientistStephen Wolframhas a clear vision for the future – a vision that dates back to his childhood in the 1960s and 70s. In those days, we didn't prophesise that computer technology would bring us convenient ways to shop, or new ways to talk to our friends in short sentences. The dream was much grander – that computers would work out stuff for us, a bit likeHal in 2001: A&nbsp;Space Odyssey(without the murderous intent).It was with this aspiration that Wolfram launchedWolfram|Alpha, a website that aims to be able to answer any factual question asked of it. Wolfram says he wanted to create an "insanely ambitious thing, like the science fiction computers of old". Currently, for example, when we want to know something on the web, our default action is to Google it, but this just searches for words rather than calculating answers, so leads you only to what has already been written, which may or may not be what you want to know. Wolfram|Alpha, on the other hand, is an attempt to change the way we interact with knowledge on the web, to make the web more intelligent – by providing bespoke, freshly computed answers from a curated database of sourced facts.When Wolfram|Alpha was launched in 2009, it was initially hailed a Google-killer. Users flocked to the site to ask it the sort of question you ask Google, but when it didn't do what they wanted, they grumbled and didn't return. Some users, for&nbsp;example, typed in their own names, and the engine failed to give any response. Or they asked a complicated question, didn't get an answer and&nbsp;so felt it wasn't intelligent enough. Wolfram has said the site went live because it was at the stage in development when it needed to understand the sorts of questions people would ask it – the hype, he says, was useful, even if the site didn't live up to users' initial expectations. "If&nbsp;you look at most web phenomena – Google, Facebook – you only tend to know about them when they have gotten pretty big," he says. "We&nbsp;happened to launch with a big spike."In the last year and a half, however, Wolfram|Alpha has been growing steadily and now contains about 10 trillion data points, making it, Wolfram claims, the largest integrated data set in the world. Its strongest areas are in science – you can ask it to solve difficult mathematical problems, give you maps of the night sky or break down chemical compounds. It&nbsp;will also cross-reference socioeconomic data, give you 23 rhymes for the word "cat" and complete the saying, "A penny earned..." It can't answer every question you ask it – but it can already do a lot.Wolfram believes it is inevitable that people will increasingly want the internet to provide them with correct answers to questions – rather than, as with Google, providing a selection of pages you have to read before deciding whether or not they are relevant. "People's expectation [for expertise] is just going to go up."Indeed, the move from searching to question-answering explains the recent rise in popularity of&nbsp;the websiteQuora, which has 7.6m page views a day. In Quora, users submit questions and answers, and vote on which answers are best. But Quora relies on human responses coming in when users take the time, whereas Wolfram|Alpha's are computer generated and delivered in two seconds.Wolfram, 51, has long been one of Britain's most intriguing scientific figures. He published his first academic paper while a schoolboy at Eton in the 70s. At 20, he had a PhD in physics, by 22 he was the youngest person to win aMacArthur "genius" awardand, by his mid-20s, was at the eliteInstitute for Advanced Study at Princeton, whose alumni include Albert Einstein and Kurt Gödel.An illustrious academic career beckoned, but&nbsp;an&nbsp;interest in computer programming superseded Wolfram's interest in physics and he&nbsp;moved into business. He wrote the technical softwareMathematica, which launched in 1988&nbsp;and is still widely used throughout science and industry. Thanks to Mathematica, his company Wolfram Research has been nicely profitable, which has allowed him time and money for his other projects.One of these was his 2002 bookA New Kind Of Science, about how very simple rules can produce great complexity. "The thing I tend to do is take these big complicated things and try to drill down to get the fundamental components underneath," he says. "With Wolfram|Alpha it's the same thing. There's all this stuff, all this knowledge in the world. How can one organise thinking about this in such a way that it's actually finite enough to build a coherent system?"We meet at the headquarters of Wolfram Research in Champaign, Illinois. (The neighbouring town, Urbana, is where Hal famously became operational.) He runs the company remotely from Boston – via daily conference calls – but has flown to Champaign for some end-of-year meetings. "It's very disorientating doing these meetings in&nbsp;person," he says as we sit down.Wolfram is an idiosyncratic mixture of Eton-educated CEO and deep scientific thinker, supremely self-confident and tirelessly curious. He certainly sees himself as an important player in the grand sweep of history – which is just as well, since if he weren't so self-assured, he wouldn't take on such audacious projects. "What [we are] trying to do is to take knowledge from throughout history and automate it. That seems like an important step in the progress of technology."But how do you go about such a mammoth task?&nbsp;Wolfram had a base on which to start – Mathematica, which already contains a lot of scientific data and algorithms for making computations with that data. On top of this, the task has been to&nbsp;fill the Wolfram|Alpha database with as much information as possible: including government statistics, live feeds from weather stations, data about earthquakes, figures from financial markets, whatever is out there and available. Among the 500 staff at Wolfram Research, there are PhDs in subjects including astronomy, physics, biology and engineering, and individuals are encouraged to suggest, contribute and curate data from their areas of expertise.Yet this is a project that stems from the brain of Stephen Wolfram and is very much shaped in his image. He has an oak tree in his backyard, for example, and it was this that made him think it would be interesting to input data on trees. "Pretty soon, we were talking to the guy who is the world authority on tree growth. And he said, 'Look, we've got this database with a million trees&nbsp;in it – we'd love to just give it to you and maybe you can do something interesting.'"Wolfram|Alpha is not just intended to be a&nbsp;massive database of random facts, though – the&nbsp;facts need to be able to "talk" to each other, so they can be used in computations. For example, if you enter the question, "What was the weather in London on the day Prince William was born?" the site needs to be able to link weather information with biographical information. If you ask, "What is the distance to the moon divided by the length of the Amazon river?" it needs to link astronomical with geographical data. (The answers, by the way, are rainy and overcast with an average temperature of 16C and, currently, a&nbsp;ratio of 63.07.) To merge different data sets together, information must be coded in clever ways when it enters the database. Since this coding is one of the things that Mathematica has been doing for more than two decades, Wolfram has an advantage over other sites that may share some of the same information. If, say, you ask the site for "bananas UK", you get a graph of UK banana consumption from 1961 to 2007, as well as the curious fact that&nbsp;we rank 43rd globally in per capita banana consumption. (If you put "bananas, UK" in Google, you are led to the charity site "Bonkers about Bananas".)Perhaps the most intellectually challenging issue for Wolfram|Alpha is how to understand the queries that come in. Unlike Google which, given a word or a sequence of words, trawls the web for pages containing those words, Wolfram|Alpha needs to understand the content of the question. "People have been trying to solve the [natural language understanding] problem for a long time, and it has generally been very difficult," Wolfram says. "Well, it turns out that it was a lot easier than we thought."Not even a man as bullish as Wolfram would claim to have solved the problem of how to make computers understand natural language, but what he has done is devise methods to link the computable information he has to what people write in the input box – which can be full sentences, mathematical symbols, broken English, key words or mixtures of all four. The technology is still a work in progress, though, and one of the most frustrating aspects of using Wolfram|Alpha is the "computer says no" moment – you know it has the information you want, but it does not understand your question. For example, if you type in "sex", it will give you lots of fascinating information about the word, such as its Scrabble score, movies with "sex" in the title and its frequency in the English language (1,173rd most common when written, 1,218th when spoken). But if you are more specific, and type in "frequency of word sex when written", it thinks you are talking about frequency and tells you that the standard unit is the hertz.So far, the questions that Wolfram|Alpha is most accomplished at answering correctly are in mathematics and science. If one of the aims of the site is to extend the range of problems that you can solve without using paper and pen – in the way that the pocket calculator meant you didn't need to know how to do long division any more – then Wolfram|Alpha has already been successful. There is now a swath of tricky maths questions that it will answer instantly. A-level calculus homework has effectively been made obsolete.Would Wolfram feel a sense of shame if, as a&nbsp;result of his website, fewer people learned how to perform certain mathematical operations by hand? "There was a time when we had to cut feathers to make our own pens. Gradually more levels of civilisation and automation happen, and this is another such layer," he says. "What should happen is that you can build on to what is now automated and do the next level of stuff, where you need to add the human touch." It also cuts both ways since, if calculus is mechanised, this opens up new worlds for students for whom solving problems by hand was too difficult.Speaking to Wolfram, it is impossible not to be&nbsp;infected by his enthusiasm. But while he may be guided by his intellectual ambitions, he is also a businessman. Wolfram|Alpha may appear to be a philanthropic project but, he says, it is already profitable. He has signed a deal with Microsoft's search engine Bing – a direct rival to Google – which uses Wolfram|Alpha embedded in its results page. And, he says, more deals will be announced soon.After its wobbly start, Wolfram|Alpha now receives about 20 queries per second, which works out at almost 2m a day. (This makes it only the 3,304th ranked site on the web, according to Wolfram|Alpha's search engine.) Every week new data is added, and questions that come in shape its direction. (When one of the most popular queries was "penis size", one researcher at Wolfram Research duly spent a day and a half compiling authoritative global data on that.) Highly requested areas such as sports, music and cars are being developed and, it is hoped, will come online this year.In 1993, when Wolfram was already an established figure in the tech industry, a young student called Sergey Brin spent a summer as an intern at Wolfram Research. A few years later Brin&nbsp;founded Google, and the men are still in touch. I ask Wolfram if he is worried that Google might try to copy Wolfram|Alpha. He doubts it would happen. "The things that made Wolfram|Alpha possible for us were a somewhat unique convergence of circumstances: Mathematica, a collection of very eclectic people. And&nbsp;it's a private company, so I can decide to do something completely crazy with it. It's not clear you can buy it, so to speak."He adds that he recently found an old email from Brin saying that the only way to make progress in software was to give stuff away. "I&nbsp;thought that was funny. At the time, that wasn't my way of thinking at all."And is it now?"Yeah, a little bit. We shall see whether it turns out. I would expect Wolfram|Alpha to emerge as one of the pillars of the internet world. But whether it comes with a giant money machine or a small money machine, I can't say yet."Recently, Wolfram was looking through a little physics notebook he wrote when he was 12. He saw lists of data and formulae. "It was, in a sense, Wolfram|Alpha 1972 and I'm like, 'Oh my gosh, I've been doing the same project all my life!'" It's&nbsp;a project that will never be finished, but along the way it may just change our experience of how we use the web.Questions that only Wolfram|Alpha can answer…1You meet a distant relative, and discover they are your great-grandfather's sister's grandson's cousin. If you input "great-grandfather's sister's grandson's cousin", it will show you the family tree, tell you the relative is a second cousin once removed and you have a "blood relationship fraction" of 1/128.2You want to find the share price of a certain stock on a certain day, so you type: "Price of Nike stock on the day Wayne Rooney was born." The answer is $0.86, and the site also gives you the graph of the stock's performance a year before and a year after 24 October 1985.3You wonder how big Walmart is compared with UK GDP. Type "What is Walmart revenue as a fraction of UK GDP?" The answer is 0.186, plus a graph showing the change from 1985 to 2010.4You're arguing with friends about last year's blockbuster movies. Type in "Social Network, Inception, Harry Potter And Deathly Hallows box office". You get a timeline of earnings and a list of comparative data on total receipts, rank, screens and average take per screen.5What's interesting about the number 76577655163 – randomly plucked from your brain? The website tells you it is a prime number, that it is roughly 0.26 x the number of stars in our galaxy, 0.72 x the number of people who have ever lived and 12 x the number of people alive today.
I was driving down Chelsea Embankment in myVW Sharanwhen a fella in the next lane wound down his window and said, "Can we swap?" Of course I assumed he meant lanes, but I flashed him in and he didn't move. He can't have meant CD because I was listening to Britney. He can only have meant, "Can we swap cars?" Well, he was in a Toyota Lucida. So maybe he says that to everybody. But I must admit my slight surprise.This is not an ugly car: it is just extremely functional. I'm not anti-VW, hell, I have a Passat. But that can still look sleek from some angles. When you scale up to the seven-seat Sharan, you sacrifice every aesthetic consideration in the interests of those extra two people who unaccountably want to get into your car. It's boxy at the front, and it's carrying a fair amount of timber in the middle. Sliding doors are a&nbsp;pain, the interior looks purpose-built for people who are liable to spill things and there is enough room in the boot for all of you to put a scarf in there, but not a coat and heaven forfend that you have luggage.But just as, once you're drunk, you forget what you're wearing, once you're driving, you forget what you look like. To an onlooker at traffic lights, I was a lumbering mum-beast who would struggle to reach 20mph before the next junction. And then it transpired it was surprisingly nippy off the lights, and uncomplaining and responsive in low gears. In your face, white van/boy racer. It's environmentally sound in so far as it&nbsp;cuts out in neutral and sparks back&nbsp;up again. I spent ages in a&nbsp;car park trying to work out how I could land this great tank with enough room to get someone young and clueless out of the back, then I&nbsp;remembered the sliding doors. They do these things with a purpose, not&nbsp;just to make you look square.My interest was really piqued on the motorway: it holds its speed incredibly well, to the extent that it turned into a fun in-car challenge to see how long I could stay at 80 without touching the gas. On the way to Somerset I was prepared to brook the possibility that maybe it's a slight downhill incline all the way from London to Land's End, but the same held on the way back. There is a complicated explanation for all this, a much-engineered quirk of its fuel delivery system called TSI, which makes it a neat and unusually economical cruiser.Having said all that, neither the consumption nor the emissions is&nbsp;that impressive, because of its sheer size. It's a good car if you need&nbsp;it, but it's not so good that it&nbsp;doesn't remind you how lucky you&nbsp;are not to need it. So it's like a&nbsp;huge silver contraceptive. Other colours are available.VW Sharan SPrice23,965Top speed122mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.7 secondsAverageconsumption39.2mpgCO2 emissions167g/kmEcorating6/10In a wordMum-umental
Imagine sitting down, today, to plan and build a new news organisation for the 21st century. What would be its founding principles? How would it fund its journalism? And how would it fully exploit and integrate itself with technology that will determine how it is distributed, how it communicates, and it relates to and empowers its readers?There have been armies of news sites born of the web but, as even the most recent acquisition deal – of theHuffington Post by AOL– shows, the primary motive is to create businesses, rather than a journalistic organisation serving the public and holding power to account. The volume of news available to us now might make this seem a healthy period for journalism, but that's not quite true. Fromoligarchsandtycoonstocontent farmsof low-quality derivative blogging –search engine-optimised to the point of incomprehension– the struggle to get noticed and to turn attention into profit invariably takes priority over service, or quality.This is a very good moment to step off the treadmill, to detach from the established businesses we operate in and rethink what we do. For the Guardian, theWikiLeaksstories have fulfilled at least part of the promise of online, connected journalism. The success of those stories was down to collaboration, to the skill, expertise and persistence of our investigative reporters (who are most definitelynotinstructed towrite at least five stories a day) but, crucially, made possible by collaborating with WikiLeaks – a principled and well-supported site with a committed following. We've all enjoyed the backstories to this episode, but the principle, and the experience, has made a real impact at the Guardian.A serious news organisation starting up today would have to be built around the web, and would benefit from not having the baggage of a legacy business. It would be international-facing, with diversified products to generate revenue from conferences to bespoke print products. Storytelling for screens would be at the core of this business, with teams of technologists and journalists working together to explore and exploit a balance of speed and breaking news; discussion, response and exchange; collaboration and analysis; and long-form reflection and investigation.The Guardian, along with most major news organisations, is already heading in this direction, but there is still very far to go. It seems a luxury that the Guardian's mainobjective is journalism, not profit, but I do believe that is what gives us the freedom to experiment and try to rethink how a news organisation should be structured.Partnerships and collaboration, in the spirit of openness, are absolutely key to this structure. That applies internally as much as externally, and was the starting point for the Guardian Hacks SXSW that kicks off this weekend. Even though they are only a floor apart, there are plenty in our editorial teams who hardly know the technology staff. I think that's wrong, and that journalists, as craftspeople, need to start understanding that developers are creatives in their own right; the root of the word "technology",tekhne, is Greek for art or craft.What kind of project could we create where journalists and developers would have the time and space to work together? TheSouthbySouthWestfestival seemed a good place to start – a very Guardian combination of music, film and technology in the quirky Texan city of Austin – so our team could work together experimenting with new ways of covering the visionary speakers, the creative talent and the vast, technologically intrepid audience.We approached Google, who agreed to sponsor the project for its objective of exploring innovative forms of journalism, and set up a hack day – open to all – so that anyone and everyone could devise and build their own ideas for cool tools to play with at SXSW.Six months after those ideas first surfaced, we're about to kick off with the Guardian Hacks SXSW hack day tomorrow. We have more than 120 developers, designers and journalists coming, and as diverse as Norway'sdt.noandostlendingen.notoLe MondeandLa Repubblica, to Sweden'sSpotify. AndMedia Molecule– theLittle Big Planetteam who are coming all the way from Guildford. I wrote more about all of thisyesterday.No tectonic shift is going to happen to the foundations of any news organisation overnight. But our patterns of behaviour, our processes and our expectations will shift slowly if we can push ourselves in small steps, and use our imagination to define what the future should and could be. There's a whole future of news to create, and I hope that by giving ourselves some time and space to explore, we will be just a little more inspired to do that.
At Friday's announcement at its strategic analysis briefing, Stephen Elop expanded some more on quite how the Microsoft-Nokia tieup is going to pan out.• he expects another 150m Symbian devices to be sold. Symbian is being killed off - a graphic was shown which shows "mobile phones" continuing as about 50% of Nokia sales, and Windows Phone 7 emerging at the top and squashing Symbian to zero.Given that Nokia sold about 100m Symbian devices last year, that would equate to between four and six quarters - ie 12 to 18 months - for the platform. Why, though, would you ever buy a Symbian app (or develop a Symbian app) knowing that it will be dead money in a year or less, which you won't be able to transfer to your next phone?• the problem with Android was that it would have to be Google services. (This may come as news to the Chinese vendors and Verizon which have tweaked Android to use other services.) The benefit of WP7 is that it can lead to mutual exchange of value between Nokia and Microsoft on offerings such as Navteq (Nokia owns it, Bing uses it), location-based services and advertising; Microsoft can offer Bing search, Xbox Live and Zune Music (which explains the death of Ovi Music).• changes to WP7 that Nokia introduces will be available to other handset vendors.• lots of jobs are going to go at Nokia and bureaucracy is going to be shaken up. Staff were briefed at the start of the day. Numbers of job losses haven't been decided, Elop said.• Elop and other Nokia executives mentioned Symbian, Meego, Android, Apple but not even once RIM, despite it being a significant competitor in the US and in markets such as India and the Middle East. That's quite peculiar, though as some people suggested on Twitter, it might be to try to make WP7 look like the third horse in a three-horse race rather than the fifth in a five-horse race.• Qt "will be a platform for Symbian.. we will evaluate Qt for the low end. We aren't proposing to put Qt on Windows Phone 7 or to abstract Nokia devices via Qt on Windows Phone because that could fork development." In other words, Qt is as dead (or zombified) as Symbian.• on tablets, "we aren't announcingtodaya specific tablet strategy." (Elop put the emphasis himself on that "today".) But he says that "we could see the advantages of a family [of devices] that uses the Microsoft ecosystem." He was very lairy of being in any way definitive about tablets, and dodged the question when I asked him about it in the morning press session.• Meego (its coordinated effort with Intel) is going to be part of a "future disruption" effort which will look at, well, future mobile disruptions. Since he seemed to be saying that it won't be used on tablets, it's hard not to think that this will somehow be to do with home automation, which Meego grew out of and where there is still plenty of headroom.• Elop wouldn't promise that Nokia will remain profitable while the Symbian-to-Windows Phone transition takes place.• Nokia Windows Phone devices will start shipping in volume in 2012.• tough job of the day: Rafe Blandford of the websiteAll About Symbian, who was greeted with laughter when he announced his affiliation while asking a question. But it's OK: he had the foresight to create Allaboutwindowsphone.com last March. It's not live yet but all it will take is a one-line rewrite in Apache. That's an easier task than repurposing an operating system...The most interesting question you might be able to answer: is it easier for a Symbian developer to retrain in the skills needed to write code for Windows Phone 7, for Android, or Apple's iOS, or RIM's QNX, or what? (Saying "HTML + CSS" isn't an answer - even Google is recruiting people to write apps because it's discovered people don't want web apps.)
Embattled mobile phone firm Nokia has signed up to a "broad strategic partnership" with Microsoft in an effort to rebuild its fortunes.Stephen Elop, Nokia's recently appointed chief executive, said Nokia will use Windows Mobile 7 as its primary smartphone platform. Elop has also shaken up the senior management team, having warned staff this week thatthe company was standing on a "burning platform".Speaking in London this morning, Elop said the partnership meant the mobile market was now a "three horse race", with Nokia-Microsoft competing strongly with Apple, and Google's Android platform.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said the alliance would "dramatically accelerate" the take-up of handsets running Windows Mobile. But the initial reaction to the deal was muted, with Nokia shares falling by 10% in early trading in Helsinki.Under the plan, Nokia said it would use its expertise in hardware design, imaging and mapping to improve the Windows Mobile platform. The two companies will work together on marketing, and develop a common roadmap. Bing, Microsoft's search service, will be integrated into Nokia devices.Once an undisputed leader of the mobile industry, Nokia is now struggling to keep up with Android and the iPhone, as well as RIM's BlackBerry.Nokia said it will continue to make phones running its Symbian operating system, thus "leveraging previous investments to harvest additional value". Symbian, though, will be relegated to the status of a "franchise partner".MeeGo, Nokia's Linux-based open source mobile operating system, will also continue – but with a focus on "longer-term market exploration". Alberto Torres, who had led the development of MeeGo, is leaving Nokia.Elop's announcement had been heavily anticipated, withmany commentators expecting a tie-up with Microsoft. Analysts said there was some disappointment over Elop's new financial targets. They include growing sales faster than the market from 2013, with profit margins over 10%.John Strand, chief executive of Strand Consulting, warned that there will be "massive layoffs" at Nokia, particularly across its research and development division.Elop confirmed jobs would be cut both in Finland and across the world.Tony Cripps, principal analyst at Ovum, said Elop had made the right decision for Nokia's future."There were few short-term options available to the company to help it get back on terms with Apple and especially the Android masses, which in 2011 look set to overtake Nokia in terms of smartphone shipments, bringing with it the full wrath of the investor community," said Cripps.Andrew Harrison, chief executive of Carphone Warehouse and Best Buy, believes the deal should benefit consumers."The deal makes Microsoft a key contender and gets Nokia back to the forefront of the smartphone revolution," Harrison said.
A man linked to claims of a China-based intrusion into computer systems of energy multinationals has said "several hundred" hackers used his company's server services.The computer security firm McAfee has alleged that attackers made "co-ordinated, covert and targeted" intrusions into the systems of five major oil and gas firms to steal proprietary information.The company's chief technical officer George Kurtz wrote in a blogpost: "We have strong evidence suggesting that the attackers were based in China. The tools, techniques, and network activities used in these attacks originate primarily in China. These tools are widely available on the Chinese web forums and tend to be used extensively by Chinese hacker groups."Overseas governments and international companies have indicated growing concern about cyber-attacks apparently originating from China recently.In areport,McAfee says the hackers could be traced back to China via a server leasing company in Shandong province that hosted the malware, and to Beijing IP addresses that were active during Chinese office hours.It did not identify those it thought responsible for the hacking, and Dmitri Alperovitch, vice-president for threat research, told Reuters: "We have no evidence that this is government-sponsored in any way."Although the report did not identify individuals, several US news stories said McAfee had identified Song Zhiyue, a salesman for a Shandong firm, as apparently providing the servers used by the hackers. Song told the Associated Press he had heard of Chinese hackers attacking US oil firms but declined to comment on McAfee's report."Our company alone has a great number of hackers [as customers]," he said. "I have several hundred of them among all my customers."The term hacking is used in various ways and can cover legal as well as illegal activity. McAfee said it would not name the companies that had been attacked, as some were its clients. It added that seven others had been accessed.Reuters said the three largest US-based oil companies – Exxon Mobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips – declined to comment, saying they did not discuss security measures as a matter of policy.McAfee said the attacks, which it dubbed "Night Dragon", began two to four years ago and used relatively simple methods. They accessed computers either via the companies' websites or through malware sent to executives."These were not sophisticated attacks  ... yet they were very successful in achieving their goals," said Alperovitch.He told Reuters they had focused on financial data related to oil and gasfield exploration and bidding contracts. He also claimed they had copied proprietary industrial processes."That information is tremendously sensitive and would be worth a huge amount of money to competitors," Alperovitch added.Ma Zhaoxu, spokesman for China's foreign ministry, said he did not know of the case. "I really have no grasp of this situation, but we frequently hear about these types of reports," he said.Chinese state media have argued that China is one of the main targets for hackers and say the country has strict laws against hacking. Critics say little action appears to have been taken against offenders.The issue was highlighted last year when Google moved its search service to Hong Kong after alleging China-based intrusions into its systems had targeted human rights activists. It said more than 100 other companies had been attacked.McAfee, which has an interest in publicising security threats, given that it sells products to combat them, said it had provided the data to the FBI.The FBI said it was aware of cyber threats but could not comment on the specific allegations.
Block 19.52am:We're at the Intercontinental hotel in London, where it's wet - just the sort of weather to put out a fire on a burning platform. Which is what Stephen Elop, chief executive of Nokia, is doing by jumping into bed with Microsoft. But can it work? Let's hear how he explains it.Block 29.55am:In case you haven't seen it, here's our first take on the announcement:Nokia and Microsoft sign strategic tieup.In short: Symbian isn't going to be the preferred choice for smartphones from Nokia; Meego will see the release of "one device" this year; the head of the Meego team is leaving Nokia; Windows Phone 7 becomes the preferred platform for Nokia's smartphones.We had been expecting this all week - the idea that Nokia would go with Android when there's a huge patent threat to Android just didn't make sense - but the reality is still going to be brutal for the Nokia staff. It will surely mean a cull of the Nokia R+D divisions. But at the same time, it's a huge win for Microsoft, which has been eclipsed in the smartphone market first by Apple in 2007 (Windows Mobile never got anywhere near it for usability) and then by Android.Block 39.59am:Some early developer reactions via Twitter.Mark Whitaker: "Fantastic news. Symbian has always been dreadful for developers. Qt appallingly badly supported. This can only be improvement". He adds: "Nokia's dev support is atrocious, esp. compared to Android, iPhone, MS. Hope we get more MS, less Nokia on that front."Pytey: "expect the handful of developers who still remember the Symbian API to reply using an iPhone". (Ouch.)Jan Ole Suhr: " I think the initial reaction will be mostly negative."Apparently the FT's Lex is calling this tieup "the dance of the dinosaurs".Notably,  Horace Dedlu (ex-Nokia exec who now runs the Asymco blog and has called it right, as I see it, over the past few months,comments: "HP, Microsoft's biggest customer decides to fire Microsoft [a reference to the move to put WebOS on PCs] while Nokia, Microsoft's biggest hold-out, may become their biggest customer."I was hoping that they would play Power Station's song "Some Like It Hot" about "Feel the heat, pushing you to decide / Feel the heat, burning you up, ready or not". But they're just giving us generic chillout music.Block 410.06am:OK, we're off. Stephen Elop comes up. He's a small guy, looks like he could be Scandinavian. Then again, he's Canadian. "challenging... the entire smartphone market is growing rapidly and WE should be setting the pace. The game has changed from a battle of devices to a war of ecosystems... something Winston Chiurchill once said seems apposite... an optimist sees opportunity in every situation".Block 510.07am:Nokia and Microsoft alliance "subject to..." ah, details."Opportunity to create a global ecosystem.. Nokia will bring a tremendous brand.. application store... assets to this." Sounds like the Ovi Store is getting wrapped into WP7."Unrivalled scale.. around the globe.""Microsoft will bring their next-generation platform... Nokia will bring our devices.""Nokia will adopt Windows Phone as our smartphone strategy.""The joint product roadmap will bring consumers... location based services, social, ecommerce and a variety of others... competitive products in countries around the world.""It's a next-generation platform.." Which suggests that Symbian and everything else inside Nokia just wasn't enough."Faster path to hte United STates market.." Ah, where Nokia has fallen off."Gives Microsoft access to leading mobile devices.. they can play leading role in creating new ecosystem... gives them a faster path to global markets... opportunity for products like Bing, Xbox Live..""Also believe it's good for developers and publishers... apply Windows Phone 7 to others."He's reading it off an autocue, really rather rapidly."We believe this is good for conusmers. And it's that which is really most important. Iconic hardware, stellar software and unique services."Block 610.12am:"We have been on a complex journey... this announcement with Microsoft is just one part."OOh, and now we get Steve Ballmer.SB: "honour and privilege to be here today.. thank Stephen. It was a year ago that we unveiled WP7 at MWC... it's more than a single product...brings together the best from across Microsoft."Took a picture of him with an iPhone, just to see if it would annoy from the front row. Nope, not a thing."This will dramatically accelerate [adoption] of Windows Phone... drive innovation on the Windows Phone platform. ... Nokia's mapping services will improve ours.. and Nokia will also do its ownNokia is at the boundiny of hardware, software and services and we can dream about that future togehter. We are very ecited to work with Nokia's engineers who have some of the most exciting image technologies anywhere... this should ensure more innovation in the market, better opportunities for others... this partnership is good for Microsoft and for Nokia. We should expect rapid development of the Windows Phone ecosystem.""No journey is complete in a single step... we're going to take several steps together.. going to collaborate closely.... so we can really align and drive the future evolution of the mobile phone. Already working together to create the first Nokia Windows mobile phones... We need to learn along the way and share what we're learning with other partners in the Windows ecosystem.."This technology world is a lot of fun... it's crazy... at Microsoft we're driving many of those innovations with IE9, Kinect... and of course Windows Phone."Block 710.19am:Q+A time.What happens to Series 40 and to Ovi?Elop: "Nokia strategy comprises 3 pillars- right now this is smartphone. Second pillar is plans for low end of portfolio... in Series 40. Ovi: while we are placing dependency on Microsoft for Windows Phone .. Ovi Portal will be a critical contribution to that ecosystem... Ovi Maps... so capabilities and services will be part of a shared environment."Q when first handset? Elop: not making specific announcement. But we can move faster in introduction that what we've ever done before. Ballmer: engineering teams have spent a lot of time together, but when there's news there will be..Q what about other handset makers making for WP7? Is this exclusive?Ballmer: not exclusive, things we are doing with Nokia that are unique, excited about that. but non-exclusive, in some senses overall development of critical mass in WP7 overall from manufacturers and chipset community is important...Elop: this is important for people to think about.. our prioririty is success of the ecosystem, which includes work done by some of our handset competitors. But we have plans to do unique things.Q: why Microsoft not Android?Elop what we assessed is three options: internal option Meego and Symbian but concerns about expaanding acros pricing with Meego and developing ecosystem without partner like Mcirosoft. We spent time with colleagues at Google, it's gaining share, there's attractive elements, but we believed we would have difficulties ... commoditisaiton risk was very high, value being moved out to Google which was concerning to us. Microsoft was best opportunity to build and lead and fight... offering consumers tremendous choice and a great option in the marketplace."Block 810.25am:Q Meego and Symbian, the unloved ugly stepchildren?Elop: "Windows Phone is primary smartphone - implications to Symbian.. we have 200m users out there, as we transition through expect ... ""Meego - we will be shipping first Meego device this year, as an opportunity to learn, we'll learn from that and then ask that team to explore future devices... a longer-term disruption trying to anticipate next disruption in the mobile ecosystem."(Who the hell would buy such a device that's going to be orphaned at birth?)Block 910.27am:Q but WP7 has licence costs - how does that work?Elop: "we excited about new sources of monetisation that did not exist before.. the deal essentially recognises unique nature of the relationship."Ballmer: "we're both super-excited about ability to activate users and put them in position... not just mapping but other things that are valuable that we will import and make part of our services."Block 1010.29am:Q What happens to Finland?Elop: "Nokia is first and foremost a Finnish company, it is our home and it will remain our home. Best thing Nokia can do for the country is to survive.. it's also the case that we have to lower our operating expenditures.. there's inefficiencies in how we do distributed R+D.. expensive outsourcing of contract manufacturers.. there will be reduction in employment around the world and that will affect Finland, no doubt about that. We don't have numbers today."We've also already spent time with government leaders in Finland..."Q: WP7 is a consumer platform, what happens to E-series?Elop: challenge that - having been involved with Windows Phone 7 ... business-involved...Ballmer: we designed WP to be good for all aspects of peoples' lives, not just business..Q analysts are disappointed at guidance... if you go into alliance with Microsoft can you cut back on R+D? Also, operators in Europe were hoping big boost for Meego as alternative to Apple and Android - why tieup with US company?Elop: "we will make significant changes in levels of R+D - expect substantially reduce R+D expenditures while increasing activity" [basically, he's saying they've been inefficient]."Re European operators, think tehre was recognition that for something to compete and win against Android and Apple there was a need for a broad consortium.. Meego hasn't been moving fast enough. Have been presenting to operators in Europe and the US. Operators more than anything else need  a credible alternative. This is now a three-horse race, and that's what the operators heard, they're anxious for more detail. Operator [said to him 'thank you, we're all smiles'."Q from the All About Symbian site - oh dear, going to have to change name - wants to know about how it will move.Elop: "going to move WP7 quickly down the price continuum."Block 1110.37am:(Interesting point raised by All About Symbian: how do you put WP7 onto a low-end phone? WP7 has rules about what it can have, and that's hard to squeeze into a cheap phone.)Q Meego tablet? Why put out a Meego device?Elop: (dancing around the tbalet questionThr third pillar of our strategic introduction... we reserve the right to put out other devices on other platforms.Anything we plan to ship we will ensure that the ecosystem is there to support it.Q: there's no proof that WP7 will be successful in the US - how will this strengthen Nokia in the US?Elop: "critical ingredients are we have to deliver great user experience, great hardware, support and services to create an ecosystem and the operators .. .and a new North American organisation.. we believe this gives faster access to the US market."Block 1210.42am:Q: Nokia said to be bureaucratic - who's going to be hit?Elop: "I'm going to support point about need to improve speed and nimbleness of the organisation, need to take significant steps to do it - when I presented to employees of Nokia, some changes about organisation, some about getting rid of bureaucratic structures and teams that have been slowing us down.""Three criticial things we're going to focus on, how we're going to differentiate, how we're going to evolve."Ballmer: "first spoke about the possibility in November, and here we are."[Note: Elop was appointed in September.]And we're done! Thanks for joining. We'll have some more analysis later today.
Twenty years is an eternity in the games industry. Few studios last anywhere near that long before either being consumed within a publishing company, or closing down entirely. Formed this week in February 1991, Blizzard Entertainment (then known as Silicon &amp; Synapse), has not only survived, it has become one of the most powerful names in the industry, its name forged with Activision's to form the industry's largest publisher.The compay's big brands – Warcraft, StarCraft, Diablo and World of Warcraft – have prospered through subtly evolving the genres they inhabit. Warcraft added multiplayer gaming to the real-time strategy arena, while WoW made player vs player combat optional (so newcomers weren't continually slaughtered by nasty veterans) and scaled down on the beast-slaying grind of titles like Ultima Online. The result was a much more user-friendly MMOG experience – hence, the game now has 12 million subscribers and Cataclysm, the latest WoW expansion pack, shifted 4.7 million copies in its first month on sale last year. Meanwhile, StarCraft 2 was America's biggest PC launch of 2010, and the action RPG sequel Diablo III will no doubt perform equally well if it makes the as-yet-unconfirmed Q4 release date.But what has it been like to run the company throughout these two decades, and where is it going next? To find out, I had a brief chat with co-founders Mike Morhaime and Frank Pearce...When you set up Silicon &amp; Synapse, was it a business venture or were you all just passionate about making games?Frank Pearce:I got involved for the love of it. I was playing a lot of video games in junior high and high school – I had an Intellivision console and I was playing games on my Apple IIc. When I was in high school I had no idea what I wanted to be when I grew up, but I definitely felt if I could find a way to work in the games industry, that would be awesome. I just didn't know how to go about doing it. But I was really lucky to have met Allen Adham while I was at UCLA, because he had a similar passion and actually had a plan for it!Mike Morhaime:I was always fascinated by technology and wanted to understand it so when I went to UCLA I studied electrical engineering figuring they knew how things worked. I met Alan while I was there – and Allen had this plan. We didn't really start talking about it until after I had graduated. I went to work for Western Digital, and when Allen graduated six months later, he separately recruited Frank and I. Frank was over at Rockwell, and he convinced both of us to quit our jobs and start this new venture. It sounded exciting and a little bit scary, but I was really interested in programming, in getting computers to do cool things. And what is cooler than games?Was it just the three of you?FP:It was the three of us working in the office, but Allen had a couple of guys doing contract work for us. Within six months we'd hired two more UCLA grads.Are you nostalgic for those days?FP:Now and then are both awesome. It's very different. There were half a dozen of us when we started the company. Now we have somewhere between 4500 and 5000 employees worldwide. But both have been great environments. I wasn't big into international travel when I was young, but now I can go to any one of our offices around the globe and see the people working for Blizzard who might be from a different culture but support our passion for making games… it's really cool.MM:The games we were working on back then were much simpler, but it was a lot of fun we had a great team dynamic.Your first big original title was Warcraft: Orcs and Humans, and this epitomised Blizzard's ability to take successful genres and evolve them. Did you know that by adding a multiplayer component you were effectively revolutionising the RTS, and that this would lead to astonishing success?MM:We thought about it as gamers. We saw a big opportunity to create something really fun and competitive and deeply strategic. We really enjoyed the single player experience of games like Populous and Dune II and we just thought, gosh, this would make such a great platform for multiplayer.FP:It was a creative outlet – it was about what we wanted to be able to do, see and play. It wasn't about business. Our perception has always been if you create a good game, then it's a good business opportunity.Did you have mad crunch times back then? Did you sit in the same clothes for a week, coding non-stop?FP:we worked really hard. I think there was only one person who wore the same clothes for more than a day at a time, and I think he only did that for one week!Did you sack him?MM:(laughs)We were always able to get home that night – even if it was four o'clock in the morning!What has allowed your RTS games to remain so successful when other key brands like Total Annihilation and Command and Conquer have fallen away?MM:Well, the team that created Starcraft 2 is probably the most experienced real-time strategy team in the industry – there are members of that team who have worked on all our RTS games going back to Warcraft.FP:We have a very iterative approach to game design. We iterate on feedback we get from the employees when we're in alpha phase, then the whole point of running a public beta is to get feedback. And even after we ship, we're still taking on ideas, through the forums and through mechanisms like BlizzCon – that actually gives us the opportunity to get very early community feedback on games in development.And Battlenet – your in-house online gaming network – has been a key part of your success. Did you have any idea at the time that it was such a prescient technology? It was really the Xbox Live of its time…FP:There was a network emulator called Kali that lots of people were using to play Warcraft 2 online. We actually talked to those guys and arranged to have Warcraft 2 ship with it inside the box, but the experience wasn't simple – only the hardcore players were using it, so this was then next natural step in the evolution.MM:Yeah, you could play online, but it was very difficult – we wanted to make it really easy to find other people, meet up and play. The idea of just a single button that connected you to a service where you could play with other people without knowing IP addresses or anything like that was very exciting, it opened up online play to a much wider audience.Throughout your 20 years you've been through a series of corporate owners. Were you ever worried Bizarre would be consumed within one of these takeovers?FP:I never worried about it, it's always been Mike's job to shield the development teams from that aspect of the business. We always trusted our leadership to protect and isolate us from that side of things.MM:We've always been in a very fortunate position – even before all of the corporate changes above us, we had established a track record of making good quality, high selling games so that gave us a lot of leverage in protecting our autonomy.And throughout this era of growth, how did you all get on? Were there any really divisive creative decisions?(Long pause)MM:It was controversial when we were settling on what the races should be in Warcraft 3!FP:When we started, we had a list of nine races we wanted to include, so to pare it down to only four was tough. But actually, one of the most divisive situations on that game was that some folks felt we really needed to include naval units – but this was very late in the process. The development team was working really hard to get the game out the door and wanted to finish it with the current feature set and we deferred to them – we left naval units out of the Reign of Chaos version. But knowing it was such a controversial topic, the team immediately began working on the technology to support it for the expansion kit – so Frozen Throne has naval units. But, not including them in the original release was controversial.Were there raging arguments?MM:It ended up being settled by a team vote.So no arm wrestling then?MM:No!World of Warcraft has obviously defined Blizzard to some extent since its launch in 2004. Was this game on your 'to do' list from the start?FP:The early origins of it go back to 1997. At the time, we were working on the first Starcraft, and Allen and other members of the development team were passionately playing Ultima Online. Then, when we finished the first Starcraft expansion pack, Everquest was launched and evenmorepeople were playing that. After we shipped Starcraft: Brood War, we split off a new development team to start a fresh project, but they were struggling to find a vision. So we took a step back and said, 'hey, if we were going to start from scratch, would this be the game that we'd make?' And they said no, they wanted to make an MMO – that was 1999. And so, the Warcraft universe seemed like a good fit for that space.MM:We'd always felt that it would be cool to put the player into the world of Warcraft as a single character, exploring the land and meeting other players, but it really wasn't until 1999 that we thought it was feasible to do it.Was Starcraft ever considered as a viable MMO universe?MM:No, there was no debate about which universe to bring into an MMO.And were you always confident WoW would be an enormous success?MM:There was actually a lot of uncertainty about how popular WoW would be. We felt that the decision to charge a monthly subscription was going to create a barrier for a lot of people who didn't want to pay a regular fee to play a game. But on the launch night, we went out to the local Fry's Electronics store and we saw four or five thousand people lined up to buy the game, which was something we'd never seen before with any of our titles. From that instant on, we couldn't keep up with demand – it took us a year to enhance the server infrastructure to support all the people who wanted to play.So what's the future for Blizzard? You've concentrated heavily on the PC market. Is there any scope for developing on handheld or console?MM:Something we always talk about when we start a new game is, which platforms are most appropriate? Our first games were on console and although we've been focusing on PC games for 16 years we think of ourselves as an online gaming company, rather than a PC online gaming company. I certainly won't rule out supporting other platforms…So do you mean there's a vague possibility of console games, or you have concrete plans?MM:(pause)we don't have anything to announce today.And how about developing beyond your three big brands, Warcraft, StarCraft and Diablo?FP:We have a ton of developers who are really passionate about creating a new universe. If the opportunity presents itself it's something we'll explore...
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
A bumper burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM Said to Plan PlayBook Software to Run Google's Android Apps &gt;&gt; BloombergVery interesting - though the story says that RIM is not going to go with Google's Dalvik (used to run Android apps) because of the patent dispute with Oracle. So.. a licensed JVM? That would be interesting.Bloomberg Blows it Again – Apple's Payment Plans are Pure Speculation &gt;&gt; NFC TimesDave Birch will be disappointed, but it looks like Apple is not going to take over the entire world's cash machines and make them into near-field communications contactless payment systems.Google's Twitter-bashing of Nokia Continues as OS Announcement Draws Near | Ina Fried | Mobilized | AllThingsD"I would point out, though, that Nokia is not the first phone maker in a jam that made a bet on Microsoft. Some years back, Palm decided to start selling phones with Windows Mobile – the predecessor to Windows Phone. The venture was launched as a bringing together of two giants, with Bill Gates and Palm's chief executivesharing a stage in San Franciscoto tout the promise of the union. In the end, neither the Palm OS nor Windows Mobile were able to gain ground and the partnership fizzled."Understanding Twitter's valuation &gt;&gt; Felix Salmon at ReutersSalmon knocks down Shira Ovida's "highly irritating" WSJ blog on the Twitter valuation: "How exactly will crucial social infrastructure get monetized in the future? Nobody knows for sure – but everybody knows that it's not simply going to happen by scaling up current-day revenues from promoted tweets and the like. Twitter's on track to make $100 million this year without even breaking a sweat, but the one thing all of its investors understand is that priority number one for the company is to become an indispensable service for millions of people around the world."Amber India Restaurant &gt;&gt; Schmap.itIt's in Mountain View, California. Apparently a popular lunch spot with some executives.When You Just Want Apple to Go Away &gt;&gt; iPad KillersVaguely useful if you need a list of tablets that aren't the iPad (though there aren't any reviews). The right-hand column is taken up with an advert for the iPod nano at the time of writing.iPad Death Watch &gt;&gt; AAPLinvestorsA collection of predictions of the iPad's imminent demise. Yeah, whatdidhappen to the all-conquering Cisco tablet?HP TouchPad is finally unveiled. Does it live up to expectations? &gt;&gt; GartnerCarolina Milanesi: "HP seems to be building on this ease of use for multiple device ownership. Although this is certainly a bonus it might also be something that comes naturally to consumers. As a consumer surely I want my smartphone and my tablet to run on the same OS so that I can leverage my apps, settings and content. That said, I think that HP is being smart at trying to sell this tie between devices as a differentiator rather than forcing users into it by creating a dependence from one product to another one. Synergy and Touch Stone allowing for cloud and wireless devices synch are certainly a differentiator." She guesses at the Touchpad's price: likely around $600.Microsoft 'NoDo' Windows Phone 7 update to be a no-show until early March &gt;&gt; ZDNetGroan. Still, it will give Nokia a chance to incorporate it right from the start...Nokia crisis highlights internal struggle &gt;&gt; BBC News"In private conversations, staff regularly talk about Nokia's overtly masculine culture, and describe a world where important deals are usually brokered during visits to the sauna. "While the steam room is a way of life for Finnish people, it has almost become a religion for Nokia's high-ranking managers. "Indeed the spa is seen as so integral to the company's operation that many of its offices around the world, which span from Afghanistan to Zambia, have had steam rooms specially fitted in order to accommodate their addiction." The mind kind of boggles. Not that other tech companies aren't often male-dominated, but this takes it a step further. It's as if the boardroom were in the toilet.Full API now available &gt;&gt; Instapaper BlogClever: given it hasn't got a huge cash pile to burn through but is a "normal" business, Instapaper couldn't offer a full API to everyone. But there's a neat middle way: "Full API access, but only for paid-subscriber accounts. In other words, all developers can use the Full API, but it will only work for customers with Instapaper's $1/month Subscription memberships."WWF launches PDF-like file format that can't be printed &gt;&gt; Guardian EnvironmentThis is a really good idea, especially if it saves us from email signoffs saying "Please consider the environment before you print off this email" when you weren't going to print it off anyway.ZTE Blade remains Elisa's best selling handset &gt;&gt; TelecompaperMore jolly news for Nokia. "Finnish mobile operator Elisa announced that ZTE Blade was its best selling handset in January, maintaining its position at the top. Apple's iPhone 4 was the second best selling handset, ahead of HTC Desire HD, Nokia C7-00, Nokia 5230, Nokia 2330, Nokia X3-02, HTC Desire Z, Nokia N8-00, HTC Desire, Nokia 2730, Samsung Galaxy S, Nokia 7230, Nokia C5-00, and Nokia 3710."Â  The N8 not making much of a show; the C7 is the best of those. That's five Android phones, one iPhone, and the rest from Nokia. Good thing it's Finnish, perhaps.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Facebook is weighing plans to let employees sell up to $1bn (£621m) of their shares to outside investors. The sale would value the social network at about $60bn, according to an influential industry blog.Major investors have been clamouring to invest in privately-held Facebook. The sale would allow Facebook employees to raise money on their stakes in the company while the firm considers selling shares in an initial public offering (IPO), the All Things Digital blog said, citing Facebook sources.At $60bn Facebook would become one of the world's most valuable companies, worth as much as Ford Motor Company. The new valuation marks yet another jump in valuation, coming just a month after company founder Mark Zuckerberg raised $1.5bn in financing in a deal thatvalued Facebook at $50bn.In the interim period social media firms have been attracting ever increasing attention. Goldman Sachs led the last round of financing for Facebook and had planned to offer shares to its top tier US clients. Those plans had to be scrapped when the bank was inundated with requests for shares and the publicity over the share sale threatened to breach rules about private placements.Zuckerberg, who started the firm in a Harvard dorm room, owns about a quarter of the company, making his stake worth $15bn. In December hejoined fellow billionaires Warren Buffett and Bill Gates in The Giving Pledge, a network of super-rich people who have promised to give most of their fortunes to charity.The news of Facebook's potentiall share sale follows revelations thatFacebook and Google are both stalking Twitter, the micro-blogging site. The price for the fast growing but still loss-making firm is said to be between $8bn and $10bn. Alongside Facebook and Twitter's valuations, social media firms including Groupon andLinkedIn are planning to raise billions in IPOs.Zuckerberg, who started the firm in a Harvard dorm room, is expected to lead the biggest social media IPO when he takes Facebook public in 2012. The company now has over 600 million members worldwide and has become the hottest investment property on the planet. Last year it eclipsed Google as theworld's most visited website. According to Experian Hitwise, 8.9% of unique online visits were to Facebook last year, compared with Google's 7.2%. A survey by Nielsen found that Americans spend nearly 23% of their time online using social networks, up from about 16% in 2009.Under US rules a private company with  500-plus shareholders must either go public or start publishing full accounts. Facebook has been keen to keep rivals from looking over its books and Zuckerberg has carefully managed those numbers up until now. The firm recently said it would publish financial results by April 2012 even if it hasn't held an IPO, according to a document sent to prospective investors.Employees were given the opportunity to sell shares in 2009 to one of Facebook's investors, Russian investor Digital Sky Technologies (DST). Current and former employees were able to sell up to 20% of their common shares at $14.77 per share at a $6.5bn valuation. If the latest deal goes through, those who sell their shares this time will get almost 10 times that amount.The prices have led some to claim a new dotcom bubble has been formed and is about to pop. Colin Gillis, internet analyst at BGC Partners, said: "I wouldn't say there was a bubble but there is certainly more confidence than scepticism about. It all depends on whether you think social media is going to be more or less important in the future. Personally I think it's going to be more important."
On Friday, Nokia's new chief executive Stephen Elop is expected to unveil a new strategy for the company - which is, let's not forget, the biggest handset maker in the world, both for "dumbphones" (aka feature phones) and smartphones (aka internet-connected phones with browser, email and app abilities).The expectation is that Elop will announce some sort of tieup in which it adopts Windows Phone 7 for at least some smartphones in some territories; he will either kill off or accelerate development on the MeeGo platform (an open source project with Intel) for other smartphones.Yes, but why? Nokia sells more phones than anyone. But Elop - besides realising that the industry has been disrupted, first by Apple and now by Android (of which inhis "burning platform" speech/memohe said "Google has become a gravitational force, drawing much of the industry's innovation to its core") - can see that it's important to be on the front of the curve with smartphones.Why? Because smartphones have begun to outsell PCs.That had been anticipated - but nobody had expected it before 2012. Instead, in the fourth quarter of 2010,Gartner saysabout 100m smartphones were sold; that compares with93.5m PCs sold. To triangulate,IDC says100.9m smartphones were sold in the fourth quarter,compared to 92.1m PCs("still the largest ever").Gartner says that for the whole of 2010,296.6msmartphones were sold ("to end users") worldwide, up from172.4m in 2009.That compares with a (Gartner) total of350.9m PCs sold, up from 308.3m in 2009- which indicates how much more quickly the smartphone market is growing if it could outsell PCs in the fourth quarter.IDC says302.6m smartphonesfor the year, up from173.5m in 2009; compare that to364.2m PCs sold, up from 304.8m in 2009.In short: PC growth is slowing down, and smartphone growth is speeding up. That is being driven by "white box" phone makers in China and India, says Carolina Milanesi, the smartphone analyst at Gartner: in the past those companies would have in effect been black market sellers, but now they've joined the mainstream, often selling cheap Android handsets - which means they can be counted in the smartphone numbers.All of which means what? That Nokia, which dominated the mobile phone market while that market was sailing along, is suddenly facing a market where - well, Elop is right: it's alight. In a good way for Apple and the Android handset makers, but in a bad way for Nokia. Toquote technology writer Ed Bott: "When I look at Nokia, I think of WordPerfect, another early leader from an out-of-the-way place that failed during a crucial tech transition".For Nokia, this is going to be a tough one. But at least it's not having as bad a time as some of the PC makers, where the levels of profit from making PCs is barely worth the game. Smartphones still offer some profits.And now, we await tomorrow. Though there's also the longer-term question: will smartphones outsell PCs for this year, continuing the trend from the quarter just gone?
$10bn buys a lot of company; Harley-Davidson, the 108-year-old motorbike icon, is worth just shy of $10bn (£6.2bn). The Deutsche Börse is hoping to pay about that for the New York stock exchange.It's also the price tag now hanging around the neck of Twitter, the loss-making five-year-old microblogging site that is being heralded as either a superstar of a new era of communication or the frothiest example yet of a new dotcom bubble.Google and Facebook are both reportedly courting Twitter. Although talks are at a very early stage the price tag of between $8bn and $10bn seems firm.Just two months ago Twitter was valued at $3.7bn after raising $200m in new financing. But in the interim the investment world has gone crazy for all things new media. Companies spouting the buzzwords social media, platforms, community and content are attracting offers not seen since the dotcom boom at the turn of the millennium.Facebook, the daddy of them all, is said to be looking at an initial public offering that would value the firm at $50bn – more valuable than Rupert Murdoch's News Corp empire and nearly as much as Boeing.Just like the last dotcom boom, there's certainly a lot of froth out there. Cheezburger, a collection of humour sites that's big on pictures of cats doing silly things, recently raised $30m from venture capital funds.Skullcandy, makers of iPod accessories and headphones that come with big colourful skulls printed on them, is planning to raise $150m from an initial public offering.And why not? Far less glamorous firms are rolling in it. Snap Interactive, which makes dating applications for social media sites (such as Facebook) is now valued at $114m. It reported income of $1.7m for the last three months. CrowdGather, which is a "network of community forums," is worth $70m, even though it made a loss of $711,272 in the most recent three months.Richard Holway, the chairman of TechMarketView, said this time things are different. "In the last dotcom boom, all ships were rising," he said. This time it's just the social media firms that are attracting valuations from 'crazyland'."Back in 2000 everything was overvalued; that's not true now. Facebook has a fantastic business model, a lot of the advertising dollars spent on Google will eventually move over to them, I think. LinkedIn has a business model too."But with Twitter, he admits, "It's hard to see what their business model is."Twitter now has more than 175 million users. Its revenues last year are said to have been $45m, although they are expected to more than double this year. But that's a tiny sum for a $10bn company – especially one that is losing money.And for all the buzz around Twitter, it is still a minority interest. Just 12% of internet users in the US use Twitter, according to a recent survey by the Pew Research Centre. Facebook is used by 62%.But hype is a subject that both Facebook and Google know more than a little about. Google saw off all-comers to become the dominant web firm of the second wave of internet companies. Likewise Facebook has beaten its competition into submission and now claims 600 million active users – almost twice the population of the US. The two firms smell gold in them there tweets.Josh Bernoff, analyst at Forrester, said it was clear people were getting carried away by their enthusiasm for social media. "But I'd stop short of calling it a bubble," he added."You can't just sprinkle social goodness on the top of a company and expect it to be worth 10 times as much." But he believes the impact of social media firms is real and will be long-lasting."What people forget about the first dotcom boom was that under all the froth there were a lot of very successful companies. Amazon, eBay – real companies. Facebook has made a permanent change in the way people interact. There is real value there."He said the same was true for Twitter, because the company has changed how people communicate and will continue to do so. But Bernoff has two reservations: can they keep up their phenomenal growth, and can they make any money? He was sure that Twitter would continue to grow, but the jury is still out on how much money it can make.And that is the $10bn question.Social media success storiesFacebookThe social network phenomenon founded by Mark Zuckerberg has more than 600 million active users, almost twice the population of the United States. The company's last round of investment suggests Facebook would be valued at $50bn. Its success has created a whole new ecosystem of businesses using social media.LinkedInThe business network is likely to be the first of the social media companies to go public. Analysts value it at over $2.5bn. LinkedIn claims 90 million users and says it adds one every second.GrouponIn December Google made a $6bn offer for the online discount company. Now the Chicago-based business is pushing ahead with plans for a stock market float that could value it at $15bn. Groupon is by some calculations the fastest growing company in history. It has more than 50 million users around the world and its revenue has reached more than $1bn a year.ZyngaMore than 300 million people like to tend the virtual farms and cities set up by Zynga, a social gaming company. Analysts value it at $5.8bn.
It has been responsible for creating countless rock gods in bedrooms and living rooms around the world, but it has now been announced that the Guitar Hero series of video games is strumming its final power chord.Activision Blizzard Inc, which also produces the successful Call of Duty series, is ending the Guitar Hero franchise after a run of more than five years during which time it became one of the most successful brands in videogaming.The move comes after last year's Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock title performed poorly at retail. The critically acclaimed DJ Hero series has also been cancelled, with Eric Hirshberg, chief executive of Activision Publishing, saying: "We simply cannot make these games profitable based on current market and demands."Game industry analysts have long lamented the weakness in the music genre, citing the inability of game makers to drum up demand for the products after an initial surge in popularity in the mid-2000s.Viacom Inc decided in November to sell Harmonix, the firm behind the Rock Band video games, to an investment firm for an undisclosed sum.Music games are often more expensive than the typical shoot-'em-up game because they require guitars, microphones and other musical equipment. While extra songs can be purchased for download, this has not been enough to keep the games profitable.Shares in Activision, which is based in Santa Monica, California, tumbled after the announcement, but investors appeared more concerned with the company's disappointing revenue forecast than the demise of the rocker game."In retrospect, it was a $3bn (£1.8bn) or more business that everybody needed to buy, so they did, but they only needed to buy it once," said Wedbush Morgan analyst Michael Pachter. "It's much like Wii Fit. Once you have it, you don't need to buy another one."Guitar Hero was iconic and often praised for getting a generation weaned on video games into music. But its end after a mere half a decade is a big contrast to other influential video game franchises, such as the 25-year-old Mario series from Nintendo, and Call of Duty, which was launched in 2003, two years before Guitar Hero.Activision said its restructuring would mean the loss of about 500 jobs in its publishing business, which has about 7,000 employees. But the size of the firm's overall workforce is not going to change much because it is hiring people elsewhere.Activision did better than expected in the fourth quarter, which ended in December, after the November launch of Call of Duty: Black Ops, which is mostly set during the Vietnam war. It made $1bn after just six weeks in the stores. The company's latest World of Warcraft game has also been doing well.Bobby Kotick, Activision's chief executive officer, said the company's big game franchises "have larger audience bases than ever before and we continue to see significantly enhanced user activity and engagement for our expanding online communities".Revenue from digital channels – downloads, subscriptions and extra game content sold online – now accounts for 30% of the company's total revenue.Activision lost $233m in the latest quarter, compared with a loss of $286m in the same period a year earlier. Net revenue fell to $1.43bn from $1.56bn.Its adjusted earnings of 53 cents per share were better than last year's 49 cents and beat analysts' expectations of 51 cents, according to research company FactSet. Revenue adjusted to account for games with online components was $2.55bn, up slightly from $2.50bn a year earlier and above analysts' $2.25bn forecast.For the current quarter, which ends in March, Activision is forecasting adjusted revenue of $640m.Activision Blizzard, which is majority-owned by France's Vivendi SA, also announced that its board has authorised a new $1.5bn stock buyback plan and it declared an annual dividend of 16.5 cents, an increase of 10% on the dividend it issued in February 2010, its first ever.Shares fell 87 cents, or 7.4%, to $10.82 in after-hours trading. The stock had closed the regular session down 19 cents at $11.69.
Turn on the radio, check the papers, listen to the demonstrators: it's clear that the Tory notion of a smaller, more accountable state lacks credibility. The coalition government is trying to fix this with data, but while data is a necessary precondition for change, it is insufficient on its own. If the government wants a "big society" of motivated watchdogs, volunteers, and waste-cutters, it's going to have to convince us that it's responsive as well as transparent.Last week's launch of the England and Wales crime maps websites was attended by two fairly predictable kinds of commentary. On the one hand, there were plaudits for the new transparency (cue the ghost of Lord Kelvin: "If you can't measure it, you can't improve it"). On the other hand, there were the sceptics, epitomised by the recently burgled John Humphrys of Radio 4's Today Programme, who grilled a spokesman for the project, demanding to know the purpose of crime maps. After all, his local cops know his house was burgled,heknows his house was burgled – how does publishing aggregate burglary statistics make anything any better?It's a good question: in fact, it's the question. Simply knowing a problem exists is useless unless you have a reasonable expectation that the state will be responsive to your complaints, suggestions and demands. The demonstrators in Egypt know to a nicety about the corruption, the torture, the arbitrary detention, the censorship and the fixed elections. If the Mubarak regime had published a colourful Google Maps mashup with little pushpins denoting the site of every bribe-taking and torture incident, it would do little to assure Egypt's angry protesters that things were going to improve.On the other hand, this week saw the launch ofanotheronline, location-sensitive data-service that tracks police statistics, and in this case, it was immediately apparentexactlyhow this will improve the lives of the citizens who use it.Sukey is that app. Created by recently politicised university students, Sukey analyses reports from participants in street demonstrations and provides a steady stream of intelligence that will help the protestors avoid being "kettled". Kettling is the police practice of cordoning off an area within a protest and detaining all who are caught without food, shelter, medical care or sanitation.Nearly all the London tuition fees/anti-cuts demonstrations up until last weekend have ended in mass, prolonged kettling. Last weekend's Sukey-enabled demonstrators were not kettled (their peers in Edinburgh and Manchester weren't so lucky), and if the app isn't solely responsible for that bit of luck, it's safe to say that it played some role.When the citizenry need to build apps to protect themselves from unlawful detention by the police, it's not surprising that a new application that allows you to go down to your local police station and ask them to do something about some newly transparent crime statistic is greeted with indifference or jeers. If you can't trust the police not to detain your children on a freezing road for hours, why would you believe that you could have a productive dialogue about how they should be deploying their resources?After all: tuition fee rises are a complete reversal of a critical Lib Dem pledge; mass NHS redundancies for nurses and other frontline workers are a complete reversal of a critical Tory pledge. When you've voted for a party that promises one thing and does the opposite, no amount of data about how rotten things are will inspire you to join a "big society" that works with the state to accomplish its aims.Meanwhile, Sukey's authors cleverly included a facility in their app that allows the police to communicate with demonstrators who are using it – an architecture for dialogue, built right in at the code level. If this was a "big society", then the police would be using that channel to come to some accommodation with protestors that acknowledged the fundamental right to peaceful protest. But the radio silence to date tells us exactly why the crime map will serve no purpose: what good is it to know how your taxes are spent if you don't believe that anyone will listen when you complain?
Get your Dutch tulips out of storage folks. At first glance it looks mighty like a new tech bubble is upon us, as we manically press for Twitter 'n' Facebook updates on our hyper sensitive touch screen devices. Twitter is for sale for a valuation of, oh, $8bn or $10bn on forecast sales of just $110m this year. Now this is at the top end even by Silicon Valley's exalted standards - last seen when YouTube went for a 100 times sales - a similar multiple - when it was bought by Google.You can cast your mind back to YouTube and ask whether that purchase has delivered much for Google, given the immense cost of video hosting. Google doesn't like to talk about YouTube numbers (figures are kept secret to protect the guilty), but there was some hope the video sharing site might make some money in 2010. After losing an nearly $500m during 2009. But let's not worry about that just yet.The first question is that there are two motivated buyers - and they can afford to pay big. This no ordinary auction; it's more Man City versus Chelsea than the rational business of buying companies for between 6 and 12 times last year's earnings. Particularly if they get to use paper. Google is worth $200bn so printing $10bn of new shares is not much more than a rounding error, and with $35bn of cash on the balance sheet it can sweeten the deal with serious money too.Facebook, meanwhile, may well be going public on a preposterous valuation of its own - $50bn market cap on perhaps $2bn of sales. However, Mark Zuckerberg's social network may not have so much cash on hand, but it would have give Twitter shareholders a greater slice of its equity, and hence more influence in the future. Facebook plus Twitter at $60bn is probably not much more excitable than Facebook at $50bn.Bubble economy in full swing
 Photograph: Nick Potts/PASo, yes, there is a bubble valuation for Twitter, but like the £50m valuation for Fernando Torres, it is driven by what others with cash are able to pay. But would a merger be a good deal for either's business? In truth, it is hard to know - and although the synergies are not obvious, you can see Twitter in a portfolio with either. Nevertheless, like YouTube, Twitter is unique. It captures a unique form of short, immediate online activity - one that is so powerful that people have already begun to structure their lives around it.You can argue that YouTube turned out to be a bad deal, but Google's share price is up by a third since the acquisition, so the problems with YouTube have hardly weighed on the Google stock. Inflated acquisitions have long been the Silicon Valley way; some are transformative, but like many speculative moves, most are not. Such risk taking is part of the point.There is a point too about the prospects for the great US technology stocks. A successful internet firm massively overdelivers. Google had revenues of $86m in 2001 - and $29bn in 2010. That's why it has the value it has - and its value will drive that of those around it. Facebook's $2bn could easily turn into something 10 times greater in a decade if it can harness behavioural targeting and master concerns about privacy. And its market value will soar from $50bn to something much larger if investors think it has a chance. That is how the US market values growth.It is the valuations and the prospects of the large players that drive bubble valuations - because the market believes the big guys will buy up the next wave of maturing start-ups.  And while, bubbles tend not to be rational by definition, it is always a mistake not to play along. The skill, instead, is to work out when they are about to end - and to avoid using too much cold hard cash when nicely inflated paper will do just fine. Tulips anyone?
I used to DJ many years ago, but that was with 7-inch vinyl. Now I have been invited to "guest" at my daughter's 21st birthday bash, I fancy going the whole hog and splashing out on a laptop, but which one?I have found some software,Sam Party DJ, so I need a machine to run it!I know I do not want any gaps in the music so obviously will be looking for a high spec machine. Budget is around £500 to £600, depending on brand.Sam CookIt's a very good idea to choose your key bit of software and then choose the best hardware to run it. In this case, however, Sam Party DJ doesn't appear to need anything special. Spacial Audio's wiki has a page aboutSystem Requirements, and the recommended platform (as per 29 January 2008) is for Microsoft Windows XP, a 2GHz processor, 1GB of memory and 50MB of free hard drive space. You might now find it hard to find a mainstream laptop with a lower specification, though most ultraportables trade a slower processor for better battery life.Since I have no experience of this software, I looked in theSpacial Audio forum, and one poster reports that SAM Party DJ4 "runs flawlessly" on anAsus netbookwith 1.6GHz Atom N270 processor, 1GB of memory, 160GB hard drive and Windows XP Home. It's not what I'd recommend, but it does suggest you don't need a particularly high-end laptop.As regular readers may have noticed, I've been impressed by the Intel Core iX range, and even more impressed by the increased video performance of this year's Sandy Bridge versions. However, there has recently been a hiccup, in that Intel picked the wrong type of transistor to use in the Series 6 support chip (not the processor itself). The flaw only affects the 3Gbps eSATA disk ports – the 6Gbps ports are fine – and the chances of failure are relatively low, so it shouldn't be a problem for laptop users. Nonetheless, Intel issued a recall while it prepared a corrected chip-set, and PC manufacturers will probably not get back into full Sandy Bridge production until April.Depending on your budget and the date of your daughter's birthday, you could wait for corrected Sandy Bridge systems, buy something using the version launched last year, or take a flyer on getting a laptop with a flawed chip. Intel reckons the chances of a port failing are 5% over three years of normal use, rising to 15% with heavy use. Given suitable assurances about a replacement – which I have yet to see any PC manufacturers offer – this sounds like a reasonable risk. If a laptop uses the two 6Gbps SATA ports for the hard disk and the DVD or Blu-ray drive, maybe the flaw in the 3Gbps ports doesn't actually matter.The most likely drawback, from your point of view, is that the price of laptops using the earlier Core chips will not fall by much, and might even increase.Given that most current PCs will meet SAM Party DJ4's requirements, you will need to be more specific in other areas to reduce your choices to manageable levels. Obviously you will have vastly more options if you go for an Intel Core 2 Duo than if you decide on a Core i3 or i5. You can also choose a screen size from 13.3 inches to 17 inches. However, if you want to splash out, then picking a laptop with a Core iX chip and dedicated graphics processor will max out your budget at around £600.Just to put a couple of markers in the sand for comparison purposes, have a look at theAsus K52JC-EX352V(a shop, not run by Asus),Samsung R580, andHP Pavilion dv6-3118sa Entertainment Laptop PC. All three machines have 15.6 inch screens, 4GB of memory, 500GB hard drives and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium.The Samsung R580 has a 2.4GHz Core i3-370M processor plus an Nvidia GeForce 310M with 512MB of graphics memory. The Asus K52JC has a 2.53GHzCore i5-460M processor and an Nvidia GeForce 310M with 1GB of graphics memory. The HP Pavilion dv6-3118sa has a Core i5-460M processor and an ATI Mobility Radeon 5470 graphics with 512MB of memory. (The Mobility Radeon 5470 is a better class of GPU than the GeForce 310M, delivering roughly the same performance as a GeForce 330M.)If you want to save money, you could downgrade slightly to versions of the same laptops that don't have a dedicated graphics chip. (It shouldn't make any difference to the sound.) To save even more money, switch from a Core iX to an Intel Core 2 Duo processor.However, if you happen to find an extra £1,084 to add to your £600, you could really splash out and get a 15-inchMacBook Prowith a 2.53GHz Intel Core i5-520M processor, 4GB of memory, Nvidia GeForce GT 330M with 256MB of graphics memory, and a 500GB hard drive.Although I don't do this kind of thing myself, I notice that the people who do it seriously use plug-in DJ controllers, and these often have built-in sound cards. There seems to be a wide selection available, as illustrated by theHardwarepage on the Virtual DJ site. (Many controllers are bundled with Virtual DJ software.) You might consider spending less money on the laptop and buying a DJ controller or console instead. They look like fun.Finally, please make sure you get set up in time to do at least one "dry run" before the party. You're bound to make mistakes while you're learning the system, and it's better to make them in private.
Companies that let staff use iPhones and iPads for business, including the London-based bank Standard Chartered, have been warned that staff should be on "red alert" for an attack that can steal passwords from a device in just six minutes, even if its lock is enabled.The hack, which could seriously compromise a corporation's critical infrastructure, wasuncovered by experts in Germanyand allows attackers to break into a lost or stolen phone simply by removing its SIM card and following a brief procedure.Experts at Germany's state-sponsored research institute Fraunhofer SIT said in a statement: "Within six minutes the institute's staff were able to render void the iPhone's encryption and decipher the passwords stored on it. If the iPhone is used for business purposes then the company's network security may be at risk as well. Only companies prepared for such an attack will be able to reduce their risk."The attack targets Apple's password management system, known as a "keychain", which scrambles all passwords and login information on the iPhone. It can compromise iPhones and iPads with the latest software version installed even if they have the software "screen lock" turned on.Once an attacker has access to the phone, the first step is to install "jailbreaking" software, which a small number of iPhone owners do voluntarily so they can download apps unauthorised by Apple. From here, the attacker downloads a program onto the phone that is able to decrypt passwords held on it, most notably for Google Mail accounts and for private company networks."As soon as attackers are in the possession of an iPhone or iPad and have removed the device's SIM card, they can get hold of email passwords and access codes to corporate VPNs [virtual private networks] and WLANs [wireless local area networks] as well," the researchers said ina statement. "Control of an email account allows the attacker to acquire even more additional passwords: for many web services, such as social networks, the attacker only has to request a password reset."Jens Heider, the technical manager of the Fraunhofer SIT security test lab, said many companies have a false belief that the high-security phones lent to employees are impenetrable to such attacks. "This opinion we encountered even in companies' security departments," Heider said. "Our demonstration proves that this is a false assumption. We were able to crack devices with high-security settings within a very short time."Graham Cluley, a security expert at Sophos, said the vulnerability could turn serious if hackers choose to put the attack method in the public domain. "Others may well try to do this and publish the tools to do it, so it is quite serious," he said."The real worry is that this isn't something that takes three weeks – it takes six minutes. People may not even realise their phone was temporarily in the hands of someone else."Apple had not returned a call asking for comment as this story was being published.In its latest earnings call last month, Apple said that a large number of Fortune 500 and FTSE 100 companies were "testing or deploying" the iPhone and iPad.Cluley said companies using Apple's popular smartphone need to put pressure on the technology firm to fix the issue as soon as possible. "This is embarrassing for Apple, because they want people to believe they have a trusted enterprise device. What's important is how quickly they can patch this."Many companies have security policies whereby lost or stolen phones can be remotely disabled and reset to "factory settings" within minutes. This would wipe the SIM card of information including the contacts book and photos, but an attack on the phone's keychain settings could expose passwords before the phone is discovered as lost.A spokesman for Standard Chartered said: "Security of our technology is of paramount importance to us and we regularly review relevant market information and independent research that will assist in maintaining our high standards. We have robust procedures in place to protect our systems should an iPhone be lost or stolen".
Harry Potter, Indy, Batman – all fun enough, but when it comes to Lego games Star Wars is king. The characters, the music, the memories.OK, the memories of the original trilogy rather than Phantom Menace of course. But even the Lego game based on the newer Star Wars films was decent. So I've got high hopes for Lego Star Wars III.Released on 25 March for all formats, including the 3DS, the game is based on the (and ever improving) animated series. The latest trailer is just out and has a suitably grand Star Wars feel, with space battles and some impressively detailed land battles being the highlights.The Clone Wars setting may put off older gamers, but after the disappointing Force Unleashed 2 this could be the game to restore faith in the Star Wars franchise. Alternatively, it will just be a souped-up version of Lego Star Wars II. Either way, I'm looking forward to it. Are you?
Two years ago, music gaming was a seemingly unstoppable phenomenon. Guitar Hero 2 shifted more than 5m copies, earning around $200m. The Rock Band series reached 10m sales in its first two years. Alex Rigopulos and Eran Egozy, the founders of Harmonix, the creator of both Guitar Hero and Rock Band, featured in Time magazine's list of the 100 most influential people of 2008.Meanwhile, the music industry couldn't believe its luck: suddenly millions of dedicated gamers were buying old songs they'd only heard of through the games – plus, they were forking out for downloadable song packs, with labels getting a direct slice of the profits. Beleagured music giants suddenly found themselves with a juicy new revenue stream, and rock gods like Aerosmith found they were making more money from releasing their tracks into music games than they were from launching albums. When the New York Times website ran a blog post titled"Can Guitar Hero help save the music industry"the general consensus was, well, yeah.But now Guitar Hero and dance music-based spin-off DJ Hero have been canned and despite good reviews, Rock Band 3 faired disappointingly at retail. Harmonix, which recently developed Dance Central for the Microsoft Kinect, has been offloaded by Viacom and has had to re-establish itself as an independent developer, losing 12% of its staff in the process.So what went wrong? Here are the five key reasons for the collapse of music gaming.1. The stage is too crowdedSince the launch of the original Guitar Hero in 2005, the market has been subjected to a ceaseless barrage of sequels, add-on packs and artist-specific spin-offs. Not only have we seen three titles in the main Rock Band series and six in Guitar Hero, we've had Guitar Hero versions centring on Metallica, Van Halen and Aerosmith, while Rock Band has offered Beatles and Green Day instalments. At one point in 2009, Guitar Hero developer Neversoft was working on three separate Guitar Hero titles in the series, prompting the studio's project director Brian Bright totell Develop, "We lost that spark by trying to cater to everyone. We were in this arms race with our competitor [Rock Band 2], and in the end I felt like we sold a bit of our souls." Many gamers just grew tired of being inundated with titles that offered fundamentally similar experiences, just attached to new music and content licensing deals.2. The Lack of 'game-changing' innovationIronically, the fundamental problem with the rock music genre is one of its key selling points: the perfection of the input experience. In Both Rock Band and Guitar Hero the interface is based around watching coloured tabs descending down a fretboard and hitting the required buttons on the controller in time with the audio. It's simple to learn, but also scalable, and becoming proficient means mastering these core skills rather than endlessly learning new ones. But where do you go with that as a developer? Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock attempted to provide a narrative context, while Rock Band 3 sought to widen the musical experience by adding a keyboard and offering players the chance to use a real guitar with the game. But these innovations weren't enough to bring in new consumers, and with huge numbers of established fans happy to stick with earlier iterations of the games, the market couldn't grow.3. The cost of it allAfter 2007's credit crunch and the resulting global economic recession, suddenly gamers found they they didn't have upwards of £130 to spend on Guitar Hero or Rock Band bundle packs to get hold of the game plus all the necessary instruments. In the early days, interoperability of controllers was unclear, so purchasers weren't sure which of their guitars or drums would work with other titles. And on top of this, there were complaints over the build quality of some items, with the Rock Band drum pedal initially prone to snapping. Later, the arrival of the PlayStation Move and Microsoft Kinect strained the peripherals market even further, requiring cash-strapped consumers to choose between peripheral-based titles and a new set of expensive controllers that would work with a broad range of games. They chose the latter.4. The rise of popThis is the Glee generation; guitar music isn't as popular as it was in the mid-2000s. Amidst the ongoing recession, the kids have turned to glamorous escapist pop via megastars such as Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber, Katy Perry and the Black Eyed Peas. Suddenly, as unbelievable as this may seem, people aren't as interested in the Killers, Kings of Leon or the UK's landfill indie scene. And although underground electronica is strong, that was never going to translate into mass mainstream sales for DJ Hero.5. It's all about dancing and singing nowRight now, the video game industry is capitalising on the desire for escapism and inclusive entertainment with a new era of dancing and karaoke games. Harmonix has got in on the act with Dance Central for Kinect and there's also the massively successful Just Dance on Wii. Ubisoft is also lining up its Michael Jackson game, filled with memorable routines from throughout the artist's career. The key element here is that the dancing genre has been able to evolve, moving on from the plastic dance mats of the Dance Dance Revolution era and embracing motion controls and cameras. Guitar games will need to make a similarly seismic shift to compete again, and that might not happen for several years.
What happens when you put games developers, web designers, open data geeks, music obsessives, journalists, digital storytellers and hacking wizards in a room together for a weekend? We're about to find out.We've got more than 120 of all of the above turning up at the Guardian this weekend&nbsp; forGuardian Hacks SXSW, two days of collaboration, invention and mischief as we work together to devise cool tools to be played with at SXSW.Photo byCalsidyroseon Flickr.Some rights reservedRosie SwashandPaul MacInnesand me will be working with three Guardian developersLisa van Gelder,Matt AndrewsandRobbie Cluttonto deploy some of these hacks at the festival next month, but the big idea here is that anyone can use these tools. Development teams - includingLe Monde,La Repubblica,Edda Media,SpotifyandMedia Moleculeamong many others - can build hacks anywhere and for anyone to use. Think of it as a practicalhacks and hackerssession. Interesting input, interesting output.SXSW is our focus because it has a perfect audience and a great mix of music, film and tech to cover. But the toolbox we create should also be used to to inform coverage for other events - Glastonbury, maybe, or the Olympics next year.We'll kick off at 10am at the Guardian (tickets all gone now folks, sorry) with a few introductions, and chances for developers to share ideas and work out their teams. Spotify andNewspaper Clubwill be talking later that day, and the whole weekend is being run with typical cake-fueled irreverent efficiency by the team atRewired State- which is why there's a 'hack your own lunch' on Saturday. The whole project is sponsored by Google.Judges will pick out the winners during the show and tell from 3pm on Sunday, and the whole weekend will be covered on PDA and in the Guardian Tech Weekly podcast. We'll detail every hack from weird and wonderful ways to discover the best bandswithouthaving to actually travel to Texas, to ingenious attempts to create Wordle for video. Maybe.
Having only just got our breath back from AOL's $315m buyout of the Huffington Post, the Wall Street Journal reported this morning thatTwitter is in talks with potential suitors, including Facebook and Google, about a multibillion-dollar sell-up. Such a deal could value the micro-blogging site at $10bn (£6.2bn). Yes, $10bn.But what do analysts make of it all?Marshall Kirkpatrick, the esteemed social networking watcher, says Twitter being bought out by either Google or Facebook would be"terrible" for all involved, in large part due to a difference in culture at the high-valued internet firms:"More interesting to me is the thought of one of these companies owning Twitter. That sounds terrible to me and to almost everyone who responded to an inquiry about it on Twitter. Why? Because the cultures of the two services are remarkably different."None of this is very likely to happen. There's little reason to believe that Twitter would sell to anyone, other than out of pressure from its growing roster of powerful investors. I find the whole conversation most useful as an opportunity to think about and better understand the difference between the services."Henry Blodget at BusinessInsider thinks that thethreat of possible anti-trust probesshould be enough to bring crippling shades of caution to any merger:"If Twitter would actually sell for $10bn, Google should just step up and buy it (see the reasons here). The company would barely miss the cash, and Twitter would actually put it on the map in social media."We actually don't think a Twitter-Facebook deal is even plausible at this point. We think there would be a protracted anti-trust investigation prodded along by Microsoft and Google, and we don't think Facebook could come up with enough cash to make the deal work. We also think that, if Facebook were to get close to buying Twitter, Google would pay whatever it took to steal Twitter away."Richard Holway, a technology analyst at TechMarket View, thinks Twitter's rumoured valuation is "absolutely unbeleivable" for a social network with apparently fewer income streams than Facebook. He said:"Everybody is talking to everyone else at some point in time, so you do have to ask how serious these things are. But the whole way in which people make money online is changing. It's gone from the old Google models of search-based advertising to people doing it on social networking of one way or another – that could be closed gardens of Facebook, Apple or whatever."There's little doubt that Facebook has the greatest ability to change its closed garded into a fabulous profit earner, and I can understand why LinkedIn has a value too. With Twitter it's much more difficult to understand how it's going to gain revenue from their model. But that valuation is absolutely unbelieveable. I find myself gasping at somebody who could expect to get that for a company with a turnover of almost nothing."Alexia Tsotsis, writing at TechCrunch, says enveloping the 140-character social network would makemuch more sense for Google than Facebook:"Acquiring Twitter would not fit at all with Facebook's acquisition strategy, which has up until now mostly focused on talent collection versus product, and is geared toward mobile and location. Twitter has 350 employees which is about 35 times larger than your average Facebook acqui-hire. Not to mention that at the $10bn valuation Facebook would be putting up 20% of the value of its own company."Google on the other hand has $35bn to spend and is rumored to be bulking up its social layer full force. Twitter would be a smart buy on multiple levels (but especially consumer perception) as it gears up to compete with Facebook. In fact many Twitter employees have already worked at Google including CEO Dick Costolo and co-founder Evan Williams."Richard Chirgwin, at The Register, says the "assimilation into the Chocolate Factory" (whatever that is) would begood news for Twitter:"Assimilation into the Chocolate Factory would turbo-charge Twitter's currently nascent plans to turn a quid from advertising. While its 200 million claimed user base surely must include its fair share of TV-shoppers, coupon grabbers and all-round suckers, Twitter users have to date seemed resilient against the barrage of marketing and spam robots that already infests the service."Such a takeover would also ease the burden of data centre services on Twitter's cost base, with the Googleplex surely bigger than the 'fail whale'."
Activision has ruthlessly culled its music game portfolio and cancelled Guitar Hero, DJ Hero and True Crime. The Guitar Hero series, once one of the most successful brands in video gaming, has been axed after last year's Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock title performed poorly at retail. The critically acclaimed DJ Hero series has also now been canned, with Eric Hirshberg, chief executive of Activision Publishingquoted:"We simply cannot make these games profitable based on current market and demands."True Crime: Hong Kong was to be the third title in the series of underworld shooters, and the game was shown off at E3 2010, as well as Activision's own showcase events. "To be blunt it just wasn't going to be good enough," added Hirshberg.According to industry news source MCV, Activision has confirmed that 500 jobs will be lost as a result of cuts across the organisation. The 100-strong UK studioFreestyle Games, developer of DJ Hero, and the Canadian studioUnited Front, responsible for True Crime, are likely to be severely hit. A message on the latter's website reads:"We are sorry we did not get a chance to complete this project with Activision, but we understand why. We are both committed to doing quality games and nothing less. Maybe we will have a chance to work together in the future, but in the meantime we are setting our creative sights on a different horizon."Meanwhile, in Activision'searnings call, Bobby Kotick referred to, "better-than-expected financial results" for the year 2010. Net revenues grew to $4.4bn, up on $4.38bn from 2009; there was a particularly strong performance from digital channels, with revenues in this area growing 20% to nearly $1.5bn last year, with World of Warcraft and Call of Duty continuing to contribute enormously."Today, we operate and support two of the largest online communities in consumer entertainment, collectively serving over an estimated 30 million people," said Kotick. "The scope and engagement of the World of Warcraft and Call of Duty communities is not only massive in relation to other video games, but even compared to all entertainment communities. Since our merger was announced, Blizzard has seen a 25% growth in subscriber shift on just World of Warcraft alone."As for Call of Duty, our incredible team at Treyarch managed an amazing feat this year with Black Ops, developing a game that supports an even larger community than its record-setting predecessor Modern Warfare 2."Since November, about as many people have played Black Ops, as there are subscribers in Netflix. And record numbers have extended their experience far beyond the packaged software game and into the various online services that we provide."The key message of the call, then, was that Activision is scaling back on development, shedding legacy brands that are underperforming and concentrating on its areas of strength – ie Call of Duty, which is set to see multiple new titles over the next two years, and Blizzard's Warcraft and Starcraft series'. The company also revealed some of its 2011 plans, which we'll look at in a later post."We enter 2011 a leaner, more focused organisation," said Hirshberg. "We intend to devote our time and resource to the areas, where we have true competitive advantages and the potential to make gaming experiences that are best in class."This will, of course, come as scant comfort to Liverpool-based studio Bizarre Creations, already jettisoned by the publisher due to poor sales of its racer Blur, or to FreeStyleGames and United Front, which surely face uncertain futures.
Twitter has been holding talks with potential suitors, including Facebook and Google, which could value the micro-blogging site at $10bn (£6.2bn), reports suggest.The early talks are not believed to have progressed far but, according to the Wall Street Journal, one thing has been agreed: the loss-making firm is worth somewhere between $8-10bn.Twitter is a private company and does not disclose its revenues. Last year it is estimated to have had revenues of $45m but ended the year making a loss as the firm spent money on hiring staff and new data centres. This year Twitter's revenues are expected to more than double to between $100-110m.The new valuation would be a significant leap for Twitter. Last December it raised $200m in funds from Silicon Valley venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers and existing Twitter investors. The deal valued the firm at $3.7bn. But since then investors have shown a fierce appetite for the new wave of internet companies and the valuations of its peers have soared.Facebook recently raised $1.5bn of financing in a deal that valued the social network at $50bn, up from $10bn in mid-2009. Goldman Sachs briefly offered its top-tier customers the opportunity to invest in Facebook, but the bank was so overwhelmed by requests and publicity that it had to withdraw the offer for fear of breaching financial regulations on private placements.Groupon, the online discount company, is also planning an initial public offering. The Chicago-based website has rejected a $6bn takeover offer from Google. And LinkedIn, the business-oriented social network, is planning an IPO that could value the company at over $2bn. Zygna, maker of the phenomenally popular Farmville online game, also aims to issue shares.There have also been a number of new media buyouts. The most prominent came earlier this week when AOL paid $315m – $300m of it in cash – for the Huffington Post, about 10 times the media company's 2010 revenues.Both Google and Facebook are believed to have discussed a bid for Twitter in the past. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg is believed to have offered Twitter's founders $500m in Facebook stock for the company in 2008. The deal collapsed.Twitter now has around 175m registered users worldwide, who send 95m tweets a day.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTime to do something about ATMs &gt;&gt; Digital MoneyDave Birch of Consult Hyperion points out that ATMs are an old technology which is getting no more secure as time goes by.Dell Adamo, spunky MacBook Air rival, is no more &gt;&gt; CNET News"After a few last gasps at deep discounts, the Dell Adamo line and brand name will be discontinued, CNET has learned. "First revealed--with much fanfare--at CES in 2009, the Adamo was a worthy competitor to Apple's groundbreaking laptop. Like the Air, it had an aluminum casing, was eye-catchingly thin (at 0.65 inches), used solid-state drives long before they came into wider use, and packed ultra-power-efficient Intel Core 2 Duo processors." Apparently a new design will follow in six months. Meanwhile, the redesigned MacBook Air was one of Apple's best sellers in the last quarter.How one small design change can kill your conversion rate &gt;&gt; PC Pro blogInteresting real-world empirical evidence of whether people would prefer a long menu list in a left hand column or a "fly-out" menu. See if you can work out which is better for selling things before you click through.German firms fear China technology theft &gt;&gt; BBC NewsIt's not only German companies, of course. If it can be mass-produced, it can be copied. Which poses a problem for companies that want to get their mass production done in China.Bad news for the music business is bad news for everyone &gt;&gt; Virtual Economics"As Fred Wilson recently revealed, so wildly inefficient are the distribution models for music, TV etc compared to BitTorrent we've all downloaded music "illegally" (indeed, the original Napster remains, more than ten years on, the best music distribution system I have ever used). As the music companies die and fall into the hands of their bankers - as has already happened to EMI - the danger for us is that their only substantial asset becomes their IP, and the right to sue people for allegedly breaching it." Now that's a scary thought.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
INQ Cloud Touch, the London-based firm's first Android phone, is billed as the true 'Facebook phone'Almost two years since INQwon the coveted GSMA awardfor its Social Mobile, the London-based mobile manufacturer will next week unveil its latest smartphone range – and confirm many of therumours about a so-called 'Facebook phone'.The INQ Cloud Touch and INQ Cloud Q are the manufacturer's first Android-based phones, "ruthlessly focussed" on 18-28 year old Facebook users."Writing on a [Facebook] wall is as easy as sending text messages," says Ken Johnstone, INQ's co-founder.If any firm was to build a 'Facebook phone', it would be INQ – the three-year-old company which made its name through integration with social platforms including Windows Live Messenger and Skype.TechCrunch kickstarted five months of fevered speculation last September when it reported that Facebook was building software for a Facebook-branded mobile phone. Mark Zuckerberg's sprawling social network hasconsistently knocked down that charge, saying that it works with lots of partners and that its API is open to anyone. Dan Rose, Facebook's vice president of partnerships and platform marketing at Facebook, said just this week:"The rumours about an HTC phone show just one example of the use of the Facebook platform where manufacturers have taken the API and used it in that way. It's very important for us to have a horizontal platform that is as widely available as possible."Speaking to the Guardian on Wednesday, Johnstone said: "It was never intended to be a Facebook phone. But Facebook has been very heavily involved with it and it's been a collaborative process."The 600 million-strong social network is "everywhere" on INQ's new range, Johnstone says – and he's not wrong. Booting up the phone for the first time, you're invited to log in to a Wi-Fi connection – "this phone is for people who may not be on high-end data tariffs" – and then invited to log in to Facebook.There's no stand-alone Facebook app; it's your homepage. Status updates, wall posts, Places check-ins – all appear on the page traditionally populated by space or apps. Phone calls can also be made via Facebook and its API, to friends whose numbers are stored in your phone. Even the music streaming service Spotify gets its own launch button.If Facebook isn't for you, INQ's new range isn't for you. That particular refrain may well have grown tiresome by this time next week, as manufacturer after manufacturer doles out deeper integrations with the world's most popular social network.For INQ, it took "five minutes of heated debate" around 18 months ago over whether to build uponGoogle's burgeoning Android platform.The company's sit-back-and-see approach to adding to Google's range should pay dividends, Johnstone says: "We think this is the opposite to what everyone else is doing. A lot of Android phones I love but they're all quite complicated, all noise, and very much alike. We wanted to deliver the authentic Facebook experience."The Cloud Touch, which has a 5MP camera on board, will be sold through the Carphone Warehouse and Best Buy in April on all major networks. The handset will be free on £20 a month contracts. The Cloud Q – essentially the Cloud Touch but with a QWERTY keyboard and a 3MP camera – will be available through the same outlets with the pricing still to be decided.
HP has unveiled three new devices based on WebOS, the mobile operating system it acquired in its $1bn purchase of Palm last year: a 9.7-inch tablet called the TouchPad, a 3.6-inch touchscreen smartphone called the Pre3, and a smartphone called the Veer.In another significant move, HP announced that webOS will be coming to "other connected devices" including printers and possibly PCs later this year.Jon Rubinstein, the former Apple executive who helped create the iPod and is now senior vice-president and general manager at HP, unveiled the three devices on stage, demonstrating that they connect with HP's Synergy product - which merges data from the cloud.In the past, WebOS was highly praised as a smartphone OS but Palm didn't succeed in making an impression on the smartphone market in the US or Europe. HP however has substantially more marketing muscle. Now the Palm name appears to be dead: it didn't feature in the presentation.HP calls the TouchPad "the breakthrough webOS user interface fully realised in the tablet experience": it has a capacitive multi-touch display, virtual keyboard, instant-on, browser support for Flash Player 10.1 beta and "access to thousands of webOS applications." TouchPad, it says, "is designed not just for fun but for mobile productivity".Specs: webOS 3.0, "true multitasking," touch-to-share, instant-on productivity, a 9.7-inch display (1024 x 768 screen resolution), a dual-core 1.2GHz Snapdragon CPU, gyroscope, accelerometer, compass, 16GB/32GB of internal storage, 1.3MP front-facing webcam, support for video calling, 802.11b/g/n WiFi, Bluetooth 2.1+EDR, A-GPS (3G model only), "twice the memory of a Pre 2" and a set of stereo speakers. It weights 1.6 pounds and is 13.7mm thick.The Pre3 has a 3.6-inch touch screen, 1.4-GHz processor and a full slide-out keyboard, and is, HP says, "a multitasking professional workhorse that's perfectly balanced for speed and serious fun". It offers "business-class email" (no idea what separates business-class from everyone else class) and "encrypted data storage to protect critical information and supports industry-standard VPN to connect to corporate networks".The HP Veer is a smartphone in a "powerfully small package", "the size of a credit card". HP says it offers "the higher-end features of a smartphone, such as easy messaging and access to apps, social networks and the web, including support for Flash Player 10.1 beta in the browser for access to rich, Flash-based web content."All of which is great and lovely. So what are the prices? What's the delivery date? What's the battery life?And just to add something extra to the mix: the Wall Street Journal reported earlier on Wednesday, according to "people familiar with the matter", thatthe iPad 2 has begun production. And as I wastelling you last week, it has a faster processor, a front camera, more memory but the same resolution as the existing one.For delivery when? Expect the iPad 2 to ship some time in the next couple of months.So now you have the TouchPad. Price? Er, unannounced. Delivery? "Late summer." Battery life? "Eight hours." (Recall that Apple claims ten hours for the original iPad, and many people seem to have managed something close to that in real life use). Well, two out of three ain't bad, though it really isn't satisfactory. Price was one of the things that sank the Palm Pre (that and the insufficient number of apps, but it was a very nice mobile device: its multitasking was very nifty well before the iPhone offered it).ButJohn Gruber points out,"Summer feels like a long time away. If my theory is right, they're not only going to be months behind the iPad 2, but if they slip until late summer, they might bump up against the release of the iPad 3. And not only did they announce this with a distant ship date, they did it with no word on pricing."(This is the first mention I've seen anywhere of an iPad 3, by the way.)There's no doubt that WebOS is a really good operating system for mobile devices - it's fast and it's smooth.Here'sEngadget's video:From here, it looks rather like Honeycomb or the iPad; big friendly keyboard. (But jeepers, Engadget, would it be possible to spend the time looking at more than just the email program? Trying out the browser? A Twitter app? Any other app, since there must be some for WebOS?)It's not clear either quite what bringing WebOS to PCs means in practice: in parallel with Windows? Instead of Windows? For the biggest PC maker to suggest it might move away from Windows is a tectonic shift if it is going to be implemented.So, will you be waiting for the TouchPad? Does it have what you want?Corrected spelling of Rubinstein's name.
Ken Olsen, who has died aged 84, drove the second great wave of computing, taking the industry from large mainframes to networks of smaller, cheaper minicomputers that could be used by small companies or scientists and engineers. Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), which he co-founded in 1957, grew into the world's second-largest computer company, with more than 100,000 employees and a peak turnover of&nbsp;$14bn. In 1986 a Fortune magazine cover story called Olsen "arguably the most successful entrepreneur in the history of American business".Just six years later, however, he was forced out of the company. The market had moved on to microcomputers such as the IBM PC, launched in 1981, and DEC was rapidly being left behind.Olsen, who had been the hero of&nbsp;a&nbsp;generation of computer engineers, became better known for his gaffes. These included saying that "the personal computer will fall flat on its face in business", and in 1977, somewhat out of context: "There is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his home."In 1998 Olsen suffered the ignominy of seeing his beloved company taken over by Compaq, one of the upstart PC manufacturers, for $9.6bn, then absorbed into a former rival, Hewlett-Packard. Although he had severed relations with DEC in 1992, its downfall was painful for him.DEC had developed its own PC, the Rainbow, but it did not follow IBM's standards and sold badly. DEC was positioned to do well out of the growing importance of communications, and its computers were used to run much of&nbsp;the early internet, but it often lost out to Sun Microsystems. Bill Gates wrote his version of Basic – used to found Microsoft – on a DEC computer, and later Dave Cutler, DEC's star programmer, took his team to Microsoft to write Windows NT, the&nbsp;basis for XP. DEC even created Alta Vista, the web's leading search engine until Google arrived. There were other missed opportunities. DEC had the talent but, outside minicomputing, was never able to convert its innovations into substantial businesses.Olsen was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut, to parents of Norwegian and Swedish descent, and developed a schoolboy interest in electronics, particularly radio. His father was a&nbsp;mechanical inventor with a workshop in the basement, where Ken and his younger brother, Stan, built crystal sets and a one-valve radio.When he graduated from high school in 1944, he was drafted into the US navy and spent his first 11 months being given what he described as "an&nbsp;excellent education in electronics". The fighting ended before he completed his training, but he served on a cruiser and visited Korea and China.The GI Bill enabled him to study electronics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and after graduation he became a research assistant in the university's computer lab. There he worked under Jay Forrester on the valve-based Whirlwind computer – the first to show real-time data on a display – and America's Sage air defence system. He also led the development of computers based on transistors. Having learned how to build systems at MIT, Olsen decided to go into business.In 1957 he and his colleague Harlan Anderson founded DEC in a disused woollen mill at Maynard, just outside Boston, and their first recruit was brother Stan. At the time, the data-processing industry was dominated by&nbsp;IBM, which installed and maintained room-filling million-dollar mainframes. DEC sold small, fast modules that smaller organisations, universities and even individuals could use, if&nbsp;they&nbsp;could write their own software. The modules led to the creation of the first stand-alone minicomputer, the PDP-1 (Programmed Data Processor-1), launched in 1960 for only $110,000. This&nbsp;was also the hardware on which the world's first video game, Spacewar!, was&nbsp;created – by&nbsp;Steve Russell at MIT.The PDP range achieved worldwide success, particularly the PDP-8 – the bestselling computer of its day – and the PDP-11, for which the C&nbsp;programming language was written. In 1977 DEC went from 16-bit minis to 32-bit super-minis with the even more successful VAX range, investing $1bn to fight toe-to-toe against IBM. But by then, the minicomputer age was approaching its end and the microprocessor, or&nbsp;"computer on a chip", was starting to take over with the aim of making powerful computers by bundling cheap microprocessors together.Other minicomputer companies such as Data General, Prime and Wang were also devastated. These four had been mainly responsible for creating the "Massachusetts Miracle" – a cluster of&nbsp;hi-tech companies around the Route 128 technology corridor near Boston. Only Hewlett-Packard went on to greater things, possibly because it was the founding company in Silicon Valley, California.Olsen's engineering-based approach showed in his systematic notes of what he hoped for in a wife. When he was an undergraduate, a young Finnish woman, Eeva-Liisa Aulikki, came to&nbsp;stay with his next-door neighbour. They did not get on well, but in a summer break from MIT, Olsen got a job in a ball-bearing factory in Sweden, then set off for Finland to woo her. They were together for 59 years.In 2003 the couple made a donation to establish the Ken Olsen Science Center at Gordon College in Massachusetts. Olsen was a long-term supporter of this Christian college, and had joined the evangelist Billy Graham on the board of&nbsp;trustees in 1961. Eeva-Liisa died in 2009. Their son Glenn also predeceased Olsen. He is survived by his daughter, Ava, his son, James, Stan and&nbsp;five grandchildren.• Kenneth Harry Olsen, computer engineer and entrepreneur, born 20 February 1926; died 6 February 2011
On this week's podcast,Aleks Krotoski,Jemima KissandCharles Arthurlook at the recent spate of hack attacks that have taken down everyone from security firms, law firms, nuclear power plants and the Foreign Office. What effect will the successes of mercenary hactivists like Anonymous – which has claimed responsibility for several high-profile cases including Sunday's Twitter hijack of the CEO of US security firm HBGary – have on the future of protest? And how realistic is William Hague's recent call for an international code of conduct for government and public web users?Charles offers a sneak preview of next week's Mobile World Congress, and dissects the anticipated shakeup of one of the big companies, Nokia, and a future relationship with Microsoft.Jemima asks whether we need Wi-Fi everywhere, with the news that in-flight web provider Gogo has recently won another $30m in investment, and home provider Sky have bought The Cloud. Mobile provider O2 has also announced the launch of its own public Wi-Fi network. But shouldn't we all be taking a digital detox?Finally, the team are joined byFeona Attwoodof Sheffield Hallam University, the editor of the book Porn.com, to talk about how the web has transformed our attitudes to sex. Charles wonders if teledildonics – sex toys that are networked via the internet – are for people with intimacy issues, whileKyle Machulisof slashdong.org explains who uses them, and how.You can read more about the effects of online sex in Sunday's Untangling the Web column in the Observer New Review, and can hear all of the conversation with Kyle atguardian.co.uk/uttw.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Amemospeech, subsequently posted on Nokia's internal blog, from Nokia's new chief executive Stephen Elop warning the staff that it is "standing on a burning platform" has leaked from the company and indicates that the former Microsoft executive is planning radical action to revive the company's fortunes.(Following further information after the original publication of this post, it now transpires that the contents were given as a speech which was then reprinted on the Nokia internal blog.)He is expected on Friday to announce sweeping changes, probably including an alliance with another smartphone platform to give the company new strengths in the field it once dominated.Reprinted by Engadgetand reproduced in full below, thememopost likens the company's situation to that of a man standing on an oil platform in the North Sea and facing a raging fire on multiple fronts – who has no choice but to jump into freezing water to survive.Thememo'scontents match those alluded to previously byThe RegisterandTechCrunch Europe. It has been circulated within Nokia.Elop is expected to make a significant announcement this Friday about what Nokia will do to stem the loss of market share, notably in the smartphone market, where despite being the biggest player it has been unable to compete with incomers, notably Google's Android and Apple's iOS.Many observers expect him to announce an alliance - probably with Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 in North America, where Nokia is weakest - as well as a shakeup of the company's executive and middle management.Thegraph above, from the consultancy Asymco, shows the entire market and indicates how Android has grown rapidly to take a significant share of it.Elop points to a number of problems for the company:• its stock is moving onto "negative credit watch" with rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's, following Moody's last week, indicating that it might downgrade its creditworthiness because they are concerned about its competitiveness• the "battle of devices has become a war of ecosystems" (such as Apple's App Store and Google's Marketplace) and "ur competitors aren't taking our market share with devices; they are taking our market share with an entire ecosystem. This means we're going to have to decide how we either build, catalyse or join an ecosystem"• "Google has become a gravitational force, drawing much of the industry's innovation to its core."• "we have multiple points of scorching heat that are fuelling a blazing fire around us" - from Apple, Android, and from Chinese competitors that can produce a device "much faster than, as one Nokia employee said only partially in jest, 'the time that it takes us to polish a PowerPoint presentation.' They are fast, they are cheap, and they are challenging us."• "we're not fighting with the right weapons. We are still too often trying to approach each price range on a device-to-device basis."Nokia has seenfalling profits for the past three quarters, and warned in January that profits for this quarter will be lower than analysts expected. It was alsopassed for worldwide share by Androidin the fourth quarter, according to analysts.Elop'smemospeech/blogpost follows.Hello there,There is a pertinent story about a man who was working on an oil platform in the North Sea. He woke up one night from a loud explosion, which suddenly set his entire oil platform on fire. In mere moments, he was surrounded by flames. Through the smoke and heat, he barely made his way out of the chaos to the platform's edge. When he looked down over the edge, all he could see were the dark, cold, foreboding Atlantic waters.As the fire approached him, the man had mere seconds to react. He could stand on the platform, and inevitably be consumed by the burning flames. Or, he could plunge 30 meters in to the freezing waters. The man was standing upon a "burning platform," and he needed to make a choice.He decided to jump. It was unexpected. In ordinary circumstances, the man would never consider plunging into icy waters. But these were not ordinary times - his platform was on fire. The man survived the fall and the waters. After he was rescued, he noted that a "burning platform" caused a radical change in his behaviour.We too, are standing on a "burning platform," and we must decide how we are going to change our behaviour.Over the past few months, I've shared with you what I've heard from our shareholders, operators, developers, suppliers and from you. Today, I'm going to share what I've learned and what I have come to believe.I have learned that we are standing on a burning platform.And, we have more than one explosion - we have multiple points of scorching heat that are fuelling a blazing fire around us.For example, there is intense heat coming from our competitors, more rapidly than we ever expected. Apple disrupted the market by redefining the smartphone and attracting developers to a closed, but very powerful ecosystem.In 2008, Apple's market share in the $300+ price range was 25 percent; by 2010 it escalated to 61 percent. They are enjoying a tremendous growth trajectory with a 78 percent earnings growth year over year in Q4 2010. Apple demonstrated that if designed well, consumers would buy a high-priced phone with a great experience and developers would build applications. They changed the game, and today, Apple owns the high-end range.And then, there is Android. In about two years, Android created a platform that attracts application developers, service providers and hardware manufacturers. Android came in at the high-end, they are now winning the mid-range, and quickly they are going downstream to phones under €100. Google has become a gravitational force, drawing much of the industry's innovation to its core.Let's not forget about the low-end price range. In 2008, MediaTek supplied complete reference designs for phone chipsets, which enabled manufacturers in the Shenzhen region of China to produce phones at an unbelievable pace. By some accounts, this ecosystem now produces more than one third of the phones sold globally - taking share from us in emerging markets.While competitors poured flames on our market share, what happened at Nokia? We fell behind, we missed big trends, and we lost time. At that time, we thought we were making the right decisions; but, with the benefit of hindsight, we now find ourselves years behind.The first iPhone shipped in 2007, and we still don't have a product that is close to their experience. Android came on the scene just over 2 years ago, and this week they took our leadership position in smartphone volumes. Unbelievable.We have some brilliant sources of innovation inside Nokia, but we are not bringing it to market fast enough. We thought MeeGo would be a platform for winning high-end smartphones. However, at this rate, by the end of 2011, we might have only one MeeGo product in the market.At the midrange, we have Symbian. It has proven to be non-competitive in leading markets like North America. Additionally, Symbian is proving to be an increasingly difficult environment in which to develop to meet the continuously expanding consumer requirements, leading to slowness in product development and also creating a disadvantage when we seek to take advantage of new hardware platforms. As a result, if we continue like before, we will get further and further behind, while our competitors advance further and further ahead.At the lower-end price range, Chinese OEMs are cranking out a device much faster than, as one Nokia employee said only partially in jest, "the time that it takes us to polish a PowerPoint presentation." They are fast, they are cheap, and they are challenging us.And the truly perplexing aspect is that we're not even fighting with the right weapons. We are still too often trying to approach each price range on a device-to-device basis.The battle of devices has now become a war of ecosystems, where ecosystems include not only the hardware and software of the device, but developers, applications, ecommerce, advertising, search, social applications, location-based services, unified communications and many other things. Our competitors aren't taking our market share with devices; they are taking our market share with an entire ecosystem. This means we're going to have to decide how we either build, catalyse or join an ecosystem.This is one of the decisions we need to make. In the meantime, we've lost market share, we've lost mind share and we've lost time.On Tuesday, Standard &amp; Poor's informed that they will put our A long term and A-1 short term ratings on negative credit watch. This is a similar rating action to the one that Moody's took last week. Basically it means that during the next few weeks they will make an analysis of Nokia, and decide on a possible credit rating downgrade. Why are these credit agencies contemplating these changes? Because they are concerned about our competitiveness.Consumer preference for Nokia declined worldwide. In the UK, our brand preference has slipped to 20 percent, which is 8 percent lower than last year. That means only 1 out of 5 people in the UK prefer Nokia to other brands. It's also down in the other markets, which are traditionally our strongholds: Russia, Germany, Indonesia, UAE, and on and on and on.How did we get to this point? Why did we fall behind when the world around us evolved?This is what I have been trying to understand. I believe at least some of it has been due to our attitude inside Nokia. We poured gasoline on our own burning platform. I believe we have lacked accountability and leadership to align and direct the company through these disruptive times. We had a series of misses. We haven't been delivering innovation fast enough. We're not collaborating internally.Nokia, our platform is burning.We are working on a path forward -- a path to rebuild our market leadership. When we share the new strategy on February 11, it will be a huge effort to transform our company. But, I believe that together, we can face the challenges ahead of us. Together, we can choose to define our future.The burning platform, upon which the man found himself, caused the man to shift his behaviour, and take a bold and brave step into an uncertain future. He was able to tell his story. Now, we have a great opportunity to do the same.Stephen.Update:Asked for a comment, Nokia said that it did not comment on internal matters and declined to comment on the content of the memo or its provenance. The Guardian believes that the memo is genuine.And: Vic Gundotra, Google's VP of engineering (and a former Microsoft staffer),tweetsre "#feb11" - when Elop will make his announcement - that "Two turkeys do not make an Eagle". (Ditto'd by @Carniphage in comments below). That implies that there isn't a tieup figured out with Android.Updated to clarify that the "memo" was in fact a speech which was then reprinted on an internal Nokia blog.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHTC invests more than £50m in gaming and video &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"HTC has acquired new gaming and video-on-demand content delivery expertise by buying into two companies, OnLive and Saffron Digital. "On Monday, the smartphone manufacturer said in a statement that it was making a "strategic investment" in London-based Saffron Digital, which specialises in multimedia content delivery technology. The Wall Street Journal put the figure of that purchase at £30.2m. On Tuesday, HTC announced a $40m (£25m) investment into OnLive, which it described as a "pioneer of on-demand, instant-play video games". "In a world of mobile Internet ubiquity, content is king but it's not all created equal. OnLive provides a connected cloud-based gaming experience unlike any other," HTC chief executive Peter Chou said in a statement on Tuesday. "HTC and OnLive share a similar goal for expanding connected cloud-based gaming by making it wireless and location-independent." Odd move for a company that only does smartphones.Media CAT Ltd v Adams &amp; Ors &gt;&gt; Bailli.orgThe full judgement on MediaCAT and ACS:Law's attempt to get money out of people via "speculative invoicing". Long, but like all judgements, you have to admire the ability to cut through the crap.Ordnance Survey Maps overlaid on Google Maps"This demo shows how map tiles on the UK OS projection (EPSG:27700) and the Google maps projection (EPSG:3857) can be composed on top of each other in most common browsers. Use the slider (click on the bars or drag the triangle) to control the opacity of the OS map." Brilliant, and far from trivial.Simian: Mac OS X package deployment via App Engine &gt;&gt; Official Google Mac BlogWhere's the Windows version? Thisprovesthat Google is in the pay of Apple.Why You Should Use Gmail's Mobile Web App Over iPhone Mail &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebBecause the web app now offers Priority Inbox. OK, that would explain why Google has hired a lot of developers to produce apps, after discovering people didn't want mobile web pages masquerading as apps. Er..HPâ€™s New Reclining PC Coulda, Shoulda, But Didnâ€™t &gt;&gt; TechcrunchMichael Arrington's unimpressed: "The HP TouchSmart is a decent, if heavy-as-hell, touchscreen iMac clone. But reaching up to touch a desktop screen doesn't really work ergonomically. Your hand is above your heart and it doesn't feel comfortable for very long. You end up just using the physical keyboard and only touching the screen when friends are over to be impressed. "'The proper layout for a desktop touch screen machine is the architect's desk,' I wrote then... And now HP has done it. But they've flubbed it,Like many of their attemptsat cutting edge stuff."First, it's too clunky. And the screen is too small at 23 inches. And are those speakers at the bottom, where you'll be resting your hands as you type on the virtual keyboard?"I mean sure, HP will move some of these units because HP can sell millions of just about anything into their channel. But OH MY GOD they had such a big opportunity here."Smartphone users still prefer branded phones &gt;&gt; Asymco"So we can conclude that the smartphone market is so far showing a distinct preference for branded vendors. The value of the brand is still evident. But ZTE and Huawei are quickly developing Android competencies. How long will it be before the branded vendors feel the pressure from the upstarts?"VicGundotra: Google I/O sells out in 59 minutes &gt;&gt; TwitterIn 2009 it took 90 days to sell out; in 2010, 50 days. In 2011 59 minutes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Buried among the less imaginative announcements forSafer Internet Dayis an incredibly impressive project produced byFosi, the Family Online Safety Institute based in Washington, US. What Fosi released today - Grid, theGlobal Resource &amp; Information Directory- is a rare and well-executed model for policy-level global information, and we're struggling to think of a comparable project.Grid provides detailed information on the developing web safety provisions of 120 countriesTwo years ago, Fosi identified the need for an international database of global information on how countries are developing web safety programmes and legislation. Fosi's plan had been to charge subscriptions for a project that cost around $250,000 to establish, but after presenting the first incarnation of the project to an industry committee at the House of Lords last year, a group of tech firms including Microsoft, Verizon, BT and MySpace have agreed to provide initial funding to make Grid free for anyone to access. Grid will be useful for policy makers and web safety professionals, as well as teachers, parents, journalists and academics.Created by five regional experts and a core staff team of seven, Grid presents profiles of 120 counties with an overview of web and mobile markets, current legislation and education around web safety and key research organisations and initiatives. Dave Miles, Fosi's director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said the site will be expanded to cover all 192 countries, and that developing countries are a priority from every US state to Niue, the tiny Pacific island that became the first country in the world to introduce universal free wifi."Governments are coming into power thinking that they are the only people dealing with these issues, and are only just identifying problems," said Miles, explaining that web safety covers everything from law enforcement and protection issues around child grooming to internet addiction and cyberbullying. "Grid is a platform that demonstrates all the latest available knowledge and 25% of this information has never been available in English before."The object is to share best practice between more established internet markets and developing industries. While many of the issues, such as cyberbullying, are universal, cultural and legal responses vary widely and can be hard to track.By October, Grid will have introducing a 'maturity index' which will provide a visual overview for the status of web safety in each country. Rankings are calculated on legislation, education and overall state of web markets."Our thinking is that charities can, in this way, act as a convener to create a middle ground where industry, government, law enforcement and researchers can, without agenda, contribute to a factual environment."Miles also said that Grid would welcome contributions from more regional specialists as it seeks to continually update the resource with relevant developments.
A senior court judge has pointed to severe problems with the way the Digital Economy Act enables copyright owners to accuse people of illegal filesharing.Judge Birss QC said on Tuesday that the process of connecting copyright infringement to a named individual based on their use of an internet address is fraught with difficulties because internet connections, or IP addresses, are often used by more than one person.In aruling in the patents county court, Birss asked: "Does the process of identifying an IP address in this way establish that any infringement of copyright has taken place by anyone related to that IP address at all?"He said that the assertion did not hold up: "Even if it is proof of infringement by somebody, merely identifying that an IP address has been involved with infringement [does not make it] clear to me that the person identified must be infringing one way or another. The fact that someone may have infringed does not mean the particular named defendant has done so."The use of "unsecured" internet connections which allow others to "piggyback" on their network leads to more complications, Birss said, adding that these issues are "key" in proving copyright infringement before a court of law.That could create serious problems for copyright owners seeking to enforce their rights under the Digital Economy Act. Although the law allows for a "three strikes" provision in which internet service providers (ISPs) would be required to write to the people who are using an IP address at a time that it is found to be infringing, it has not yet been implemented. Beyond that, copyright owners might be able to take people to court or demand that their internet connection is throttled or constrained.But Birss pointed to a lack of case law to support the idea that someone in charge of an IP address could be judged guilty of infringement carried out through that address."What if the defendant authorises another to use their internet connection in general and, unknown to them, the authorised user uses P2P [peer-to-peer] software and infringes copyright?" he noted in his ruling."Does the act of authorising use of an internet connection turn the person doing the authorising into a person authorising the infringement within s16(2) [of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act]? I am not aware of a case which decides that question either."The BPI, which represents record labels in the UK, has successfully prosecuted a number of people in the UK after showing that they were using P2P software and downloaded files from them which it could present as evidence. However no such evidence was presented in the cases being considered by Birss, and it is not clear that the Digital Economy Act requires that level of evidence either for ISPs, which are asked to write letters to alleged infringers.The ruling relates to 27 cases of alleged illicit filesharing brought by ACS:Law and the copyright licensee MediaCAT, could have implications for the Digital Economy Act. Under the act, the UK's largest internet service providers will send warning letters to internet users whose IP addresses are linked to illegal downloading, and anyone who receives three letters in 12 months could be sued by the copyright owner.ACS:Law, the controversial law firm at the centre of a huge row over illegal downloading and data protection, on Tuesday had its attempt to discontinue lawsuits against 27 people it suspected of illegal downloading quashed by the court.Birss said that the letters demanding payment from alleged infringers "materially overstates the untested merits" of the companies' approach to proving illicit filesharing. These cases are the first to be taken to court from the tens of thousands of letters sent out by ACS:Law on behalf of MediaCAT.ACS:Law and MediaCATshut down their respective operations last week, just days before today's key court decision.The two companies have 14 days to involve the copyright owners in the 27 proceedings, otherwise the cases will be dropped and the claimants liable for outstanding legal costs.Michael Forrester, a solicitor at the Manchester-based law firm Ralli which is representing five of the 27 defendants, said: "The judgment highlights a number of legal and technical difficulties with these cases which we had advised our clients of throughout."We are dealing with cases where consumers have explained how they cannot possibly have uploaded or downloaded copyright protected material, but they are still being pursued."A DCMS spokesman said: "The measures in the Digital Economy Act do not aim to attribute liability for online copyright infringement. They aim to reduce and prevent such infringement."Under the mass notification system internet account holders will be informed when infringement is happening on their account and given advice on how to prevent it. The letters will aim to inform and will not ask for money."The code, which is due to be published by Ofcom shortly, will require a robust standard of evidence and there will be a readily accessible appeals process."The DEA and the code will not affect the standards by which courts make judgements about copyright infringement when rights owners seek to enforce their rights through the courts."• This story was amended on 10 February 2011 to clarify the first line and add a statement from the DCMS
Bad news for the music industry. And it comes in threes.First, Warner Music (which might be thinking of buying EMI from Citigroup?) reported itsnumbers for the fourth calendar quarter of 2010(which is actually its fiscal first quarter). Oh dear. Total revenue ($789m) down 14% from 2009, down 12% on constant currency basis (ie allowing for exchange rate fluctuation); digital revenue of $187m was 24% of total revenue (yay!), up 2% from last year (oooh), but sequentially down by 5%, or 7% on constant currency.Operating income before depreciation and amortisation down 20% to $90m, from $112m a year ago. All of which led to a net loss of $18m, compared to a net loss of $17m a year before. In other words, things are still bad there. And it's still got some heavygearing: cash is $263m, long-term debt is $1.94bn. Warner might want to buy EMI, but it would put a hell of a strain on it. And the music business isn't exactly looking like a place where you'd want a bank putting your money.Second, Fred Wilson, a venture capitalist who spends upwards of $60 per month - and by his estimate around $2,000 annually - on music and music subscriptions wasforced to turn piratein order to get hold of the new Streets album:"searched the Internet for the record. It was not even listed in iTunes or emusic. It was listed on Amazon US as an import that would be available on Feb 15th, but only in CD form. I'm not buying plastic just to rip the files and throw it out. Seeing as it was an import, I searched Amazon UK. And there I found the record in mp3 form for 4 pounds. It was going to be released on Feb 4th. I made a mental note to come back and get it when it was released. I got around to doing that today. I clicked on "buy with one click" and was greeted with this nonsense "Which was Amazon saying that because he wasn't in the UK, he couldn't buy it. Unable to find aVPNthat would let him masquerade as a Briton, he took the next step:"So reluctantly, I went to a bit torrent search. I found plenty of torrents for the record and quickly had the record in mp3 form. That took less than a minute compared to the 20+ minutes I wasted trying pretty hard to buy the record legally."This is fucked up. I want to pay for music. I value the content. But selling it to some people in some countries and not selling it to others is messed up. And selling it in CD only format is messed up. And posting the entire record on the web for streaming without making the content available for purchase is messed up."Well, you could argue that an inability to actually wait for the few weeks, perhaps a month, before he could hear the songs via a licensed US label was what's messed up. Is there no other music in the world that he can hear first? Nobody else? True, it would make sense if contracts were signed so that everything happened at once. But the record industry is still rather like the book industry: because it generates most of its money from physical things, it organises itself around those things.And finallyto Mark Mulligan, music analyst at Forrester Research.Writing on the Midem blog, Mulligan points out that "Digital music is at an impasse" because "it has not achieved any of its three key objectives", specifically:1 – to offset the impact of declining CD sales2 – to generate a format replacement cycle and3 – to compete effectively with piracy.Mulligan notes that"the divergence between emerging consumer behaviour and legitimate music products is widening at an alarming rate. And consumers are voting with their feet: Forrester's latest consumer data shows digital music activity adoption is flat across ALL activity types compared to 1 year previously (in fact the data shows a slight decline)."The hope on the part of the music business that the iPod, and the iTunes Store, and then digital music stores of all sorts, would be its saviour has turned out to be false. As Mulligan notes,"all music activity is niche, except for video. Just 10% of Europeans and 18% of US consumers pay for digital music. Only music video has more than 20% adoption (and only in Europe at that): YouTube is digital music's killer app."(If you are, or know, any young teenagers you''ll know that this is absolutely true. YouTube, and of course in Europe also Spotify. The problem with Spotify being,in the eyes of the record companies, that it simply doesn't pay them enough. Whereas in Spotify's eyes the record companies have for too long demanded too much.)Mulligan adds that the "transition generation" - the 16-24 year-olds - aren't the future. Instead, the future lies with the 12-15 year olds."In fact, when you look closely at the activities where 16-24's over-index [do more than other age cohorts], you can see that their activity coalesces around recreating analogue behaviours in a digital context. The 16-24's started out in the analogue era. They are the transition generation with transitional behaviours."The 12-15 year olds, though, don't have analog baggage. All they've known is digital. Online video and mobile are their killer apps. These Digital Natives see music as the pervasive soundtrack to their interactive, immersive, social environments. Ownership matters less. Place of origin matters less. But context and experience are everything. The Digital Natives are hugely disruptive, but their disruption needs harnessing."So why does this matter, asks Mulligan? Because"current digital music product strategy is built around the transition generation with transition products to meet their transitional needs and expectations. Neither the 99 cent download and the 9.99 streaming subscription are the future. They are transition products. They were useful for bridging the gap between analogue and digital, to get us on the first step of the digital path, but now it's time to start the journey in earnest. We'd be naïve to argue that we're anything close to the end game yet. But the problem is that consumer demand has already outpaced product evolution, again."It's time, he argues, for the music companies to deal with the world as it is, rather than as it used to be or as they liked it. Many in the business will tell you that that is exactly what theyaredoing; and nothing that Mulligan says in any way detracts from the (real) efforts that are being made by many record executives, who are not as clueless or uninformed as many would like to think. Instead, they're frequently dealing with institutional and sector-based inertia that's hard to get moving. Plus if Simon Cowell can discover a singer on a talent show and propel her to the top of the UK and US album charts (the first British act since the Beatles to achieve that), selling millions of CDs, well, is his strategy so wrong and everyone else's somehow so right? Realities like that give even the most digital executive pause.Back to Mulligan, who points out that"the digital natives have only ever known a world with on-demand access based music experiences. ...And the experience part is crucial. In a post-content-scarcity world where all content is available, experience is now everything. Experience IS the product. With the contagion of free infecting everything the content itself is no longer king. Experience now has the throne."So what's needed? He thinks future music products need "SPARC" (no, not the Sun processor architecture). Digital music products, he says, must be:•	Social: put the crowd in the cloud•	Participative: make them interactive and immersive•	Accessible: ownership still matters but access matters more•	Relevant: ensure they co-exist and joint the dots in the fragmented digital environment•	Connected: 174m Europeans have two or more connected devices. Music fans are connected and expect their music experiences to be also.His parting shot: "Music products must harness disruption, that isn't in question. What is, is whether they do so quickly enough to prevent another massive chunk of the marketplace disappearing for good?"I think Warner may have answered that already, actually.
After months of internet speculation, 2K Games has officially announced a sequel to the critically acclaimed first-person shooter, The Darkness. Developed by Starbreeze Studios, the original featured a lower rung mafia hitman named Jackie Estacado who discovers he has inhereted demonic powers, which he uses to track down the men who killed his girlfriend. The game was interesting for its combination of contemporary gangster and gothic underworld settings, as well as the central gameplay mechanic in which the player is able to wield twin-weaponsandvarious powerful tentacles capable of impaling enemies and smashing down walls.Set two years after its predecessor title,The Darkness IIputs Estacado at the head of the Franchetti crime family. He has managed to surpress his Darkness powers, but an attempt on his life brings them right back with a vengeance – with, no doubt, catastophically bloody consequences. Jackie must now work out who wanted him dead before his dark powers suck him back to hell.This time round, development duties have gone to Canadian studio, Digital Extremes; it previously handled the multiplayer on Bioshock 2, and co-developed several titles in the Unreal series of first-person shooters. Once again, the story is being handled by award-winning comic book writer and video game regular, Paul Jenkins, who the press release claims will provide, "a tightly integrated narrative that weaves dark humor with hardcore tenderness."'Hardcore tenderness'?
Nokia's new chief executive, Stephen Elop, is reported to be considering moving its executives to Silicon Valley, away from their base in Espoo, Finland – yet leaving the research and development arm in its native country.Nokia's faltering Ovi services – which are trying to create an app ecosystem for the company's phones – and swathes of its middle management are also seen as vulnerable in the reorganisation.The rumour comes ahead of what is seen as a crucial announcement on Friday in London by Elop in which he is expected to outline a new strategy for the company in the smartphone space, where it has been steadily losing market share, notably to Google's Android mobile operating system, which in the fourth quarter wasshipped on more smartphones than any other platform.Nowa report in The Register by Andrew Orlowski, who has very good contacts inside Nokia, says Elop is considering the move to shift the "executive centre of gravity" of the company out of its European location and closer to the place where the two newest mobile operating systems, Android and Apple's iOS, have been developed.Elop, a former Microsoft executive who took over at Nokia in September after its board fired the previous Finnish incumbent, has already pointed to problems with Nokia's app ecosystems, suggesting that it should "create or join" others, and to its bureaucracy. The company isestimated to have as many people developing just its smartphone software as Apple does on its entire product line, which includes computers, tablets and music players as well as the iPhone.Profits have been sliding and despite having the largest share of the smartphone market, and a competitive position for the simpler "feature phones", analysts suspect Elop will announce a tieup with one of the major rival platforms – either Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 or Android, though the former is seen as more likely – this week ahead of the Mobile World Congress conference in Barcelona next week.
The fourth Mario vs Donkey Kong title takes this most bitter and long-running of video game rivalries and manipulates it into another creamy, comforting slice of puzzle-platforming bliss. In an unlikely scenario that stretches our suspension of disbelief to absolute snapping point, Mario has opened a new theme park and is handing out free dolls of his lady friend Pauline to the first 100 visitors (don't ask). Arriving one place too late in the queue, Donkey Kong is so enraged to miss out on this bizarre gifting opportunity, he grabs the real thing and carries her screaming through the gates. Mario's only rescue option – apparently – is to send in a series of miniturised clockwork versions of himself.What this sets up is a charming and unlikely cross between Lemmings and Portal. On each stage, the mini Marios must be guided safely to the exit, but they cannot be directly controlled. Once you've touched one with your stylus, he'll just keep trundling along until he hits something, then he'll turn and meander back again. To guide them, players must manipulate elements of the environment, repositioning platforms and placing trampolines so that the pint-sized plumbers don't fall into deadly spike pits. On each level there are only limited numbers of each scenic building block, so you often have to be quick, creating a platform over one hazard before swiftly closing it again so that you can construct over another.This frantic distribution of resources is rendered even more complex on the levels that require you to rescue more than one Mario. Timing becomes paramount as three sets of chubby little legs have to move past a key platform before you can swipe it away and build it elsewhere. Added depth is supplied in the form of collectible letters and tokens, which unlock extra mini-levels and special stages. If you're sharp-witted, you can often break up your clockwork posse, sending one Mario to clear the way to the exit, while another grabs those bonus items. But manoeuvres like this have to be well timed – once one mini has escaped, a timer switches on and unless everyone else is through the door in a matter of seconds, the level is failed.The genius of the design is in its seamless interplay of linearity and flexibility. Levels tend to feature a single circuit that will get you through in good time, but players are to create their own diversions to collect extras. Or at least that's how it looks: you're never actually sure whether you've discovered a unique solution to the level, or if that's the only way to do it. Which is pretty much the ludological zenith of puzzle game design.There are eight main stages to get through, each consisting of several levels, plus a boss battle, in which the Mini Marios have to climb a series of platforms in order to reach Donkey Kong, who lobs down barrels on their tiny soft heads. It's a nice little pastiche of the original Donkey Kong game, although the challenge is notched up considerably from the other levels. Indeed, perhaps the only complaint about the game is that veteran gamers will not be significantly tested until the last few stages. You could also say that the fundaments of the design haven't moved on enormously since 2009's Mario vs Donkey Kong: Minis March Again! (although at least the Construction Zone mode, which lets you create your own levels, is much more exhaustive and detailed now).And yet, the considerable joy of this game, typically for a homegrown Nintendo project, is the simple experience of being within such a quaint, yet deftly constructed environment. The crisp cartoon visuals, the pitch-perfect sound effects, the countless moments of intricate, thoughtful craftsmanship –  this is what we come to Mario games for. Those looking for a one-stop masterclass in elementary game design could do a lot worse than study this.
Download games may be cheap, but that doesn't mean they have to be demonstrably inferior to shop-bought ones: recent Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network efforts like Braid, Limbo, ilomilo and Zeit2 have been deservedly showered with praise. Such games derive much of their appeal from offering gameplay which harks back to simpler retro days spruced up with the odd modern twist. Stacking takes a subtly different approach by harvesting the general ethos of old-school point-and-click adventure games (of which, with the likes of Monkey Island, Full Throttle and Grim Fandango, Double Fine proprietor Tim Schafer made some of the finest) and ripping out the static, 2D, single-path gameplay in favour of something more immediate and modern.Stacking's general premise and art style are both utterly delightful. Set in a world populated by Russian dolls, apparently (and appositely) during the 1920s depression, you play Charlie Blackmore, the youngest and runtiest of a large family of chimney-sweeps. Times are bad, and Charlie's parents and siblings end up enslaved by the evil Baron, so Charlie heads to the train station, befriends a hobo called Levi and sets about rescuing them – plus the rest of the land from the Baron's dastardly yoke.Visually, Stacking is sumptuous (unsurprisingly, given that it was conceived by Lee Petty, art director on Double Fine's Brutal Legend). Influences include silent movies (especially those of Charlie Chaplin), dioramas and dolls' houses. Because Charlie is so tiny, he can stack into the back of other dolls of incrementally increasing sizes. Each doll has a special skill, which might be a vigorous handshake, fixing mechanical objects, playing the violin, farting pot-pourri or delivering an uppercut. Charlie must use these abilities to solve puzzles.As you may have guessed from the diversity of those abilities, Stacking's gameplay is gloriously whimsical and offbeat. But its cleverest aspect is that each puzzle has multiple solutions, and when you solve it once, you're told how many other solutions it has. So, crucially for a download game, it has loads of replay value. You can while away hours seeking out dolls you haven't met before, or performing Hi-Jinks: playing pranks such as a white-gloved slap on random dolls. There are sets of dolls to find, generally either particular families or dolls with similar abilities, like Adventurers: when you find them and stack them into each other, you're treated to a diorama-style mini-drama.The puzzles themselves are often hilariously inventive – you might have to lure railway grandees from their cosy gentlemen's clubroom by stacking into a mechanic doll, dismantling a fan and using it as a means of invasion, flatulating into the fan and introducing a noxious atmosphere or using the hip-swinging Widow Chastity to seduce the doorman from his post. Schafer's games are known for their humour, and this is one of his funniest.Stacking is right up there with the likes of Braid and Limbo as an absolute must-download. Merely toddling around its world is fun, and the fact that its gameplay is thoroughly distinctive is a bonus. If you know anyone who still believes that games are uniformly violent and brain-dead, Stacking will comprehensively disabuse them of that notion.
Stab, stab, stab. Stab, stab, stab. No, that's not me trying to stab my own eyes out in frustration, nor me plunging a kitchen implement into whoever chucked together theHuawei Ideos Tablet S7, but me trying to get the touchscreen first to register my taps and second to respond to them.But wait! It's a resistive screen, not a capacitive one. So what you actually need is the stylus tucked away around the back of the device.But it's a horrible little stylus, made of brittle plastic that you'll either break or lose within a few days, at which point you'll go back to stabbing the tablet with your fingers. Which sort of works, but will drive you crazy. And surely the whole point of a tablet is that you use your fingers? Styluses are – or should be – implements of history.Every tech company and its dog is churning out tablets at the moment and the range is baffling. What this means is that some poor unsuspecting tablet-shopper who doesn't have enough money for an iPad or a Samsung Galaxy might think that this tablet, which you can find online for around £250, is a viable alternative.It's not. Save up for an iPad, the Galaxy or the upcoming Motorola Xoom, which will run Honeycomb, the version of Android properly optimised for tablets. This one is a collection of compromises. The size is OK – it's seven inches, which fits neatly into the hands. But it feels heavy and not particularly portable: at 500 grammes, it's weightier than the Galaxy (380 grammes), and not a lot lighter than the bigger iPad (730 grammes). And it's thicker than the bigger iPad.The screen is reasonably bright, but is lacking in punch and is low on the pixel count at 800x480.One of the reasons the price is so low is that there's no onboard storage – you have to add a Micro SD card to take pictures or even to read the user manual, as the app to launch it, Documents to Go, requires that SD card.It's an Android tab, but it's only running 2.1, so there's no Flash.I'm not a fan of Android at the best of times, but this device, with its Fisher Price-like icons and clunky interface, will try the patience of even the most devoted Android-lover.I was constantly distracted by the flashing "i" in the top right-hand corner, worrying that it was warning me about something. Turns out that all it's doing is telling you that it's running several apps at once – which you should really avoid doing, as the 768MHz processor struggles to cope.Connectivity-wise, it's OK, with Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and there's space for a sim card too, but it struggled to hold on to my home Wi-Fi network. It comes with a mini-USB cable, but that won't charge it – it requires its own proprietary charger. And you'll need to keep that charger handy – battery life is a problem with this tablet, with many users reporting only about two and a half hours of juice. That is surely the dealbreaker: a tablet should be a device you want to take out and about with you and have it keep going throughout your commute to work, your working day and then your journey home. This one just doesn't cut it, not on that front, nor any other. It's not cheap and cheerful, it's cheap and a bit nasty.Pros:well, it's cheap.Cons:battery life, screen, stylus, proprietary charger, old version of Android – need I go on?
Most gamers aged later 20s upwards will have come acrossSpeedball 2in their time. The future sport title – think handball with added violence – was one of the very best Amiga games, especially on multiplayer. Even a slightly disappointing Xbox Live Arcade port a couple of years ago hasn't tarnished the legacy of Speedball 2. A new version – Speedball 2 Evolution – was announced last week for the iphone/ipad and I caught up with veteran Speedball developer Jon Hare.Why Speedball 2 and why now?There are several reasons why. Firstly Speedball 2 is a classic game that is perfect for many modern day downloadable platforms including iOS and there is nothing else like it on the market at the moment. To those of us who know the game I hope it will be received as the best version of Speedball since the original – that is certainly what I believe in any case. To those too young to remember the original, and to most people in the US, Speedball will be something brand new, despite the fact it has sold over 2m copies to date in its various forms, and I genuinely believe this game can be as big a hit as something new to these two new markets for us.I have been working closely with Mike Montgomery and the Bitmap Brothers since 2004 and have helped Mike get conversions of Bitmap games done before. Mike has very kindly given me the choice of choosing the order we wish to remake the old Bitmap Games and I chose this one first, because it is my personal favourite. For Speedball 2 Evolution I have been working very closely with Vivid Games for over a year.The game has already been ported to Xbox Live – what does this new version bring to the party?It is much, much more than a port. We looked at the original source code and then proceeded to build the game from the ground up. This has enabled us to properly take advantage of the touchscreen and tilt technology and the Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connectability that wasn't around when the game was originally made. We have redesigned the menu system and the game controls so that it appears as if the game was actually designed for smartphones and other touch screen devices.The control system works incredibly well. We have given the game twobasic control mechanisms.The first is tilt control: you tilt the device to emulate the direction you would push the joystick in, and it is now a 360 degree joystick, it is very intuitive after abut 30 seconds use. We have a full Sensible Soccer style player selection engine sitting underneath this which helps to keep the action flowing and to give the player the man he wants to use without the need for a player select button.The second control system is the virtual joystick – this has been seen on a number of iOS games before and works very well too, although it is in my opinion a retro way of playing the game.I have observed that all people under 25 pick up the tilt system immediately where as some older guys tend to first opt for the comfort of the stick before jumping over to the tilt mechanism after a while. In any case the player is free to change from one system to the other as he chooses at any time. The other big advantage of the tilt system for the iPhone and iPhone4 is that it means the screen is clear of your fingers most of the time.In both versions tapping on the screen emulates the actions of the fire button in the original Speedball for tackling, passing and shooting.On the game content side we have ensured that whatever we do fits in with the existing world of Speedball. Speedball is a futuristic sport with set rules and a set configuration of scoring items on the pitch and pickups appearing from time to time and in every respect we have remained faithful to this. Of course we have increased the number of pitches and greatly enhanced the quality of the graphics but the game is still very definitely and instantly recognisable as Speedball.The main area we have added new features is in the depth of teams and competitions in the game. In addition to the established two divisions of eight teams such as Brutal Deluxe and Super Nashwan, we have added a whole extra layer to the game. The competition structure is a bit more like Sensible Soccer, in that it offers you a choice of Quick Match, Preset Competition (choose from five cups and leagues in the game), Custom Competition (devise your own league, cup or tournament) and Career Mode.Career Mode gives you a 10-season career to create your own team andtake them from the bottom of Division Two to the Speedball Intergalactic Champions League. As you progress through the divisions and win the cups on offer so you have the chance to play and unlock teams and pitches from different galaxies. The Intergalactic Cup (for this read UEFA Cup ... sorry, Europa Cup) and the Champions League feature four teams from each of the Ice, Fire and Cyber galaxies who look a bit different to regular Speedball players and are generally pretty tasty practitioners of the Speedball art. On top of this we have overhauled the look, but kept the functionality of the Gym and Transfer screens so that your squad can be constantly upgraded with new signings and player enhancements. The other main additional feature specific to this version is head to head Multiplayer Mode which can be played via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth.What are the main benefits of developing for mobile/tablet devices?Gameplay-wise the main benefits are the ability to enhance and vary controls in different ways to what is possible using joysticks, joypads or mouse. In this case I believe that the tilt controls for Speedball opens up the possibility of a whole range of games made with this mechanism that ensures a large percentage of the screen is visible at all times. I find the instant route to billing and lack of need for boxed product, as well as a less stringent vetting process for the games also massively beneficial as it also gives us more freedom and options in regard to how we bring the games to market. And the ease with which communication between the player, his friends, the publisher and Apple or any other platform holder can happen via multiple channels is also highly beneficial and something we are keen to improve upon with every release.And the downsides?The saturated market: 150,000 apps released last year and only 25 slots on the App Store that matter at any one time (Odds of 6,000:1 are not ideal). Finding the right formula for monetisation: the current penchant for free gaming has forced us game makers to come up with more and more devious ways of extracting money from people so that we can continue to run our businesses and give people the games that they want. The truth is that the solution is different for every game and every platform, which can be a headache.What about new versions of other games you were involved with – Sensible Soccer, Wizball, maybe even Sex, Drugs and Rock n Roll?Wizball is a possibility, I am also in discussion with Codemasters about the other Sensible games which are also possibilities, however we are also balancing remakes of old games with totally new games designed specifically for these formats both by myself and by the development teams we work with. For me it is very important to keep on making and designing new games. It is what I love the best and to me it is the major appeal in the long term of these new machines. You must remember Parallax, Wizball, Mega lo Mania, Sensible Soccer, Wizkid and Cannon Fodder all started their life as new games made specifically for the hardware of the time.You are often outspoken about today's games industry but with the amount and quality of games we have today surely things have never been better right?Absolutely, in the bigger picture the market has really opened up toembrace a whole wave of new games on newer smaller platforms over the last three years or so. What I would now like to see is the strangleholdof the bigger licences and endless FPS variants broken at the higher end of the all-format charts where all of the really big money is spent. We need to make it easier for the guys making good original games to make money, by freeing up some of the money from the weaker of the AAA titles and diverting it into educated gambles on the big consoles in the more innovative sections of our industry. We are a creative industry and we need to keep things fresh and encourage new blood coming through by backing them to mix it with the big boys with original games.Most of the origination in the past seven years has been hardware andperipheral driven. Titles like Heavy Rain remind us that you can also originate with software alone, but for this to happen these new titles need to be backed on a more regular basis by established big hitting publishers with much deeper pockets than those of us focussing on mobile and downloadable markets. Overall however the situation is better now than it has been since about 1995, thanks to mobile and downloadable platforms.The various app stores have clearly made it easier to get stuff out there but how do you break through the sheer amount of releases – isn't it just old fashioned marketing and branding?Yes absolutely it is too saturated and therefore yes, ultimately it is all about good, clever, targeted marketing. It is very difficult to find the right solution out there. There are many, many ways to tackle it, with no guarantee of return on your marketing investment and each time we try, we go two steps forward and one step back … let's hope we have managed it better this time with Speedball 2 Evolution. Brand building is also something we can build in game. Free releases do not make money but they allow you to build brands and also to direct players towards your other products. I think in many ways both developers and players would be happy with less choice and more quality out there, but only time will tell.I'm not really sure what retro gaming means but do you think thehandhelds have made "retro" gaming popular?I must admit I have a bit of a problem with the definition of retro gaming. Is Fifa 2011 a retro game because it is a remake of a game from 1993? Are the majority of first person shooters retro games because all they are doing is emulating games from the early to mid-1990s and adding better graphics? Is the only difference between Fifa and Speedball that one has had consistent releases and marketing over a 20-year period and the other has had a few gaps?Yes at the moment people are interested in seeing retro games on new machines, in some cases almost as if they are brand new product, but very few of them have gone on to sell really serious numbers. I hope Speedball 2 Evolution can defy this trend and be seen as a great game designed to take full advantage of modern technology in its own right, with far, far more depth than most games currently clogging up the App Store. I think handhelds are natural places to bring the best of the pre-console games to, they are kind to 2D graphics and they replicate the action well, although these titles ideally need to be optimised to really hit the casual gamer and his demand for bite sized pieces of gaming.Maybe an accurate definition of retro could be "titles with definitiveversions released pre Playstation".3DS or NGP is the hardware "battle" for 2011 – which one do youthink will "win" in the current climate and do you imagine seeing some of your games on them?I feel that 3DS may be seen as a bit of a gimmick in the long term, but in the short term I believe the demand for a new DS is bigger than that for a new Sony handheld, so I expect Nintendo to triumph. We are most likely to license our games to third-party publishers interested in putting them out on these machines.Can Sensible Soccer ever be properly played without a Competition Pro Joystick?Good question … on the Amiga, I don't think so. However, I would adviseyou to check out the tilt controls for Speedball 2 Evolution … theyjust might work in the new Football game we are developing for iOS andother platforms.Is a potential Speedball 3 dependent on how Evolution does?Absolutely, we have to take things one at a time. We have many opportunities on our plate right now, not least the entire Bitmap Brothers back catalogue, other potential licenses and 10 or so original games in different states of development from concept to Alpha… However, Speedball 3 would be great, with Mike's blessing.Speedball 2 evolution is released this month on iOS
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
So here's the Kinect news at last viewing: Microsoft sold 8m in the period from its release to the end of 2010. That made it thefastest-selling-everpiece of consumer electronics kit - outpacing Apple's iPad.That's a hell of a lot of Kinects. It's not even getting close to a 25% attach rate - there are 50m Xbox 360s out there. Long way to go still.But what is there to play on Kinect? Not that much, so far - some unpromising retreads such asDr Kawashima's Body &amp; Brain Exercises, which is basically the Nintendo Brain Training but with the stylus taken out.Here's the thing. Over Christmas, a friend who's a really enthusiastic gamer (they've got a Wii and an Xbox 360, and play them all the time) got a Kinect in the expectation that it would thrill and fascinate the kids.Nope. "Two days, tops," he said. "Then they just went back to the old games."Which I have to say tallies with my own experience: so far my own kids haven't abandoned the Wii for the Kinect. True, they had the Wii first, but my friend's kids had the Xbox 360 first.Is it just that the Kinect is new? True, the early games on any new platform usually aren't amazing - although, that said,Wii Sportswas an amazing breakthrough - tennis! bowling! golf! boxing! - andSuper Mario Galaxyis an amazing platformer that uses the capability of the Wii and its controls to the fullest extent.By contrast, Kinect - while (can we agree?) an amazing piece of technology, including as it does 3D recognition, voice recognition, person recognition, on machines that are five years old, and which doesn't max out the processor (Microsoft says it only uses about 10% of the processing power) - just doesn't have quite the same engagement. If you've played on a Wii, then the Kinect games look very me-too; table tennis, volleyball (though a bit confusing, that one, to be honest) and driving.. yeah, done that.There's also the space question, which isn't trivial: you need a large room to play Kinect games, because it wants you around 2 metres at least from the sensor/screen, and that can be hard to arrange for many British households.So here's the $64m question. Are you still using your Kinect? What's good? What's bad? What's the best/worst things about it, now that the glow of ownership and that new equipment smell has worn off?If you're not playing it any more, what have you gone back (or on) to?But if you've stuck with it, what's keeping you using it?And do you think that it's just a matter of time - that it's simply waiting for someone to come up with the really great game format that will have everyone buying and playing?
Fondly regarded as the father of science fiction, who foresaw a range of technological innovations long before their arrival, Jules Verne can probably be forgiven for failing to predict the internet.Or, for that matter, that his life would one day be honoured by Google's latest doodle, which went live on Tuesday to mark the French author's 183rd birthday.In honour of Verne's most famous novel, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, the new doodle takes the form of the portholes of a submarine.A lever on one side can be manipulated to plunge the submarine deeper into the sea, which appears to be populated by various forms of sea life.Born in Brittany in 1828, Verne is credited with forecasting a range of scientific developments, from deep sea exploration to space travel and the moon landings.As well as 20,000 Leagues, which tells the story of Captain Nemo and his submarine Nautilus, Verne wrote A Journey to the Centre of the Earth and Around the World in Eighty Days.However, perhaps the work most salient in the context of Google's appropriation of Verne's memory isParis in the Twentieth Century, which was originally rejected by Verne's publisher and only made it into mass print form in 1994.A dystopian tale, the book centred on 16-year-old Michel Dufrénoy, who graduates in literature and the classics but finds they have been forgotten in a futuristic society that has been taken over by business and technology.Whether the ironies of the story were appreciated by those at the controls of the increasingly powerful internet giant is unclear.At the very least, the latest doodle is the continuation of something of a literary theme. Recent doodles have been inspired by Robert Burns, Jane Austen and Oscar Wilde.
Honestly, you wait ages for a new 'Best of' and then three come along almost at once. This time, it's the turn of January 24-28 to be fondly recalled by our team of comment section diarists.There's some vintage stuff in here, including interview techniques, CoD weaponry and viking beauty techniques. As this week's editor Foolsgold74 put it to me in his email, "Set your expectations to low and prepare for disappointment anyway as the Chatterbox channels the Bangles, gives advice on hair dye and talks about... games?!"You heard the man.Monday, January 24Monday… just another manic Monday, with people recanting their exploits from Sunday, because that was their gaming fun day. In a surprising change for Chatterbox, games dominated discussions. With two recent big releases, Little Big Planet 2 and Mass Effect 2, it seemed that there was little else to talk about.Little Big Planet 2, the continuation of the tale of a musty glove puppet ("I know who Sackboy is, met him in a train station toilet once" – Catzilla) and his adventures in a papier-mâché world, seemed to bring great joy to bloggers. "LBP2 is absolutely awesome," cried R042 while Uncle3en described it as, "impossibly loveable, and genius with it".The multiplayer aspects of the game seemed to bring particular delight with BigWorv using it as a way to rehearse for the Awards: "We also slapped each other, threw each other down pits and fired cakes at each other. What larks!"Killerbee's assessment took him down a path he couldn't escape from: "The game really does take on another dimension when you play it with friends. It's like sex in that respect. Well, um, sort of... and I can't comment on whether than analogy holds true for four players... sadly.... um, moving on..."Moving on indeed… to Mass Effect 2. Fist of Fun was first with a verdict: "The reviews weren't kidding, this really is fantastic-looking, real improvement on the textures, especially man-Shepherd's face."With that, ME2 amore spread through the ranks with BeardofBees revealing, "I seem to have pursued a relationship with Miranda somehow. I don't even like her that much, but some skin tight latex bodysuits and choice camera angles led the conversation down a path I was powerless to resist."  Perhaps revealing his more bestial side, Makar tried to make his Normandy captain look like, "an utter gargoyle" so that the, "love scenes will take on a whole new meaning".TuesdayThe dust swirled around his feet as the solitary figure made his way through the clutter. A dim light illuminated the assorted junk that surrounded him; its source was found to be a flickering screen buried in a corner."Is it what we hoped?" the man asked, "have you managed to recover anything?"The second man who had been crouched by the screen, almost unseen, turned to the approaching figure. "It is indeed. For the first time in decades we have recovered an actual piece of what used to be called the Internet. It's a single day's worth of information, from the early 21st century.""'What's it called? What have you got to report?"' The first man insists."It's called the Guardian Gamesblog Chatterbox and I have made a detailed report." The second man takes a deep breath, "here goes…"The day in question started with a user calling himself Amipal asking for advice on an upcoming interview and presentation. It seems the others were keen to offer him advice, though some of it is questionable. User Simian summarises the early feedback as 'OK so far it's: walk in, punch the biggest man and woman in the face (why hold back) proclaim, "I bring the meat, or quorn if you happen to be vegetarian" and walk out, no flouncing.'"There is also some talk throughout the day of an ancient regional holiday called Burns night. My databases were light on detail about this, but I was able to gather some clues. User RustyJames asks in a manner that my sensors have indicated as casually racist: 'What actually happens on Burns Night? I'm not being casually racist here; but do you just drink whiskey and eat haggis? Maybe a bonfire?' It seems the festival refers to a famous poet."Concluding my report, many users discussed the propensity of their various workplaces to allow them to leave early. I believe this is a key indicator of the mental wellbeing of people at this time, a focus on gaming, drinking and some upcoming awards ceremony. Only now do we truly see how good they had it."With the report concluded the two men left in silence, the flickering screen flashed one last time before dimming forever.WednesdayWelcome to the middle of the week. Too far from last weekend to enjoy the memories, too far from next weekend to benefit from the freedom. It's desperate times like this that turn the Chatterbox in on itself; the bloggers get introspective, begin to feel the weight of the world on their shoulders, force modesty on themselves. Or at least most do, BarryEans sees the world through different glasses and gave us this thought to start the day: "All day training course today on personal excellence. Shouldn't take me too long to prove how excellent I am…"That was the last we saw of Barry.Wednesday's early blog was taken up with COD Blops discussion. Which gun? Which killstreak to put in slot three? Which type of game to play to give you a 39-8 kill:death ratio? So many questions. And even some answers. Limni and SirGigiddy offered some great tips on class switching, launchers and how to be of more support to your team. The final piece of gaming advice came from SerenVikity; study the top players Theatre Clips. "I would study SirG's theatre clips like a psycho stalker," being her exact words.After all that gaming, the blog turned its attention to Piip's hair:  "...I'd had red hair for too long. So I nipped down to Tesco and brought some dye. I now have purple/red/black hair and I can't decide if I like it?"The blog needed more detail. SerenVikity, fresh from stalking SirGigiddy, asked, "Are you going to bleach your hair and then put blue through it? Or go for a blue tinted colour?"The relevance to her actual advice was unclear: "Some Norse would lighten the colour of their hair using their own (I hope) urine. It's probably better than putting Sun-In through the follicles but I wouldn't recommend either." Apparently it's history, so it must be true.Timthemonkey, on discovering a solitary grey hair, grew old in the space of a single blog post. You could hear him deflate like an old tyre as he typed, "Sadly I think the days of wild hair colours may be behind me."Henrypootle piped up and addressed Tim's stupor with a little bit of family history, "My Nan had a blue rinse in her '70s you square".Finally, ImperfectRex brought things round to serious Euro-political discourse: "Dont dye. It's a slippery slope. Look at Berlusconi, in his '70s and dark dark hair. On the other hand, look at Berlusconi - into his '70s, luscious shiny dark hair and (allegedly) a bevy of lovelies at his beck and call."ThursdayA family-sized curry, an all you can eat Chinese and a nice mixed grill... no, not Eamonn Holmes' mid-morning snack, but how Thursday opened. And after the food came the fighting, with Simian being deprived of his bonus from an old job and BeardOfBees and his lawyer-related problems.Picpicpic railed against his (at the time) current lady friend who, "…likes hearing from me and needs to know I'm thinking about her, and spending every Friday/Saturday night in her company."pdamalcolm set him straight: "There's a name for what you've got there... It's called a girlfriend."The rest of the day was taken up by nonsense, such as smoking is bad, smoked bacon less so, the HTC desire/Iphone (delete as preferred) is better, survival horror games and the PES2008 theme tune (unfettered genius – Ed).Towards the end of the day, joy of joys, talk turned to the upcoming awards and to the Test Match Special-inspired inaugural Chatterbox Champagne Moment of the Year. This lead inexorably to a certain Sagesmith and his delightful children, a moment we all remember so fondly.FridayThe game getting most attention on the blog this particular Friday? Not the launch of Dead Space 2, but Baldur's Gate, an AD&amp;D game from the mists of time. Limni was giving hints and tips on various mods for Baldur's Gate, and Baldur's Gate 2 and the two expansion packs. Limni is serious about his hobby, about 25Gb serious.But like a good Necronaut, you can't really keep Dead Space down. Already talk was spreading about the use of stasis guns, PS Move controllers, and other scary games.  Shadowmind, being too scared to complete the first game, decided to pass on DS2, with this excuse: "I could only play with someone else in the room".A brief foray into list blog, this time a top five of Rolling Stones songs, proved that you can always get what you want, until Football Blog reared its head.  This time it was all about how you decide which team to support, nature or nurture?  Inevitably this led to a long list of bloggers telling us who their dad supported, where they grew up, and what half-mangled excuse they came up with for supporting Manchester United.[There is no excuse – Keef, lifelong Blue]And keeping with the theme of political comments from Gamesbloggers (What theme?  Berlusconi was mentioned once and that's it! Ed), SerenVikity rounded out the day (and the week) with this bon mot: "You can say what you like about Egypt. Their internet is 'down' so no one in Egypt can read this right now."Quotes of the week"There's a space hamster in my captain's quarters in Mass Effect 2. No idea how it got there but there doesn't seem to be any way to put it in the decompression chamber until its eyes bulge out."BeardofBees bemoans the lack of a true sandbox mode in ME2."Is— 'Hoots Mon, there's a moose, loose, aboot this hoose' one of his? If so, he's a genius."TimtheMonkey shows a rare understanding of the work of Rabbie Burns."When God created man, Andy Murray is what he ultimately had in mind.Of course he's British. You don't get to choose your nationality. Unless you're from Northern Ireland."We are sure HereComesTreble is sticking to his guns after Mr Murray's performance in the Oz Open final.End gameWelcome:SonicBoomCK, Pacman1977 and sleeper00serviceJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'I say nothing' by Voice of the Beehive[sorry, I was a bit drunk – Keef].Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by SerenVikity, OneDaveofMany, Smellavision (who pulled a heroic double-shift) and Tjvs. It was edited by Foolsgold74"If there were in the world today any large number of people who desired their own happiness more than they desired the unhappiness of others, we could have paradise in a few years."Bertrand Russell
Like this? Photo bymasatsuon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThose Samsung return numbers &gt;&gt; Twisted MelonExamining Samsung's "only 2% have been returned" v an analyst's "16% returned".Bruno Fernandez: "What if Samsung's number is based on their distribution shipments of "2 million" units and the report numbers are based on actual sales (what stores would report). Let's assume the "under 2%" is 1.8% to give them some wiggle room.&#10;"That means 36000 returns on 2 million units. For which 36000 is 16% of 225000 units. (100/16= 6.25 x 36k = 225k)&#10;"That could mean only 225k units have actually been sold to customers, of which 36k have been returned. Or 250k if you use exactly 2% in calculation above.&#10;"In either case, it sounds like a runaway success to me."Facebook Video Count Has Been Plummeting For Five Months &gt;&gt; paidContent"Facebook is practically synonymous with explosive growth—with one notable exception. An examination of Comscore's U.S. online-video rankings from 2010 reveals the red-hot social network has mysteriously nosedived by nearly 30% over five consecutive months after topping everyone but Google as early as last August."If you can think of any reasons, do leave them in the comments.Internet Stats &gt;&gt; GoogleIf you need some random internet statistics (or possibly believeable ones) for that presentation then this is the page for you. Kudos to Paul Carvill for the pointer.Police.uk: failure at scale &gt;&gt; Michael Brunton-SpallMichael Brunton-Spall, one of the developers who keeps the Guardian's site running under big loads, analyses the police.uk site: "When I visit the crime maps website, the very first thing I see is a landing page that I can type my postcode into.  The HTML generated for this page must be the same for every user, so this page should be cached right?  Unfortunately, not only is this page uncached but it doesn't return any cache headers, last modified or expires headers of any form."It gets worse. Much worse.Verizon breaks first day sales record with iPhone 4 pre-orders -- in only two hours &gt;&gt; Engadget"It took Verizon only two hours of having the iPhone 4 available for pre-order to break its all-time record for first day sales of a single device. That's in spite of the fact it only opened up pre-orders to its own subscribers and did so at the dead of night. To be clear, between 3AM and 5AM yesterday morning, more people ordered up the iPhone 4 than Verizon has been able to get through its doors on any full product launch day."This is somewhat remarkable.Apple iPad vs. RIM Playbook vs. Motorola Xoom vs. Dell Streak 7Rob Enderle compares. However as only two of the four devices being compared is actually available to buy, we'll classify this under "unicorns v centaurs: which can run faster? And which has the nicer fur?"Extra fact: there are no Motorola Xooms running Honeycomb available to anyone outside Motorola (except for a very few developers, which Enderle isn't), and Google has no public release schedule for Honeycomb.On £585 favicons…  &gt;&gt; Harry Metcalfe"The real question here isn't why this specific favicon cost £585. That's pretty clear: Reading Room charge £600/day (which is competitive), spent a few minutes making the favicon, and the best part of 7 hours making sure everyone was happy with it. Which, I strongly suspect, is exactly what they were asked to do by their client.&#10;"We absolutely need to work on making government more agile and getting better value for money. And it is starting to happen, asdxw'ssuccess over the past three years illustrates. But blind invective won't accomplish that.&#10;"Suppliers need to help government understand the true (small!) nature of the risks that online technologies present. And we need to show government how it's possible to do things quickly and cheaply on the web.&#10;"And I think that practical help and understanding will get us there much more quickly than premature outbursts of uninformed anger."Nokia employs as many people to develop its smartphone software as Apple does to develop all its products &gt;&gt; AsymcoAlthough Nokia does sell a stack more phones (running Symbian) than Apple does. Not, however, for a great deal more profit. Anticipate changes in the coming week.Motorola Cliq XT Won't Get Android 2.1 Upgrade &gt;&gt; EngadgetWhich means its users will remain on Android 1.5. Or, of course, buy an upgrade. Or, as John Gruber suggest: "That's OK, because Android is open. Cliq XT owners can just type 'mkdir android ; cd android ; repo init -u git://android.git.kernel.org/platform/manifest.git ; repo sync ; make' and they'll be all set."Warning: may contain irony.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Mobile phone base stations no bigger than a golf ball could help to bridge the digital divide and bring mobile broadband to distant areas both in the developing and developed world, the networking company Alcatel-Lucent has claimed.The company said on Monday that its new technology, which shrinks many of the functions of a standard base station down to a few chips which fit in a cube it calls "lightRadio", would mean that mobile networks could run their systems with lower power demands and half the cost overall, while broadening deployment.The "lightRadio" technology, which will be tested by a number of mobile operators around the world including Orange, Verizon in the US and the world's largest network, China Mobile, could halve network operating costs and do the same for power demands, said Wim Sweldens, head of the company's mobile business at a presentation in London.The base stations – reduced from the bulky cabinet of past years to a system-on-a-chip integrated circuit made by semiconductor company Freescale – can be installed wherever there is electricity, and can then connect either over an internet connection or via microwave links to processing units elsewhere. That reduces the space needed to deploy the systems and means they can be put almost anywhere, said Sweldens. "The need for a [large] base station pretty much goes away." The new lightRadio cubes would also be able to cover the same area as existing stations, Alcatel-Lucent said.Sweldens said the new systems would "not replace but augment" the build-out of high-speed optical fibre networks. At present there are sharp disagreements between the UK government and would-be fibre optic providers over the cost of laying cable and the lack of subsidy and the levels of taxation on new fibre if it is not laid by BT."You can use fibre and put these cubes at the edge [of the fibre network] and connect them so that you can make a dramatic improvement in the area covered [by mobile broadband]."Sweldens added: "lightRadio will help mobile operators evolve their networks to address the mobile broadband deluge." The lightRadio represents a new approach where the base station, typically located at the base of each cell site tower, is broken into its components elements and then distributed into both the antenna and throughout a cloud-like network.The lower running costs and power needs could be crucial for network operators which are trying to cope with surging demands in data traffic, which Cisco forecasts will grow roughly 30-fold in the next five years."Operators will have to look at dramatic ways to cut costs – you cannot increase investment 30-fold," Sweldens said.The lightRadio cubes, each able to provide 2G, 3G and LTE ("4G") radio connections, can be used individually or more usually in groups, where roughly 20 would be needed to provide the equivalent coverage as an existing base station.Alcatel-Lucent said it has partnered with Freescale and with Hewlett-Packard which will provide computing services. Sweldens said the market for products such as lightRadio, which combine different network technologies, will grow to some €12bn (£5.8bn) in 2014, up from €7bn.Ben Verwaayen, Alcatel-Lucent's chief executive officer, said: "Today's and tomorrow's demands for coverage and capacity require a breakthrough in mobile communications." He added: "lightRadio will signal the end of the basestation and the cell tower as we know it today."Governments and regulatory bodies are expected to welcome the technical development, which will help meet targets for universal broadband access by laying the foundation to address the so-called "digital divide".
