Come this way for midweek games banter.
Cast yourself back now to 2000, when Google was just becoming part of the public consciousness: it had 170 employees but Larry Page and Sergey Brin's faces weren't that well known. (OK, maybe that's still true.)So here's Sergey Brin – can you guess which one he is? – appearing on an American quizshow called Tell the Truth, in which the panellists have to guess which one of three people is thereal"Google guru" by asking them questions.As much as anything, the identities and professions of the two other people are enlightening.. and surprising, given their answers to the questions they're asked.And there's even a happy ending for the pre-IPO Google. Maybe if they could have gotten Page and Brin to appear every week they wouldn't have needed the venture capital funding.Plus – wouldyouknow, facing the question over a table, in which country HTML was devised? No conferring..(Thanks to Ed Bott on Google+ for the pointer.)
Twitter, the microblogging website that lets users tweet messages of 140 characters or less, is now worth $8bn (£4.9bn). The firm's new price tag comes after a $400m investment in the loss-making venture from serial social media investor DST Global. Twitter is now nominally worth about the same as rating agency Moody's, which had revenues of $1.2bn in the first six months of 2011 and is nearly as valuable as Marks &amp; Spencer.The huge valuation reflects high expectations for the company. Confirming the investment, Twitter also announced that its users now send 200m tweets a day, up from 65m a year ago."One year ago, there were approximately 150,000 registered Twitter apps. Now, there are more than one million that connect to Twitter. And our team has grown from 250 people to more than 600 in the past 12 months," said the firm in a blog post."We have the opportunity to expand Twitter's reach with a significant round of funding led by the venture firm DST Global, with the participation of several of our existing investors," Twitter said. "We will use these resources to aggressively innovate, hire more great people and invest in international expansion."The new funds are part of $800m Twitter wants to raise as it grooms its business for a potential initial public offering. DST Global, the investment fund led by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, also owns stakes in Facebook, online gaming firm Zynga and discount firm Groupon, all of which have plans to go public.Twitter is believed to be using half the money to buy back shares from employees and backers. The rest of the money will be used to help the San Francisco-based company develop its service as it competes for advertising dollars with larger rivals such as Facebook. Twitter may bring in $150m in advertising this year, according to research firm eMarketer, three times what it made last year. The analyst estimates that Facebook brought in ad revenue of $1.86bn last year.Twitter's valuation has soared along with its peers as investors chase after the world's top social media companies. At $8bn Twitter's valuation is more than double the valuation it received last December when Silicon Valley investor Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers made a $200m investment in the firm. The new money brings Twitter's total investment to just over $1.16bn in four years.The company also needs cash to build its international business. Twitter has targeted London as its first major office outside the US and has appointed a UK head, Tony Wang, and a UK-based communications staff.Twitter's new valuation comes as  shares in social media companies now going public are attracting frenzied buying. Shares in LinkedIn, the business-based social media firm, skyrocketed more than 80% in their first day of trading. They are trading at more than double their $45 opening price and the firm is valued at $9.5bn.But not all the new generation of social media firms have fared so well. Pandora, an online music company, priced its shares at $16 apiece and experienced a big bounce up on its first day but is now trading at around $13.Renren, often called China's Facebook, soared 28.6% on its first day of trading in May, closing at $18 a share, well above its $14 opening price and raising $740m. The shares have subsequently slumped to about $10 as investors worry about lack of profits and the Chinese market.
The Pass notes column was taken down because the story on which it was based is a hoax. The story suggested that scientific research showed that those who used Internet Explorer to complete an online quiz were less intelligent than others who completed the quiz.
Facebook has acquired Push Pop Press, the US startup behind Al Gore's Our Choice book-app for iPhone and iPad.The developerannounced the newson its website, explaining that "we're taking our publishing technology and everything we've learned and are setting off to help design the world's largest book, Facebook".It seems this is a talent and technology acquisition rather than a move by Facebook to get into book-app publishing, though. "Although Facebook isn't planning to start publishing digital books, the ideas and technology behind Push Pop Press will be integrated with Facebook, giving people even richer ways to share their stories," explain co-founders Mike Matas and Kimon Tsinteris.Our Choice will remain on Apple's App Store, with Push Pop Press' share of the profits from now on to be donated to Gore's environmental campaigning groupThe Climate Reality Project."There are no plans to continue publishing new titles or building out our publishing platform that was in private beta," continue Matas and Tsinteris in their statement. "We are incredibly grateful to everyone who has supported and expressed interest in Push Pop Press."The value of the acquisition has not been announced. Both the company's founders previously worked at Apple, with Tsinteris having a role as a binary mixologist working on maps and location-based services for iPhone, while Matas was a human interface designer.Our Choice was not just an app, but a showcase for Push Pop Press' publishing platform for book-apps, including an editor, a publishing and hosting service and a document format. The plan was to eventually open it out to external publishers.Apps Bloginterviewed Tsinterisin May 2011 about the company's plans. "We think that the app is probably one of the richest, most interactive forms of storytelling that exist," he said at the time. "One of our founding premises is to re-imagine the book."Now it seems the duo's focus will be on re-imagining storytelling on the world's biggest social network. Tsinteris' closing comment in that interview about the primordial instinct for storytelling has added impact now: "It used to be travelling bards, now it's people tweeting or uploading Facebook pictures. Everybody is a storyteller at heart."
A mobile application for Google's Android smartphones can secretly record users' phone calls and transmit them to malicious hackers,security researchers have found.Once downloaded by a user, the app – which the researcher has not named, but seems to have a name relating to "System Messages" – surreptitiously stores a recording of the user's incoming and outgoing calls to the phone's memory card, according to the New York-based security experts CA Technologies.In a blog post unveiling the finding, researcher Dinesh Venkatesan said the so-called "Trojan app" is one of the most invasive they have ever uncovered. He also warned that there is an increasing trend targeting smartphones using Google's Android software, which allows developers to submit apps with little vetting.Google had not returned requests for comment at the time of publication.Venkateskan wrote on the researcher's official blog: "In one of our earlier blogs, we have demonstrated how a Trojan logs all the details of incoming/outgoing calls and call duration in a text file."This Trojan is more advanced as it records the conversation itself in 'amr' format [which is optimised for recording speech]. Also it has many other malicious activities that we have seen in many of the earlier malware incidents targeted for Android platform."The app, which was not named by the researchers for security reasons, asks users' permission to intercept outgoing calls and record audio before it is installed. Once downloaded, all calls the user makes will be logged on the phone's memory – which can potentially be accessed by the app's makers. The sound is filed in a folder called shangzhou/callrecord, suggesting that its author is Chinese.Venkatesan added: "As it is already widely acknowledged that this year is the year of mobile malware, we advise smartphone users to be more logical and exercise the basic security principles while surfing and installing any applications."Only last monthsecurity experts warnedover a new strain of the Zeus virus – known to be one of the most pernicious on the internet and which targets login details for banks – that specifically targeted Android smartphones.Almost 52m Android smartphones were shipped worldwide in the second quarter of this year – almost a fivefold increase year-on-year –according to market researchers Canalys. The huge increase is attributed to the large number of manufacturers, including HTC, Samsung and Motorola, now making handsets using Google's software.
Believe nothing that you read about the iPhone 5's launch unless you really, really trust the source. And even then, look askance at it.In the past 24 hours, the intertubes have been abuzz even more than possible over the idea that "the" "iPhone 5" (note: might be more than one; might not be called iPhone 5) will bedelayed until October. This has come from no less authoritative a source than John Paczkowski at AllThingsD, the spinoff stand-alone weblog from the Wall Street Journal, and so meant to be an authoritative source.Well, maybe. It's absolutely possible that Paczkowski has nailed this, and that the iPhone(s) will not land until October.However, I'd point out that by my understanding, ATD doesn't have to pass the same tough tests that articles in the WSJ do, where even "anonymous" sources have to be named to senior editors and in effect vetted for independence.Update:my error in not contacting ATD before writing. For utter clarification, ATD operates on the same high standards as the WSJ, and - to quote Walt Mossberg of the WSJ and ATD - "John's senior editors (Kara [Swisher] and I) know the provenance of this story". He adds that "all of our recent articles on Apple events have been accurate."  (The WSJ is very, very hot on not getting things wrong; the motto inside the building is that it's better to be late and correct than early and wrong. I'm happy to reiterate my trust in John Paczkowski's and ATD's very high professional standards.)Do I know that the next iPhone release will be in September? No, not for sure. However, there are two telling details that I do know, one public, one less so:• Apple's iOS5, which will obviously power the next iPhone version, is rolling towards a September release. Look, there's even theweb beta for iCloud.• my carrier sources tell me that the boxes in which the new iPhone hardware is encased have been transported to carriers for testing. This is an important step in the release cycle for any phone. As I pointed out the other week, therelease of the Windows Phone "Mango" code to developersmeans that handset makers can start developing their versions, which then means that they can get the phones moving down the process towards release. But WP "Mango" phones aren't expected until October at the earliest.The next iPhones go for their testing inside locked and sealed boxes so that the carriers can carry out checks on their network compatibility in their labs. It's very high security, as you could guess; my understanding is that barely anyone inside the carriers gets to open those boxes, and even when they do the hardware is encased in a dummy body which means there's no clue to what the actual phone will do. This, by the way, is what led to "Antennagate": there simply hadn't been enough people outside Apple who had tried the iPhone 4 at length in its real form to discover the problems with its reception.You can bet that Apple has come up with some sneaky scheme that would instantly identify any leak of a phone photo from any of those testing labs; and you wouldn't want to be the carrier whose employee had done so. (The employee probably wouldn't stay employed very long either.)Either way, the new iPhones are in the system, which means they now just have to get approval - which will probably only take a few weeks at most - and can then be signed off for manufacturing.Now, why would Apple release the phones in October rather than September? Bear in mind that it wants to maximise its revenue, and that the expectation is that these phones are coming - there might even be a lull in sales as people expect something new. (And also as they go on holiday.) Come September, people will be raring to go.There's a lesson from history here. In 2005, early in September Apple held a "special event" to launch the (dire)Motorola ROKR- the first phone that also ran iTunes! (It was horrendous.) To make up for the ROKR, or basically to ignore it altogether, since Steve Jobs had already decided that it was rubbish and had got the project to build the iPhone going, Apple introduced the iPod   nano.The nano was a knockout seller. But a week or two later, Jobs gave the keynote at Apple's Paris Expo. Why, he was asked then, hadn't he waited until he had the big occasion at which to show off his new product? Why do it in a little venue in front of a small invited audience (albeit with an intrigued press watching on satellite links)?Because, Jobs explained, even a week could make a huge difference when you're looking at the runup to Christmas. "Every single week before the holidays counts, and we didn't want to wait two weeks when every week counts with very high volumes," he said then.It's almost surely the same with the iPhone: Apple will be expecting this to be a big seller around Christmas (whether it's one or two versions; if there's a smaller "nano"-priced iPhone then that will mean even more pressure to have it on sale for longer).Now, why would Apple be looking to release in October? By the logic of "get it out there sooner so more people can buy it", there's no sense in waiting so long. The only reason why Apple would delay the launch in that way would be if it has hit a manufacturing problem. But supply lines are quiet; there's plenty of capacity (Apple secured it after theJapanese earthquake in March). So it can't be a supply constraint either.I think we can also discount the marvellously bonkers "on the one hand, but then again no"posting at Boy Genius Reportwhich says "According to confirmed information we have received from a reliable source at Canadian carrier Telus, Apple's iPhone 5 looks to be touching down on October 1st in Canada. In the past, Apple has flip flopped between releasing its iconic smartphone in the US first and then in Canada, or launching its smartphone simultaneously in the US and Canada as it did with the iPhone 3GS."First of all, that's not flip-flopping; it's varying. Second, it doesn't answer the question of why it matters, since it doesn't answer the general question of whether the launch will hapen in September or October.My gut feeling, allied to the information from carriers and Apple's history, is that we're still looking at a September release. Who knows, perhaps someone was even misdirecting the good people at ATD by suggesting October, just to forestall any drop in sales over August. I'm not saying John Packzowski is wrong, or misreporting; only that his sources might be. Not long to wait now, though, to find out who's right.(Updated to clarify that detail about boxes comes from carrier sources.)(Updated to clarify All Things Digital requirement on sourcing.)
Joining Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur this week is Paul Walsh from MetaCert, the company contracted by the ICM Registry to classify the content of the new crop of .xxx web addresses, to be launched later this year. Paul talks the pod team through what makes the cut and what doesn't, and how MetaCert rates content for a global audience.The team also speak with Chris Marcich, president and managing director of the Motion Picture Association of America's European office, which recently won a landmark cake against BT. The ISP was asked to block access to Newzbin2, a site known to share links to copyrighted content. Marchich parries the debate about the legal and political implications of an ISP as arbiter of acceptable content.Also in this week's podcast, why Google Chrome has become the second most popular web browser in the UK, behind Microsoft's Internet Explorer and ahead of Mozilla's Firefox, and the latest on LulzSec, the hacker network.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
As far back as November last year, Digital Sky Technologies founder Yuri Milner was dropping valley-sized hints about investing in Twitter. Speaking at the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco, Milner said Twitter was one of 25-30 firms that wouldfit DST's investment strategy, which is to support international companies in the social internet space with valuations of at least $1bn.Photo byWayne_Parrackon Flickr.Some rights reservedAt the time, he wouldn't directly comment on whether the two were negotiating a deal, but after months of speculationTwitter last night confirmedthat DSThasinvested. A brief mention in ablog postdidn't mention the valuation or the investment amount, butAllThingsDconfirmedprevious reportsthat DST invested $800m at a valuation of $8bn. $400m of that investment will be allocated to current investors and employees, who want to see a cash return ahead of an initial public offering that still is likely to be at least 18 months away.From the officialTwitter blog:"We've come very far in a short time. Now we have an opportunity to expand Twitter's reach with a significant round of funding led by the venture firm DST Global, with the participation of several of our existing investors. We will use these resources to aggressively innovate, hire more great people and invest in international expansion."Note that very interestingly,Twitter's postalso mentioned that while 150,000 external services connected to Twitter this time last year, that has now risen to more than 1m services. We assume that means services that use Twitter IDs as a login, as well as full-blown apps, like TweetDeck and those faintly amusing 'when did I join Twitter?" diversions that require a one-time log in. The post added that Twitter now processes 200m tweets a day, and employs 600 staff.Total investment in Twitter: $1.16bnDST's investment is hot on the heels of another $200m last December from Kleiner Perkins Caulfield &amp; Byers, Benchmark and Union Square - that valued Twitter at $3.7bn. By revenue multiples, the DST investment is extremely generous, valuing a firm with estimated annual revenues of only $200m at$8bn.It brings Twitter's total investment to just over $1.16bn in four years.Photo byakk_ruson Flickr.Some rights reservedDST has become increasingly influential in the tech space, though Milner himself is something of an enigma; despite a small number of investments, they have all been for extremely large sums.Also at Web 2.0, Milner said that 80% of DST's investments are made through secondary markets, such as SecondMarket and SharesPost, which have  become increasingly popular for employees of firms like Facebook, for example, who want to release some value from their shares and don't want to wait for the company to float.DST reportedly invested $300min Facebook and thebiggest chunk of a $180m-roundin Zynga in 2009,$4min online gaming firm Nival in 2010 and$40min Airbnb this year.Milner bluntly avoided saying anything interesting at all when Mike Arrington at TechCrunchtried interviewinghim in January, though in a 2009 interview he did comment on why DST  appears to jump into vast investment projects at valuations that make  other venture firms blanch."We have a very unique perspective on social networking monetisation  that other investors don't necessarily see," said Milner. "We have seen  how social networks are monetised in our part  of the world. We do our maths and come out with numbers that we feel  comfortable with going forward. We don't really value [businesses] on  the basis of 2009 but the longer-term curve based on our experience."Promoted tweets go liveChief executive Dick Costolo has been tightening Twitter's business for several months trying to increase revenues. Initially that meantrestricting third party developersso that Twitter could claim control of any potentially revenue-making services, but the service has also been expanding the services that allow brands to formally advertise.A few days ago, to supplement the existing 'promoted accounts' and 'promoted trends', Twitter added 'promoted tweets'to the mix. Much along the lines of sponsored links in Google search results, promoted accounts charge brands for a premium spot on the 'who to follow' box, promoted trends put a hashtag at the top of the trends box and, you've guessed it, promoted tweets put highlighted tweets at or near the top of users' streams.Launch partners include Starbucks, XBox and Virgin America, though crucially users will only see promoted tweets if they are already following that brand and they will only appear once.Milner aside, there is no consensus on whether the tech market is witnessing the next bubble. A recent survey by accounting firm BDO found that 75% of investment bankers thinkmulti-billion tech valuationsare over-inflated, while more specialist investors seem to think the scale and commercial foundations of the biggest mobile and social firms is proof enough of viable businesses."Take a look at the underlying business performance of any of these companies and it would suggest that we're not in a bubble - Facebook, Zynga, LinkedIn, Twitter - in revenues and profits it's unprecedented," Kleiner-Perkins partner Chi-Hua Chien told Andrew Keen on TechCrunch. He goes on to explain how Web 1.0 took physical services and reinterpreted them online, and that Web 2.0 will 'socialise' every vertical market.Perhaps the parameters for valuing companies need redefining for this new era to include an 'optimism' factor, based on user numbers and ideas that sound like they might be able to make money one day. Either that, or California (and Moscow) are trying to out-posture each other and have hopelessly poured money into companies that they will never see again.
Vince Cable, the business secretary, will say on Wednesday that government plans to block illegal filesharing websites under the controversial Digital Economy Act are in effect unworkable.Outlining the government's response to the Hargreaves report on the future of UK copyright law, Cable is also expected to announce legislation to sweep away restrictive rules on file copying and parody works.In a speech at the British Library on Wednesday, the Liberal Democrat minister will outline the next steps for the introduction of the delayed Digital Economy Act.Cable will row back on one of the act's most contentious measures – introducing legislation to block access to copyright-infringing websites – and instead suggest that the existing Copyrights, Design and Patents Act is powerful enough.That followslast week's landmark high courtruling, which forced BT to cut off access to Newzbin2, a site found to be infringing copyright "on a grand scale".Cable's intervention comes as ministers struggle to implement anti-piracy measures outlined by the Digital Economy Act rushed through by the Labour party at the end of its time in office.The first warning letters to be sent to Britons accused of illegal filesharing are now not due until the second half of 2012 – more than a year later than originally planned.A series of legal challenges have meant that cutting off the internet connections of serial pirates is unlikely to begin until 2013 at the earliest.Cable is also expected to announce a "scoping review" into the viability of a setting up a digital copyright exchange, one of the key proposals ofthe Hargreaves report published in May– in effect kicking the idea into the long grass.The rights exchange, which would effectively be a one-stop shop to make lawful use of copyrighted material easier, received "serious pushback" from media companies, according to one industry source. Film and music companies and broadcasters are understood to have raised a number of issues about the proposed exchange, including fears that it may contravene various European regulations by forcing all rights holders to participate. One industry source said that if it was a full "stock exchange" trading platform it may not generate as much revenue as selling rights directly.The government is anticipated to legislate to sweep away many of the UK's archaic intellectual property restrictions that make it technically illegal to transfer content from CDs or DVDs to other formats, such as iPods. The reforms will also make it legal for Britons to burn copies of music and video files for family members to use, and give legal protection to spoof works.Cable has previously said that private copying is carried out by millions of people who are "astonished" that it is technically illegal. He said: "We need to bring copyright into line with people's expectations and update it for the modern digital world. This will free up innovative British businesses to develop new consumer technology and help boost economic growth."Cable is expected to outline further changes to the DEA, including how costs are apportioned between rights holders and ISPs. The judicial review ruled in April thatISPs should not foot the bill for setting up an appeals body.Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, is understood to have set a date of mid-September to get ISPs and rights holders to another roundtable meeting aimed at curbing infringing sites voluntarily.However, many rights holders are dismayed at the delays in implementing the Digital Economy Act. "What we would very much like is the government to get on drafting and writing the code that goes with the DEA and to fast-track the legal process so it doesn't take hundreds of thousands of pounds and a long time to sort these things out," said Lavinia Carey, director general of the British Video Association.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle acquires Dealmap, the missing link between Offers &amp; Maps &gt;&gt; VentureBeatQuestion is: what took it so long?CIA &gt;&gt; xkcdPlus the title text, of course.The two existential threats to Nokia: why Nokia is on the endangered species list and will not survive 12 months &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenTomi Ahonen, ex-Nokia exec, always with the happy: "Nokia's handset unit generated 8.5 Billion Euros (11B US dollars) of revenues in Q4 with about 1 Billion Euros of profit. So if we ignore Nokia's networking unit NokiaSiemens Networks - a division that Nokia has been trying to sell for half a year now but is finding nobody willing to pay the price for the loss-making unit - the handsets business of Nokia, Smartphones and 'Featurephones' was the size of 44 Billion dollars on an annual level, just six months ago.Now where are they? The handsets unit reported total revenues down to 5.5 Billion Euros (7.5 Billion US dollars) and a loss of a 247 million Euros (321 million USD). ..So under Stephen Elop's so-called 'leadership' and his foot-in-mouth disease,.. Nokia has already shrunk - 32% ! In five months ! If the malaise was only in one unit of the three big divisions of a corporation, the other two could sustain the company. But right now, Nokia is disappearing before our eyes!"Old-school hacker Oxblood Ruffin discusses Anonymous and the future of hacktivism &gt;&gt; Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty"[RFL] spoke by email with Oxblood Ruffin, a Canadian hacker who is a member of the Cult of the Dead Cow (cDc), a hackers' group that coined the word "hacktivist." He is also the founder and director of Hacktivismo. I asked him about Anonymous's recent operations and the ethics and rules of engagement of hacktivism.RFE/RL: How would you define "hacktivism"?Ruffin: "Hacktivism uses technology to improve human rights. It also employs nonviolent tactics and is aligned with the original intent of the Internet, which is to keep things up and running."With regard to tactics, things like DDoS attacks, Web defacements, malware, and network breaches are off limits. These generally limit speech and are a violation of the First Amendment and contradict Articles 19 of the UNDHR [Universal Declaration of Human Rights] and ICCPR [International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights]."Oxblood Ruffin. Make room, Game Of Thrones.Farewell Flash? Adobe launches HTML5 web animations tool "Adobe Edge" &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"Today, Adobe is launching a new tool called Adobe Edge which will allow creative professionals to design animated Web content using Web standards like HTML5, CSS and JavaScript. Not Flash."Aimed to coexist with Adobe Flash, not replace it, the Web design software is Adobe's big bet on how it will continue to solidify its position as a top player in the infrastructure of the modern Web, especially as the Web goes increasingly mobile. In this new mobile context, the Web has become a more hostile environment for Flash, which has no place on Apple mobile devices, and likely never will."It Just Doesn't Work: why new tech products are increasingly unsatisfying &gt;&gt; Time"I've been reviewing technology products for 20 years now. I've seen it all, from products that were amazing from the get-go (the first PalmPilot comes to mind) to ones that were downright hazardous (a mouse that caught on fire). But there's never been a time when so much of the new stuff I look at is so very far from being ready for mass consumption. Sometimes it's a tad quirky; sometimes I can't get it to work at all. And when I call the manufacturers for help, they're often well aware of the problems I encountered."Can you think of any recently released products for which this might be true?Apple seeks to block Samsung Electronics from selling tablet in Australia &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Apple Inc. won an agreement from Samsung Electronics Co. that the South Korean company won't sell the newest version of its tablet computer in Australia until a patent lawsuit in the country is resolved."The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringes 10 Apple patents, including the "look and feel," and touchscreen technology of the iPad, Steven Burley, a lawyer for Apple, told Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett in Sydney yesterday. The Cupertino, California-based company sought an Australian injunction and also wants to stop Samsung from selling the tablet in other countries, Burley said without specifying where."It's an interesting way to keep the market share up. Apple will pay Samsung damages if its patent infringement claim fails.A Billion Dollars Isn't Cool. You Know What's Cool? Basic Human Decency &gt;&gt; TechCrunchPaul Carr skewers the problem with the promise. "And therein lies the real problem of web 2.0 -- whether it takes the form of SEO-driven "news" or crowd-sourced accommodation. To make money -- real money -- at this game you have to attract millions, or tens of millions, of users. And when you're dealing with those kinds of numbers, it's literally impossible not to treat your users as pieces of data. It's ironic, but depressingly unsurprising, that web 2.0 is using faux socialization and democratization to create a world where everyone is reduced to a number on a spreadsheet."Where did all the Mac malware go? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott sees bad times ahead: "Even if Apple does add a definition for that piece of malware, I suspect that the next iteration of the Mac malware authoring kit will include a feature to bring it up to parity with its Windows counterparts. These days, malware attacks on the Windows side typically use polymorphic code that makes every sample unique. The technique makes signature-based malware detection systems, like Apple's XProtect, essentially useless."The bad guys have lots of ways to distribute malware: booby-trapped porn sites, bogus audio and video codecs, pirated copies of software that come with "a little something extra," even fake security updates. The increasing success of the Mac platform and its relatively weak security ecosystem means easy pickings for enterprising crooks."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 9 apps for your considerationWolfram Sun Exposure Reference AppWolfram Alpha is known mostly for its number-crunching "answer engine", but the company has been branching out with a bunch of reference apps in recent months. The latest will come in handy for anyone in the summer sun: it calculates how long you can stay out without burning, based on your skin type, location, the time of day and what sun lotion you're using.iPhone / iPadThe Phantom Of The Opera Piano SongbookThe Phantom Of The Opera is there, inside your iPad tinkling on the ivories. This songbook app offers piano sheet music for 12 songs from the famous musical, with backing tracks to help. It's the work of Musicroom, which has similar apps for Adele, Coldplay and Bob Dylan.iPadTrail Maps by National GeographicThe National Geographic Society's latest iOS app is all about the trails, whether walking, biking, sailing or kayaking. The app provides details USGS maps, backed up by Bing aerial images, with the ability to track specific routes and measure waypoints. Probably more useful for US users, although it's available in the UK App Store too – good for anyone planning a trail-focused trip to the States.iPhone / iPadPIASMusic group PIAS has released its official iPhone app, offering news and videos from artists including Tiesto, Dinosaur Jr, Editors, I Am Kloot and Grace Jones. The app will also livestream selected gigs, and has augmented reality features thrown in for good measure.iPhoneFunDJThe latest DJ app to be released for iPhone is FunDJ, whose USP is the ability to mix songs by motion rather than touch, using the iPhone 4's gyroscope sensor. Rotate for a flanger or shake up and down for a loop, for example.iPhoneRCRD LBLUS blog-cum-label RCRD LBL has plenty of fans online, but now it has an official iPhone app. The app lets users download tracks from its catalogue to store on their iPhone, while also sharing details with friends. Creating playlists and getting mixes from featured artists are exclusive app features too.iPhoneGeodog Mobile Pro£86 to GPS-track where your dog goes? The Android Geodog apps are targeting a specific audience, it's fair to say. This is less about home-dwelling pooches and more about rescue or hunting dogs, who are more likely to be out in the wild for long periods at a time. We'd like to see something like this done for cats, mind.AndroidCondé Nast Traveler MagazineCondé Nast Traveler now has an official iPad app for its magazine, having launched a few spin-off apps in the last year. The app is free to existing print subscribers in the US and Canada, but is available in the UK too, with issues sold via in-app payments.iPadScribd ReaderOnline documents firm Scribd has launched its Scribd Reader app, which it's describing as a "social reading app". That means pulling in articles from newspaper, magazine and blog sites, as well as documents stored on Scribd's own service.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
News International has emailed thousands of people to warn them that one or more hackers have copied personal details of thousands of people who entered competitions and polls on the Sun's website and are posting them publicly on the internet.In an email sent out late on Monday evening, the director of customer data for News International, Chris Duncan, says that in a hacking attack on 19 July – when a fake story claiming that Rupert Murdoch was dead was planted on the site – "some customer information from competitions and polls was breached". Among the details are names, addresses, date of birth, email and phone numbers. "No financial or password information was compromised," Duncan writes.Samples from files in which Sun readers entered a Monarch quiz in 2009, as well as a list of Scottish students, the Miss Scotland contestants database, a Wrigleys football competition, an Xbox competition, referendum, royal wedding well-wishers, and a forum for bullied people have been posted on the Pastebin site, a popular site among hackers for posting public messages anonymously. Many include personal information including phone numbers and addresses.Duncan says that News International is working closely with the police and the information commissioner "to ensure that all steps are taken to retrieve the files involved".The files appear to have been released by a hacker who on Twitter calls himself Batteye. He claims not to have any association or affiliation with the hacking group LulzSec, which claimed responsibility for the NI hack on 19 July. Three Britons alleged to have been involved with LulzSec have been arrested in the past six weeks.In what appears to be a manifesto of his motivations,Batteye wrote on Pastebinthat "Mankind makes mistakes. Mankind is all the better for them. Mankind learns from them. Some people, however, do not learn. Until these people are pruned by natural selection, incarceration, or otherwise, then mankind will not develop. We will remain prey to the 'malicious' type of hacker that steals credit card information, or deletes voicemail messages and pushing the victims family to grieve more for their loved ones."This is unacceptable... We will begin today be presenting to you, various files obtained from the Sun, a company within the News Corp group. We will continue, then, by exposing the world for what it is; a less than perfect place where we cannot trust those who we ask to protect our information."It is not clear whether Batteye is American or British.
Time for Tuesday-based games discussion.
For those who thought prime minister's questions was more scripted roleplay than authentic political debate, it will come as no surprise that the highlight of the parliamentary week has spawned a text-based computer game spin-off.Prime Minister's Questions: the Game, available for download by  Windows users, sees gamers assume the persona of David Cameron in a deadly battle of wits with Ed Miliband. They're both drawn with retro, arcade-style pixels, and kept in check by the burbles of speaker John Bercow.Grilled on subjects ranging from tuition fees to unemployment, via public sector reform, Cameron has the option of four formulaic replies. Blame Labour – "the last government maxed out this country's credit card" – or invoke the national interest: it's your call. Pick the right response, and Miliband loses "health" points. Pick the wrong one, and Cameron takes the hit.The game also riffs on memorable PMQ moments. "I lead my party, he follows his," Cameron says at one point, referencing Tony Blair's jibe at John Major. "Calm down dear!" he later cries, referencing himself.The game is the brainchild  of developer Mark Richards,  who also makes video-game style political cartoons on his blog,Pixel Politics. "It just occurred to me," Richards told theNew Statesman, "that prime minister's questions is essentially a real-life turn-based battle, like those bits from the old  Pokemon games."
Jake Davis, an 18-year-old from the Shetland Islands, was released on bail on Monday after being charged with five offences relating to computer attacks and break-ins by the LulzSec and Anonymous hacking groups earlier this year.Davis, wearing a black T-shirt under a blue denim shirt and holding a copy of a book called Free Radicals: The Secret Anarchy of Science, showed little reaction as the charges were read out at the City of Westminster magistrates' court in London.Davis was granted bail to stay with his mother Jenni, a social worker, in Lincolnshire, on condition that he does not access the internet either directly or through anyone else. He also has to wear a tag to ensure a 10pm to 7am curfew.Davis – who police believe used the online nickname "Topiary" as an alleged member of the LulzSec and Anonymous hacking groups – was arrested at 2.10pm last Wednesday in Lerwick, the capital of the Shetlands, having moved earlier in July from his long-time residence in Mid Yell, a northern island of the Shetlands.He was charged on Sunday night with offences under the Computer Misuse Act, the Serious Crime Act, and the Criminal Law Act.Davis is accused of gathering data from NHS computers, being involved with attacks on News International and being part of an attack that crashed the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency website.Sources in Shetland said Davis's mother moved to the area about 12 years ago, bringing her other son.
If you're a fan of Blizzard's action RPG series, you'll no doubt already have heard:Diablo IIIis set to feature an auction house in which players are able to buy and sell in-game goods for real money. Although this sort of activity is already rife within online games, it's usually carried out as a "grey economy" with "gold farmers" using third-party sites and software. Here, the auction feature is integrated into the game, and Blizzard will receive a transaction fee on every item sold."It was definitely a design decision," the game's lead designer, Jay Wilson, hastold Eurogamer. "Certainly there's an economic element to the auction house for us, but it came first and foremost as: what do we want to do for the players? What service can we possibly offer that would make the game experience better?"But there will no doubt be concerns among fans of the series. The practise of gold farming – in which professional gamers grind through popular online multiplayer titles like World of Warcraft, earning in-game currency and items and then selling them to other players – has had a profound effect on the nature of the genre. By making it possible for inexperienced participants to buy the best items and weapons, some fans argue that the whole sense of balance and progression is lost, and that virtual worlds become top-heavy with floundering newbies struggling to use equipment that they should have earned over months of judicious gameplay.Blizzard's argument is that by taking the auction process inhouse, the company will be able to manage the process, ensuring that players aren't ripped off by unscrupulous traders, or confused by third-party auction systems. The studio has also pointed out that it won't be selling items itself – it's merely acting as a conduit for player transactions. Which is a smart move – few developers will forget the ruckus Bethesda caused in 2006 when it tried to charge players of the Elder Scrolls: Oblivion game for downloadable horse armour.But by officially validating the concept of buying in-game goods that would otherwise have only been available to experienced players, has Blizzard crossed an important line, in terms of design and monetisation? Wilson states that the auction house won't change the way that Diablo functions as a game, but if it's an enormous financial success, surely there will be tacit pressure on designers to introduce a greater number of saleable items, or make the hasty acquisition of certain weapons and armour pieces more attractive?Furthermore, Blizzard's decision to authorise real-money transactions – and Diablo III is the first mainstream title to do so – will also be watched with interest by other studios. Of course, there are huge design differences between RPG titles and, say, first-person shooters, but will a successful Diablo III auction house open up the possibility of weapons trading in Call of Duty, or used-car lots in Need for Speed?A World Bank report on gold farmingfound that the practise was worth £3bn in 2009 – that's surely an enticing figure for publishers looking to squeeze all the income they can out of their multi-million-dollar productions.We're certainly in a weird era for game design. The whole concept of micro-transactions, fed by the free-to-play revolution, will unavoidably have an impact on the way game experiences are structured; it's impossible to truly benefit from the digital economy without it shaping (or as some would put it, 'tainting') your product in subtle – and not-so-subtle – ways. Will Diablo III's auction house prove to be a significant step toward the wholesale monetisation of mainstream virtual worlds? Will our avatars inevitably transform from warriors to salesmen?
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 30 JulyPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (90)Xbox 360 (8)PS3 (1)182 (8)Cars 2(3+)DS (32)Wii (28)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (17)23 (2)Call Of Juarez: The Cartel(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)24 (18)Just Dance 2: Extra Songs(3+)Wii (100)25 (4)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)DS (28)Wii (26)Xbox 360 (20)PS3 (14)126 (7)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)PC (0)107 (3)Harry Potter: The Deathly Hallows Part 2(12+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (25)Wii (20)DS (19)38 (9)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (23)Wii (10)PSP (9)449 (19)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)1110 (5)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (40)Wii (6)PC (2)3611 (6)Dungeon Siege III(16+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (21)PC (16)712 (–)The Sims 3: Town Life Stuff(12+)PC (100)113 (14)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (40)DS (28)PS3 (15)Xbox 360 (14)2214 (20)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (37)3015 (12)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (33)PC (11)1216 (–)The Sims 3(12+)PC (40)DS (20)Xbox 360 (13)Wii (10)3617 (10)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (32)Wii (23)DS (16)PS3 (15)1818 (–)Fight Night Champion(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)819 (16)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)9220 (–)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (37)PC (8)30UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
The mobile phone market is deluged with data. Four times a year there is a spike in market share estimates just after quarterly financial results are released, while the time in between is filled with analyst forecasts and surveys from market research firms trying to get to the bottom of changing market trends.July has been a particularly big month, with a number of studies, surveys and predictions. Individually they're of varying interest and credibility, but there is some value for app developers in pulling the data together and poring over the likely implications. So that's what we've done.Global mobile shipmentsIDC's estimates forglobal shipments of mobile phonesis a good place to start. The company says that 365.4m units were shipped in the second quarter of 2011, a figure that includes feature phones and smartphones. That's up 11.3% year-on-year from the 328.4m phones that IDC thinks shipped in Q2 2010, although below the 13.3% growth that the analyst had expected.IDC says that sales of feature phones actually fell 4% year-on-year in the latest quarter: the first time it has done so since the third quarter of 2009. The overall growth is thus being driven by surging sales of smartphones.IDC – Top five mobile phone vendorsCompanyQ2 11 shipmentsQ2 11 market shareQ2  10 shipmentsQ2 10 market shareNokia88.5m24.2%111.1m33.8%Samsung70.2m19.2%63.8m19.4%LG24.8m6.8%30.6m9.3%Apple20.3m5.6%8.4m2.6%ZTE16.6m4.5%12.2m3.7%Others145m39.7%102.3m31.2%Total365.4m100.0%328.4m100.0%IDC describes this as a "transition point", and is backed up by US market research firm Nielsen, which claims that in its home market,more smartphones were soldbetween March and May 2011 than feature phones. However, the transition point is not just happening in big Western markets: IDC notes strong sales of low-cost Android smartphones in Latin America, and also in south east Asia.The company's tale of the top five mobile phone vendors shows Nokia still in first place, having shipped 88.5m units, but with its market share having fallen from 33.8% in Q2 2010 to 24.2% in Q2 2011. That raises the spectre of second-placed Samsung (70.2m units / 19.2% market share) overtaking it in the near future.Smartphone shipmentsThat's for all phones, but many app developers are focusing purely on smartphones. There is no shortage of estimates for that sector of the market in the second quarter of this year, and some hard data too.Starting with the latter, Apple sold 20.4m iPhones in Q2, overhauling Nokia, which sold 16.7m "smart devices" – the term it uses for smartphones. HTC has justannouncedthat it sold 12.1m smartphones in Q2, while other companies revealing their smartphone figures include LG (5.4m), Sony Ericsson (5.3m), Motorola (4.1m).Samsung and Research In Motion are a bit more awkward. In the former case, it's because Samsung declined to give exact figures for its smartphone sales in Q2, citing competitive fears.  In RIM's case, the difficulty is that its financial year doesn't follow the calendar year, so in its fiscal quarter ending on 28 May, it shipped 13.2m BlackBerry smartphones. Analyst ABI Research hasprovided predictions for both, pegging Samsung's Q2 smartphone shipments at around 19m, and sticking with RIM's figure of 13.2m.Divvying smartphone shipments up by manufacturer is one thing, but what app developers are more interested in is the operating system split. ABI Research thinks Android took a 46.4% share of smartphone shipments in Q2 with 47m units, ahead of iOS (20.4m), Symbian (16.7m) and BlackBerry (13.2m).Source: ABI ResearchSmartphone penetrationThe data above applies to new shipments of smartphones, but there are other companies looking into how many devices each OS has out in the wild. Nielsen has just published ahandy chart tracking OS shareamong smartphone owners with a contract in the US, for example.It puts Android's share at 39%, followed by iOS (28%), BlackBerry (20%) and then Windows Mobile and Windows Phone combined with 9%. Android and Windows Phone penetration is also broken down by manufacturer, which is useful.Source: NielsencomScore caused controversy in July 2011 with itsown estimatesfor smartphone OS penetration in the UK, which suggested iOS has a 27.1% market share, followed by Android (26.7%) and Symbian (22.5%), with BlackBerry some way behind.Research In Motioncomplained publiclyabout these stats, however, saying that while comScore estimates it has 3.6m BlackBerry users in the UK, the actual figure is just under 7m.Source: comScoreSmartphone and apps predictionsWhat about the future, then? Or at least the near future. Analyst firm Gartner hasmade its predictionsfor sales of smartphones to end users – note, this is different from shipments, since it covers phones actually being bought by people, as opposed to being stocked by retailers.It sees Android taking a firm grip of the market this year running right through to 2015, when Gartner thinks Google will be powering just under half (48.8%) of all smartphones sold. The company thinks 467.7m smartphones will be sold in 2011, rising to 1.1bn by 2015.But the key point is that it thinks this will continue to be a four-horse (at least) market, with Windows Phone (19.5% in 2015), iOS (17.2%) and BlackBerry (11.1%) all having healthy sales bases for the next four years. Yes, it's easy to scoff at any company making bold predictions for the next four years of a market that's changed hugely in the last four years – Apple's iPhone is four years old after all.Gartner: Smartphone OS sales to end users (m) and market share2011 units2011 share2012 units2012 share2015 units2015 shareSymbian89.9m19.2%32.7m5.2%0.7m0.1%Android180m38.5%310.1m49.2%539.3m48.8%BlackBerry62.6m13.4%79.3m12.6%122.9m11.1%iOS90.6m19.4%118.9m18.9%190m17.2%Windows Phone26.3m5.6%68.2m10.8%216m19.5%Others18.4m3.9%21.4m3.4%36.1m3.3%The obvious follow-on from these predictions are estimates for how app developers will benefit. Canalyshas some forecastson this front, claiming that direct revenues from sales of apps, in-app purchases and app subscriptions will top $7.3bn (£4.4bn) in 2011, rising to $36.7bn (£22.3bn) by 2015. These estimates do not include advertising revenues.Strategy Analytics thinks that by the end of 2012, paid downloads willreach nearly $2bn every quarter, with Android Market overtaking Apple's App Store for the volume of downloads (but not the revenues) by the end of that year too.Meanwhile, IDC hasits own researchinto apps, albeit with figures for the number of downloads rather than revenues. It thinks that mobile app downloads will rise from 10.7bn in 2010 to 182.7bn in 2015, with social and location features contributing to a shift away from paid download revenues towards in-app purchases and advertising.Tablet sales / predictionsThe last area experiencing some frenetic number-crunching in July was the tablet market, both in terms of what's selling now, and what will be selling in the rest of 2011 and beyond.Strategy Analytics recentlypublished its estimatesfor Q2 2011, claiming that Apple's iPad took a 61% share of tablet shipments with 9.3m units, with Android nabbing a 30.1% share with 4.6m. The company thinks 0.7m Windows-powered tablets edged RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook (0.5m) into fourth place in the tablet OS market.Separately, investment bank UBSpredictsthat iPad will take a 63% share of the tablet market for 2011 as a whole with 37.9m units, although it divides the market by manufacturer rather than operating system. That sees Samsung in second place with 5m sales, followed by Asus (2.2m), RIM (1.9m) and Motorola (1.8m).Informa Telecoms &amp; Mediaalso has its crystal ball working overtimeon tablets, suggesting that iPad currently has 75% of the market, but that this will fall to 39% in 2015, just ahead of Android's 38% – Informa thinks 90m iPads and 87m Android tablets will be sold that year, with Android finally overtaking iOS in 2016.Lies, damned lies and statistics? Quite possibly: this can only be a snapshot of what people think is happening in the market. Expect many of these predictions to be revised during the second half of 2011, as the smartphone and tablet markets continue their dizzying evolution.
A burst of 13 apps for your considerationCFG: Cosmo For Guys"Chances are, you sometimes take a peek at Cosmo in an attempt to figure out what women really want," notes the App Store description for iPad app CFG. Yes, publisher Hearst Communications has made a tablet app for men, based on its Cosmopolitan magazine. For a monthly subscription, readers get advice, gift guides and – look away now Steve Jobs – "eye-popping 3D sex positions".iPadTweetminsterNews platform Tweetminster has launched its official iPhone app, pulling in links and content from politicians, civil servants, activists, academics, journalists and analysts. The app filters stories and tweets by topic, and enables users to reply by logging in to Twitter from within the app.iPhoneHELO TCParrot made a splash with its AR.Drone iPhone-controlled helicopter, but now it's got competition. Rival Griffin has its own HELO TC remote-controlled copter, with this official app functioning as its controller for iPhone or iPad, when plugged into the Flight Deck accessory that comes with the toy.iPhone / iPadZenonia 3Gamevil's Zenonia series has become one of the premier RPG franchises for smartphones. Already out on iPhone, it has now made the leap to Android, with 227 maps and 136 quests to explore.AndroidComposition No.1Visual Editions and Universal Everything have teamed up for this iPad book-app, which re-imagines a book by French author Marc Saporta. It's made up of self-contained pages which can be shuffled and read in any order, with much interactivity. Intriguing.iPadUberMusicAndroid-owning music fans wanting a better music player app may have found nirvana (and perhaps Nirvana) with UberMusic. It's a customisable music player which has a number of skins available separately in Android Market, one of which even apes Windows Phone's Zune player. The app also scrobbles to your Last.fm profile.AndroidHorrid Henry's Horrid AppFirst it was a book, TV and movie brand, now it's an app. Horrid Henry gets the iOS treatment with this collection of mini-games, including the sure-to-delight (if you're a right-thinking child) Flick The Bogey.iPhone / iPadSylvester's BandSylvester's Band is an iPad book-app aimed at children aged two and above, with a musical focus to introduce them to various instruments. It has more than 35 pages and bags of interactivity.iPadTweriAndroid app Tweri is pitched as an Alzheimers caregiver tool, to be used in the early stages of the disease. The idea: when a patient is going out for a walk – something advised in the early stages of Alzheimers – they can carry an Android phone with the app running. After a pre-set amount of time, their caregiver will be alerted with their location.AndroidGrabioGrabio is interesting, although it may have more of a US skew judging from the screenshots. It's essentially "location-based classifieds", letting you list items to sell to people in your area, or browse what other people have up for grabs.iPhoneFairy Tales Oxbridge BabyParents looking for another iOS fairy-tale hit should take a look at Oxbridge Baby's first app. Six tales are included, each with visuals from a different British animator – with the voice narration also hailing from the UK.iPhone/iPadPlayboy Hot Zone for iPadPlayboy's latest foray into the apps world is an iPad game from Bally Technologies – of fruit machine fame. And yes, the game is a fruit machine, although you're playing strictly for fun rather than for real cash. Hugh Hefner makes an animated appearance.iPadTapCastTapCast is US-only for now, and is the latest iPhone app aiming to become a second-screen companion for couch potatoes. It's a social TV app that gets people to sign in via Facebook, then discover shows based on what their friends are watching. TapCast also functions as a client for posting Facebook and Twitter updates.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJake Davis named as suspected hacker Topiary by UK police &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityAppears in court on Monday.With the Bing Search Engine, Microsoft Plays the Underdog &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoing toe-to-toe with Google costs Microsoft $5bn+ *a year*, according to industry execs who spoke to the NYT. And who said it should axe Bing?Foxconn to replace workers with 1 million robots in 3 years &gt;&gt; Xinhuanet"Taiwanese technology giant Foxconn will replace some of its workers with 1 million robots in three years to cut rising labor expenses and improve efficiency, said Terry Gou, founder and chairman of the company, late Friday."Er, does Apple know about it?Does Apple really have more cash reserves than the U.S. government? &gt;&gt; Stack ExchangeDon't be ridiculous! The US Reserve's operating balance was more than 40 times greater than some piffling private company.Hang on, only 40 times?Could Quantum Computing Kill Copyright? &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"As it stands in US law (and remember, US law rules throughout the world,  even if it's legal, or you've not been there in decades) the creator of a picture is the copyright holder. Even if you drop the resolution, or reduce the number of colours to simpler shades, it is still considered by many to be under the original copyright."So, what if you could create every possible picture? What if you took a fairly low resolution (say 500×500) and a reasonably low colour mix (say 256 colours) and tried to create every single image? What then would be the state of copyright? It's the visual equivalent of the infinite monkey theorem."If you could do it, then the project would own all the copyrights, to every image not already copyrighted. Furthermore, since it's an independent creation with no outside reference to draw upon, works and images similar to those already copyrighted are not infringing."Solution: get a quantum computer to do it. Now worry.Third largest Bitcoin exchange lost its wallet.dat &gt;&gt; Hacker News"Looks like the admin stored the wallet.dat and backups on an ec2 instance, and then shut it down while doing a RAM upgrade without realizing he would lose everything on the disk."Why my mom bought an Android, returned It, and got an iPhone &gt;&gt; BetabeatBen Duchac: "So my mom needed a new phone and she was game for an Android - she had been envying my HTC Incredible for about a year and was tired of her aging feature phone. She's pretty tech savvy -uses Gmail, has a Tumblr, does most of her emailing on an iPad- so after some discussion we decided that Android was the way to go. The integrated Google search, Gmail, gChat, and much richer maps functionality seemed to trump the UI functionality and app selection of the iPhone 4 for her needs. A trip to the Verizon store later, we came home with a Samsung Charge. The giant screen was brilliant. The 4G was blisteringly fast. The camera had more megapixels than was reasonable. The phone was an absolute nightmare to use."He's perplexed by how the Samsung phone doesn't work as well as the HTC Incredible and is frustrated by its battery life and intransigence. Yup, sounds familiar.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Let's ease ourselves back into the working week with some gentle video game chat...
An 18-year-old who was arrested as part of a police investigation into computer hacking by the online groups Anonymous and LulzSec has been charged with hacking into systems, assisting offences, and conspiracy to carry out attacks on the website of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca).Jake Davis was due to appear in custody at City of Westminster magistrates court on Monday. He is understood to have been arrested last Wednesday in Yell, a northerly island in the Shetland Islands.He is the third Briton to have been arrested as part of an ongoing investigation into a series of attacks by LulzSec, a hacking group which spun out of the larger Anonymous collective in May 2011. LulzSec has claimed responsibility for attacking a number of state and non-state organisations, including the Soca website, the US congress and websites owned by News International.Davis, who was brought to London for questioning, is charged with: unauthorised access to a computer system; encouraging/assisting offences contrary to section 46 of the Serious Crime Act 2007; conspiracy with others to carry out a distributed denial of service attack on Soca's website; conspiracy to commit offences under section 3 of the Computer Misuse Act 1990; and conspiracy between the defendant and others to commit offences under section 3 of the Computer Misuse Act 1990 contrary to section 1 of the Criminal Law Act 1977.
Google's Chrome is Britain's second most popular browser, a sign of the internet giant's increasing grip on the UK search market.Three years after launch, Chrome last month captured 22% of UK users and marginally overtook Mozilla's Firefox browser, according to the web metrics firm Statcounter. Microsoft's Internet Explorer is losing market share to Chrome but remains the most popular browser for UK users with 45% – although it has a head start by being pre-installed on almost all computers sold in Britain. Apple's Safari is UK number four, with a 9% share.Google's rise in the browser market is in part down to nationwide advertising – Chrome is the first Google product advertised on British TV – but is largely attributed to its speed.Lars Bak, the Google engineer responsible for Chrome, said the goal had never been to attract a huge user base, but to energise a dormant browser market: "Speed is a fundamental part of it, but it's also about the minimal design and the way it handles security. If you as a user try [to load] a webpage and it feels snappy, it's really hard to go back [to another browser]. It has shown that people spend more time interacting with the web."Unlike most of Google's talent based at its Mountain View headquarters in California, Bak works from a converted farmhouse in the Danish countryside two hours from Copenhagen. He has become obsessed with speed, and despite numerous tests that showChrome outstrips all rivals, he thinks it could be much faster. "You should never be happy with [existing] speed," he said. "Of course it gets harder to make substantial gains, but it's all healthy competition. From the beginning we wanted everybody to be fast, and now all browsers are fast. I'm absolutely flabbergasted [by the improvements made by rival browsers]."Chrome is the number three worldwide, with a 20.65% market share according to Statcounter. But analysts expect it to edge ahead of Firefox, which has dipped steadily since January. Microsoft's Internet Explorer has also fallen heavily, to 43%, with warnings about security vulnerabilities.Google last month announced its Chromebook laptop, based on its browser and seen as another ambitious attack on Microsoft; it will be made by Samsung and Acer, companies that previously made computers running Microsoft's software.Unlike most computers, the Chromebook has almost no capacity to store and hosts most data online in a "cloud". Bak said: "The Chromebook is really important because it tries to simplify the machine – it is basically no maintenance, which means you can cut the price. If all you are doing is using a browser it's a fantastic tool."• This article was amended on 1 August 2011 because a sentence that said numerous tests show Chrome is faster than all its rivals linked to a test that demonstrated the opposite.
The first of this week's apps is a game that is currently spreading between the pockets of the iPhone-owning fraternity at a ferocious pace. While it might not reach the status of the likes ofAngry Birds, it's fair to sayTiny Tower(App Store, NimbleBit, free) is becoming a sensation.The simple strategy game charges players with building and managing a tower block, placing amenities and residential blocks on each floor to keep the occupants entertained and employed.It doesn't sound riveting, but as with favourites such asFarmvilleand, further back,Sim City, developer NimbleBit has managed to create an experience that is in equal parts compelling and rewarding. At times, it can feel a touch more compulsive than fun, butTiny Toweris undoubtedly a charmingly brilliant game.SuperRope(App Store, Craneballs Studios, free) also plays on our desire to scrape the sky. It's a vertically oriented rope climbing game full of character and hyperactive energy and there's some fantastic fun to be had. However, as withTiny Tower, the game's addictive properties tend to slightly outweigh its ability to entertain.Both games are free, which is a bonus, although both require parting with a bit of real cash if premium content is to be enjoyed – an increasingly common trick in the mobile game market.Tiny Tower's strategy offering is a little more special thanSuperRope's action gameplay, but both make for ideal distractions during those moments when the kettle boils and you're looking to avoid real work.
It may seem rather odd that an ageing 2D shooter such asXeviouswould stage its return on a handheld famed for its 3D display capabilities, but it all makes sense when you load it on to the&nbsp;3DS.There are few of the extras typical of retro remakes, and on the whole it's a fairly straight take on a game that last felt fresh in 1982. However,Xeviousis a classic that long ago dictated many conventions of the genre. There's the top-down perspective, scrolling background, relentless waves of enemies and the lone protagonist spacecraft – always outnumbered, never outgunned.Despite being played on one 2D plane, Xevious always challenged the player with enemies dispatched on two levels, on the ground and in the air. Now, using the handheld's 3D display, land and sky appear truly separated. For the first time in a shoot-'em-up there is a sense of being in the clouds.This downloadable game is certainly rudimentary in form, and would be significantly less striking without nostalgia in its arsenal, but for wistful older gamersXevious's minimalism is part of its charm.
Sometimes it's all in the execution. Fundamentally, theUnchartedgames – re-released together here in anticipation of part three's arrival later this year – are risibly derivative boilerplate. Centred on the exploits of wisecracking treasure hunter Nathan Drake, they follow an Indiana Jones formula of shootouts, daredevil acrobatics and triple-crossing love interests, garnished with enough priceless antiquities to make Neil MacGregor giddy. These cliches are, however, delivered with such disarming amiability and impeccable&nbsp;attention to detail that they become not just forgivable but positively enjoyable.If the first game's faults (repetitive combat, iffy pacing) are more glaring in retrospect, number two, which added an excellent online multiplayer mode, remains fantastic, a breakneck slalom through collapsing tower blocks, Tibetan temples and ice-bound grottoes, each locale prettier and more far-fetched than the last.In fact,Uncharted 2is such an improvement that its predecessor starts to feel somewhat surplus to requirements; while the sequel might continue Drake's story, playingUnchartedfor the plot is like watching PMQs for fashion tips. As such, this repackaging comes across as slightly redundant, especially given the paucity of added content. Nonetheless, these continue to be games worth playing – just don't expect anything too avant-garde.
From Dustmay be a game where the player controls a god, but it's not really a "god game". Peter Molyneux's seminal 1989 hitPopuloushas been widely cited as an influence on the latest from reclusive French designer Eric Chahi, yet in truth,From Dustis more a puzzler that happens to feature deific powers.As a spiritual force known as the Breath, players shape the world by absorbing elements – earth, water, lava – in a swirling sphere and depositing them elsewhere. The aim is to guide an itinerant tribe between portals as they attempt to rediscover their forgotten past, setting up villages around towering totems along the way. These nomadic followers can then be given simple instructions, but the focus is on skilful landscaping: channelling a river away from a settlement or moulding cooled lava into a bridge.Such powers should make for a fascinating sandbox and indeed the remarkable dynamic physics can inspire genuine awe. Unfortunately, the time to enjoy them is all too fleeting, as the forces of nature make for wholly unpredictable opponents. Tsunamis and volcanoes wipe out entire villages with little warning. Any seconds wasted admiring the naturalistic behaviour of the environment as a level's topography shifts can lead to irreparable situations that not even godly abilities can fix.Its worlds may be uniquely malleable, but rarely is the player given the opportunity to mould something truly remarkable. Each level has a linear route to the exit, and though different means can be used, the end remains the same. As torrents erode and magma scars, the game often degenerates into an exercise in damage limitation, with one particularly fussy task involving the constant plugging of emergent water sources.Coupled with the sometimes capricious pathfinding of the tribes-people, who happily ascend near-vertical inclines but quibble over puddles of waist-high water, all too often the role of unseen guardian involves little more than tiresome busywork. The distance between deity and disciples, meanwhile, means that reaching the ultimate destination feels less rewarding than it should.Yet ifFrom Dustis an easier game to admire than to enjoy, its ambition and technical accomplishments should not be ignored. This is brave, thoughtful and unusually intelligent game design that could, with the backing its publisher has suggested it will receive, evolve into something very special.
At 40, Douglas Edwards, a marketing executive at theSan Jose Mercury News, believed he might be due a midlife crisis. What he got instead, he says, looking back, was a rebirth. Like all second comings, there was an element of the miraculous in this one. TheMercury Newsbilled itself as the newspaper of Silicon Valley and since this was the late 1990s that news was mostly concerned with the gold rush of internet startups. Edwards had a front-row seat for much of this excitement and felt its pull.He wanted, he recalls, "to get closer to the real internet; close enough to grab the cable and feel the hum of millions of people communicating in the global hive". He scoured the small ads for ways in, "for leads on the next Yahoo, a business I had short-sightedly predicted would be a flash in the pan". In a meeting one day, a colleague mentioned a small firm on his client list that Edwards might cultivate."This Google," he asked the colleague, "what do they make?""Internet search.""Search? Ha. Good luck with that," Edwards said and lost interest.A few months later, however, he was in an office in a beige building in Silicon Valley being interviewed by a young man called Sergey Brin, who was wearing roller hockey gear and asking him to "tell me something complicated that I don't already know". Edwards thought about telling Brin how to change a nappy, but instead winged an answer about the "general theory of marketing" that lasted for 10 minutes, while his interviewer listened and bounced a rubber ball. Something Edwards said must have computed, however. He got the job and became Google's employee number 59: brand manager. Edwards figured at the time that this Google might only last six months, but at least, going into the new digital millennium, it might be fun and he'd have a line of tech credibility on his CV to add to the 20 years of experience in the dead tree news business.In the event, Edwards lasted five and a half years at Google. He, and the 58 employees before him, became richer and more successful in those years than any of them (with the possible exceptions of the infinitely confident Sergey Brin and his co-founder, Larry Page) could wildly have imagined. The brand that Edwards managed – which not so long before his arrival had been called "BackRub" – became in that short time one of the most recognisable (and loved) brands in the world.Edwards's memoir of those years, not surprisingly, takes as its title the adventurous tagline from the original Google search page: "I'm feeling lucky". Speaking to Edwards now from his home in California, I wonder if he can yet believe all that luck?"Not in any rational way," he says. "But outrageous fortune was sort of background radiation in that part of California at that moment. I knew friends who had become very quickly successful. Did I think it would happen to me? No. But it wasn't quite beyond the bounds of possibility."When he first came to Google, he suggests, he thought they had employed him because he could bring a little bit of grownup rigour to the young organisation; he thought they might want to tap into his knowledge of how they should build their company. He was quickly disabused of that idea. Organisational rigour, or hierarchy, was the last thing Brin and Page wanted. Rather, Edwards was required to forget all he knew about marketing and start with a blank page. A blank search page.From the beginning, Google demanded the total immersion of the true believer. All the successful startups in that period had this cultish quality, Edwards suggests: Yahoo, Netscape and Amazon were all run on charismatic lines, "but at Google I think it was perhaps a bit more intense than that". As a marketing person, he came to feel he embodied the brand in some way. "Everything I owned for a while had the Google logo: umbrellas, towels, T-shirts, boxer shorts… it was on every pen I picked up and every piece of paper. Google did, in some ways, take over my sense of who I was. And it was worse for some of the other people who had gone there straight from college."Edwards talked to a friend recently who is still at the company, another who got in early, feeling lucky. The friend could easily retire now and spend the rest of his life travelling the world on a yacht, Edwards suggests, but he doesn't seem able to leave. When Edwards asked him why, the friend came up with a couple of reasons: "One was he was interested in technology and there is no company that has better tools, better data sets, than this one. And the other reason was this: he was afraid to leave. Google was the only job he'd known and he wasn't sure what else he would do. He was scared of not being there."A lot of that institutional attachment was rooted in those early years at the company, described evocatively in Edwards's book, when everything seemed to be new and the world felt like it was waiting to be Googled. Most of the early adopters who have now left the company have, Edwards suggests, tried to replicate that feeling ever since, as venture capitalists. "They want to recapture that lightning in a bottle," he says, "by starting new companies."Some of them have been successful, by which he means they have started companies that have been bought by Google or Facebook. Once was enough, though, for Edwards, who spends some of his time now with not-for-profit organisations, and the rest with his family, who didn't see too much of him while he was employee number 59.One of the things that comes across most clearly in his book is the sense that Page and Brin never doubted the eventual dominance of their search algorithm. They were driven, it seems, by a rare combination of logic&nbsp;and&nbsp;vision."They believed in their ideas so strongly, in part because they were such good ideas," Edwards suggests. "I'd identify Larry as the visionary; he was always thinking: where will this be 20 years down the road?"If there were blind spots – Google's failure to see the importance of social networks, for example – then they were rooted in Page's personality: "Larry is not a guy you can imagine sitting around in the evening updating his Facebook status," Edwards suggests, "so he just didn't see that."Likewise, Brin and Page clearly hated the idea of advertising: they believed good ideas would sell themselves. They were also smart enough, Edwards shows, to let the people who did believe in advertising get on with it. "It wasn't a top-down kind of company."If there was a weakness ingrained in that early DNA, Edwards suggests, it was that Brin and Page relied heavily on their engineering genius as a solution to all problems. While he was at the company, Edwards realised the problem was that "Google was full of rational people, but unfortunately the rest of the world was&nbsp;not".In the early days, these issues were not so magnified. "When Google started, our obstacles were mostly other corporations – Yahoo or whoever. Those obstacles could be overcome with superior technology. But when the obstacle is, say, China, it is a different order of challenge. I think they have now understood that there are limits to where the application of cleverness can get you, some problems that technology cannot solve."Edwards tells me there was a story that Sergey Brin had gone to Washington quite early on "and tried just to walk into the Capitol building and meet Congress people, because he was Sergey Brin and why wouldn't they want to see him? They kept him waiting and waiting. That was quite formative. So now Google has a massive lobbying presence, donates to both [US political] parties and is beginning to resemble Microsoft in its attitude to the political&nbsp;process."The difference Edwards made, he believes, was to humanise this rationality a little, to always remember that their users were people, not programmers. The most radical branding idea – to change the logo on an almost daily basis – was not his but Brin's. But Edwards likes at least to think his voice softened some of the sharp edges that then characterised most technology companies, "and allowed Google to move much further along a path of trust with users than, say, Microsoft".His book, and recollections, can be divided into the before and after of Google'sflotationon the stock market in 2004. Before was still a time of innocence; after, the money was hard to ignore. On the night before the IPO (Initial Public Offering), Google engineers were warned that if any of them turned up the following morning in a Ferrari it would be remodelled with a baseball bat. In the event, a couple of them went out and bought aeroplanes. Because they could."They were all actually very humble guys," Edwards says. "And people went to great pains not to show they were a millionaire or a billionaire at work. But it does ultimately change the culture of the company. One of the people in the book did not want me to mention his name, because he didn't want people to know how long he had actually been there, that he was one of the first. He didn't want to be treated as a pre‑IPO&nbsp;Googler."One of the questions Edwards is asked most often in Silicon Valley, if he says he worked at Google, is: "What was your badge number?" That way, people can work out pretty much what he made. Though he had been there near the start, however, he was one of those who felt able to walk away. The money made things a little more serious, inevitably."My boss left at the end of 2004," he says. "She and I were very simpatico, but after she had gone it became clear that it was becoming the kind of bureaucracy that I had gone there to escape. It was becoming very metrics-driven: you had your place on the org chart and you had to achieve this or that measure to get to the next level. It didn't seem so much fun."When he logs on to Google these days, he says, it is not quite the same as in the old days. But it is still with a sense of belief that "smart people, motivated to make things better, can do almost anything". Edwards should know; he has witnessed a miracle first hand and lived to tell the tale.
How things change. Once upon a time, Microsoft was the Evil Empire. But now Microsoft is middle-aged, respectable and, well, boring. I've been to two high-powered, invitation-only symposia on cybersecurity recently at which the Microsoft representative patiently explained to delegates that his company dealt with governments as a "partner" rather than as a mere player in a competitive game.And that's probably true. Governments around the world are so locked into Microsoft software that they are, effectively, clients of the Redmond giant. In that respect, the UK government is more tightly shackled than most. If you want to sell software to the NHS, for example, it has to run on Version 6 of Internet Explorer, Microsoft's obsolete and woefully insecure browser. Suppliers to many other branches of the public service are similarly constrained. The implication is that the UK probably has upwards of 1m public-service PCs that are running a dangerously insecure browser from which the government cannot afford to escape, because upgrading would break many key software systems and require the purchase of new machines to run more modern software.So Microsoft is a huge and important company. But guess what? It's in danger of being dwarfed by an outfit that it once regarded as a joke. In terms of market capitalisation, Apple passed Microsoft ages ago.When I last checked, Apple was valued at $364bn, compared with Microsoft's $230.5bn. And at the moment, there is only one other corporation in the world – Exxon Mobil – that is bigger than Apple.Last week, Apple unveiled results that suggest even Exxon may not be safe from the relentless growth of Steve Jobs's empire.Apple made a net profitof $7.31bn on revenues of $28.57bn for the quarter ending in June. That's the best three months it's ever had, with revenues up 82% and profits up 125%. The company also revealed that it's sitting on a $76bn cash mountain. Just to put that in context, Apple could currently buy both Tesco and BT and still have some loose change. The news sparked an 8% rise in the share price, with the stock breaking the $400 barrier for the first time.So is Apple the new Microsoft? Answer: no – and the quarterly results explain why. The company shipped 20.3m iPhones, 9.25m iPads and 3.95m Macintosh computers in the three months, way ahead of most people's expectations. Apple retail stores also boomed, with revenues up 36% to $35bn. The company now operates 327 stores worldwide – to the point where counterfeit Apple stores are now appearing in China. iTunes now has 225m accounts, and has sold more than 15bn songs.What's significant about this is that the lion's share of the resulting revenues is going to Apple. Of course companies such as ARM and Qualcomm, which supply key components for iPhones, iPods and iPads, or outfits such as Foxconn, which manufactures the devices, are surfing the wave of the company's prosperity. But the industrial "ecosystem" of companies that prosper&nbsp;by supplying goods and services to customers who buy Apple products is much smaller than the ecosystem that grew up around&nbsp;Microsoft.Of course Bill Gates's empire had for many years a licence to print money because of its dominance of the market for PC operating systems and Office software. But that dominance opened up opportunities for countless companies, large and small, to provide hardware, software and services that meshed with the Microsoft products. Anyone could make and sell a PC, for example, whereas only Apple can make a Mac. Anyone could develop software to run under Windows, but only software approved by Apple can run on its iDevices – which is why the software giant Adobe is so threatened by having its Flash animation program banned by Steve Jobs. In addition, Apple takes a 30% cut on every "approved" program that is sold. Microsoft, in contrast, was never able to levy a tax on developers selling Windows-compatible software. So while Bill Gates and co prospered mightily from their dominance of the market, other people prospered too – to the point where Microsoft claims that for every dollar it makes from Windows 7, other companies earn $18.52, and predicts that this ecosystem will sell "more than $320bn in products and servicesrevolving around&nbsp;Windows 7".In contrast, the ecosystem based around Apple seems, well, puny. It includes all those people making chic cases for iPods and iPhones, the thousands of developers writing apps, the record labels taking their rake-off from iTunes songs, the audio manufacturers making yet another docking station for iPods, and so on ad infinitum. It's not negligible, but it's not industrially significant either. And it all goes to show that, in the Apple economy, only Apple gets really rich. Watch out, Exxon.
Games release schedules wind down for the summer, assuming everyone would rather be out basking in the blustery showers than spending money on PlayStation games. By contrast, anyone with an iPod, iPad or iPhone will be enjoying exactly the usual amount of fresh entertainment …Swords &amp; SoldiersSend wave after wave of cheerful cartoon soldiers to their grisly doom. The trudge to victory is spiced up by an interesting progression of tactics, as you graduate from commanding Vikings to magic-wielding Aztecs and the rocket-happy ancient Chinese.Chillingo, iPod &amp; iPhone, £1.99, iPad £2.99Feed Me OilDesigned like a cubist painting, this features peculiarly sentient-looking levels whose eyes follow your fingers as you place fans, magnets and other bric-a-brac to guide a stream of oil towards its goal, the liquid as a mutable toy that you can tease into impossible shapes.Chillingo, iPod &amp; iPhone 69p, iPad £1.49Zookeeper DX Touch EditionAlthough sorting animal faces into lines of three or more doesn't immediately sound like something you'd do for fun, Zookeeper's addictive qualities are such that protracted play induces a trancelike state in which the animals almost seem to sort themselves.Kiteretsu Inc, £1.49daWindciInteracting with your balloon in daWindci's tightly crafted little scenarios demands breezes, which you generate by swiping the screen in the direction you want to go. Negotiate obstacles and avoid spiky things while looking for hidden collectibles.Reality Twist, £2.49The Incredible MachineMake Heath Robinson-style contraptions to trigger the various balls, anti-gravity fields and mouse-chasing cats in the right direction. Its insistence on appealing to all ages means elder gamers may find it patronisingly straightforward.Walt Disney, 69pContinuity 2: The ContinuationPart platform game, part Portal-esque spatial reasoning exercise, Continuity 2 has you hopping around blocky levels, before dragging those levels into new formations to gain access to a set of coins, a single key and the exit – all before your time runs out.Ragtime Games, 69pMoonlightsTap the screen to add new nodes to wobbling, precarious structures that must maintain their shape for agonising seconds before you can move on to the next challenge, testing your construction skills and ability to hold your device perfectly level.Jean-Philippe Sarda, £1.49Anodia70s classic Breakout meets 21st Century attention spans in this sped up, pinball-influenced, action-heavy take on breaking blocks, using balls and a slideable paddle. Power-ups, multi-ball and moving targets ensure few moments of quiet or respite.Rafal Kozik, £1.49Ticket To RideAlthough something of an acquired taste, the board game's winning mix of strategy and competition seems to translate unerringly to iPad, as does building colourful networks of railways across North America against the computer, friends or strangers online.iPad only, Days Of Wonder, £4.99Super Stickman GolfWith side-on 2D courses that defy both conventional architecture and the laws of physics, Super Stickman Golf is a beautifully made game of risk and reward. Played out on deviously angular nine-hole courses, it's even better in multiplayer mode.Jordan Schidlowsky, 69p
Doom CakesAt last a site that has noticed the role of cakes in contemporary entertainment. As the video collection here brilliantly demonstrates, whenever a cake appears in a movie, TV drama or music video, it is never there just for decoration or culinary pleasure: a cake is never innocent. Instead, its function is either as a harbinger of calamity – you may have noted that people in films seldom manage to carry a birthday cake from the bakery to a party without either dropping it or being run over – or as a bizarre metaphorical plot device, such as the weird finger-licking scene in Black Swan. Meanwhile, the whole "sexy lady jumping out of a giant cake" arrangement seldom goes to plan; it'll be the wrong party, or, as was the case in Under Siege, the aforementioned sexy lady will find herself gyrating for Steven Seagal on his own. Who'd want that?Pop PilgrimsPop Pilgrims. Photograph: HBOThe US may lack buildings older than the 1950s but it makes up for this with tourist attractions of a different kind: film and TV locations. Here, the team from the AV Club, The Onion's sister site, go on a pop-culture pilgrimage across the USA to discover dozens of landmarks (from James Stewart's apartment in Vertigo, to the shop on the front of the Beastie Boys' Paul's Boutique album and the firehouse in Ghostbusters), reacting to readers' suggestions along the way. In Philadelphia they visit the Museum of Art, whose famous steps featured prominently in Rocky. Elsewhere, their trip to Baltimore reveals that the gritty locations for The Wire (pictured) have yet to see any sign of gentrification.Blog roll: TrainersShoe ClassicsShoe ClassicsAn 80s Liverpool casual's obsession with Adidas Trimm Trabs.Crooked TonguesThe boffins behind the brands, including an interview with the man who remixes classic Puma shoes for a living.Feet And The OlympicsShoe historian Cameron Kippen casts an eye over trainer technology in the run up to 2012.A Complete Guide To Seinfeld's SneakersAn exhaustive analysis of Jerry Seinfeld's obsession with white Nikes.Big Eyes, Little SolesLusting after Asics Gel Lyte IIIs and counting down to the London Sneaker Festival.Sneaker FilesUS site brings news of latest kicks, including Entourage-themed Nikes.What we learned on the web this weekLevitating is so hot right nowLevitating is sohot right nowWhat Don Draperwould doThe whole ofHarry Potter in eight comic stripsAbout the FrankieGoes To Hollywood Spectrum game from the 1980sA history ofcreepy online datingHow much sunscreenyou really needA flag flyingover Buckingham Palace does not mean Queenie is homeThe 10 greatestdrunk moments caught on CCTVThe heavy metalgenre goes back to the dawn of manLife is betterwith added movie montages
Bill Gates has sold another 5 million of his Microsoft shares, according to a regulatory filing.Microsoft's multi-billionaire founder has been selling shares in recent months. He is the company's non-executive chairman, having stepped back from running the software firm in 2008 to concentrate on his charity work.According to the filing, Gates sold 5m shares in Microsoft at an average $27.59 each on July 27. He has sold more than 90m Microsoft shares in the past 12 months.Gates still has more than 500m shares in the company, but has decreased his shareholding over the last two years to fund his charitable endeavours and to diversify his portfolio.This week the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation said it was making $42m available for eight universities to develop a toilet that does not need a sewer connection, water or electricity to operate. The aim is to improve people's health in parts of the world where there are few if any flushable toilets.He is also backing research into improving education. "Every student needs a meaningful credential beyond high school," Gates said in a speech last week. "Higher education is crucial for jobs," he said, calling education an equaliser in society and the answer to getting urban America back to work and fighting poverty.Forbes magazine estimates Gates's fortune at $56bn. Once the world's richest man, he is now second to Mexican telecoms mogul Carlos Slim after giving away a large chunk of his fortune to his charity.Gates and long-time friend Warren Buffett have pledged to give away the majority of their fortunes to charity before their deaths, and have convinced a host of other billionaires, including Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, to follow suit.
'We're parkin', parkin'," sings my girlfriend, to the tune of Jamming by Bob Marley &amp; The Wailers. "And I hope you like parkin', too." This is her little joke, when we arrive home in the BMW X3. It's to do with the parking sensors, and specifically the display on the dashboard screen. When you park, a picture of the car from above appears on the screen, to help. When you inch forward, the car grows a green hat to show you're approaching the car in front. As you get nearer, a yellow section is added on top of the green section, and then finally, when you're almost there, a red section… And there you have it, the new BMW X3, wearing a Rasta hat – the red blood of martyrs, the green land of Ethiopia, the gold of Africa. "Jah Rastafari!" says my girlfriend, firing up the massive cone she's rolled on the way home from Sainsbury's*.All in all, it's good to haveHaile Selassion hand to help park, because the new X3 is very big for a so-called compact SUV – 79mm longer than the car it replaces, and 28mm wider. Cars tend to do that – get bigger – through the generations. Which would be fine if roads, and parking spaces, did as well, but weirdly they don't.I'm not a big fan of this type of vehicle, because usually it's blocking the road in front. In London, where I live, they're a menace, especially in more salubrious parts of town during the school run. Not that I live anywhere like that, but sometimes I&nbsp;want to pass through them.As SUVs go, this isn't a bad one. It's not pretty – quite the opposite, though it's a slight improvement on its predecessor, which was a&nbsp;pig. Oink. They've sorted out the terrible ride issues of the last one, too, and it's a bit posher inside, with leather as standard (ours came in a delightful shade of dog poo brown).At the moment it comes only with a two-litre diesel engine which&nbsp;means it's unthrilling to drive and not the world's greatest overtaker, but it returns some impressive fuel consumption and CO2 emissions figures. Still wouldn't want one, though...Then the weekend arrives. And suddenly it makes some sense – the extra millimetres, too. We go to the beach and it effortlessly swallows all my watersports equipment. There'd be loads of room in the back for our friends if we had any. And there's lots of handy cubbyholes for my girlfriend's drug paraphernalia*. It's miserable when we get there, pouring with rain, and the car park is almost empty. But still we go and park right against someone else, so she can do her thing. "Exodus, movement of Jah people…"*Not reallyBMW X3 2.0dPrice£30,490Top speed131mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.5 secondsAverage consumption50.4mpgCO2 emissions149g/kmGreen rating6/10In a wordIrie
The leader of the LulzSec hacking group has been accused of being a front for recruitment to extremist causes which aim to create a group of "domestic terrorists".The accusation is made against "Sabu", believed to be a Puerto Rican living in New York, who has acted as the head of the group which over the past few months has carried out online break-ins and attacks on websites belonging to the US Congress, UK Serious Organised Crime Agency, and NATO. Sabu has denied the allegation in a Twitter discussion with the Guardian: "I'm not affiliated to any terrorist groups," he said.The claim comes as police extended their interview of an 18-year-old man who was arrested in the Shetland Islands on Wednesday – alleged to be "Topiary", the group's principal spokesman. Police are believed to have arrested and bailed another LulzSec member, known online as "Tflow", last week.So far three people in the UK have been arrested in the past five weeks over involvement in LulzSec, and a 17-year-old was interviewed by police on Wednesday in Lincolnshire, though no arrest was made.In the Shetlands, people said that the person who was arrested on Wednesday, apparently in the town of Scalloway, was not from the island and expressed puzzlement at what had happened.The accusation against LulzSec's leader is part of an analysis of Sabu's connections and actions by a hacker who calls himself "The Jester", thought to be ex-US military.He styles himself as an American patriot, and usually attacks Islamic jihadist websites, but has become increasingly embroiled in rows with the broader Anonymous hacking collective and LulzSec following the release of US diplomatic cables by WikiLeaks last year: he instituted an attack against the site which put it briefly offline. Anonymous broadly backs WikiLeaks.The Jester has repeatedly expressed his opposition to LulzSec's actions, and sought to identify them by gathering documentation – "dox" – about them. But in anonline analysis on Thursday nightThe Jester described the "hacktivism" carried out by groups such as LulzSec and Anonymous as "the perfect recruitment tool for terrorist organisations".He recounted the example of how in the 1990s two American hackers were challenged by an anonymous man who challenged them to prove their skills by breaking into government and defence systems.The information they gained is believed to have been used in the1999 hijacking of an Indian Airlines flightby a Pakistan-based group. One passenger died and several were wounded in the aftermath."It would not be far-fetched that a terrorist group such as Hamas would use Anonymous/LulzSec as a front to recruit support or to entice young hackers to commit acts that would promote a terrorist cause," he writes.He then points to elements in Sabu's online persona, including the use for his Twitter account of the flag of the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas, and his repeated boosting of a rapper called "Beast1333" whose site The Jester says "seems to be some kind of recruiting site for Hamas and even sells bulletproof vests. Could not make this stuff up if I tried."He admits that the evidence is circumstantial but adds that hackers joining Anonymous are "vulnerable to what may very well be a terrorist organisation".Sabu on Twitter dismissed the suggestion. "[It's] solidarity with Palestine. And Gaza government," he said to explain the flag on his Twitter account. "US [and] Israel pushed the Gazans to democratically elect a government and they chose Hamas. US/Israel did not accept it. [The] people do."Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant at the security company Sophos, said: "I think it basically comes down to one question – could groups like Anonymous/LulzSec be infiltrated and manipulated by those with dangerous agendas without the realisation of the foot soldiers? And I think the answer has to be yes. That's possible."But he added that "it's also possible that there is an obsessive rap fan out there who imagines it's cool to use images of weaponry, war and resistance".Rik Ferguson, of the security consultancy Trend Micro, said he was sceptical of the connection."As he admits, it's all circumstantial. There's nothing that ties it together. He says that this Sabu calls people 'brother' and 'sister' – well, they do where I live in England. And as for bulletproof vests – they're not illegal to import into the US. And I can imagine some rappers who might find them stylish as well as useful."
Samsung does not seem to have overhauled Nokia as the world's largest seller of mobile phones, but the company saw strong sales of its smartphones in its just-reported quarter, despite a fall in its operating profit.The South Korean company reported a 3.75 trillion won ($3.6bn) operating profit for the quarter from April to June, narrowly beating analyst forecasts. That was down 18% from 5.01tn won a year ago, as the company's flat screen unit reported a second quarter of losses and its mainstay chip business struggled.The technology conglomerate joins a host of global companies in warning that fragile consumer demand is hurting sales of TVs, flat screens, computers and semiconductors."Samsung's earnings momentum will revive in Q3, but the recovery will not be strong because of weak economies in the US and Europe," said Lee Dong-Jin, fund manager at KTB Asset Management. "There are also no new IT applications that can drive demand as Apple's iPhone and iPad did."Operating profit from its telecoms division more than doubled to 1.67tn won, from 630bn won a year ago, helped by strong sales of a new version of its flagship smartphone Galaxy S, of which 5m have so far been sold.Samsung did not provide sales numbers for its handsets, but said shipments rose by a high single-digit percentage from the previous quarter's 70m units. That would put it at a maximum of about 77m units, behind the struggling Finnish company Nokia, which sold 88.5m handsets in the second quarter.But analysts still think that it could have overtaken both Nokia and Apple in the smartphone field – Apple shipped just over 20m iPhones in the same period. Full figures from analysts are expected later in July.Samsung is  locked in a battle with Apple in the US over the appearance of some of its smartphones and tablets, which Apple says breaches "trade dress" rules to make them look too similar to its iPhone and iPad.Falling chip prices are the biggest concern for the South Korean company, as it earned half of its profit from semiconductors in the second quarter. Its display business reported a second consecutive quarterly operating loss of 210bn won, little changed from 230bn won loss in the previous quarter.On Thursday, Sony and Panasonic also warned of weak TV sales, especially in the US and Europe, following Philips and Corning in highlighting anemic demand.Samsung is betting big on its mobile phone business as it rolls out new versions of tablets and phones, helping it capture market share from BlackBerry maker RIM and Nokia .Samsung's shares, which hit a record high in late January, have lost 12% so far this year.The company boasts a market capitalisation of $134bn (£82bn), bigger than the combined value of rivals Sony, Nokia, Toshiba, Panasonic and LG Display."It will be difficult to boost earnings sharply in the third quarter as demand for memory chips and TVs will continue to remain depressed," said Song Myung-sup, an analyst at HI Investment &amp; Securities. "Its loss-making flat-screen business will also report break even at best."
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationThe Death AppA little paranoid? The Death App probably won't help. It tracks recent car accidents and murders in your area, plotting deaths on a map. The free app is for iPhone and Android, but uses a non-app store distribution system meaning you have to snap a QR code to get it. The app is a showcase for MobileNationHQ, a startup looking to help businesses build mobile apps quickly.iPhone / AndroidSkyfire VideoQSkyfire is well known for its iOS browser apps that let people access Flash content. Now it's released – in the US only for now – an iPhone and iPad app that focuses specifically on Flash videos. "It's not a browser, but an entertainment app," claims the company. Users can send URLs of videos that won't play in iOS' Safari browser to their VideoQ queue, or browse the most popular videos that day based on other users.iPhone / iPadGroove CoasterTaito's Reisuke Ishida was behind the acclaimed Space Invaders Infinity Gene game on iOS. Now there's a not-quite sequel called Groove Coaster - a music rhythm game with rollercoaster tracks and generative music.iPhone / iPadSilent OpsGameloft's latest iOS action-adventure game is a 657MB whopper focusing on "the world's best elite agents". Cue much sneaking and shooting while marvelling at console-like graphics. 12-player online deathmatches are also included.iPhone / iPadThe Black CatEdgar Allan Poe's classic tale has been turned into an iPad book-app by developer Beegang. Expect text, interactive animations and a whole heap of spookiness.iPadShoparazziGeocast's Shoparazzi app aims to help shoppers find the nearest sales to their current location, including the ability to search by label. It's tracking sales at more than 15,000 stores here in the UK.iPhoneThe MarbiansThe Marbians is an inventive physics-puzzle game for iPhone, iPad and Android which sees you bouncing aliens through courses to find their UFOs – accompanied by a retro rock'n'roll soundtrack.iPhone / Android / iPadTwombly and Poussin: Companion GuideArtFinder's new iPhone app focuses on 32 works in the Dulwich Picture Gallery by Cy Twombly and Nicolas Poussin. It uses image recognition tech to identify what picture the user is looking at, then serve up audio commentaries, text and biographies. And for users who can't get to the show, the app acts as a virtual tour.iPhoneiFivesGetting set for the football season by dusting off your own boots? iFives is a really useful app for anyone organising five-a-side matches (or, indeed, six, seven or 11-a-side). It pulls in messaging and phone contacts to help arrange games, with social features included to join local matches.iPhoneRapunzel – Interactive Pop-Up BookRapunzel has got the book-app treatment before, but developer Yippee Arts is having another crack at the fairy tale. Its iPad app includes voice narration and beautiful illustrations.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Ape Escape…PS3 (Move Compatible); £24.99; cert 3+; SonyThe Ape Escape series is not without its charms. On previous PlayStations this cartoony catch-em-up was a minor joy, inviting players to hop around a 3D platform world apprehending simian lags with an oversized butterfly net. But this time the whole shebang has been revamped specially for PlayStation Move, meaning a switch to a first-person perspective for an on-rails shooting-gallery affair: you shoot at the apes with your slingshot, lightgun-style; the apes get angry; they run straight for you; you swing the controller to swing your net and catch them when they get close. If catching an ape felt brilliant and funny and satisfying every time – which to an extent it did in the old games – the game might have more lasting appeal, but since it's more or less whack-a-mole with no actual whacking, it all pales pretty quickly. Jolly enough for a quick blast, and a surprisingly stiff challenge in the later levels, but this is not the reboot Ape Escape deserves.Tom HughesHello Kitty &amp; Friends: Loving Life…DS; £24.99; cert 3+; Rising Star;You're probably not the target market for this game; it's most definitely aimed at the younger DS owner, with little that's likely to challenge anyone with more than a tiny amount of gaming experience. Like an extremely simplified version of Animal Crossing, it's a gentle exercise in collecting stuff – new clothes and accessories for Hello Kitty, new items and decorations for her "room" and different foods to feed her. "Money" to spend in the game's market is earned by completing one of &nbsp;a handful of simple mini-games, or by "helping out" at a food shop owned by one of Kitty's "friends", who are drawn from Sanrio's roster of cutesy characters. It's all very basic stuff, with a slightly distasteful emphasis on how great it is to buy stuff, but it's mostly harmless – and, for the Sanrio-obsessed pre-teen in your life, it's likely to be just the thing.Adam BoultEsoterica AmericaXbox LIVE Indie Games; 240 MS points; V7 EntertainmentSecret societies, occult philosophies and transcendental meditation: Esoterica America dips a toe into some pretty far-out waters even in video game terms, and though it's technically shaky, this unique little curio stands out in a lot of ways. Taking the form of a scaled-down RPG about a young man investigating his dead father's mysterious past, you wander round masonic lodges and temples -presented in beautifully stark, black-and-white isometric perspective – talking to various oddball individuals and periodically ascending to the astral plane (really) for a series of psychedelic mini-games in which you confront reptilian overlords, solve codex puzzles and fight off evil thoughts with weaponised Buddhist chants. Amid this grab-bag of new-age silliness, it strikes a nice tone between raised-eyebrow cynicism and starry-eyed credulity; plus, it's artistically quite gorgeous, and only costs a couple of quid. A genuine one-off.Tom HughesThe First Templar…Xbox 360/PC; £44.99; cert 16+; Kalypso MediaThis is the gaming equivalent of one of those films with titles like Transmorphers or The DaVinci Treasure, designed to cash in on the success of a high-profile piece of work with a much cheaper lookalike. Borrowing Assassin's Creed's medieval window-dressing and the Templars themselves (although here they're the heroes), Kalypso is clearly hoping to attract AC fans – but those hoping for something similar to Ubisoft's hit series are bound to be disappointed. It's an extremely pedestrian third-person hack-and-slash affair with rudimentary graphics that wouldn't be anything special if this had been a PS2 title released a decade ago. It's not dreadful – there's some mildly diverting co-op play if you're that way inclined, there's decent story telling throughout, and it pootles along in it's own unambitious way without ever getting really boring. It'd possibly be worth picking up second-hand in a few years' time to while away a rainy Sunday, but it's generally undistinguished and unlikely to leave any lasting impression.Adam BoultPatapon 3…PSP; £27;99; cert 7+; SonyPatapon 3 takes everything you loved about the first two Patapon games – stylish graphics, high-pitched Japanese squeals, tapping buttons in rhythm and the thrill of dominating a primitive tribe with god-like capriciousness – and turns it into ... a role-playing game? If that sounds intriguing to you, let me assure you otherwise. Unlike in cinema, where sequels need not be more complicated and interesting than the original film (The Hangover 2 = The Hangover + nothing), video games feel the need to up the ante with every new instalment. Patapon 3 injects the simple, addictive rhythm game at its heart with a mind-scrambling concoction of new character classes, endless skills training and hundreds of weapons, each of which has multiple screens' worth of attributes, can themselves be upgraded to a baffling degree, and work better depending on which character class is using them and against which class of enemy they ... yeah. Patapon 3's delusions of grandeur ruin a game that was much cuter when it was, well, primitive.Chris Michael
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamYou can't keep your secrets from Twitter &gt;&gt; Fast Company"When you tweet--even if you tweet under a pseudonym--how much do you reveal about yourself? More than you realize, argues a new paper from researchers at the Mitre Corporation. The paper, "Discriminating Gender on Twitter," which is being presented this week at the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing in Scotland, demonstrates that machines can often figure out a person's gender on Twitter just by reading their tweets. And such knowledge is power: the findings could be useful to advertisers and others."Gender-skewed words for men: "http" and "google". For women: "chocolate" and "husband", among many others. Can an algorithm stereotype? Then again, it's right about 75% of the time at present.Steam Hardware &amp; Software Survey"Steam conducts a monthly survey to collect data about what kinds of computer hardware and software our customers are using. Participation in the survey is optional, and anonymous. The information gathered is incredibly helpful to us as we make decisions about what kinds of technology investments to make and products to offer."It's also really interesting to see the cross-section of Steam users.Intel: Apple has online app sales exactly backwards &gt;&gt; The Register"Apple may be having phenomenal success with its iOS App Store ecosystem, but Intel thinks it's going about online app sales in the wrong way."As might be expected, Intel prefers its app-store-in-a-box AppUp program, which allows world+dog to create their own app stores using its software tools, then let Intel handle all the messy details such as collecting payments and delivering the software to customers, all for a 70/30 revenue split."Essentially Intel wants to let people build franchises, but take the same cut as Apple or Google does. Hard to see the real benefit of franchising your own app store.Microsoft's latest Google-compete weapon: The Gmail man | ZDNet"Microsoft managed to keep its 12,000 or so attendees of its annual Microsoft Global Exchange (MGX) sales conference from tweeting and blogging company secrets last week. But at least one enterprising attendee managed to grab one of those infamous sales videos that the company loves to show at these events."On July 20 during the MGX opening sessions, the Softies showed off their "Gmail Man" spoof, meant to spur the troops selling Office 365 against Google Apps, and specifically, Gmail. In the video, Gmail man riffles through mail to find keywords for serving up ads. The message: Google cares more about advertising revenues than privacy."Google scans for context? Yes, by computer. Microsoft risks looking like it's desperate to smear Google. But mud can stick.Demand Media's lawyers go after critical blog as stock sags &gt;&gt; Forbes"There's something perversely flattering about having an entire website devoted to your supposed terribleness. But Demand Media is evidently not enjoying the attention from Demand Studios Sucks, a blog maintained by refugees, malcontents and other critics of the so-called content farm. This week, as Demand's market capitalization fell below $1 billion for the first time since it went public in January, the company's lawyers sent a cease-and-desist letter to the proprietors of Demand Studio Sucks, and temporarily succeeded in getting its internet service provider to take down some internal documents it didn't want posted."But the site soon came back up - though without the content. Demand Media will have to be careful on this one.iPads at the bedside: Ottawa Hospital goes digital &gt;&gt; The Globe and Mail"Spend some time at the Ottawa Hospital and it likely won't take long to catch a glimpse of an e-health digital revolution taking shape."Doctors use iPads for interactive bedside checkups, explaining a diagnosis with digital images of X-Rays, MRIs or other test results. A patient's full medical file can be pulled up on the iPad, as well as pages from reference books and other medical resources that a doctor might have once pulled off a bookshelf."Yes, but does House use one?FDA clears iPad radiology app; doctors, what's your dream app? &gt;&gt; WSJ Health Blog"The FDA recently cleared a radiology app for the iPhone and iPad that will let physicians view medical images including MRI, CT and PET scans."While the agency says the app -- called Mobile MIM, made by MIM Software -- has been approved for making medical diagnoses, it says it 'is not intended to replace full workstations and is indicated for use only when there is no access to a workstation.'"We've heard that in the US, salespeople in the health business meeting doctors take iPads because it's a good bet the doctor will have one.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
At last! Friday! What are you playing this weekend?
Remember how I started myreview of Nokia's then-flagship N8by saying that it had fantastic hardware that was let down by the software?Welcome to the Samsung Galaxy S II running Android 2.3 ("Gingerbread").This review will also look at the HTC Incredible S running, which I used in parallel and just before the Samsung.HardwareAs a phoneBattery lifeSoftware: this is what makes the differenceVideo playbackBlacklistTypingKeyboard: crampsDamn YouAutocollectAutocorrectUser interfaceOdds and endsOverallLessons to learnAll in favour?All against?OverallSpecs (Galaxy S II and HTC Incredible S)HardwareLet's do the hardware first. This is a deliciously slim slab of a phone, which sits in the hand and barely seems to weigh anything. The screen seems vast - it's longer and wider than an iPhone, and uses Samsung's AMOLED technology, so it's bright as well as big.The processor is a dual-core Tegra Cortex A9 running at 1.2GHz. Ten years ago something with that power would have been inside your PC. Now it's walking up and down the street.It has a physical home button at the centre bottom, and a power switch top right, and volume rocker top left. Having a physical home button turns out to be a big plus, because it means that you can take screenshots - helpful for reviews, at least.It's hard to overemphasise how thin the phone is - as thin as an iPod Touch (which of course is an iPhone without all the, er, phone stuff). The only criticism I would make is that, as with the Google-driven Nexus S, the border around the edge where the screen fits in can rub your ear just that little bit annoyingly when you're making a phone call. The HTC Incredible S is better in that regard.For the rest, you have a 8MP rear-facing camera and 2MP front-facing camera, micro-USB slot in the base, and headphone/microphone jack, on the top of the phone.As a phoneIt's good (niggles about ear-rubbing aside): reception was often better than other smartphones I've used. There was a tendency sometimes though for the phone to completely lose its ability to find a network after an extended period - for example, on emerging from a Tube journey, sometimes it wouldn't reconnect at all, which required the dreaded turning off and on again (TOOA).Battery lifeVery good - leaving Wi-Fi on all the time, I could often get around 36 hours from a single charge where that included some voice calls, a fair amount of screen use (though not of video) and 3G use. For safety you'll probably want to charge it at the end of each day, but this is far up the field in terms of how much it ekes out from a single charge.And now we come to the part that matters.The software experienceThe Galaxy S II runs a pretty vanilla version of Google's Android 2.3 (my version was on 2.3.3), aka Gingerbread. Now in theory, Gingerbread has all sorts of neat things: smoother scrolling, a "glow" when you hit the top of a scrolling list, more widgets, and so on.In practice, the S II didn't have those things. In fact, I greatly preferred the phone I was previously using: an HTC Incredible S running the HTC Sense overlay on Android 2.2 ("Froyo").Here are some of the things that the S II with Gingerbread can't do that the HTC Incredible/Sense/Froyo can:• put a widget to turn just the Wi-Fi connection on or off at a single touch onto any of your homescreens. (True, you do get a built-in widget that does this, but it's in the notifications bar at the top, so you have to go to a screen and then pull down the bar andthenturn it on or off. That's an extra action for something you might do frequently to save battery life. There's also a "settings bar" widget you can put on a screen - but it's huge, including things like Bluetooth, brightness, GPS and settings, and and takes up the whole top row. You'll probably have better uses.)• put a widget on a home screen to turn off 3G. You can definitely do this with Sense+2.2; couldn't find any way to do it on the S II.• put a widget on the screen to switch Airplane mode on or off at a touch. You can't get this in the settings bar thing either.• get a unified inbox view if you have multiple mailboxes. If you use email much this is something of a problem.• select text in, say, a tweet by pressing and waiting for a context menu or other menu to come up. I spent a lot of time being rude at the phone over this.• type without being driven utterly mad by the keyboard system. This is a big and enduring problem with Gingerbread, which I'll deal with in a moment.Generally, the experience of setting up any Android phone is now painless, assuming that you have a Google account (or two or more): you log in with your principal account, and any apps that you downloaded via the Android Market will be pushed to your phone - including the free ones, I found. This is really very pleasant and beats how the iPhone presently works (with syncing via USB and iTunes) - though wait of course for iOS 5, when the syncing experience will be wireless and cloud-based too. Android has had a good lead here.The "context" button (a soft key, on the left of the home button) gives you more actions that you can do - so on an email, you might be able to mark it unread, or delete it. Often you can get the same, or a similar, context menu by pressing and holding on the item (such as email) on the screen. Sometimes though the menu is different. This isn't good.VideoYes, let's mention this. The big screen means that videos on YouTube come over in remarkable colour and quality. If watching video is your thing, then you're going to enjoy it on this.BlacklistingOne thing that Samsung has added is the ability to blacklist certain numbers, and to bounce numbers with text messages (eg "I am in class". Hope you're not on PAYG or getting many calls then.)In general, many of the observations about elements within the apps are the same as those I made inreviewing the Nexus Sin February. In many ways this felt just the same.But the contrast with the experience of using the HTC with 2.2 was quite dramatic when it came to typing - something that, after about 45 days using the HTC, I had forgotten how much I hate in Gingerbread. (Yes, I know, Swype/alternative keyboards/blah blah blah. I dealt with that in the Nexus S.) I used it for three weeks, so any muscle memory from using the other phone should have been lost.TypingThe problem with typing in Gingerbread is multi-layered: there's the keyboard, there's the autocorrect, and there's the user interface.KeyboardPhoto bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedThe Samsung Galaxy S II keyboard, set against an iPod Touch (for illustrative purposes - I know it's on airplane mode); slightly less than life size if viewed on a desktop screen.You'll notice that the Android keyboard includes a full stop beside the space bar - and that the space bar is squashed up so that you can have a settings button on the right of the full stop. And you have a smiley button on the right ofthat. For pity's sake, why? That'sthreebuttons, of which two are rarely needed (the settings could be a context menu item, and the smiley is also found in the alternative keyboard - reached via the ?123 button on the far left).The upshot of this is that the space bar is terribly squashed, and so you - I - often hit the full stop instead of the space bar. That leads to text in which you.accidentally.put.full.stops.DAMMITDAMMITDAMMIT in between the words. It is astonishingly frustrating, but inevitable. Typing on the Gingerbread keyboard means navigating the Scylla and Charybdis of the voice input button on the left (which I didn't use, because that would be weird in a public place) and the full stop on the right. You can generate a full stop by doing the double-space input (same as the iPhone) anyway; so its presence is doubly unnecessary.Damn You AutocorrectFirst, the autocorrect on Gingerbread is too intrusive. If I'm trying to find a contact name and I type "Kab" that means I'm looking for someone whose name starts with or includes those letters; don't autocorrect it to "tab" just because I have someone whose name does include that.Second, if you are typing (say, in the Twitter app) and the autocorrect finishes off a word for you, and it has finished it off with the wrong word (which can easily happen if you're concentrating on not hitting the full stop button instead of the space bar), then hitting the backspace button only deletes the last letter of the autocompleted word - it doesn't delete all of the wrongly inserted letters.Andthenas you delete back through the word, and get back to the root that you had which was correct, when you type to put the correct letters in, Autocorrect will think you're typing a new word, which generally generates a new mispelling.Many swear words were harmed in the use of this feature. It's ultra-annoying just wrong, and indicates a rushed approach to the user interface.User interfaceSo you're typing, and by some magic confluence of events you're not making any mistakes, so autocorrect is working perfectly. Even so, the window into which you're typing will jerk up and down in the most distracting way as the autocorrect list appears and then goes at the end of every word.Here you are typing on the left, and finished on the right.See it jump?It might not look like much in two pictures, but put these together into an animated GIF and run it for a few minutes, and you'll have an idea of how unpleasant an experience it can be.Now, you only see it out of the corner of your eye if you're concentrating on the keyboard, but it's still really not nice to have the screen jumping up and down. This is bad, bad, bad. It made me realise how much I liked the 2.2 keyboard and the HTC experience.The browser keyboard is - hard though it is to believe -even worse.Because the browser integrates the search function into the URL bar, you don't have a separate "search" box - so you might be typing a URL ending in ".com" (so of course you have a separate button with ".com") but you might equally be typing a series of words in for Google to look up. That means that the lower row of keys has "?123", "/", "www."," ",".","*" and "Go". It's as crowded as a student party. Your chances of getting through that without hitting the wrong key somewhere fall pretty fast.Odds and endsThere are scads of annoying little user experience glitches all through the S II's interface. (I repeat, this is a software thing, not hardware - but of course it's the software that you're using all the time.)• One of the worst is in trying to copy text. It's very hard to find the right length of time to press on the screen to select text (it can be done, but it's a lottery); normally you have to work through the context menu.• scrolling isn't always smooth: get a long enough list (say of phone numbers) and it sometimes stutters.• I found I couldn't delete phone numbers easily from a list by pressing-and-holding on the number; sometimes it worked and sometimes if didn't, which is worse than never or always working• if you're trying to send a photo somewhere (eg by email) you can get twodifferentcontext menus: one called "Send via" and another called "Share via". It's easy to come across one or the other and not realise how you got there. Arguably, the menu could easily get overburdened as you had more services; but it seems like a classic case where the "long press and hold" could bring up a contextual menu of any length.• some apps just aren't keyboard-aware. The Twitter app for Android, for example, has an icon for a new tweet. You press it. It brings up an empty box. You have to touch inside the box to bring up the keyboard. Really, Twitter/Gingerbread? After the first few hundred times this becomes very slightly vexatious.• lack of a unified mailbox. Gah. Extra clicks to get around.• the HTC Sense UI has a system that lets you turn off an alarm (a daily occurrence for me) by swiping down. This doesn't, and while that's understandable because Samsung isn't doing much to Gingerbread, it's still less good.• Bluetooth doesn't let you browse the device from a computer; you can only use it to send a file. Bad Bluetooth, bad!Want to tweet? You might want a keyboard. How do you get it? Press the screen. Why doesn't the software know that?OverallThere are so many little things about using the software which caused me clenching of teeth every day. It's like living in a house where something's wrong in every room, but you can't make any alterations; or if you can (such as playing around with the autocorrect settings) then it just makes things different, but still wrong.It's not just me; other S II owners I've spoken to say the same - love the hardware, maddened by the software and particularly the keyboard and typing experience. I found it a frustrating experience despite the lovely hardware.When I compare this to the HTC Incredible, which is a thicker, heavier phone running what most people would insist is a less good version of Android, I know for certain which one I'd rather have: the HTC is miles better.The lessonWhen you're choosing a phone, don't be seduced by the hardware. The software is what makes it useful, or not. In particular take some time to use the phone's keyboard, and on apps and services that you like and use a lot. You really will save yourself a lot of heartache. And don't be fooled into believing that a bigger number on the phone OS will necessarily be better.All in favourLovely hardware, big bright screen, good phone functionality, excellent video processing, very good battery life, useful functions such as blacklisting for phone numbers and texting autoreplies.All againstFrustrating keyboard layout, annoying autocorrect, user interface flaws in apps, lack of unified mailbox, limited Bluetooth function.OverallFor the Galaxy S:three stars. You think three stars is harsh? But a smartphone is about its software. A phone that annoys you repeatedly is a bad thing. I could have edged towards four stars, but that might have given you the idea that it has some redeeming features. Unfortunately, I don't think it can be redeemed.The HTC Incredible S, on the other hand, I recommend heartily -five stars. Get it if you can. And I'd also advise not installing the Gingerbread update.SpecificationsSamsung Galaxy S II specs:125.3 x 66.1 x 8.5mm4.3-inch AMOLED screenmicro-USB (also serves for HDMI out)8.1MP camera with LED flash£440 SIM-freeHTC Incredible S specs:120 x 64 x 12 mm4-inch screen (Super LCD)8MP camera with dual LED flashmicro-USB£368 SIM-free
Andrew Brinkman, who has died aged 60 after a protracted illness, was a multi-talented applied physicist and an early advocate of environmental science. Most of his career was spent at Durham University, where he was a professor, and his work led to significant advances in the manufacture of airport security scanners.The eldest child of Pentecostal missionaries working in Congo, Andy was educated at a boarding school in Northampton. He was thus a devout believer, and maintained that his thorough science schooling made possible his degree in electrical engineering and a PhD at Nottingham University, where he married his wife, Jeannette.In 1976 Andy took a position as a&nbsp;lecturer in the University of Ahmadu Bello in northern Nigeria. There he became interested in the Harmattan wind – a dust-bearing seasonal wind that can reduce the temperature to 3C and the visibility to that of a dense fog over large areas. Using local meteorological and sunlight data, Andy developed a&nbsp;mathematical model to explain the effect in terms of light scattering from large dust particles. This was later used by those forecasting the possible impact of a nuclear winter.At Durham from 1980, he was a very clear teacher, and pursued research that might result in important social benefits. Active in the field of&nbsp;solar photovoltaic energy, he led a number of&nbsp;early thin-film solar cell device projects, became an expert on&nbsp;semiconductor science and produced a book, Physics of the Environment (2008).Notable among his commercial collaborators was Elmwood Sensors, in the late 1980s and early 90s. Andy guided a team working on thermistors – materials that get hot when they pass a&nbsp;current, but will not pass a current at&nbsp;all when they get too hot. The resulting self-limiting heater pellets found their way into everything from kettles to wing-mirror heaters and warmers for diesel-fuel injectors.Crystal growth was a lifelong passion of Andy's, and he recognised its significance in underpinning a huge range of science and technology, silicon chips and quartz in timepieces being perhaps the best-known examples.During the late 1990s he ran an EU-sponsored programme to grow x- and gamma-ray detector crystals from cadmium telluride, and in 2003 started a&nbsp;company of his own, Durham Scientific Crystals Ltd. With operations run by one of Andy's own PhD graduates, the company quickly expanded its interests to include electronics systems and spectrometers with detector crystals at their heart. Now known asKromek, based in Sedgefield, Co Durham, the company has developed a smart scanner, approved for use in airports, which can identify liquids in bottles without the need to&nbsp;open them. Research into "colour" x-ray imaging offers the prospect of&nbsp;helping with tumour identification.Andy was awarded a chair in 2009, and the following year Durham recognised his achievement with its first Impact award. Retiring through ill health at the end of 2010, he remained passionate about discovery until the end. He is survived by Jeannette, his children, Catherine and Stephen, a&nbsp;grandchild and his mother.• Andrew Willis Brinkman, applied physicist, born 25 August 1950; died&nbsp;7&nbsp;July 2011
What was thatRoger McNameewas saying about HTML5 opening a world of opportunity for artists? The proof is in OK Go's pudding.We have come to expect something truly special with every newOK Govideo, and their latest project is arguably the best yet. Powered by HTML 5, All Is Not Lost works best in Chrome customising the video to the message of your choice with dancers from the groupPilobolusspelling it out. There are moments, if we're honest, when a littleliteralbottom lighting might have softened the viewing experience, shall we say. But it is a triumph.Credit to the band, directorTrish Sieand the team they worked with atGoogle Chrome Japan.Watch the videoon this site on Chrome, or check out the standard, uncustomisable version onYouTube.
Internet service providers, rights holders and lobbying groups have reacted toThursday's landmark high court rulingforcing BT to block access to the illegal filesharing website Newzbin2.Simon Milner, director of group policy at BT"This is a helpful judgement, which provides clarity on this complex issue. It clearly shows that rights holders need to prove their claims and convince a judge to make a court order. BT has consistently said that rights holders need to take this route. We will return to court after the summer to explain what kind of order we believe is appropriate."Chris Marcich, president and managing director of the Motion Picture Association,  the Hollywood studios industry body that brought the action against BT"This ruling from Justice Arnold is a victory for millions of people working in the UK creative industries and demonstrates that the law of the land must apply online. This court action was never an attack on ISPs but we do need their cooperation to deal with the Newzbin site which continually tries to evade the law and judicial sanction. Newzbin is a notorious pirate website which makes hundreds of thousands of copyrighted products available without permission and with no regard for the law."Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the UK music trade body the British Phonographic Industry"This judgment sends a clear signal that ISPs have a role to play in protecting their customers from rogue websites that exploit and profit from creative work without permission, ignore takedown notices and locate themselves beyond the reach of law enforcement."Simon Baggs, partner and head of rights protection at law firm Wiggin, and one of the solicitors who acted on behalf of the MPA in this case"The decision is vital for the content sector as it continues in its efforts to create a sustainable and safe environment for distribution of legal content online. Following this judgment, other websites that are focused on infringing copyright may now be susceptible to blocking actions. UK content owners have just established a powerful weapon to assist them in protecting their copyrights online."Loz Kaye, leader of Pirate Party UK"This is a terrible day for ordinary British internet users. The judgement sets a worrying precedent for internet censorship. This is the thin end of a very large wedge. It also leaves the coalition [government]'s internet policy in disarray. It appears that our digital rights are to be determined by Hollywood, not parliament."Peter Bradwell, copyright campaigner at the Open Rights Group"Website blocking is pointless and dangerous. These judgements won't work to stop infringement or boost creative industries. And there are serious risks of legitimate content being blocked and service slowdown. If the goal is boosting creators' ability to make money from their work then we need to abandon these technologically naive measures, focus on genuine market reforms, and satisfy unmet consumer demand."Ian de Freitas, intellectual property partner at the law firm Berwin Leighton Paisner"Intermediaries like BT are being forced to accept that policing the internet for IP rights infringements is as much their responsibility as the rights holders. The judgment suggests there may not be a flood of similar claims launched. This misses the point. Now that this test case establishes that an injunction can be granted, intermediaries are likely to adopt a notice-and-takedown approach which has operated for many years in relation to defamation claims. Once notified of claimed IP infringements by rights-holders, intermediaries are unlikely to want to test the position in expensive court proceedings."Gregor Pryor, partner and digital media specialist at the law firm Reed Smith"Although the law on which the movie studios rely to block access to Newzbin has been in force for some time, this is the first occasion that a court has upheld it in relation to an ISP. This is a welcome victory for rights owners, who have been deprived of income due to Newzbin's illegal activities. However, as a test case, it has set a precedent that has the potential to result in a flurry of less worthy court applications to block infringing content. Innumerable websites carry user-uploaded content and could equally now be the subject of a request for ISP blocking. YouTube is but one example."The Internet Service Providers' Association, the industry body which represents British ISPs"ISPA has long maintained that this is an issue rights holders should seek to address in court, rather than through voluntary means, and today's ruling should go some way to offering clarity on what is a complex issue. However, concerns about over-blocking, ease of circumvention and increased encryption are widely recognised which means blocking is not a silver bullet to stop online copyright infringement.  Rather, as the government-commissioned Hargreaves review recently found, there should be more focus on offering innovative, fully-licensed content services to give consumers what they are clearly demanding."TalkTalk"The court's decision has no direct or immediate impact on TalkTalk. If the MPA seeks a court order against us to block the NewzBin site then we will consider it."Mike O'Connor, chief executive at statutory body Consumer Focus"Website blocking only treats the symptoms, not the cause, of why consumers infringe copyright. Blocking access to Newzbin2 is short-sighted and will not reduce demand for Hollywood movies. Consumers will seek out other sources and the only long-term solution is more and better legal alternatives. We are heading into a blocking injunction arms-race - what we really need is the members of the Motion Picture Association to be innovative and focus on meeting UK consumer demand legally."
Sony has reported a loss in the second quarter as operating profit plunged 59%, reflecting the impact of the PlayStation cyber attack and the Japanese tsunami, despite strong performances from its film and music divisions.The Japanese consumer electronics and entertainment giant reported a 59% fall in operating profit year on year in the three months to the end of June to ¥27.5bn (£216m). The company reported a net loss of ¥15.5bn (£122m).However, Sony said: "Business operations that had been negatively affected by the earthquake are recovering faster than anticipated".Sony Music reported a 61% year-on-year increase in operating income to ¥12.1bn in the three months to the end of June, thanks to big sales of releases including Adele's 21, music from the cast of Glee and Foo Fighter's Wasting Light.The company said that to a "lesser degree" the division was also boosted by a favourable legal settlement over copyright infringement. Sony Music reported a 0.6% fall in revenue to ¥109.6bn.Film studio Sony Pictures increased operating income by 50% year on year to ¥4.3bn, with revenues up 9.3% to ¥144bn. Sony Pictures benefited from a surge in DVD sales of titles including The Green Hornet and Battle: Los Angeles. Theatrical releases did not fare so well in comparison with the same quarter last year, when Sony had films including The Karate Kid in cinemas.Sony's consumer products and services division, which includes its PC, TV and PlayStation businesses, reported an 18% drop in revenue to ¥732bn and a 94% fall in operating income to ¥1.7bn. The company said this was primarily due to a decrease in TV sales in the US and Europe.Sony said it had also incurred ¥5.3bn in charges related to the earthquake and tsunami in its domestic market.The company said this was mainly "incremental expenses"  including restoration costs such as repair, removal and cleaning costs of buildings, machinery and equipment as well as inventories at manufacturing sites and warehouses damaged by the natural disaster.Sony kept its operating profit forecast for the year steady at ¥200bn, but cut its full-year earnings by 25% to ¥60bn, from an original projection of a profit of ¥80bn.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Online property is a fiercely competitive space, but one where innovation still seems to move fairly slowly. London-basedZooplahas arguably done a better job of taking a different approach, and since we firstprofiled the sitein August 2008 the firm hasacquired Thinkproperty.comfrom the Guardian Media Group,acquired PropertyFinderfrom News International and, more recently,acquired houseprices.co.uk.On top of a newAndroid appthis year, aproperty archiveand partnerships withArchant,AOLandBBC Worldwide, Zoopla's most recent addition is a newheat map.Zoopla's USP is its house price data that contextualises its property searches and makes it noticeably different from the competition - a pretty compelling tool for house hunters and nosey neighbours alike. The heat map re-presents this data in a different way, aggregating property values across the UK and showing average property size, price and number of properties with each view. Given the seemingly endless British appetite for property, it's likely to find an enthusiastic audience.Zoopla's property heat map showing SouthamptonZoopla claims it is seeing faster growth than competitors Findaproperty and Primelocation, with all three outsripping market leading Rightmove. Nielsen figures for May this year put Zoopla at 1.9 million users for the month, up 43.6% from April, while Rightmove saw 12.1% growth.
I have a Linksys WAG320N router connected wirelessly to a Linksys WMP600N PCI adapter in my desktop PC. Both are dual band using the 802.11n standard. Many of my neighbours use the 2.4GHz band so I decided to move to the 5GHz band, which no neighbour uses. The problem is that the signal from my router (downstairs) to my desktop (upstairs) is so weak that I sometimes lose the connection. I cannot move the equipment and prefer to remain wireless rather than resort to HomePlugs. I have searched for 5GHz 802.11n range extenders and high gain aerials and found none. Have you any suggestions?Neil RichmondIt is true that the 802.11n version of Wi-Fi allows you to use either the usual 2.4GHz or the 5GHz waveband, or both, and there are reasons why you might want to try 5GHz (which is already used by 802.11a). The main reason is that there are so many other devices using 2.4GHz – including your neighbours' computers, and things like microwave ovens – that you have a very slow Wi-Fi connection. Another reason is that you have switched to a very fast internet service and your 2.4GHz Wi-Fi connection is a bottleneck. You might well notice this if, for example, you were trying to stream HD videos.If you don't have a problem, then I would generally not recommend using 5GHz. If you do have a problem, then I wouldn't recommend using the Linksys WAG320N router in most cases because it only has one radio, not two. In other words, you can run it at 2.4GHz or 5GHz but not both at the same time. Most Wi-Fi devices – such as laptops, internet radios and digital picture frames – will only operate at 2.4GHz. Presumably you don't have any other Wi-Fi devices, because if you're using a WAG320N at 5GHz to connect to your desktop PC, they won't work.Although 5GHz is technically faster, this may not show up in real-world performance. The 5GHz signal may have about half the range of 2.4GHz Wi-Fi, or less. Worse, 5GHz has more trouble penetrating solid objects such as walls and floors, as you have found. Wi-Fi "range extenders" only seem to work at 2.4GHz, so there may not be much you can do about this, though you might get better performance from a different router.I have not tried a WAG320N myself, and it receivedgenerally favourable reviews. However,PC Advisormeasured the speed at between 27Mbp and 52Mbps at 10 metres and said: "Subjectively, we found 5GHz operation of the Cisco Linksys WAG320N to give a very slow feel to internet connections at 10m distance". It added: "Cisco's specifications … suggest that at '270Mbps' the Linksys WAG320N has half the reception sensitivity than at '130Mbps'; which itself is only one-quarter its sensitivity at '54Mbps' operation."Rather than buy another 11n router, I'd suggest you either install an Ethernet cable or change your mind about theHomePlugsystem. You say you can't move the router or the desktop PC, so there is no real reason to use Wi-Fi. A good quality Ethernet cable will by far outperform Wi-Fi in your situation, and be more reliable. If you live in an area where the Wi-Fi spectrum is really overcrowded, it will also help your neighbours.If you can't install a cable, then I think you should try a pair of HomePlug adaptors. These plug into power sockets, and send your internet service over the house's mains electricity cables. In my experience, using somewhat old 85Mbps Solwise HomePlug Turbo devices, this system works very well. Many companies now offer 200Mbps versions, such as the Netgear XAVB2501 Powerline AV+ 200. Some have launched 500Mbps devices, such as the Solwise 500AV and the Netgear Powerline AV 500. The AV models are "optimised for streaming high definition media".The main arguments against HomePlug use concern radio interference, and the Radio Society of Great Britain has beencampaigning against the use of PLT (Powerline Telecommunications). The RSGP says that home powerline devices have the same failing: "Radio spectrum pollution which causes significant disruption to radio reception in the area of the device." All I can say is that the ones I used had no discernible effect on radio reception in my house.With Wi-Fi and other data communications systems, the real data throughput (including overheads) is never going to match the quoted "link rate", and it can be a lot lower. For example, you might get 22Mbps from a 54Mbps Wi-Fi connection. I would expect you to get at least twice that from 200Mbps AV HomePlugs, though it does depend to some extent on the quality of your mains wiring. Again, I haven't tried this myself, but I would expect a pair of 200Mbps AV HomePlugs to handle the speed of an "up to 40 meg" broadband connection such as BT Infinity.You can also buy HomePlugs with built-in Wi-Fi, so you could use a HomePlug downstairs to provide a Wi-Fi signal upstairs. A device such as the Solwise HomePlug Wireless N Extender (PL-200AV-PEW-N) should enable you to get a good Wi-Fi network upstairs, though presumably at 2.4GHz –the specdoesn't say. This wouldn't help you, of course, but other readers may find it useful.
Nintendo has announced thatit will cut the price of the 3DS by nearly one third.Coming less than five months after the innovative glasses-free 3D handheld console's launch, this swift response to disappointing sales figures is unprecedented for Nintendo.Currently, the machine has a recommended retail price  of £269.99, which retailers have already eroded to a street price of £199.99 with a game bundled in. But from 12 August, presuming that retailers resist the urge to increase their margins on the 3DS, we can anticipate a new RRP of around £170 – equating to a street price of between £130 and £140.In the past, Nintendo has tended to leave the price of its handheld consoles constant until they are replaced by new variants (which was the case with the original DS, released in March 2005 and superseded by the DS Lite in late 2006).Even the 3DS's predecessor, the DSi (the last of the DS variants), was on sale for 18 months before its price was cut. In mitigation, the 3DS had the highest launch price of any handheld Nintendo console, but the swiftness of the price cut will lead to questions as to whether it should have been priced so highly in the first place, especially during a global economic slump.Nintendo revealed the worldwide price-cut as part of its first-quarter financial announcement on Thursday, in a clear attempt to head off a slump in market confidence.Nintendo reported a first quarter operating loss of ¥37.7bn ($297m) and slashed its annual operating profit forecast to ¥35bn from an initial forecast of ¥175bn.Announcing the price cut, Nintendo said: "So that we will be able to create momentum for Nintendo 3DS and accelerate its market penetration toward the year-end sales season, when the lineup for the applicable software shall be enriched, the company has decided to make this markdown."Which is a tacit admission that in its short life so far, the 3DS has suffered from a dearth of killer games. The company took pains to point out that what it sees as the key 3DS games – Super Mario 3D Land and Mario Kart 7 – will go on sale in November and December 2011 respectively.The problem with reducing the price of consoles – especially so soon after launch – is that it breeds resentment among early adopters who paid the original price. Happily, Nintendo has moved to address such concerns: existing 3DS owners will be able to join what the company calls a Nintendo 3DS Ambassador Programme, entitling them to download 10 NES games plus 10 Game Boy and Game Boy Advance games for free.All they will need to do to become 3DS Ambassadors is register on the 3DS' eShop before 12 August. Those free NES downloads will start to become available on 1 September, and will at least include stone-cold classics such as Super Mario Bros, Donkey Kong Jr and the original Legend of Zelda.The free Game Boy Advance games will be made available later in the year, and will include the likes of Yoshi's Island, Super Mario Advance 3, Mario Kart: Super Circuit and Metroid Fusion. They will be exclusive to 3DS Ambassadors, thereby providing a modicum of one-upmanship.No matter how Nintendo might spin the price cut, there's no getting away from the fact that it is a response to worse-than-expected 3DS sales, which is bad news for the company – over the years, Nintendo has taken pride in setting prices for its hardware which allow it to make a profit on every unit, unlike rivals such as Microsoft and Sony, which have sold their Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 consoles at a loss early in their life-cycles, in order to establish a foothold in the market.The free download games will also ease the pain for those who, after 12 August, will feel they paid over the odds for their 3DS consoles. But 3DS sales will come under great scrutiny when this Christmas – the key annual period for games retail – comes around.
A burst of 12 apps for your considerationBBM 6It's been a difficult few months for Research In Motion, but one bright spot is its BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) app, which has 45 million active users, of whom 70% use it every day. BBM 6 has just been released, and ties in to other apps including Foursquare, enabling people to text-chat within those apps and see what friends have been downloading.BlackBerryMobageMobage is currently big news in the mobile games industry: it's the global launch of what was previously a hugely popular mobile social gaming service in Japan. DeNA and its ngmoco subsidiary have now launched it for Android, starting with 20 games to play including ports of iOS hits Paper Toss, We Rule and Pocket Frogs.AndroidWaterslide 2The original Waterslide Extreme game for iPhone and iPad was downloaded more than 24 million times – good news for its sponsor Barclaycard. The follow-up from developer Fishlabs appears to have shifted to a paid game, offering 30 levels and online leaderboards.iPhone / iPadCatanFamous board game Catan has made the leap to Android, allowing up to four players to duke it out for settlements, roads and armies. The multiplayer mode uses pass-the-handset mechanics, although there are phone-controlled opponents to compete against too.AndroidMuvee Social PhotostoryDesigned for Android tablets, muvee's new application turns them into digital photo frames, pulling in images from Facebook and Flickr, as well as updates from Twitter.AndroidFIRSTLight HDYou'll only be interested in FIRSTLight HD if you're a healthcare professional, as this is a B2B app providing information on UK-specific drug information: "How, when and when not to use a medication and how to manage ongoing patient treatment". It costs £6.99 for the initial download plus 30 days usage, before charging £3.99 a month using Apple's subscription system.iPadJazz Greats Magazine: Billie HolidayPrint title Jazz Greats Magazine has launched a special-edition iPad app devoted to Billie Holiday. It includes a biography, and track-by-track analysis, as well as the ability to download 20 actual songs – although the latter has to be done from a PC rather than from the iPad.iPadUltimate SharksBroadcaster Discovery has launched this US-only iPad app devoted to all things shark. Officially classed as a book-app, the 473MB download includes HD videos, 3D sharks to interact with, and the ability to project it all onto bigger screens via Apple's AirPlay.iPadGesundheit!Konami's latest iPhone game hopes to offer something different: "the story of an odd little pig with allergies" with hand-drawn graphics and 40 levels of puzzles.iPhoneSurrey PoliceSurrey police? There's now an app for them. An official one based around the force's Safer Neighbourhood Teams, showing what they're up to. Users can make contact with the police through the app too.iPhoneAR-Play Wind Hold VenusOkay, so you might need to be a K-Pop fan AND a geek to be interested in an augmented reality iPhone app focused on a Korean girl band. But AR-Play Wind Hold Venus is an interesting example of AR being used for music marketing: in this case, projecting the band members onto a printed AR marker.iPhoneMad WheelsMad Wheels is the latest game from UK publisher Chillingo, released initially for iOS. Expect isometric racing with guns, rockets and online multiplayer.iPhone / iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Hollywood film studios won a landmark UK high court ruling on Thursday forcing BT to block access to an illegal file-sharing website accused of operating "on a grand scale".The Motion Picture Association, the trade body whose members include Warner Bros, Fox, Disney and Paramount Pictures, has been granted an order requiring BT — the UK's biggest internet service provider — to block its customers' access to the website Newzbin2.Thursday's verdict will be viewed by the creative industries as a landmark that could set a precedent for the widespread blocking of illegal filesharing websites by ISPs, helping to stem the flow of digital piracy in the UK."In my judgment it follows that BT has actual knowledge of other persons using its service to infringe copyright: it knows that the users and operators of Newzbin2 infringe copyright on a large scale, and in particular infringe the copyrights of the studios in large numbers of their films and television programmes," said Justice Arnold in his ruling at the high court in London."[BT] knows that the users of Newzbin2 include BT subscribers, and it knows those users use its service to receive infringing copies of copyright works made available to them by Newzbin2," Arnold added.BT had argued that forcing it to ban its 6 million UK customers from accessing a website would usher in a new wave of online censorship.However, the creative industries claim website blocking could save them hundreds of millions of pounds in illegal downloads.The MPA said that Newzbin2 makes unlawful copies of television programmes and films, and receives in excess of £1m a year from its 700,000 users."This ruling from Justice Arnold is a victory for millions of people working in the UK creative industries and demonstrates that the law of the land must apply online," said Chris Marcich, MPA managing director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. "This court action was never an attack on ISPs, but we do need their cooperation to deal with the Newzbin site, which continually tries to evade the law and judicial sanction."The film industry'sfight to block Newzbinstretches back to March last year, when the high court ordered the site to take down all of its pirated material and pay damages to the studios.The three men behind Newzbin Ltd – Chris Elsworth, Thomas Hurst and Lee Skillen – sold all of their shares in the company to David Harris shortly before the trial. Newzbin Ltd went into administration soon after the ruling and avoided the huge payouts.Months later a clone site appeared operating anonymously from Sweden. Rights holders said they had no choice but to force BT to block UK users' access to the website, saying all other legal avenues had been exhausted.Simon Milner, director of group industry policy at BT, said the latest judgment means rights holders will now have to prove in court that a website infringes copyright before it is blocked.Milner added that the judgment puts the Digital Economy Act voluntary blocking scheme, drawn up at industry roundtable meetings earlier this year with Ed Vaizey, the culture minister, in an uncertain position."[The judgment] is actually helpful and we welcome it because it clarifies a complex area of law and shows that rights holders can use the copyright laws in this country. It means they have to prove a site is infringing before [a] court and get a court order," he said.Milner did not reveal how much it will cost ISPs such as BT to block infringing websites.Other internet providers, including TalkTalk and Virgin Media, declined to join BT's battle against the film studios, the court was told in June.Speaking after Thursday's judgment, a spokeswoman for TalkTalk said the ruling had "no direct or immediate" impact on the ISP, the second largest in the UK, but that it would consider any similar court orders brought by film studios against it.The Internet Service Providers' association, which represents Britain's ISPs, said: "Concerns about over-blocking, ease of circumvention and increased encryption are widely recognised which means that blocking is not a silver bullet to stop online copyright infringement."
