A suspected member of notorious hacker group Fluffi Bunni was arrested by the Metropolitan Police when they recognized him on a stand at the InfoSec computer security show in London, reportsIDG News.
Apple's music service puts Digital Rights Management onto the Mac, as Andrew Orlowski points out inThe Register-- and the anti-DRM lobbies remain strangely silent.
"Everyone here is talking about how they can hook my doodly up to your what's-it," reportsReutersin USA Today.
Forget the polling booth, the draughty school hall and the ballot box. In this year's English local elections, some 1.4m voters will be able to experience the future as councils across the country launch trials of electronic and internet voting that could be the first step towards a wired general election after 2006.The unprecedented scale of the e-voting pilots reflects one of the government's biggest political concerns: low turnout. Little more than one-third of the electorate voted in last year's local polls, sparking concerns among all the main parties that voter indifference could erode support for conventional politics itself. Just as importantly, low turnouts have allowed small but active groups such as the British National party to get their members elected.Could e-voting really help to fix the problem? The government certainly thinks so. A statement released earlier this month by the local government minister, Nick Raynsford, said: "The electoral pilots aim to improve turnout, in particular among   key groups of people who might otherwise be excluded, such as people who are working away from the area, younger voters, the elderly and people with mobility problems."Critics argue that this is a sticking-plaster approach that fails to address the real causes of public disillusionment, but ministers are still pressing ahead with a programme of e-voting pilots that will cost &#163;18.5m this year alone. The money will pay for 17 councils to run electronic elections using various combinations of text message, digital television, the internet and telephones. More than 30 areas will be running all-postal elections.The government has been trialling an array of new voting methods since the 2000 local elections and the lesson that has emerged is simple: if you make it easier for people to vote, then more of them will do so. Elections where everyone votes by post have already proved to be a marked success, doubling turnout in some areas, while experiments that demand more effort from the public have foundered.Take the Hertfordshire district of Watford, which in May 2000 tried setting up polling booths in shops and allowing voters to cast their ballot over the weekend, when fewer would be at work. The result was that turnout slumped by nearly 10 percentage points to just 27%.If making voting easy is the key aim, then e-voting ought to be a big success. When the polling group NOP asked voters which electoral innovations would be most likely to make them turn out and vote, nearly 30% mentioned the web and nearly 40% the telephone.And yet the evidence gathered so far paints a very mixed picture. In its evaluation of the smaller-scale e-voting trials run in areas such as Sheffield and Liverpool last year, the electoral commission, a government voting watchdog, concluded: "The pilots appear to have provided a vital first building block in establishing public confidence. However, the evidence in relation to turnout remains unconvincing at this stage."From the public's point of view, the mechanics of e-voting are simple. In Sheffield, people in 15 wards have received two sealed voting documents - a smart card bearing an ID number and a polling card containing a passcode. Used together, these details can be entered into a website or high-street computer kiosk, or texted via a mobile phone. To text message a vote, for example, involves entering a nine-digit ID, followed by a four-digit pass number, and then a two-digit number corresponding to the candidate of choice. It could look something like: 465783452 4820 23.Returning officer Mark Webster is confident that e-voting is secure, and says the only problems he has experienced are when voters get confused about using the system. "The issues come where the technology meets the people, so we've worked on those," he says. The council has launched a campaign to publicise the experiment and local employers have given staff permission to use work computers for voting.Swindon has chosen the interactive digital TV route. According to the council's electoral services manager, Alan Winchcombe, e-voting was popular with the electors in 2002, resulting in a 3.5% increase in turnout. "They told us that they wanted to use it again this year," says Winchcombe. "IDTV seemed to be an obvious way of extending the e-voting experience for Swindon's electors. It will deliver yet another easy way of participating in the democratic process without having to leave home."But, like the electoral commission, the government cannot quite decide whether it thinks these experiments will work. While Nick Raynsford sings the praises of his new trials, a recent consultation document from the Cabinet Office states bluntly that electronic voting "will not solve the problem of low turnout in elections".Even the impressive increases in turnout yielded by all-postal voting could prove ephemeral, according to Dennis Reed, director of the left-leaning Local Government Information Unit thinktank. "Some people would say that these new measures will increase turnout fairly substantially the first time round, then people will get just as used to it as the ordinary type of voting and get concerned about whether their vote really matters," he says.The other big problem these voting trials face is security. The internet has never been a very safe way to send any kind of information, let alone something as vital as your vote.A security assessment carried out for the government suggests that, by making the voting system accessible across the globe, e-voting will "dramatically" increase the potential for trouble. Individual hackers, criminals, political activists and foreign intelligence services are among those who might try to rig the vote or destroy the technology used to run the election.Moreover, any system that allows voters to mark their ballots away from the watchful eye of a returning officer has certain security risks. Postal or online polling cards can be bought or sold, and election details can be stolen.At De Montfort University's centre for computing and social responsibility, Leicester, researcher Ben Fairweather says: "I don't think we know for certain that an electronic general election is possible at the moment. It might be possible, but one of the big problems is that piloting it at the local level you're not facing the challenges you'll face in the real thing." Few people, he suggests, would bother trying to rig or hack a local e-voting pilot, but a general election would be a far more tempting target.The voters themselves are troubled by far more fundamental issues than convenience and security. NOP's poll of the electorate found that nearly a third did not think that voting in the local elections made much of a difference. Half said they did not know enough about where the parties stood on local issues, and two-thirds said they did not know enough about the candidates standing locally.Local government can clearly seem weak and out of touch, a perception probably not helped by the fact that most town hall debating chambers are still dominated by white, middle-aged men. Reed argues that the steady drift of power away from town halls over the past 20 years also has played a part in driving voters away by convincing them that councils do not matter."There's never really been a chance in the past couple of decades for local democracy to do its own work," says Reed. "There's been too much caution over what local government is allowed to do. Until that caution is overcome, then you'll never get turnouts approaching what they used to be."And turnouts were higher in the past. In the 1980s, the number of people voting in local elections across Britain hovered around the 40% mark - hardly a golden age of democratic engagement, but significantly higher than recent years.Supporters of proportional representation argue that another problem with local elections is the first-past-the-post voting system. They claim it can dramatically skew the public's intentions and give parties vastly inflated majorities on a relatively low share of the vote - in effect, disenfranchising large sections of the electorate. In the east London borough of Newham, for instance, Labour last year secured all but one of the council seats with just 66% of the vote.Various alternatives to first-past-the-post are already being used in Britain's devolved administrations, and momentum is starting to gather behind the idea of PR for Scotland's local councils.For Raynsford, the highest priority is still to reform the technology of voting and deliver on his promise of an "e-enabled" general election. That in itself could prove a difficult enough task. The electoral commission and a number of experts have warned that the government still has a long way to go before Westminster truly goes online.But Raynsford remains determined. Speaking at a recent demonstration of the new e-voting technology, he said: "This is all about giving the public more options for voting - and we do not think we will want to row back from that. We don't think we can say to people that they can only vote in the traditional way in a rickety booth in a church hall or school using a stubby pencil."Sorted for e-votesEighteen councils are running e-voting experiments in tomorrow's local government elections, which are taking place in more than 300 parts of England. At the same time, voters in Wales and Scotland are electing their devolved national assembliesThe 18 e-voting councils are:Basingstoke and Deane, Chester, Chorley, Epping Forest, Ipswich, Kerrier, Malvern Hills, Norwich, Rushmoor, Sheffield, Shrewsbury and Atcham, South Somerset, South Tyneside, St Albans, Stratford-on-Avon, Stroud, Swindon, Vale Royal.Some of the 18 have been involved in previous experiments. In the three Sheffield wards where e-voting pilots took place last year, turnout increased by an average of just over 6%.In Liverpool, where a further two trials took place in 2002, turnout in inner-city Everton rose by less than 2.5%. But in the more affluent Church ward, where more households have access to the internet, turnout was boosted almost 12%.
Paperwork is the curse of Britain's small farmers. It piles up on the kitchen dresser and spills out of drawers: dog-eared bills from feed merchants and backs of old envelopes scrawled with milk-yield numbers. Most businesses are now accustomed to using computers - but not the family farms that dominate Britain's rural west and north.That picture is now changing in the wake of BSE and foot and mouth. More stringent rules on registering and moving livestock have been brought in, and the government is encouraging farmers to complete the necessary forms electronically.However, a lack of computer skills is hampering the move towards farming's digital age. Plenty of beef and dairy farmers still do not know how to turn on a computer, and surveys suggest that computer ownership among them is about 50%, compared to more than 90% for small businesses generally. Where there is a PC on the farm, it is often used only by the farmer's children.Over the past year, farmers have awoken to their skills gap. Hundreds of computer training courses aimed specifically at the farming community have sprung up around the country. Many are taught by people with farming backgrounds and tailored to farmers' needs, with courses held outside lambing or haymaking times and at convenient venues.Courses of six to eight weeks are being run in pubs, auction markets, farmhouse kitchens and even a cricket pavilion. Groups of eight or 10 farmers meet weekly for training that is either free or inexpensive, thanks to funding from the European social fund, the government, regional development agencies and other sources.The courses are designed for every skill level, from complete beginners to those wanting to use databases, the internet and email. But there is one thing that all beef and dairy farmers want to find out: how to file and check their livestock records online with the British cattle movement service (BCMS). European cattle subsidies are paid only when these records tally.The drive towards greater use of online services has encouraged a group of Somerset farmers from a buying cooperative to pay &#163;2.50 a week for training in a community IT centre in the village of Wedmore. Their tutor is a local farmer's wife, Lynne Duckett, who manages the   centre in a converted hayloft above a pub skittle alley.The courses were the idea of Gerald Durston, who farms in the neighbouring village of Mark. "There are an awful lot of farmers who want to learn computing, but are scared to do it," he says. "And those who say they aren't going to learn to use computers will regret it."The course is making our lives easier and overcoming a few fears - I was terrified when I started. My son and daughter do everything on computer, but I couldn't, and I was being totally left behind. Now I just love messing around with computers - I'm proud of myself."Another farmer from Mark, Roger Tripp, now uses his PC for individual animal records, livestock movements and recording the drugs given to each animal. He is a member of Farm Assured British Beef and Lamb, and his animal records are inspectedannually by the scheme's officials, who can now check them on a printout. Tripp, who is learning how to use databases and spreadsheets, says: "It's freeing up my time because otherwise you can spend hours filling in forms."Beverley Duckett - no relation to Lynne - is doing her third course in computer skills. She farms at Mark   with her husband, Pete, and started her first three-month course in January 2002, followed by a second last autumn. "Every time we want to move one of our 160 dairy cattle, we have to send in a form to BCMS," she says. "These courses will enable me to complete the forms by computer." The couple have a PC, but up to now it has been used mainly by their children for school work and accessing the internet. "They know a lot more than I do," says Duckett.Two BCMS staff who administer the cattle passport scheme visited Wedmore to explain to the farmers how to use the online service. Based in Cumbria, the scheme gives farmers a password to enable them to get access to their own livestock records - if they find any are incorrect, they can email the BCMS to have them put right.In south Pembrokeshire, farmers have come up with the novel idea of running computer courses in a pub - an initiative replicated fictionally on Radio 4 in The Archers, which has Jolene Perks running tutorials in The Bull. The first Pembrokeshire beginners' group of 10 men and women completed a course earlier this year and a group of seven is now having evening classes once a week.Kate Coney, project coordinator for Pembrokeshire College at Haverford West, is delivering the course using laptops. The college is one of 10 throughout Wales appointed by Education and Learning Wales (ELW) to deliver the courses, with funding from ELW and the European social fund. The courses are so popular there are waiting lists. "Farmers' biggest need for using computers is to check that BCMS have got their cattle's details correct," Coney says. "Most of the farmers just chuckled when the pub venue was suggested, and it works really well."Farmer Steve Ford suggested mixing business with pleasure by using the pub, the Lobster Pot at Marlowes. "Farmers think it's a great idea and the courses are generating a bit of extra business for the pub," he says. It also means they do not have to make a 30-mile round trip to the college.At the Appleby Online Centre in Cumbria, a free taster course for the farming community is starting, funded by a local college of further education. Marilyn Dunkelman, the training manager, says: "We decided to introduce this course because so many farmers were asking similar questions about computing. They feel there is a lot of paperwork and know they can fill in the forms online instead of waiting for the papers to arrive."Across the Pennines from Appleby, livestock auctioneers Hexham &amp; Northern Marts have installed a computer training room specifically for farmers visiting Hexham market in Northumbria. Via learndirect, the online training initiative, they can follow courses that are up to 95% funded by the government, which means that farmers can take as many courses a year as they want for an enrolment fee of only &#163;20."We decided to diversify and create the computer training room when the auction market was at a standstill because of foot and mouth," says Edward Davy, who organises computer training at Hexham. "We get as many as 20 people in on market days on Fridays, and our five PCs are fully used. Farmers are looking to the future and realising they will have to come to grips with information technology and the internet."Fast trackMany farmers want to gain computer skills so they can check online that their cattle records held by the British cattle movement service (BCMS) are correct. The service operates the national cattle tracing register, designed to increase consumer confidence in British beef. The register can check where animals have been throughout their lives and trace those exposed to the risk of disease.The service - part of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) - registers all cattle births and deaths, issues cattle "passports", and records cattle movement information sent in by farmers. Its importance for farmers is that EU payments such as beef cattle special payments (totalling &#163;121m a year in Britain) are only sent out by Defra's rural payments agency once it has checked that individual animals tally with records on the BCMS database.The BCMS last month announced a target of 50% of livestock movements to be recorded online by 2005, compared to 35% now.
One of the pioneers of online publishing, Slate magazine, can claim another online publishing breakthrough: it has actually made a profit.While many similar ventures have long since perished or are in sickly health, Slate reports that for the first time it is making more than it is spending."This does bode well for web publishing," its publisher, Cyrus Krohn, said yesterday. "There is nowhere to go but up."He attributed the profitability to the fact that blue chip companies are now putting advertising on the internet.Slate, launched by Microsoft in 1996 at the beginning of the dotcom boom, was one of the first publications aimed entirely at internet users.At the time some commentators predicted the speedy demise of traditional magazines and newspapers, with their high production costs. But most online publications found advertising hard to come by and many fell as the dotcom bubble burst.Slate now reports a 14% annual increase in revenue to $7m and a profit in the first quarter of the year. About 80% of its revenue is from advertising. Book deals on items generated by Slate and "custom publishing" for corporations accounts for the rest.Competitors will point to the advantage Slate and its 30 staff enjoy in having such a rich parent as Microsoft.Mr Krohn, who joined the magazine at its inception, said he thought similar ventures had folded because they tried to grow too fast. "I'm not trying to hide our association with MSN," he said. "It has been very good for us from a visibility point of view."It would be some time before online magazines generated the revenue enjoyed by their traditional rivals, he conceded.The recent dip in the US economy had sent advertisers back to their "comfort zone" of print and television, but Slate was now getting record numbers of hits: Nielsen/Net ratings reported 6m people visiting the site a month.Based in Redmond, Washington, Slate offers what it calls the analysis of a weekly magazine with the immediacy of the internet. Its current edition includes a feature called Seven Ways to Remake Iraq and a defence of the Dixie Chicks band, who have been vilified for saying that they were "ashamed" that George Bush came from Texas.Slate's breakthrough coincides with another, more typical, sign of the internet times. At the weekend the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences announced that the seventh annual Webbys awards ceremony, planned for a San Francisco theatre on June 5, would be held online instead.Many of the nominees were unwilling to travel to the event because of the international situation, the organisers said.When it began the ceremony was a lavish manifestation of the new industry. The new ceremony, with no party or red carpet, is a sign of the belt-tightening across the internet.The academy's executive director, Maya Draisin, said: "Presenting the awards in San Francisco without all of the nominees present is not true to the spirit of the Webbys, so we decided to bring the Webby awards to them instead."
More information today on when we might expect to have a UK version of the iTunes music store. As I expected, we shouldn't hold our breath. I'm told by people at Apple that it's all down to music rights: once they get that sorted out, Apple will be able to launch the service here. But sorting those rights out might not be that straightforward.At least, I suppose, it's the record industry rather than Apple holding things up. But it appears possible that Windows users in the US will get the iTunes store before Mac users in the rest of the world, which would hold a certain irony. Meanwhile, over at Ben Hammersley's place, David Basskin - who claims to be the bossman formusic rights in Canada- is offering to start talks with Apple pronto. Which sounds like good news if you live there.
Apple has finally unveiled its much-rumouredmusic downloads servicealong with a new version of iTunes. And jolly nice it all looks too, at first glance, boasting a nice interface and more than 200,000 songs to download at 99 cents a throw (whole albums at $9.99). The whole thing is rather spoiled, however, by the fact the music service doesn't work for anyone with a billing address outside the US... no word from Apple on when, if ever, they plan to bring this to the rest of the world. I get a nasty sinking feeling about how long we'll have to wait, though. Apple's not been good in the past at rolling out international versions of things (look at Sherlock, where there's been a whole bunch of cool stuff available only to US residents for near-on 18 months now) and even if there was the will, there's doubtless a tangle of music rights to sort out...
The internet was celebrating an unexpected outburst of common sense over the weekend. A Los Angeles district court judge, Stephen Wilson, ruled that companies making software enabling users to swap music and film files over the internet are not doing anything illegal. The people who swap those files, he argued, may be involved in illegal activity but the company providing the software should not be held any more responsible than the manufacturers of video machines are for all the copying they spawn.This judgment draws a line between the first swathe of "peer-to-peer" companies like Napster, which kept a central index of swappable films and music files (thereby becoming a central part of the operation) and the current outcrops like Grokster, StreamCast and Kazaa which merely provide enabling software that can be used, like so many other products, for legal and illegal transactions. No one sues the roads because criminals use   them or Hotmail or Yahoo because they deliver spam mail. Don't shoot the medium just because it is the messenger.No one denies that the music and film industries have a big problem over the ease with which their products can be swapped over the web. Millions of people are doing it every week. But the correct reaction is not to adopt a Luddite attitude but to use the new technology by offering their own music and films for downloading at prices reflecting the cheapness of transmission that the web affords. There are encouraging signs that companies like EMI are starting to do this and Apple, the computer manufacturer, is negotiating with the music giants over paid-for downloads to MP3 digital music players like Apple's iPod. The music industry will, doubtless, appeal against this judgment. It would be far better off spending the same effort embracing the new technology rather than fruitlessly trying to snuff it out.
Are the record labels finally being forced to join us all in the 21st century? Certainly, the last seven days have brought some evidence to suggest that might be the case.First, EMI announced an apparently impressive music download service last week, with tens of thousands of albums and artists being made available. Better still, the new service comes without many of the strings attached to the first generation of legitimate music download services, which have been less than resounding in their success.The timing of EMI's announcement was perhaps calculated to steal a little of the thunder from another announcement, expected today from Apple. Steve Jobs is expected to unveil a music download service backed by all five major music labels, offering a per-track (rather than subscription-plus-fee) pricing structure.But it was also a recognition that music consumers want to download songs, and will do it illegally if they are not offered a legit alternative that's also comprehensive and reasonably-priced. EMI's new offering looks set to become the first to come close to fulfilling those criteria.The second piece of evidence that times are changing came from a courtroom in Los Angeles on Friday. There, a judge decided that the online file-swapping services Streamcast and Grokster - two networks that let computer users see the public folders of fellow users, and copy files between themselves - should not be outlawed simply because users can use them to share copyright material.Judge Stephen Wilson found that "&#91;the&#93; defendants distribute and support software, the users of which can and do choose to employ it for both lawful and unlawful ends... Grokster and StreamCast are not significantly different from companies that sell home video recorders or copy machines, both of which can be and are used to infringe copyrights."That might sound like common sense, but this finding is a big deal. The defining battles between the net and the music industry have taken place in court, and thus far the online world has fared badly. Napster, the daddy of music swapping services, was closed by a court which found it responsible for aiding the illegal trade of copyright material.Since then the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) has been taking aim at other file swapping networks - even those peer-to-peer networks which are not as centralised as Napster but which, argue the labels, are just as responsible for piracy.What, until Friday, did not seem to matter is that these networks are used for lots of things other than the illegal sharing out of copyrighted music produced by the RIAA's member corporations. Cynics among you might doubt these innocent applications really exist - that they are the gossamer-thin, disingenuous defence for networks used 99% for piracy.   But the peer-to-peer networks are also used for sharing home-made software, public documents, copyright-free material and other work where the authors have given explicit permission for copying.What is all this stuff they're exchanging legally? Many people - especially the net's more tech-savvy users - are willing to give away their copyright entitlements for the benefit of the things they are interested in, or to gain a little fame in their online communities.By sharing applications they have developed, or bits of code for bigger collaborative projects, they recognise they can develop something better than they could make by themselves. Others take pleasure in making public their research, or sharing their insights. Partly it's a form of personal marketing, partly it's a kind of community spirit I'm sure we'd all love to see in the offline world.This, it is fair to say, is not a world the RIAA is comfortable with. They would prefer the file sharing networks closed, all of them, no matter the implications. That is why Friday's verdict is so important: for the first time (in the US, at least) they have been told that is not going to happen, at least not without a lengthy fight.The RIAA, as a result of another verdict last week, may now attempt to unmask and pursue individual file swappers through the courts, in an attempt to intimidate this trade away. But that is likely to be a long, expensive and mostly fruitless quest.And in the meantime, in the face of falling sales and weakening profits, the labels themselves are being forced to reappraise how they approach the net. It's taken long enough, but slowly, quietly, the revolution we knew had to come - the revolution in the way we consume music - is finally underway.
It has taken trolley rage out of the lives of millions, but today confidence in online shopping was knocked by new findings that problems are rife for customers buying groceries over the internet.Faults were found in almost all the web-based services in the survey, including ordered items missing from deliveries and products arriving late.The survey, by trade magazine the Grocer, found numerous problems when it attempted to buy the same 33 products from websites run by Sainsbury's, Tesco, Asda, Iceland, Waitrose - which operates outside London - and Ocado, a warehouse-based partnership with Waitrose that delivers within the capital.It took 80 minutes to order the 33 items from Sainsbury's, and in spite of the company's promise to deliver them within 24 hours, they arrived three hours late and were two products short.     Ordering from Iceland's website took 135 minutes, and the products took eight days to arrive, as Iceland said it could deliver only in a two-hour slot once a week.The order from Asda, which took 130 minutes to place, was supposed to arrive within 48 hours but turned up 20 minutes late with 13 items listed on the receipt missing.     Tesco's website was one of the better performers. It took 50 minutes to place the order, which arrived within the promised 24-hour period, but mistakes had been made with the size of products and two items were included which had not been ordered.     Waitrose and Ocado were praised, with both orders arriving complete and on time.A Tesco spokesman said: "We obviously try hard to get things right for customers and on the whole we do. However, Tesco.com is dealing with about 100,000 orders a week and thankfully mistakes are rare."A spokesman for Asda said: "The overwhelming majority of our shoppers get a very good service but sometimes these things happen and we are investigating."
Josh began suffering nightmares when he was just months old, waking every 90 minutes and screaming as though, his mother still vividly remembers, someone was trying to kill him.By the time he was two, he was developing one phobia after another: he couldn't go near escalators without almost fainting with fear, while his terror of fire meant his mother couldn't even light the oven if he was in the room.He was five when he first started talking about killing himself. 'I was sitting on the side of the bath watching Josh bathing, when he suddenly looked up at me and said, "Sometimes I just want to die",' said Maxine, his mother. 'I almost fell onto the floor; what sort of five-year-old comes out with such a comment?'When Maxine asked him why he felt like that, Josh replied that 'there are just so many bad things going on in the world and I just can't figure out how you would ever stop it all'.By the time Josh was hospitalised and prescribed anti-depressants for the first time, he was nine and suicide had become a frequent topic of conversation.His first serious attempt to kill himself came at the age of 12 and was followed by at least one serious attempt in every remaining year until he finally managed to end his life at the age of 19.The exact reasons for Josh's suicide remain unclear, but his mother has the crumb of comfort that he was supported by others who were in equally desperate situations.But that support emanated from an unlikely source: he was a regular visitor to an online suicide forum. Like many others, Josh frequently logged on to the Usenet newsgroup alt.suicide.holiday (Ash), a pro-choice suicide internet message board.'I knew he used to access these sites and have long conversations throughout the night with other site users who felt as wretched as he did,' Maxine told The Observer from her home in Ottawa, Canada. 'I had heard the rumours that they exchanged details on the best way to commit suicide and gave advice on how to get hold of the means of dying, but Josh always denied that and told me the sites comforted and supported him,' she added. 'It was only when he died that I logged on myself to Ash, his favourite site, to see what they really talked about.'The existence of forums created by and for those with suicidal tendencies came to mass public attention for the first time last week when the bleak story of Michael Gooden and Louis Gillies finally came to a tragic end.The two young men had 'met' on the Ash newsgroup in May last year and, within days, made a suicide pact. After a last meal and a few drinks at the Beachy Head Hotel, at the top of Britain's highest chalk cliffs in East Sussex, they strode the 200 yards through fog to the edge of the cliffs, and prepared to fling themselves to their deaths.At the final moment, however, Gillies received a phone call from a shocked friend who talked him away from the edge. The unemployed IT graduate from Glasgow handed the phone to Gooden, but the 35-year-old from south London refused to change his mind and ran over the cliff.'I would just like to let you know that assure-me &#91;Gooden's web name&#93; has caught the bus,' Gillies announced on the Ash site later that day, adopting the site's euphemism for suicide.'He was very determined. He did not flinch. He ran over the precipice in UNBELIEVABLE meteorological conditions. Inspirational, poignant, mesmerising... I hope he has found peace.'Gillies's message caught the attention of police and he was arrested on the unusual charge of aiding and abetting a suicide. But last Tuesday, on the day he was due to face the court, Gillies hanged himself in his Glasgow flat.The rise in the number and popularity of chat rooms created by those with suicidal tendencies, to offer a forum in which those suffering similar distress can discuss their anguish, has led to a surge in stories like that of Gillies.In Norway recently a 17-year-old Austrian woman met a 20-year-old Norwegian man with whom she had made an internet pact to plunge together to their deaths from a 2,000ft cliff called Prekestolen, or Pulpit Rock. Similar stories have been reported in Australia, Japan and Korea, while in America, newspapers have referred to an 'epidemic' of pro-choice websites.'These sites differ in their attitude toward suicide,' said Professor Georg Felber, chairman of the German Society for Suicide Prevention. 'There are those sites run by people who actively promote suicide, who portray it as the cleanest solution or as a unique, consistent attitude and who offer themselves as a companion in the final hours.'These sites provide detailed guidance on suicide methods and give directions on how to acquire implements of suicide, such as weapons and drugs,' he said.It was on a site like this that a teenager from Tokyo obtained enough potassium cyanide to kill herself from a mail order poison service. The man who posted the advert, a Dr Kiriko, was found to have enough poison in his stock to kill 3,000 people. Kiriko has since killed himself.'There are, however, other sites in which the exchange of suicide fantasies and methods are not welcome,' added Felber. 'These sites offer users a free space to examine and formulate suicidal thoughts that are otherwise taboo, and that can help them go on with life, feeling that they are not alone.'Ash, the site on which Gillies and Gooden met, and which Josh frequented, is the most popular, and probably the oldest, English-language suicide internet group, dating back to 1987. 'Anybody who encourages another to suicide as part of the Ash subculture is resisted and if they are part of a mailing list they are immediately banned,' said a moderator of one pro-choice mailing list. 'But if someone posted up suggestions of methods they were thinking about using, someone else would come back with advice on which option carried the least risks of it going wrong.'People have met up in our group and committed suicide together,' he admitted. 'These people have a sense of being isolated and alone in life and simply want a companion in death.''These sites are dangerous,' said Keith Hawton, professor of psychiatry at Oxford University's Centre for Suicide Research. 'One of their founding theories is that they should be placed under no supervision whatsoever and feature no input from experts at all, and what you are left with is suicidal people counselling suicidal people, which is about as dangerous as it can get.'A recurring feature of these sites seems to be the presence of voyeuristic people who get their kicks from encouraging others to commit suicide. There is definitely a seductive element.'But Hawton admits that, despite 'racking their brains', his colleagues and he have been unable to devise a way the sites can be regulated. 'I don't see a solution to these sites,' he said. 'There seems to be no way of stopping or controlling them, just a sad, awful proliferation which will lead to the deaths of more people who, in an alternative environment, could be saved.'
It sometimes seems to take AOL a very long time to do the blindingly obvious, but it finally looks like providing AIM and ICQ for Symbian phones, asCNetreports. Until now, theHiptophas been the AIM-aware portable of choice, at least in the US market.
O'Reilly founder Tim O'Reillyrespondedto Andrew Orlowski's criticism of the Emerging Technologies conference inThe Register. I notice Andrew was on the guest list for the conference, but if he showed up, I missed him....
This week saw the launch of the Pan European Games Information system (PEGI), a new games regulatory body that will replace the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA) and unify game ratings across 16 European countries.The system will apply age rating recommendations and run in tandem with the well established British Board of Film Classification (BBFC), which already deals with games that fall within the 15 and 18 brackets.Like ELSPA and the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) in the US, PEGI is a voluntary system which means that in the UK, unless the game gets passed on to the BBFC for an official 15 or 18 classification, the ratings are guidelines rather than laws.Despite not having an equivalent of the BBFC in the US, individual states are taking it upon themselves to impose restrictions upon retailers who sell violent games to children, punishable by fines of $500 (£314).One game that has come under recent fire for its advertising campaign is Midway's Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance. The Register reported this week that the advertisements, which depict people leaving bloody handprints on each other with the accompanying slogan "It's in us all", have led the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) to deem them "distressing and likely to cause serious or widespread offence".But it is certainly not the last we are going to see of Midway. The company has been indulging in a bit of pass-the-publicity-parcel lately, by making a beeline to pick up the now infamous "Shock and Awe" phrase for use in computer games, a few days after Sony dropped it (claiming it had been "an exercise of regrettable bad judgement").Midway has yet to make an official announcement about the move, but considering the less than rosy figures for their last few games, including the aforementioned Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance, it seems likely that they are just jumping on Sony's coat-tails for a publicity boost.The whole Shock and Awe fuss will only have been a minor blip for Sony, as the company clearly has bigger fish to fry in the form of its next big move in the console war, the PlayStation 3.Sony have been pumping an estimated 1.5bn euros (£1.03bn) into development of the PS3's new processor (codenamed "Cell"), which is being co-developed by Sony, IBM and Toshiba in order to produce what is being described as a "supercomputer on a chip".Ken Kutaragi, president and CEO of Sony computer entertainment incorporated (SCEI), claimed that: "The processor platform that people have only been able to imagine is now going to become a reality. Cell will raise the curtain on a new era in high-speed, network-based computing. With built-in broadband connectivity, microprocessors that currently exist as individual islands will be more closely linked, making a network of systems act more as one, unified 'supersystem.' Just as biological cells in the body unite to form complete physical systems, Cell-based electronic products of all types will form the building blocks of larger systems. SCEI, IBM and Toshiba are mapping out the future of broadband computing."But Sony's ambitions stretch further than just creating the next super console (which you won't be able to get your hands on until 2005). The trio have already made it clear that they plan to use the same technology in a number of products, including mobile phones and set-top boxes.But whether the hardware will live up to the claims of the hype may almost become irrelevant, given the mindshare among consumers that Sony, in particular, enjoys.CompetitionIf you need something to keep the kids occupied, or you're just a big kid yourself, then we have got the prizes you need this week, with three bundles of Fisher Price's Rescue Heroes games for the PC.Each bundle contains Lava Landslide, Meteor Madness and Tremor Trouble, which are all puzzle-solving adventures aimed at the four-seven age range. To win one of the bundles, just email us atOnline.Competitions@guardian.co.ukwith your name, address and the answer to this question:In which national park can you find the geyser known as Old Faithful?
The Emerging Technologies conference is over and I am packing up to leave. Before I finally unplug my notebook PC, I must say I wish I had brought my iBook as well. I missed out on using an interesting Mac OS X-only application calledHydra, which lets a group jointly edit a document in real time. At ETech, more than half the audience used their computers throughout each session, with a number of them blogging live, such asTimothy AppnelandTim Oren. (I was going to mention Paula le Dieux, since she was sitting next to me, but I can't find her blog.) A lot of people were, of course, simply taking notes. This time you had groups of people taking notes collaboratively, sharing a single document, using Hydra.Thisgives you the flavour. (Trevor Smithis the hero.)
And all the men and women merelybloggers....
It may be the stuff of mobile phone adverts, but we've all done it. Standing at the top of a mountain or overlooking a beautiful bay while on holiday, you reach for your mobile to call home and share the moment.However, the bit the adverts never show is when you open your bill four weeks later, only to discover it was the most expensive sunset you've ever discussed.This summer thousands of us will be travelling to Europe and further afield, and the first thing many will be packing is the mobile telephone.But while we've all got used to being able to make cheap calls in the UK, anyone expecting to carry on in the same way while abroad is in for a nasty shock when that bill arrives.Phoning home from Europe, or even to a friend in the same resort, is still amazingly expensive - especially when you consider how much the cost of international calls have come down for users of fixed lines.Most bizarrely of all, on most networks it costs more to receive a call from the UK while abroad than it does to make one - that is, unless you have signed up for international roaming for a fixed fee per month.The cost of keeping in touch also varies considerably according to your provider and what sort of package you have with them. Pay-as-you go customers pay the highest roaming charges.Pre-pay customers pay the second highest - those on contracts usually pay the lowest, and they also have the opportunity to pay a higher service charge in return for lower call charges.European anti-trust regulators are carrying out an investigation into "roaming" charges, but the probe has been hit by delay after delay. The investigation has already taken three years - and it emerged this week that the results are now unlikely to be published before August this year.The delay is likely to ham per efforts by the European Commission to reduce the cost of roaming, although there could be a sting in the tail for the operators. If they are found guilty of keeping prices artificially high, companies such as Vodafone and T-Mobile could face swingeing fines.But ahead of any European crackdown, what can you do to keep costs down this summer? If you are planning to make a lot of calls or are away for a while, it may be cheaper to hire a local phone by the month, or even to change provider.The situation is further complicated by the fact that your phone may not pick the best service provider in the country you visit. As soon as you arrive, your phone will detect the strongest signal and lock onto that service provider. However, that may not be the cheapest and best for you.For example, T-Mobile customers in France have the choice of signing up to one of three networks, and each bill in a different way. Although the call charges are similar, one bills by the second after the first minute, another in 15 second periods, and the third by the minute. This might sound like nit-picking, but it can make a huge difference to your final bill.The secret is to go onto your network's website or talk to staff about the various options before you go. For example, if you plan to receive several calls while abroad it will almost certainly make sense to get onto an international roaming scheme. This may cost an extra &#163;2.50 a month, but it will bring the cost of receiving a call down from an outrageous 80p+ per minute, to a more manageable 20/30p.Also, work out which foreign provider offers the best value in that country and look at how they bill. If you want to only use Orange in France, and you have that option, learn how to manually select Orange when you get there rather than simply accepting whatever your phone chooses.If you can't get on to a lower tariff, consider having calls from the UK barred from getting through to you while you are away.Lastly, think about texting. Most providers charge around 15-18p (on top of the UK charge) to send a text to another UK mobile, but there is no cost to receive them while away. This is the most cost-effective way of staying in touch while you are away, even if your thumbs do start to ache.Charges leave me speechlessUnfortunately I had to learn all this the hard way, writes Miles Brignall. I have just received a bill for &#163;52.16 after using my T-Mobile in France for just over an hour in total.I had a pre-paid phone connected to T-Mobile's All-in-one package (currently being phased out).While I expected the call charges to be more expensive, I had also hoped they would be in line with UK use in terms of being billed by the second etc.We spent four days in February looking for a house to rent in south-west France and used the phone to make appointments.The phone automatically connected to the Bouygues/France network which not only offered a poor service in terms of getting a signal, but also had a minimum charge of 61p for making peak-time calls inside France.However, the charge that really annoyed me was incurred when people called us. A friend, also in France, called us for eight minutes and the call cost me more than &#163;7 - it would have been much cheaper for me to have phoned him.When I queried the charges, T-Mobile told me: "We recommend before roaming that customers call in to customer services or visit the T-Mobile UK website. All details for roaming, including the up-to-date call charges, can be found there."Had I been able to get onto an international roaming package and pre-selected the cheapest call supplier before I went, I could have reduced the bill dramatically.
"A federal court in Los Angeles denied a request to shut down Internet song-swapping services Grokster and Morpheus on Friday, handing a stunning setback to the record labels and movie studios that have sought to curb unauthorized downloading of their works," reportsReuters.
An Abbey National customer today credited weblogging, or 'blogging', for the  satisfactory response he received in his dispute with the bank.Peter Cox, a management and training consultant based in Cardiff, posted his complaint about the bank on his weblog, a diary-style site in which the author links to other web pages he or she finds interesting. His weblog was recently shortlisted for Guardian Unlimited's Best British Blog competition.Mr Cox received a letter from Abbey National in February informing him that his life insurance policy had lapsed and that he had not been paying his premiums. After some investigation, it was discovered that the bank had failed to action a new direct debit Mr Cox had set up."Initially I complained on the phone but as I was through to a call centre, they could only admit the problem but didn't promise any further action. I then sent a letter back in February to which I received no reply and that's when I posted an entry on my weblog," Mr Cox told Guardian Unlimited Money.Mr Cox posted the story on his weblog and included a 'fantasy' response from Abbey National. In this response, Mr Cox suggested the bank should cancel the demand for the three months' missed direct debit payments."Eventually I  got annoyed with the lack of real response and went onto Abbey's website and contacted them this way," said Mr Cox. "However, when I emailed them I didn't put anything in my mail except a link to my blog. They responded satisfactorily within days. I am pretty certain I wouldn't have got anywhere with my complaint if it had not been so public."Abbey apologised for the mistake in its response to Mr Cox and cancelled the demand for the three months' payments missed as a result of its failure to set up the direct debit. Mr Cox has emailed a thank you to the bank but said he remained concerned about what would have happened to his policy if he had died within those three months."The irony is if they'd only replied to my original letter I wouldn't have started the blog in the first place. It seems you have to do this publicly via the internet or  a journalist if you want to resolve any complaint," said Mr Cox. "The other thing I have learnt is to double check direct debits have been actioned after you've set them up."&#183;Take a look at Peter  Cox's  weblog here:Peter D Cox personal weblog
More than half the population would be more willing to vote in next week's local elections if they could do so electronically, research by the electoral commission suggests.A Mori survey for the commission - the independent body responsible for promoting participation in elections - reveals that 55% of adults would be more willing to take part by some form of e-voting. Among those aged 18-24, such methods would encourage three-quarters to participate.The survey polled more than 800 adults earlier this month.During the May 1 local elections, more than 1.5 million people in 17 council areas will take part in balloting trials by text message, the internet, electronic kiosk, and - for the first time - via digital television.The pilot schemes will assess if such moves combat voter apathy. A low turnout in recent elections has generated concern. Only 59% of the electorate voted in the 2001 general election, and European and local polls attracted a turnout of just 32% last year. Among younger adults - the group most attracted to e-voting - the turnout was smallest, with Mori estimating that 62% failed to vote in 2001.Electronic voting begins today in Sheffield, where residents in 15 of the city's 29 wards will be able to vote by using free electronic kiosks, by text message, or by using a touch-tone telephone. Last year electronic voting was pioneered in three wards and increased the turnout by 8%.
Unfortunately two UK bloggers were scheduled against one another at the Emerging Technologies conference this afternoon: Tom Coates ofPasticbag.orggave a run-down of geocoding UpMyStreet.com (Mapping cyber to space) at the same time as Ben Hammersley ofBenhammersley.com/talked on Mailing List Bots. I went to Coates, whose talk was well received. He said he'd put a link to his slides on his blog.
Alan Kaygave a spellbinding talk this morning at the Emerging Technologies conference in Santa Clara. His theme was "the computer revolution hasn't happened yet," and he showed a number of demos from the 60s and 70s (Sutherland, Engelbart etc) to ilustrate that things are in many ways worse now than they were then. He usedSqueakfor his talk, while rubbishing Java, so it would be interesting to know how many attendees went on to download it. Squeak is a user- and child-friendly version of the object-oriented Smalltalk language Kay invented.
Six Apart, the weblog tools company behind the popular Movable Type, made two announcements at this week's O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference in San Jose. First, that they had secured funding from Neoteny, a Japanese venture capital firm, and second that this funding was allowing the launch of a new product: TypePad. These two announcements look set to radically change the weblogging industry, coming as they do only a few weeks after Google bought SixApart's rival, Blogger.TypePad, revealed exclusively to the Guardian, is a major step forward for weblogging tools. Unlike MovableType, TypePad is a hosted service where the program, and the user's weblog, is hosted on the TypePad server for a small monthly fee. The advanced features previously only available with a weblog hosted on your own server, which you would have to pay for and manage yourself, are now available to anyone, regardless of technical ability.The features are remarkable: there is a very powerful, but extremely simple, template builder. Users can redesign their weblogs and create fully compliant XHTML pages, with out knowing what that last phrase means. There is a built-in photo album, built-in server stats, so you can see who is coming to visit you and from where, built-in blogrolling (listing the sites you like to read), and built-in listing for your music, books and friends, producing a complete friend-of-a-friend file for every user.In short, with Typepad, SixApart has embraced almost every advance in weblogging over the past year, and wrapped it into a product my dad could use. It raises the bar for the personal publishing world in a way that the Blogger/ Google buyout promised but has yet to deliver.But what does this mean for the industry this year? Quite a lot. For one, Neoteny's investment, at a time when investing in internet firms is unfashionable, is a great morale boost, especially when you consider that SixApart is actually the husband and wife team of Ben and Mena Trott. (The investment has also allowed for a new employee: the famed New York weblogger Anil Dash is coming on as the marketing and business development expert.) That the world does not consider the Google/Blogger creation an all-consuming beast bodes well for the health of the industry.But more importantly, it shows a   maturation of the weblogging world.TypePad is the first new consumer-grade weblogging product in more than a year, but it shows a change in the marketplace: grabbing the new middle ground of users who want all the advanced features of a self-hosted weblog, but none of the tears of having to learn about Linux or Perl or FTP. This should elevate the standard   of weblogs in general, as it does away with any correlation between technical skill and artistic merit. We will no longer be reliant on geeks for top quality weblog reading. It takes the seething masses and pulls them up to the same technical level as the best Movable Type tweakers and hackers.But going the other way, it frees the self-hosted products up for some   advanced technology, without the fear of alienating the users who are at the end of their technical skills. The long awaited Pro version of MovableType will contain some of the code used in TypePad, but will also contain, Ben Trott says, professional publishing features required by the newly emerging micro-publisher.By creating content management systems with professional features, for around one thousandth of the price of the systems the large sites of the dotcom era were forced to use, the weblogging industry is rapidly creating new possibilities for people to make a living writing for the web. Micropublishers, such as Nick Denton'sGawker.comandGizmodo.com, need these powerful tools, but until now would have been forced into either writing their own or investing in a system more suitable for newspapers.So what next for weblogging? Here in Silicon Valley, there are rumours that a big announcement from Blogger may come in the next few days, but no announcements seem forthcoming from any other weblog tool companies. This will change rapidly. Due to the nature of the hyperconnected weblog world, the news of TypePad will travel quickly. As I write, TypePad has yet to be announced to the public (that announcement coming as this paper is being printed), and the public analysis has yet to start, but by the time you read this, it will no doubt be the top story monitored atdaypop.com. For a part of the internet that has so much quiet influence, TypePad and its features may just be the start of something really big.&#183;www.moveabletype.org
"Sony Ericsson lost 104 million euros ($114.1 million) in the three months ending March 31, compared with a slight profit for the same period last year,"APreports from Sweden. Sony Ericsson's sales fell 39% from 1.1 billion euros to 806 million euros as its market share fell from 9% to less than 6%.
"Sony Corp, the world's largest consumer electronics maker, shocked investors on Thursday by falling far short of earnings targets and projecting a profit slide, blaming war worries and a costly restructuring plan,"Reutersreports from Tokyo. The company made a loss of 111.14 billion yen in the January-March quarter. "Sony said PlayStation 2 shipments are expected to slip this fiscal year to 20 million units from last year's 22.5 million, but analysts had expected that hardware sales would soon run out of living rooms to conquer, while sales of game software titles would probably take up the slack."AP meanwhile presented a different picture: "Sony profits surge, helped by movies, games". It seems that Sony's "profits rose to 115.5 billion yen ($963 million) for the fiscal year ended March 31 from 15.3 billion yen a year earlier. Sales edged down to 7.47 trillion yen ($62 billion) from 7.58 trillion yen." Good year; bad quarter.
British born Ted Codd, father of the relational database, has died aged 79.CNethas an obituary from The New York Times.
You don't have to be clever to crack the computer security of most British companies: all you have to do is stand on Waterloo station handing out cheap pens. In a recent survey into office scruples, 95% of male and 85% of female office workers were happy to tell a stranger their password.A trivial amount of what hackers call "social engineering" would no doubt have secured most of the rest. There was, for example, the chief executive who said: "I will not give you my password, it could compromise my company's information." He later said that his password was his daughter's name, and his daughter's name was Tasmin.Almost half the password-using populace don't present such a difficult challenge. They either use their own name (16%), the name of their favourite football team (11%), or their date of birth (8%). And the most common password of all is password (12%).According to the survey, which was undertaken to promote the Infosecurity Europe 2003 exhibition at Olympia in London, two-thirds of workers have told a colleague their password. One lady said: "We all use the same password so we can remind each other if we forget, or we need to get into someone's PC when they are on holiday." This could perhaps be considered an improvement on the traditional approach, which is to write the password on a Post-it note and stick it on the monitor. (Only the very security conscious put the note under the keyboard or in the top left drawer.)Two things should happen. First, companies should exert more control over the words used as passwords. Second, users should be educated to choose better passwords, and then keep them secret.The simplest ways to increase password security are to make passwords longer, and include both letters and numbers and/or special characters (!+&amp; * etc). Enforcing the use of mixed-character passwords prevents stupidities such as marchpw, aprilpw, maypw, etc. It also protects against dictionary attacks.If you want a false sense of security, you can make everybody use a long unguessable machine-generated password such as yi9DKf7cnAk9&amp;nvL. This guarantees users will write it down in numerous places, including   diaries, wallets and notebooks that are easily lost.But it is possible to get people to think up their own, memorable passwords, if you give them a template to work from. For example, I used to use a system of nine-character passwords based on two four-letter words linked by a number. Examples could include gold1tops, eyes2soul, page3girl, salt4sale and so on. If you can also make passwords case-sensitive - so that eYes2sOul is required - these can be difficult to crack.It would obviously be dangerous to have the same format used by thousands of staff, but it's not hard to come up with a dozen ideas and give them to different groups. And if the resulting passwords are less than perfect, they will still be a big improvement on Tasmin, admin, guest, spurs and password.
The war in Iraq was supposed to dramatically raise the likelihood of a major cyberterrorist attack against the US and its      allies. Some even predicted a "digital Pearl Harbor", an electronic assault that could have shut down power plants, crippled      the banking system, or disabled the air traffic control network.DK Matai, chairman and chief executive officer of the      internet security firm mi2g, predicted that it was highly likely that "the launch of a physical attack on Iraq will see      counterattacks from disgruntled Arab, Islamic fundamentalist, and anti-American groups".Now with the war winding down, fears that Iraq, al-Qaida or even sympathetic hackers in Russia and China would open up a      second front in cyberspace have turned out to be completely unfounded, with little or no evidence that either they or      anyone else engaged in cyberterrorism. What happened?Quite simply, the expected attacks just never materialised. According to Tim Madden, a spokesman for Joint Task      Force-Computer Network Operations (JTF-CNO), created by the US Strategic Command to handle network defence and      attack, there has been no significant increase in attempts to infiltrate US military computers since the war began.Internet security firms confirm that since mid-March, the level of activity has been almost normal. "We are seeing the      same number of attacks today as we were seeing two months ago," says Vincent Weafer, senior director of Symantec      Security Response. "We just haven't seen much evidence of any targeted attacks."The same cannot be said of US activities. It is widely assumed that JTF-CNO engaged in hacking and electronic warfare      against Iraq's telecommunications and information infrastructure, although the Department of Defense refuses to provide      any specific details due to the classification of the operations.There were some instances of war-related hacking over the past few weeks, but nothing that would be considered      cyberterrorism rather than cybervandalism. Most of what has been seen, apart from a few opportunistically timed worms      and viruses, is a large number of website defacements, the online equivalent of graffiti. Mikko Hypponen, the manager of      anti-virus research at internet security firm F-Secure, estimates that altogether, there have been approximately 20,000      website defacements, both pro- and anti-war, since mid-March, with the vast majority taking place within the first few      days.Website defacements occur frequently, regardless of whether there is a war going on, and generally do not result in the      sort of disruption or economic damage that can be caused by a virus or worm.Brian Martin, a security expert withAttrition.org, believes that many would have been done anyway: "There is absolutely no way to say if it is up or down, or if      these are just targets of opportunity and &#91;hackers are finding&#93; a different justification for their activity than the day      before."The Unix Security Guards, a pro-Islamic group with members in Egypt, Morocco, Kuwait and Indonesia, are thought to be      responsible for hacking hundreds of US government and commercial websites, inserting into many of them the message      that the group was part of the "New Era of Cyber War We Promised". And despite the FBI cautioning pro-US hackers against      engaging in "patriotic hacking," a group calling itself the Patriot, Freedom Cyber Force Militia hacked the website of the      Arabic satellite news channel al-Jazeera.There's curiously little proof that al-Qaida or other terrorist groups are engaging in cyberterrorism. Robert Andrews, a      congressional representative from the state of New Jersey and a member of the House select committee on homeland      security, concedes that there is "no evidence on the public record" that any terrorist group has ever launched an attack on      the information infrastructure of the US.It turns out that the vast majority of network intrusions and hacking attempts against US computers aren't the work of      terrorists hiding out in caves along the Pakistan/Afghanistan border, or hackers in Russia or China, but originate within the      US. One security firm estimates that 86% of all "security events" can be traced back to the US.    A crippling hacker attack against America is more likely to be the work of bored high-school students than al-Qaida.For      example, in 1998, while the US was preparing to launch air strikes against Iraq in Operation Desert Fox, the Pentagon      discovered that its computer networks had been compromised by an attack that appeared at first to be the work of either      several governments in the Middle East working together or perhaps even Iraq itself. An investigation by the FBI revealed      the culprits to be two teenagers in California.Some security experts wonder whether it makes sense to emphasise cyberterrorism when there is a more immediate      danger from cybercrime and other online maliciousness. The SQL Slammer worm, which struck computers earlier this year,      causing considerable damage, is not believed to be the work of either terrorists or a hostile government."Our networks      really are insecure, and there is lots and lots of crime: that is our biggest problem," says Bruce Schneier, founder and      chief technical officer of Counterpane Internet Security. His hope is that companies strengthening their security in      response to the perceived risk of cyber terrorism will have the net effect of reducing what he sees as the real danger -the      rising level of criminal activity online.There is even a chance that what Schneier hoped for came to pass during these past few weeks and that the real reason      there were no successful attacks is not because none were attempted, but because security was adequately strengthened      beforehand.In anticipation of the war, many companies began paying more attention to the threat of hacker attacks, and      beefed up security. Madden says that because the Department of Defense is forced to "defend its computer networks      against intrusions every day, we had to do very little to prepare our networks for possible conflict beyond taking extra      precautions to ensure we properly configured our networks and properly patched our software".Even if the risk of cyberterrorism during the war was overstated, the threat of a serious attack by a rogue nation or a      terrorist group remains very real, according to US government agencies.Recent reports by the FBI and the Department of      Homeland Security have outlined the continuing danger of terrorist groups turning to the internet. One particular concern      is that cyberterrorism might be timed to coincide with a physical terrorist attack, such as bombing a building while      simultaneously disabling the emergency response system, to ensure that the maximum number of lives were lost.Marcus Corbin, an analyst with the Center for Defense Information, speculates that given the recent show of American      military superiority in Iraq, cyberterrorism might prove attractive to extremist groups looking for a more level playing      field on which to fight."The wish, after Iraq, to hurt us will be stronger, so interest in attacking us through electronic      means will grow greatly," he says. "Whether those attacks will succeed will depend on how well we can defend our systems."Congress Andrews predicts that if the US does not find a way to make its critical infrastructure more secure, there will be      a "significant cyberattack within the next five years, whether it is on the 911 emergency response system, the power grid,      the banking system or the air traffic control system".Counterpane's Schneier contends that these kinds of attacks are harder to execute than simply hacking a server, since      most of the computers critical to running power plants and air-traffic control systems are usually not connected to the      internet.Disrupting the internet with worms or denial-of-service attacks is not particularly attractive to terrorist groups      since they lack the impact of a bombing or hijacking. "Not being able to access the internet does not induce terror or fear      in people. Terrorists are out to cause fear, not inconvenience," he says.And even should a cyberterrorist attack prevail and shut down the power grid or disrupt the emergency response system,      "these sorts of outages and problems tend to happen by accident already, so we have workarounds for them", Schneier      argues. "What we don't have workarounds for are people flying planes into buildings or blowing up embassies."&#183;Send comments:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Mobile PhonesTunnel visionVodafone says it is at the earliest stage of considering how to wire train tunnels for reception, despite reports of discussions with Network Rail. The firm says these appear to have been triggered when a Financial Times reporter was cut off during a conversation with Vodafone chief executive Sir Christopher Gent, when he went into a tunnel. On reconnecting, Sir Christopher remarked on this - giving the FT the story idea. "It is very early days," said Vodafone this week. "A solution could be a way off." Bob McDowall, a director at analyst firm Bloor Research, says Vodafone is probably the only network with the financial strength to consider such a long-term investment.Nokia to clamshellCould Nokia be about to launch its first clamshell phone? While such companies as Samsung, Sharp and Motorola have been successful with their flip-open handsets, Nokia has stuck with conventional flat-faced designs. Now, rumours are sweeping the industry that Nokia has been talking to four Taiwanese manufacturers about a clamshell mobile and that it intends to launch models at the beginning of 2004. Clamshell phones have proved especially popular with camera phone buyers. Sharp's GX-10, exclusive to Vodafone Live, is the UK's bestseller.www.nokia.co.ukGadgetsTrust times threeTrust is upping the ante in the budget digital camera market by introducing a model that takes 3.3 mega pixel images yet retails for less than &#163;150. The Trust 770Z also features 3x optical and 3x digital zooms, a 4cm TFT LCD display, and five preset shooting modes including portrait, macro and landscape.www.trust.comNokia is watchingComing in June from Nokia is a &#163;350 Observation Camera that snaps images and sends them directly to MMS-(multimedia messaging) equipped phones or email addresses. To see the images, users send a text message to the camera, which then replies with an image of whatever is in front of it. The   Nokia Observation camera is one of the first devices to uses Machine to Machine (M2M), a technology that enables phone networks to communicate with computers.www.nokia.co.ukCovert snapperWith celebrity hangouts banning camera phones, taking covert pictures of the stars requires ever more disguised snappers. Budget digital camera maker L'Espion could provide the answer, as its new &#163;80 model, the XS, is housed in a pull-open metal case that's a deadringer for a cigarette lighter.The camera takes 0.5 mega pixel still images, up to 13 seconds of video and 12 minute of audio, which it stores on its 8MB internal memory. Lite Sync technology enhances images shot indoors, while an infrared mode enables   the camera to take pictures based on body heat.www.digitaldreamco.comSony's pocket camsSony is targeting moviemakers on the move with a pair of lightweight compact digital camcorders. The &#163;1000 DCR-PC105 and &#163;800 DCR-PC103 have a vertical design, are finished in blue-grey and record on to DV cassettes. The pair also feature a one click transfer of video to CD-R or DVD and, using the accompanying software, users can also record on to Video CD format discs that are compatible with most DVD players. Both models feature a 1.1 mega pixel CCD, 10x optical and 120x digital zooms, Carl Zeiss lens and Super NightShot for capturing images under dark conditions. The 105 can also take still images, which it archives   on a Memory Stick storage card.www.sony.co.ukSamsung record TVSamsung looks set to win the race to become the first to the UK market with a widescreen TV that features an integrated hard disk video recorder. Due next month, the &#163;1700 WS32Z108R pairs a 32in widescreen set with a 40GB hard disk recorder. Also coming are a DVD-Ram video recorder, the DVD-R4000 (&#163;450, June), a 40in LCD TV the LW40A13WX (out now, &#163;6000) and a pair of camcorders, one of which, the VP-D33 (&#163;450, May) records on to MPeg4 as well as digital video.www.samsungelectronics.co.uk&#183;What's new is edited by Neil McIntosh, with contributions from Ashley Norris and SA Mathieson
Future connectionsJane Millar's analysis of the IT job market (UK needs IT support, April 17) accurately reflects my own observations over the past year.The trends that she identifies threaten a significant loss of high-level IT skills in the UK with the consequent damage to UK prosperity.If technical skills are lost, then a few years later, this will translate to the loss of ability to manage complex technical projects and ultimately the ability to manage the outsourcing process itself.Many people are wondering how to respond to these new conditions both on an individual and collective level.Clearly, we will need to reduce costs if we are to compete with India. One approach might be to set up networks of home-based workers linked by broadband connections without the overheads associated with commuting or office buildings.Another strategy might be to concentrate on emerging leading-edge technology. Any suggestions? Are we ultimately in the same boat as workers in the steel and textile industries were 20 years ago?Peter Lawsonpeter@lawsonas.demon.co.uk&lt;A HREF="http://www.lawsonas.demon.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.lawsonas.demon.co.ukWindowslessI'd tend towards the opinion laid down by Conrad Hills (Feedback, April 17). Windows, as an operating system, has not led the frontier of usability or reliability. What Windows users have seen, meanwhile, is constant "upgrades" that require faster and faster machines with little or no reparations in usability. And   while Mac OS (either 9 or X) is a fantastic operating system, the real step forward for reliability comes from the various distributions of Linux and BSD.The fact that office suites such as OpenOffice.org and StarOffice can run on far less powerful systems, combined with their price (or more importantly, lack of price) should make these products more and more popular with the business desktop market.  Also the fact that a company could "roll your own" distribution of a Linux system should please any system admin who has been fumbling around with the, to be frank, rather poor management tools on Windows.With such systems, users will never be worried about the differences between an Office 95, 97 and XP file, or wondering how to get around Microsoft's latest innovation, but will be pleased with a superior modular system that operates using open file formats and standards (example: eXtensible Markup Language, or XML to the rest of us). That to me is moving away from the mortal temptations of Windows into computerised heaven.Tom Morristom@bbcity.co.ukwww.bbcity.co.ukBig businessI read with interest the article Payment in kind (April 10). It dealt with payments across the internet platform and specifically alternative payment methods.I do not know whether you are aware that NatWest Streamline control 40% of the card traffic (credit and debit cards) in the UK and Barclays control 30%-35%. Therefore, up to 75% of the card traffic in the UK is dominated by these two banks, in what can only be described as an oligopoly. Considering that in the month of October 2002, traffic in cards was &#163;17bn, of which 6.7% is online, the banks are strategically placed to control the e-commerce market by anti-competitive practices.Mike Fostermike.foster@netpayments.co.ukBona fideLast week, a reader complained that his personal details could be accessed atwww.whois.net(Ask Jack, April 17).  I had a similar problem and offer a solution. I bought a domain name for business use and paid using my personal credit card. I discovered by chance that my company's name was coupled with my credit card billing (home) address on the "whois" site.I asked the registrants (Amen) to contact Nominet, who maintain "whois", and register .co.uk names, and had the address altered to my solicitor's address.  I can see no reason to prevent other domain name owners concerned about privacy using a third party address such as a solicitor or accountant.Jack Cumminseditor@sllp.co.ukEasy accessYour correspondent (Feedback, April 17) found a shortcut to Guardian Unlimited (www.gu.com). If they are using a Mac, they can define shortcuts to any site by using theOmniWeb browser, such as "gu" to Guardian Unlimited, "g" to Google, "y" to Yahoo, etc.Jeremy Hendersonjeremy_henderson@hotmail.comNice and neatHas the Guardian ever heard the phrase "If it ain't broke don't fix it"? The recent changes to Online, which it now appears is only an appendix to something called "Life", have completely broken something that was quite well fixed. Online used to be a nice, neat, free-standing supplement that could be kept and often referred back to for all the useful information it frequently contained. Now it is a garish mish-mash that I need to don sunglasses to read. Items that were once easily found are scattered everywhere - and it took me a week to realise that Online had not actually been dropped.Please return to the free-standing format.Stephen Eeley
When smart cards hit the headlines, it is usually because they are part of a new round of trials. But from the end of next month, commuters in London will get their taste of the real thing for the first time.As part of a new transport initiative, monthly and annual ticket holders in the capital will be issued with credit-card-sized smart cards, which they will be able to use on the underground, buses and trains across London.Transport officials claim the smart cards - known as Oyster cards - will slash queues for tickets and make it faster for commuters to go through gates and on to buses. Different ticket types will be made available to smart-card holders during the year. "They will speed up journeys. When you are entering the tube, you tap your card on the reader and the gates will open. It's very sensitive," explains a Transport for London spokesperson. There is no additional charge for the smart cards and the validity of the tickets they hold can be extended online or over the telephone.The new London smart cards have been designed by TranSys, a consortium of technology companies. The   consortium's marketing director, Nicole Carroll, says the personal information held on the new smart cards is minimal and she insists the data is secure and would not be passed on to a third party without consent. The consortium has ambitious plans to introduce further applications. "We are going to do a number of tests to see what works in the customer domain. It is very likely that your Oyster card will eventually have credit card functionality and an electronic purse. You will be able to use your smart card to buy a coffee and a newspaper."Outside London, other local authorities across the country are testing smart cards with transport applications. Cornwall has more than 40,000 smart cards (known as Cornish Key cards) in circulation, which can be used for concessionary fares on buses or for paying car park charges. The cards are also being used as replacement library cards. Roy Cosway, corporate IT services manager for Cornwall county council, believes there are a host of applications that could eventually run on the Cornish smart cards. "If it's convenient and helpful to use smart cards, people will do so."Aside from transport, smart cards   are seen by local councils as a way of making their services more accessible. The idea is that individuals will be able to authenticate themselves online with their cards and then, for example, pay their council tax electronically.But not all smart card applications are finding support from the public. Southampton city council recently tried an experiment where people were encouraged to report housing repairs online at public kiosks by using their cards. The technology worked but the take-up levels were poor. "The kiosks have not been successful," admits Rob Gair, SmartCities project manager for Southampton city council. "We had chewing gum and coins stuck in the smart card slots. People would be   just as happy to pick up a phone."Nevertheless, Southampton's smart card initiatives are reported to be working well as borrowing and membership cards in libraries and leisure centres; in June, pupils at Bellemoor school will be able to use smart cards to pay for school meals. If they eat healthily, they earn loyalty points that can be spent at local shops.With the number of disparate local council smart card initiatives mushrooming, the government has announced it is launching a &#163;4m national smart card project to develop policies in England. The project will be driven by a small partnership of councils including Bracknell Forest borough council, Southampton city council and Cornwall county council. They intend   to publish a best-practice guide and a starter pack, to enable other councils to introduce smart card schemes quickly and cost effectively. Another goal is to try to create and promote common smart card standards so certain applications could be used across the country. For example, people in Cornwall might eventually be able to use their Cornish smart cards to pay for car-parking in the north of England.However, before they tackle the thorny issue of common standards, the national project team knows that smart cards have to prove they can successfully handle standard applications on a large scale. Which is why a lot is resting on the introduction of smart cards for London's commuters.
Up and down England, councillors are anxiously awaiting the electorate's verdict on their fancy new websites and other electronic public services.Dream on. Next week's local elections will, as usual, be referenda on the performance of central government, which, to a growing number of people, means the prime minister in person.That's a shame, because it would be nice to know what voters think of one of the most exciting developments in local government since the public library.Local e-government is starting to make a difference. On Tuesday, the Improvement and Development Agency (Idea), a self-help group funded through a levy on local authority budgets, publishes its third report on local e-government.   Unlike previous inward-looking reports, concerned mainly with targets and technical strategies, this one is about "service outcomes" - how e-government helps councils tackle urgent priorities.We're not talking about wheelie bins, but education, health, law and order and protecting the environment.The Idea report will cite several exciting initiatives made possible through IT. Registers of children at risk, for example. Until recently, registers were routinely bungled because NHS and social service organisations could not share data. Children have died as a result.Now, according to the report, Telford and Wrekin Council has developed ways of sharing information across agencies while recognising rights to privacy.Another example of collaboration   is a scheme in Northamptonshire to help people with dementia stay in their homes, equipped with telemonitoring devices.The snag is that e-government has more pilots than the RAF. Often, these rely on special one-off funding or personal relationships to get them going. The report warns of "a discontinuity" between local innovations and central policies and projects. To overcome it, we need to find ways to apply local successes nationally. The buzzword is "mainstreaming".A bigger question raised by the report is whether e-services can reconnect citizens and their councils. E-voting, as currently conceived, seems unlikely to do the trick. Even if next week's e-voting pilots, the biggest yet, increase turnouts, the voters will not have local services in mind.Even among activists, e-government is rarely a party issue. Success stories come from across the spectrum, though terminologies differ as different parties claim the agenda for their own.To the technocrats and bean-counters who are supposed to run councils, that's a good sign: e-government is "above politics". But local services will not be transformed unless citizens are engaged and that means giving them a voice.Here's an idea. If you are interested in e-government, ask your ward candidate about their ideas on the topic. And, if you think e-government is important to the future of education, health and the environment, why not cast your vote according to the reply? It will have more effect than a ballot paper telling Blair, Duncan-Smith or Kennedy to get stuffed.
Tender fightUS defence giants are lining up to compete for NHS IT contracts worth up to &#163;2.3 billion. A list of 31 potential bidders published by the Department of Health last week includes Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. The companies' products, such as the F14 Tomcat fighter and Patriot missile, were used in the Iraq war. Other bidders include BT, Fujitsu, IBM and Oracle. One consortium is headed by Jarvis Plc, best known as a rail maintenance firm. At stake are contracts to take over NHS IT and to provide new "national applications" such as electronic booking. The first of the new contracts, covering London, is due to be placed in September.Direct increaseNHS Direct, the world's largest provider of e-healthcare, is to have its budget nearly doubled, health minister John Hutton said this week. The new money will pay for a national digital TV channel to add to the existing telephone and web service. NHS Direct's national number, 0845 46 47, deals with half a million calls a month and has been hailed as a success in the NHS's use of IT. However, it is not well integrated with the rest of the health service. Under the new plan, Developing NHS Direct, the service will become a standard national out-of-hours service for GPs. Patients will also be offered a "personal health organiser" for securely storing key health information about themselves in the system. The new capacity will enable it to handle 16 million calls a year.www.doh.gov.uk/developingnhsdirectFace recognitionThe Grampian police force in Scotland has become the latest organisation to employ automatic face recognition systems to identify criminals. It has contracted Steria, an IT services firm, to supply a system that identifies an individual using 692 facial descriptors to capture and identify a face. The technology can be used to identify suspects from images such as video, CCTV, photographs, artists' drawings and police e-fits, the company claims. It will be able to identify a face by searching 15 million records in around one minute.Chips upAMD duly announced its 64-bit Opteron processor, codenamed Sledgehammer, on Tuesday, with   support from Microsoft and IBM. As expected, AMD highlighted the fact that its 64-bit range is based on extending current 32-bit x86 designs, and is more compatible with today's standard PC software than Intel's 64-bit Itanium 2. The first Opterons are aimed at the profitable market for two-processor servers, and priced to compete with Intel's 32-bit Xeon range, which sits above the desktop Pentium series. Prices start at $283 for the 1.4GHz Opteron 240, and go up to $794 for the 1.8GHz 244. The version aimed at desktop PCs, codenamed Clawhammer, is expected in autumn.Intel cutsIntel has resumed shipments of the new 3GHz Pentium 4, which supports an 800MHz bus, which were suspended last week due to a    suspected bug. PC manufacturers have been supplied with revised software. The new 3GHz chip offers the fastest 32-bit processing available. On Monday, Intel also cut the price of the existing 3.06GHz Pentium 4, which uses a 533MHz bus, by 32% from $589 to $401 to make it cheaper than the new version. Intel also cut prices of some mobile Pentium 4-M and Celeron   chips by up to 38%, and is expected to release a 3.2GHz Pentium 4 next month.Not so smart cardsMemory caches on smartcards could be used in hacking them, according to Dr Daniel Page, of Bristol University. Such caches are used to make cards work more efficiently, but in an article in Elsevier's Information Security Technical Report, Page writes that "side-channel analysis" - using operational data from a system, such as how long it takes to perform tasks, to break into its encrypted data - could work for these caches. "Since smartcard implementation is set to explode in security-critical financial environments, these vulnerabilities should be addressed before, rather than after, next-generation products hit the market," he says.www.elsevier.com/inca/publications/store/3/1/1/8/5http://cs.bris.ac.ukTax rise on servicesThe cost of many electronically supplied services will rise from July, as companies outside the European Union have to start charging value-added tax from July 1 at the rate in the customer's country. According to accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers, this will affect web-hosting, distance learning services and downloads of software, audio and video.Suppliers within the EU charge VAT at their country's rate, not the customer's. This is a potential boost to the economy of such places as Madeira. The Portuguese island charges 13% VAT, the lowest rate in the EU, making it attractive as a European base for firms. Law firm Masons says that most European countries have not yet said how they will register companies or collect these taxes, leaving very little time before the regime is introduced.www.pwcebiztoolkit.comwww.out-law.com
The release this week of Windows Server 2003 Web Server edition is putting low-cost web servers firmly on the agenda of corporate IT. Microsoft is bringing out a new product in a market that has traditionally been the home of open-source solutions. Generally rolled out under the business radar, small web servers and web applications have been assisting teams and project groups, even providing quick wins for companies that want to develop a low-cost web presence.The key to the explosion of small web applications is the combination of four key technologies: Linux, Apache, MySQL and Perl (or PHP or Python), often known by the acronym Lamp. Originally popularised by German open-source groups, the Lamp name is now so widespread it's turning up in job descriptions for web developer roles.Between them, these technologies deliver everything you need to quickly produce rough and ready web applications. The Apache web server and Linux are already well known, and the MySQL relational database has been gaining visibility outside open-source circles in recent months. Add an integrated scripting language and you have a web application platform.Choosing an appropriate scripting environment is a complex decision, and often comes down to a developer's personal preferences. Common choices are Perl, or PHP. Perl has a long history of working well with Apache, and is most useful for text and form processing. PHP is newer, and works well for creating dynamic web pages. Developers will find similarities between PHP and Macromedia's Cold Fusion, as both add tags to web pages to control how content is displayed.Lamp-based systems aren't complex application servers delivering large scale e-commerce sites. Instead, developers can take advantage of well-known scripting techniques dating back to the early days of the web to build straightforward database-driven sites. Administrators and developers can bootstrap their way into Lamp using collected Linux and    Apache HOWTO documentation, and sites such asO'Reilly's. Archive sites such as the CPAN Perl archive are full of code snippets and pre-built modules to reduce development time.There's often no need to reinvent the wheel. As the Lamp platform is so common, many open-source web applications will install and run with minimal configuration. In most cases, there are only a few simple steps to follow, usually creating database tables and passwords. Once installed, applications are configured and managed using web browsers.One area where Lamp has begun to shine is the blogging world. Tools like the popular Movable Type blogging system rely on the presence of most of the key components of a Lamp solution. Web-based configuration and a content database allow for complex applications, and common Perl libraries make it easy to link Moveable Type to other applications.The Nuke family of portal content management tools are a popular choice for Lamp applications. These applications, and their libraries of back-end modules and display blocks, make building a discussion-driven portal a matter of a few downloads and a little configuration. With tools for managing file uploads and users, a project team can quickly assign roles, and start using their portal to share documents and ideas. Other Lamp applications include image libraries and discussion forums. A phpBB forum can quickly turn a static site into a thriving community.Knowledge management has been an industry buzzword for some time now, but it's rarely been as successful as was hoped for. It has never been easy to develop a culture of sharing   knowledge, and dedicated knowledge management solutions are expensive. Quickly dropping in a project-specific Lamp solution using a content management system like Slash (best known as the system behind the Linux-advocacy site Slashdot) or PHP-Nuke can encourage a project-level information sharing culture.Lamp isn't just for small internal applications. O'Reilly Books uses it as the basis for such complex sites as the Meerkat technology news aggregator, while the state of Rhode Island uses a Lamp solution to manage its rules and regulations website. Educational institutions are turning to Lamp for pan-European collaborative projects.Commodity hardware is the key to successful Lamp deployment. PCs bought from such stores as PC World for a few hundred pounds make ideal basic Lamp platforms. Once the   hardware is loaded with an off-the-shelf Linux distribution, it takes only an hour or two to put together a Lamp system with the web server ready to go, one or more databases running, and the appropriate scripting environments ready.It doesn't matter whether it is Red Hat, Mandrake or SUSE, as the technologies that form the basis of Lamp are part and parcel of all the major Linux distributions. Just don't expect to have a high availability solution; this isn't high-end, fault-tolerant hardware.Server appliances with reduced administration overheads are an attractive alternative. Sun's server appliance division, formerly Cobalt, produces rack-mounting Pentium III systems with a custom Linux kernel, bundled administration tools, and all the software you need to build Lamp applications, as well as Java tools.   ISPs are finding Lamp appliances such as Sun's Cobalt Raq 550 a cost-effective tool for hosting several websites on a single system. Users can manage their own sites, but a central management tool lets the ISP control their access and privileges.Businesses can also take advantage of appliance solutions. A single server appliance, installed in the company datacentre, is a useful host for ad hoc web application development. Simple management policies keep the system under control and make sure users adhere to security and acceptable usage policies.This way, developers can share best practices and libraries of tools to reduce risks, analysing successful applications using the lessons learned as the basis of larger scale developments, rather than having umpteen pilot projects left on a small server under someone's desk.
Sproqit seems to have solved the problem that afflicts almost every serious business user: how do you get access to your Microsoft Outlook data when you are not at your PC? What's more, Sproqit's solution will work on anything from a notebook PC to the humblest smart phone, including Pocket PC, Palm and Symbian handhelds. It doesn't even need Java.So far, solutions to the Outlook problem have taken two different routes: synchronisation and remote access. The first obvious idea is to synchronise the portable device with the desktop system, and take a copy of the data away with you. This is not a bad idea, but if your Outlook PST (personal storage file) is a couple of hundred megabytes, you can rarely take more than the most recent entries. It also means your portable device has to have expensive memory, processing power, and a decent screen -- something like a Compaq iPaq with a big memory card. Even then your portable data starts going out of date until you resynchronise it.The second obvious idea is to use the portable device as a terminal and just access the desktop data remotely. That's how Microsoft's Terminal Services program and Citrix work. The problems are that desktop programs were not designed to fit on a 2.5in screen, and you don't have access to your data unless you have a working communications link. Slow and variable or unreliable connections - such as standard GSM mobile phone networks - can easily drive you batty.Sproqit uses the remote terminal idea, but with a difference. The mobile device runs a small (200K) "thin client" program, Sproqit Companion, which only has to collect application data and display it on the screen. But it does not have to cope with full-size Outlook screens, just the compressed binary data sent by a second program, the Sproqit Desktop Agent,   which sits on your PC and drives Outlook. As a result, it provides access to all your data, including old email, but still works very quickly, even over a GSM phone line.With Sproqit, you are always dealing with one master PST and, while you are connected, it is continuously updated. The drawback is that when you log off, you only have access to data that has been cached on the handheld device. If you read the first and last pages of Moby Dick, you have those, but not all the pages inbetween: they were never downloaded. Peter Mansour, Sproqit's founder and chief executive officer, says: "Anything you can do online you can do offline, except get new data."Sproqit uses a familiar idea - it splits the user interface from the application - but is a new architecture for a new world. The old ways of doing things assumed you were almost never connected (synchronisation) or were connected most of the time (remote terminal). Sproqit assumes you can connect intermittently, but as often as you need. It's designed for a world of internet hotspots and mobile phones.Sproqit is based near Microsoft in Seattle, where Mansour and some of his colleagues used to work on Windows CE and Pocket PC devices. What they are doing is stealing a march on Microsoft's CE.net client, which could end up doing the same sort of thing with XML messages. However, they can already support Pocket PCs, Palms and Symbian devices, with more to come. They should be able to put their Sproqit Companion "user interface platform" on mobiles faster than they get .Net clients, if they ever do.They also plan to support Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes servers, and they have a software development kit, so programmers can write Desktop Agent plug-ins to Sproqitise other applications.The launch is expected late this summer.
What sparked your interest in computer science?I first learnt programming (Fortran) at university but hated it. I got interested in the early 1980s when I was lecturing at a teacher-training college and the Commodore PET computer was released. I became interested in the use of computers in education, did an MSc in computer science and then got a lectureship in computer science at Southampton.What does hypermedia mean and why is it important for the general user?The terms hypertext and hypermedia were coined by Ted Nelson in the 1960s to describe the idea of using computers to link, or cross-reference, documents (hypertext). If you allow the   documents to include multimedia material (images, video, etc), then we talk about hypermedia. This concept formed the basis of Tim Berners-Lee's ideas that evolved into the web in the 1990s. We are all used to clicking on items in web documents to follow links to other documents. This is hypermedia.What is the Intelligence, Agents, Multimedia (IAM) research group?I founded the Multimedia Research Group (MMRG) in 1992. At that time, we were working on several different types of hypermedia and multimedia systems. The research vision of the group included the development of personalised information systems implemented using agent-based computing techniques. In 1999, two new professors joined the group: an AI specialist and a pioneer of agent-based computing. The group was renamed the IAM. It is now well over 100-strong   and is one of the biggest and most successful groups of its kind in the world.Did you anticipate that the internet bubble would burst so spectacularly?The bubble that burst was the dotcom bubble. I draw the analogy with the invention of the printing press in the 15th century. Here was a technology that we now know changed the world, but at the time, the people trying to make a business out of printing books were selling into a population that largely couldn't read.Do you find your specialism male-dominated?Yes, it can be very intimidating to be a woman in such a male-dominated world. You have to be very strong and self-confident to survive, and actually be better than your peers to make it to the top. Having said that, once you have broken through the glass ceiling, it can be   quicker to progress because everybody wants a woman on their committee or board. This is a double-edged sword, of course, because there are so few of us in the industry and the demands on our time to be "the female representative" are enormous. It's not just the IT industry that is male-dominated, the whole higher education sector is very biased towards men.We seek to encourage more women to consider degrees and careers in IT but it is an uphill struggle. I am president of the British Computer Society next year (only the second female president in the society's 50-year history) and I plan to highlight these problems during my presidential year.Useful linksIAMwww.iam.ecs.soton.ac.ukECSwww.ecs.soton.ac.ukActive Navigationwww.activenavigation.comHypermedia Research Centrewww.hrc.wmin.ac.uk&#183;Wendy Hall and David Rowe's book Hypermedia and the Web: An Engineering Approach is published by John Wiley, £32.
It seems that most of the people at O'Reilly Emerging Technologies conference are either authors (especially with O'Reilly) or journalists or bloggers or all three. That includesDan Gillmor(doing a book for O'Reilly) andBen Hammersley(just done one). There seem to be at least 30 people blogging away, many of them during sessions.KottkeandBoing Boingare among the blogs listed on O'Reilly'sPress Coverage and Weblogspage. Jon Lebkowsky'sWeblowskyand Tim Oren'sDue Diligenceare not. With bloggers blogging bloggers talking, the whole thing feels incredibly incestuous, as The Register'sAndrew Orlowskimight well have said, if he hadn't already gone in over the top with the notion that you "get the sense that you're staring at a scene that resembles the Scientology cult".
Councils are coming under renewed pressure from the government to accelerate the introduction of electronic procurement. And any suppliers who have not paid much attention to the implementation target date of 2005 could be in for a rude shock.In a bid to apply pressure, Newham Borough Council has recently written to all of its suppliers saying that from the start of January next year it will only contract and trade with its suppliers using e-procurement methods."We want to try and bring forward the potential savings of e-procurement so we can reinvest time and money in our front-line services," explains Martin Scarfe, the financial adviser for Newham Borough Council, who admits the January target could be intimidating for some local businesses. "Many large suppliers are being asked more and more by their customers to trade electronically. For smaller businesses it is a scary message. This is quite a fundamental change for a lot of them. They are used to trading with the phone and fax."Newham, which is seen in government circles as a pioneer of e-procurement, has clubbed together with the councils of Tower Hamlets, Redbridge, Lewisham and Barnet to create an online London marketplace to buy goods and services from suppliers. But there are currently only about 50 suppliers using the e-procurement system.Newham is organising e-procurement supplier forums and is providing local businesses with information and support to help them become web-enabled. But it is an uphill struggle."E-procurement has potential. But it is too complicated and too much hassle. I'm not convinced at the moment," says Michael Read, managing director of W A Read, a company which manufactures brushes for Newham Council. Read's views are broadly representative of the current thinking of many small London local council suppliers.However, advocates of e-procurement believe the experience of suppliers who are embracing this new way of working will eventually win over the e-doubters. The online London marketplace is run for Newham and its partner councils by Best Value Procurement, a public sector e-procurement consultancy. Prices for joining start at £250 and scale up depending on the size of a supplier's catalogue. Malcolm Rosier, marketing manager for Best Value Procurement, claims the suppliers who have joined the marketplace are already receiving more accurate orders and prompter payments. "There are some very real benefits for the London marketplace suppliers. The concerns and reservations that suppliers initially had have been quelled."Other councils are also starting to get tough about e-procurement targets. Essex County Council spends about £500m a year on external goods and services and is now actively marketing its new e-procurement platform, which is hosted by the IDeA, the Improvement and Development Agency. Currently there are only 45 suppliers using the system.Adrian Gibson, procurement services manager for Essex County Council, argues that e-procurement gives suppliers better visibility because they appear on the computer desktops of all council buyers. "E-procurement will reduce the amount of people going out and buying from sources they shouldn't be. At the moment we have got about 10,000 active suppliers we trade with. By the end of April 2004, we would expect to be able to trade with them via the marketplace."It costs suppliers about £500 to have a catalogue of their goods and services published on Essex's new electronic marketplace. To facilitate the transition, Essex County Council is putting local businesses in contact with organisations who can set them up with email and websites at affordable prices.Despite being tough in public about meeting its deadlines, Essex says it will be sensitive to the different needs of its suppliers. Gibson says: "The benefits of e-procurement to providers of social care will be different to those providing stationery and office furniture. We need to understand how to approach different markets. The benefits to each will be different."One of the risks the government faces as it seeks to speed up the introduction of mandatory e-procurement in local government nationally is that many businesses across the country could lose out economically if they fail to adopt this new way of working. "It is a real tension," admits Caroline Stanger, chair of the government's national local council e-procurement initiative. "If we are not careful e-procurement could really disadvantage smaller businesses. A lot of small businesses are engaging in the e-initiative but a lot aren't."Stanger believes the take-up of e-procurement by local council suppliers will help modernise local business communities. "E-procurement is about working smarter and using ICT to improve your cost-effectiveness."The national e-procurement project officially runs until April 2004 and has a budget of £2.5m to promote the take up of e-procurement. The project is currently providing authorities with practical support and assistance on technical issues and, at the same time, is working with them to help get their suppliers on board.According to the national project team, councils spend an estimated £25bn a year on goods and services, buying up to 38 million items a year from 800,000 suppliers. By removing costly paper-based processes, Stanger hopes that e-procurement will eventually generate public sector savings. But with a deadline of 2005, local councils have a lot of work to do.www.newham.gov.ukwww.essexcc.gov.ukwww.idea.gov.ukwww.bestvalueprocurement.co.ukwww.uk-plc.netwww.lgolpathfinder.gov.uk/eprocurement
Palm has unveiled two new handhelds: the Zire 71 with built-in camera for about $300; and the Tungsten C with Wi-Fi wireless for about $500, reportsReuters. However,sales of all PDAs fell by 21.3%to 2.45 million in this year's first quarter, according to new market research figures from IDC.
Music group EMI yesterday made the industry's most significant move yet towards selling music on the web by putting more than 90% of its catalogue online, including artists such as Coldplay, Robbie Williams and David Bowie.The company has signed up with 20 music distributors including internet companies Freeserve and MSN, MTV, BT's Dotmusic and HMV to offer more than 140,000 tracks for downloading across Europe.It is the biggest move by a major record company to combat the tide of online music piracy that has contributed to a slump in music sales over the past three years.Last year, global music sales fell 7.2% to &#163;20bn, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, the worldwide music trade organisation.Online piracy and CD burning technology, which allows computer users to record music straight to CD from their hard drives, have been blamed as a significant factor in the 
 fall. Napster, the original driving force behind online piracy, was forced offline.A host of sites such as Kazaa and Soulseek have sprung up in its place, enabling users to swap pirated songs directly.EMI and Universal Music are suing the Californian venture capitalists which backed Napster, seeking $150,000 per copyright violation plus punitive damages.EMI UK's chief executive, Tony Wadsworth, said the industry needed "to use all legitimate means possible to hamper piracy and make as much music available online as possible".The deal allows consumers to make copies of songs and transfer them to recordable CDs, portable music players and their hard drives.Consumers can also purchase singles online once they hit the radio airwaves.Until now EMI and other major labels had placed stringent restrictions on the number of songs available and the manner in which they can be copied, causing web users to seek illegal alternatives.
We have become so obsessed of late with getting broadband internet access and Wi-Fi that we have started to lose the plot about what the digital divide is all about. Let us remind ourselves. It is not the gap between those with high speed wireless access and those without. It is between the "haves" and those without internet access of any kind. The gap is narrowing but is still appalling.This week's Guardian/ICM opinion poll shows that in March, 36% of people in the UK had no internet access. This is better than the 42% of adults in the US revealed to be unconnected to the web in a study by the Pew Internet and American Life project - but better doesn't mean good.The proportion of people in the UK without web access has dropped from 38% last year - a welcome improvement - but the rate of improvement is lower than earlier years and underlines the difficulty of reaching the government's target of everyone who wants net access to have it by 2005.While only 20% of people in the rich social class AB are webless, 68% of DEs are unconnected - three percentage points  higher than last year. We have become too blas&#233; about web access. We moan about email spam, information overload and the quality of data that search engines throw up. We hardly think about the huge advantages it gives us compared with those deprived of it altogether.Even if having the internet were confined to one good search engine such as Google, the advantages are   enormous. For the first time, it gives users access to knowledge about any subject on earth - from relativity to Eastenders - without leaving their living rooms. If you can afford the initial cost of connectivity - still a huge problem for poorer people - then there can no longer be any excuses about knowledge being unavailable. Whether you are a sixth former or a shift worker pursuing remote learning, the answers are out there if you key in the relevant search words.The flip side is that poorer people are even more marginalised. The internet acually widens the digital divide instead of bridging it.No one doubts the government's good intentions and they have achieved a lot. Nearly all schools now have an internet connection (the speed of which is debatable). Market forces will also help as   computers continue to get stronger and cheaper.The trouble is that accessibility is only the first stage. There is, as researchers have noted, a second invisible digital divide arising from lack of training to use the web properly or cultural barriers that prevent people from using it.But that is tomorrow's problem. The immediate one is to ensure that everyone has net access - and as far as possible through broadband - by 2005. Education has long been accepted as one of the great drivers of long term economic growth. If we get web access right, it will more than pay for itself by producing a better educated workforce. If you do not know the answer, the next best thing is to know where to get it instantly.&#183;Send comments:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In September 2002, and by many accounts several years too late, I switched from plain old software development to become the founder of my own startup.This may seem like a strange decision, given that buzzword of the late 1990s - dotcom - has become a dirty word in the early naughties.Once associated with the pop of champagne corks, the roar of private jet engines and a fast-track to burgeoning wealth, dotcoms had become synonymous with crashing stock prices, unusable technology and unfeasible ideas by the time I got involved.But gone are the times of wasteful, over-funded and over-hyped dotcoms. Today's young internet-delivered businesses have learned from their irresponsible older siblings. They may never be as extravagant or outrageous; but if they are careful they will survive. This is the era of the savvy dotcom.I started programming as a school kid in the home computer boom of the early 80s, developing games in my bedroom that back then could get to the top of the game charts without 50-man-years of development and an international marketing division.I made my first faltering steps onto the web in 1994. Three months later I foundedSolaris Mediaand started developing websites, interactive applications and online games for a variety of clients. During the late 1990s boom, I worked closely with major internet companies.I knew I'd start my own content company, but I was determined not to jump on the bandwagon just because it was there. The idea had to be absolutely right.Eventually I decided to launch an entertainment company offering easy-to-use, innovative, multi-player games, initially on the web. And rather than being based on violence or destruction, they would be based on thought and strategy.First we needed a name. We wanted to convey that we would be fun, funky and slightly glamorous. But anyone who has tried to buy a domain name will know how absurdly overcrowded the namespace has become.Greedy speculators have snapped up even the most obscure words and phrases, ultimately leaving most of them derelict. It took over 100 attempts before we found the name that summed up the character of our new venture. We would be calledGameking.tv, and Gameking would also be the ultimate accolade, granted to the most skilled gamers on our site.I set about reading all the gaming books I could get my hands on. I started doing research and development on live communication over the internet to build a basic prototype.It was clear that we'd need some sophisticated backend systems, so I called Ben Edwards, a close friend and founder of hugely popular fashion web siteFashion UK. He joined the Gameking team as backend developer and systems admin. We also needed powerful servers to develop and run the site, so we enlisted the help of supportive web hostsServerstream.I'd already been talking to Jamie Gover, former director of new media business development at Sony Music Europe, about collaborating, and I was delighted when she agreed to join the team to develop our business strategy.Finally we needed a design edge, and so Dean Barnett, art director for many a record sleeve and a Channel 4 music programme, joined to guide the look of the website. We had our core team, and we had our idea. Now it was time to start the long slog and create the most sophisticated software application I had ever produced.&#183;Rob Davis is founder of Solaris Media and founder and director of Gameking.tv.
Non-UNot everyone is devoted to the internet, and 42% of Americans don't use it. The Pew Research Center's latest report says many of these are former users who have dropped out. However, "some 24% of Americans are truly offline: they have no direct or indirect experience with the internet". Some non-users even take pride in not using the net. As a result, the number of Americans on the net seems to be stuck somewhere near the 60% mark, with the number of drop-outs matching the number of new users. Although more can be done to bring disadvantaged groups online, such as the disabled, the report concludes that "universal internet access may not be a feasible goal for the near future". The idea that the internet could become almost as ubiquitous as TV sets and telephones may have to be abandoned.www.pewinternet.orgFlash intro"We bloggers spend so much time, energy, and emotional effort revealing the most intimate details of our lives on our websites... and yet most of us balk at showing a few square inches of skin," says the Penis Blog Project site. It's not pure (or impure) exhibitionism: there's a quiz that invites you to match the member to the blogger.www.penisblog.comSearch spotIf you liked the Google toolbar for Internet Explorer, or the Yahoo Companion toolbar, then you might like something similar that works with multiple search engines. Groowe searches Google, Yahoo, MSN, AllTheWeb, HotBot, AltaVista toolbar, Teoma, About, AOL, Ask Jeeves and a few others. If you are only interested in Google, then Anacubis provides a graphical way to handle results. Anacubis is short for analytical cubism, the aim of which is   "to produce a conceptual image of an object, as opposed to a perceptual one". In this case, it's not art. Finally, Yahoo has revamped and expanded its search offering: the results are almost identical to Google, including the syntax and cached pages, because most of it is Google. However, since Yahoo has taken over Inktomi, a search engine technology supplier, this may change in the future.http://toolbar.google.comhttp://companion.yahoo.comwww.groowe.comwww.anacubis.comhttp://search.yahoo.comLine upIf it is tea-break time and you want five minutes of nostalgic fun, you could always dig out your old Etch A Sketch Magic Screen toy and give it a shake - or try one of the online simulations. The Ohio Art Company has one, and Babygrand has a Shockwave version where you draw lines by turning the knobs, instead of using the arrow keys. If you are any good, you could win the Etch A Sketch competition on the ArnIIe site - the gallery of entries is not very impressive - but it closes on May 8. If you want to see what's really possible in this simple medium, look at George Vlosich III's amazing portraits of baseball stars and the Beatles.www.etch-a-sketch.comwww.etch-a-sketch.com/html/onlineetch.htmwww.babygrand.com/gameswww.arniie.com/sections/user/etchCOMP.phpwww.gvetchedintime.com/i/thumbimages/beatlesa.jpgBig drawThe Global Positioning System (GPS) uses a network of satellites that enables you to find out where you are. If you are moving, then of course you can be tracked. And if you plot your movements on a map, then you get a GPS drawing. British artists Hugh Pryor and Jeremy Wood have a gallery of them on their website, made by land, sea and air. Some are fascinating, such as an elephant drawn by walking the streets of Brighton, and especially when you see the route superimposed on an aerial photograph. The artists have also done projects with schoolchildren, one of which is included in the Common Place exhibition currently at The Lighthouse gallery in Glasgow.www.gpsdrawing.comSix of the best:Title raceOfficialwww.premierleague.comBarclaycardwww.4thegame.comSky Sportshttp://msn.skysports.com/skysports/football/premierESPN Soccernetwww.soccernet.comGuardian Unlimitedhttp://football.guardian.co.ukLinkswww.fanbase.inuk.com
&#183;Richard Rogers has revealed his "mouth-organ" design for Heathrow Terminal 5, which should open in five years. The new building (seewww.richardrogers.co.uk) will be nearly half a kilometre long and incorporate glass walls 40ft high. Meanwhile, the plans for a new airport at Cliffe in Kent will almost certainly be shelved (www.aviation.dft.gov.uk/consult/airconsult/se/technical/birdrisk/) because birds may fly into engines.&#183;The latest travel advice on Sars is not, as you might expect, on the Foreign Office website, but atwww.doh.gov.uk/sars.&#183;The Economist has launched the first of its offline city guides for business travellers, but you need to sign up for the magazine's regular emails. Seewww.economist.com/cities/.&#183;Easyjet has launched a free, dedicated microsite for business travellers atwww.easyJet.com/b2b/en/, where companies can track their spending. Switching flights costs £15 each way plus any difference in price.&#183;The notion of flying from London to south Wales may seem strange, but Air Wales (www.airwales.co.uk) is launching two new London City to Cardiff and Swansea routes from April 28. Fares, which can't yet be booked online, will start at £19 plus taxes each way.
If you are lucky enough to be travelling on flights BA175 to JFK or BA112 back to Heathrow before May 12, bring a laptop - as long as you're not in cattle class, of course. That's when the trial of the first onboard internet access system, Connexion by Boeing (www.connexionbyboeing.com), comes to an end.It's all gone remarkably well, according to BA - though given that only around 100 people have tried it the speed and reliability of the connection probably hasn't been fully tested. Some were put off by the cost ($20, or around £13). Others hadn't brought their laptop. (Happily, by the way, Apple notebooks are supported:www.connexionbyboeing.com/main.cfm?nav=4lists the system requirements.) Most users sent emails and logged on to their company intranet, and 78% said they would use it again.BA isn't the only airline to have signed up to Connexion. Lufthansa's trial on the Frankfurt to Washington Dulles route, called FlyNet, was free in every cabin, wireless (the planes carried 42 laptops for travellers who didn't have their own) and taken up by around 40 or 50 people on each flight. According to the senior vice president of Lufthansa Technik, some middle-aged German industrialists with no internet experience had been "captivated".Will it catch on? Why  not? Even business travellers who might be expected to be sleeping in their flat bed want to try it. "Needless to say, I will be laptopped up, and will certainly try it if it is available," said David Turnbull, a project manager at a blue-chip management consultancy. "Even though I disapprove and despise it as an encroachment into the only bit of guaranteed quiet time the modern executive gets."Virgin Atlantic are certainly hedging their bets. "We feel at $25/$35 per person per flight it is too expensive," a spokesperson told the Guardian. "We provide laptop power, which allows passengers to prepare emails if they want to work and then send them cost effectively when they land. We also offer a text-messaging service where passengers can send 160 characters to someone's mobile phone or email account for $2.50."We're happy with the low-key approach at the moment - it allows our business passengers to do a little work, send any urgent messages and then get on to the serious business of a G &amp; T and the latest blockbuster."But Lufthansa looks likely to install FlyNet across all its long-haul fleet, and BA may follow suit. Japan Airlines and SAS are interested too, though JAL says it won't arrive before 2004. It probably won't be free. Now the trial is over, Lufthansa (www.lufthansa.co.uk) intends to charge around &#8364;30-35 for each leg.If BA doesn't wire up economy cabins, business travellers forced to fly economy will at least have a decent excuse to ask their bosses for an upgrade.
To tackle your IT queries this month our expert panel includes Ray Chidell, senior tax editor at CCH, financial solution providers for tax and accountancy professionals; Omar Kheir, technical director at independent security consultancy Security-4IT; Andrew Rozzier, UK online for business advisor, Northamptonshire; and Bryan Glick, news editor of IT paper Computing.Q: How do the new tax breaks for training affect my spending power in that area?RC: Although the recent Budget hasn't changed much, work-related training remains one of the best tax breaks around. Normally, any payment by a business that provides a real benefit for an employee will give rise to an increased tax bill, but not in this area. One employee late last year successfully challenged the taxman and received £18,000 tax-free from her new employer towards the cost of an MBA, saving tax of over £7,000.Inevitably, there are limitations to the Inland Revenue's generosity. Recreational and entertainment facilities are, not surprisingly, excluded.A key condition is that the training has to be "work-related", though this is interpreted quite widely to cover almost any type of training that is likely to prove useful for the employment or for other related employments.So what can be included? Technical training is fine. So too are activities intended to build personal or leadership skills, such as Prince's Trust or Outward Bound courses. Courses aimed at less-skilled employees, or at those who have not previously enjoyed their learning experiences, can be covered, offering the chance for a new start or the starting point for a more positive experience of future learning.Q: I understand the rules on allowances for IT investment changed in the Budget so that more companies will be eligible - what are the criteria and how exactly did things change?BG: Gordon Brown announced in this year's budget that the qualifying turnover threshold for small businesses claiming investment tax allowance is to be raised to £20m, the maximum permissible under EU law. This means that the 3.7 million companies that fulfil this criteria can now claim the 40% tax relief.The allowance covers a wide range of areas, such as training or business improvements, but there is an additional incentive to invest in IT. An existing scheme that provides a 100% tax allowance for the first year of capital spending on IT has been extended until March 31 2004, with more businesses now eligible thanks to the increased threshold.Q: As a microbusiness we are becoming increasingly aware of how imperative it is to secure our IT operations and protect against unwanted intruders. What's the best way to ensure our information is secure without breaking the bank?PJ: There are a number of things to consider, many of which don't actually cost anything. For example, make all users change their passwords regularly. Enforce the use of special characters, numbers and mixed-case letters and don't encourage staff to use the same password twice. Discourage the use of Post-it notes as a memory aid. Ensure your network has adequate virus protection with regular virus definition updates, paying particular attention to email protection. Educate your users on identifying and appropriate handling of suspect emails. Also, keep your software current, particularly operating systems. Keep track of, test and implement appropriate patches and service packs as they are released.In terms of you and the outside world use a good firewall between your network and the internet. Keep it as restrictive as possible and keep it up to date. Don't overlook the importance of strong passwords and regular password changes on these devices. If you have remote users, review the available methods of remote connection, and decommission any modems if possible. Try and enforce use of good Virtual Private Network technology.Q: I'm aware that I need to consider allowing people to work from home following the Employment Act that came in this month but am concerned about the insurance implications for sending laptops etc into employee homes. What do I need to find out and tell my insurers?AR: Equipment loaned to employees should be adequately insured to ensure business continuity. There are various types of insurance from home-based work policies to those designed for people on the move. Most home-based polices will also include up to £1,500 cover for a laptop worldwide. If your equipment is more valuable you should ask your insurer to increase the cover. If employees work on the road and do admin at home, a mobile policy might suit you better.Items are invariably left on trains or have coffee spilt over them. It is probably wise to ensure that any policy will include cover for accidental damage. Theft cover may well be related to employees' postcodes. Specialist home-worker insurance packages might have a fairly low premium as staff do not leave their homes during the day. Relying on employees' own home insurance may not be a good idea.
It's official: UK plcs are buying more digital cameras than 35mm cameras from Dixons, the major high-street retailer. Last year digital outsold 35mm during the spring and this year the company believes there will be more digital sales overall.But it's not as simple as just picking up a camera. There are digital cameras attached to other devices, digital cameras that attach to other devices, digital cameras that are part of other devices, digital cameras for under £50 and digital cameras for over £500.It's a case of finding a camera to suit your needs. The first piece of advice to anyone thinking of buying is that if you haven't needed a digital camera for your job before then you probably don't now. If you require something really basic for ID badges and not much else then a dedicated digital camera may not be necessary.Something like a webcam, which allows you to take still shots, will do. The advantage of using, say, the Logitech QuickCam Cordless (£179.99) is that although it's expensive it will also work as a security system, monitoring rooms you're not in. If budgets are tight and you definitely want a camera for low-resolution photography then something like the SiPix Groove - with 1.3 megapixels but extra software to brighten up the pics once they're on your computer - should do nicely at around £50 when it comes out in May.There are various devices to which a digital camera can be attached, or which have a built-in camera. Many phones have them, or they clip them on, and you can add a camera from Veo to your Palm for £79.99 (or indeed get the new Palm Zire, which has a camera built in, for £250; if you were already considering a Palm, this is essentially a hand-held computer for consumers with a free camera on the back). If, say, you're a small estate agent who wants to attach snapshots of houses to details really quickly one of these solutions will work well.If your needs are more sophisticated then you'll need to look more upmarket. The best advice for digital camera selection applies to all cameras: choose one from a well-regarded brand and you can't go far wrong. Malcolm Kirk, head of business sales for camera specialist Jessops, has noted an increase in digital interest and believes businesses like to view the image as soon as it has been taken and to improve it using manipulation software."The majority of business purchases tend to be the value-for-money, medium-range consumer models that are ideal for general use," he says. "These typically come with a zoom lens that will magnify the subject two or three times, a built-in flash for use in poor light and an LCD screen." Image resolution is typically two to three megapixels, which will look good on a 10x8 print. And Jessops has a printing service that will make a digital pic look like a 35mm image. Expect to pay £175-£300 for something like that.One of the more popular models at Jessops is the Olympus Stylus 300, 3.2 megapixels and a good zoom. Other options include the Kodak Easyshare LS633, which has a larger, sharper LED for better picture previews, and the Pentax Optio 550, all of which offer comparable features and pricing.Other, flashier offerings are available too if you want them. Casio's Exilim range has just been upgraded with the EX-Z3, for which you get a 3 megapixel camera with a zoom lens, all in a casing that feels smaller than a deck of cards.And of course there are the £500+ cameras, for example the excellent Fujifilm FinePix S602 Zoom with a vastly better zoom, more robust casing and other technical wizardry. It's aimed at the serious professional who knows exactly what they want their machine to do and would be wasted on the casual user.Frankly, if your needs are of that order you need a professional photographer who'll know how to use it and who'll already own their camera of choice.Putting you in the pictureIdeally, digital cameras should be simple to use and light enough to handle, except at the specialist, professional end where you're into tripods and all the trimmings. However, even at the lower end there are things to watch for:&#183;Look out for the storage capacity and the interchangeable memory. If your camera takes, say, Sony memory sticks then you'll need a PC that also takes them - they don't all do so. If it takes standard memory cards then they'll almost certainly fit into your PDA but you might want to buy an external card reader (like the Imation FlashGo! - £60) to attach to your PC. Add-in memory cards are available from TDK and others, are fully erasable/rewriteable and can take up to 100 pictures at a time.&#183;For attaching to your PC, USB is fastest and almost universal - but if your computers are more than a few years old they may not have the right slot.&#183;Think about the paper you'll be printing on as well as your printer, if printing is your objective - skimp there and it'll be embarrassingly obvious.&#183;If you buy something for low-resolution pictures and spend less than £50, expect it to do the job but don't expect it to take the pics for your snazzy corporate brochure - you can't expect miracles for fifty quid.
OK, hands up all the Charlies who rushed out and bought IT equipment before the tax breaks expired on March 31, as advised by their accountants, advisors and even the last Business Solutions supplement?The thing was, the 100% tax allowance for IT purchases expired at that stage so it looked like too good a thing to miss. That nice Mr Brown certainly thought so; he reinstated it just over a week later. No, you won't be penalised if you bought in that short period of time as tax relief is calculated some time after the event, but you can't help but wonder whether IT sales will be skewed for early April as a result. The small business economy is booming, it seems, but not yet booming enough for Uncle Gord in terms of e-business.It's actually difficult to see why this was introduced as a temporary measure in the first place. Making the 100% tax allowance permanent simply brings it into line with the tax regime for leasing, where 100% also applies.It's also worth noting, particularly for start-up business people who may not be aware of how these things work, that this doesn't mean you get 100% of the money you spend on IT back; it means you can claim 100% of the allowance you'd get for it in the first year, rather than spreading it over three. Nonetheless, it's a useful little bonus to have.On the day of the Budget the Guardian's Online section commented that the new Employment Act would effectively make a lot of people go out and buy new equipment just when the tax break had vamoosed, but as we went to press it was put back in. This is useful for both incorporated companies and unincorporated business, according to chartered accountant Mike Lewis.Also useful is the fact that the VAT threshold has moved up to £56,000. VAT can be a bit of a mixed blessing. It turns you into an involuntary, unpaid tax collector for customs and excise, but it also forces you to keep your accounts up to date (and yes of course you should be doing so anyway, but not everybody is that assiduous). And since you can't keep the money you collect it's academic as to whether you have it or not. The important thing is that you can get your VAT back on all of your purchases so, as long as your customers are VAT registered too, you can't actually lose. If they're not - and you can now deregister - you can cut prices if you wish. If, however, your accounting system is at all elderly, or not set up for VAT, you'll need to upgrade.On the subject of VAT it could be worth talking to your accountant if you turn over less than £100,000 per year since you will be eligible for the new flat rate. This will be simpler to administrate, although people who have already computerised their accounts will need to change their systems again to work alongside it (and, it has to be said, announcements from the software vendors about how they're going to cope with this are few and far between as yet). The difference in financial terms, mind you, is likely to be microscopic - it's a red-tape saving measure.There was other good stuff in the Budget for the smaller trader, outside of IT. As many as 40 regulations will be scrapped in order to reduce the red tape that surrounds the business community, and a lot of taxes - corporation tax, small business corporation tax and capital gains - remain frozen. Much of this was heralded in the budget statement in November as were extra incentives for training, research and development.Downsides for the businessman, including increases in stamp duty on rental leases later this year (although not for business premises purchasing) and an increase in landfill tax, were inevitable. They were offset by increased funds available for small business loans and capital injections.A number of conclusions spring to mind. Firstly, that this budget was good for small business, and given a contracting economy it would probably be unreasonable to expect or anticipate anything better. Second, though, as highlighted recently by the Federation of Small Businesses, the rules remain weighted in favour of the incorporated as compared with the unincorporated business.Take a freelance designer, photographer, journalist, whatever; their tax allowances are based on personal allowances. If they go incorporated and become a limited company their initial allowance shoots up to £10,000 before corporation tax kicks in and they can pay themselves by dividend, at which stage their tax burden goes from up to 40% to 22%, paid by the 'company'. Given the growth in self-employment you might expect this to be addressed in future budgets. A balance needs to be struck between creating a regulation for people working in isolation and not treating them the same as large corporations.Overall then, useful rather than thrilling points for small business including the extension of the most obvious incentive to get geared up for trading and operating electronically. Now if they'd find a way of supplying business owners with enough time to actually do anything about it they could be on to a winner.
Every small business with a website wants to be visible on the leading search engines, and they don't come more leading than Google.It was used by 9,753,000 Britons in February, according to Nielsen NetRatings - making it by some distance the most popular search engine in the UK.Google relies heavily on links from other sites to establish a site's rank, rather than on key words in the web page's text or in the "alt tags" - keywords in the code of web pages that are not displayed to the casual browser, but are used by many search engines to consider relevance. As a result, it can be difficult to generate a high position through site design - one of the reasons users like it.But since last September, Google has taken targeted advertising from thousands of small UK businesses, in the form of the shaded sponsored links to the right-hand side of the rankings, known as AdWords.Signing up with AdWords takes about 20 minutes. It costs £5 to activate the account and you are charged for every time someone clicks on your advert - a minimum of 4p - rather than how many times it appears. The charge is made regardless of whether the person buys anything from you and the amount varies depending on how high you want to be on the AdWords' rankings for a particular search term. The rank is also affected by how many people click on your advert. You state a cap for both your cost per click-through and your daily spending.It can be absurdly expensive to be at the top of the AdWords list for a popular search term: Google recently quoted £11.60 per click-through to be top of the searches made on the word "hosting" in English within the UK. If you wanted to go global, the system estimates you would get 950 people clicking through at £15.69 a time - costing £14,900.91 a day."It's an auction model, so the price is determined by the market," says Kate Burns, head of UK sales for Google. "Not very popular - or very targeted - keywords can be quite cheap."For 4p, you could still get in at an average UK position of 7.7 on "hosting". And for more obscure search terms, you may have the top (and indeed only) advert at the minimum price, so the service looks particularly attractive for niche businesses.Search terms have to match exactly; adding an "s" or a hyphen will stop a match. So it may be worth including common variants such as plurals, which you can provide for no extra cost. If there are two or more words in your search term, your ad will appear if all these words are in a user's search, regardless of their order.A UK-only search appears to British users of both google.com and google.co.uk, by checking users' internet protocol addresses. However, users anywhere in the world can see the advert if they go through google.co.uk.The AdWords reporting system gives you a great deal of information: how many times your advert appeared, how many times it was clicked on, the resulting click-through percentage rate and how much you paid per click on average.Are there minus points? Google's reputation has taken a knock recently, as it started placing press releases on its so-called news site without distinguishing them from genuine reportage, although this does not affect the main search facilities. The company said recently that it will differentiate these press releases in the near future.Although Google leads among the general search engines, it may make more sense to use one specific to your industry. Accommodation, where people search with fixed parameters such as location and quality, lends itself well to this. Furthermore, such sites can provide relevant additional services, such as allowing users to book rooms online.Other sites may offer to link to yours for free, perhaps in return for a reciprocal link to theirs. Interlinking in this way can also help your standard, free rating on Google.Web-design experts say that you should worry about the quality of your site before paying to bring in users. Fred Bamber, a UK Online for Business adviser in the north-east, says that one way is to build two or more gateways to your site - or even several distinct sites - if you are targeting different markets. These would stand a better chance on search engines, compared with an all-purpose site."The policy should be to look at your website, so it is optimised," says Bamber. "I have a client who doesn't do much on paying, but finds the site is ranked top on AltaVista, and in the first eight on Google." However, he says AdWords may be worth using in moderation.Liz Hurles, a creative director at web-designer SBI &amp; Co, says it is vital that the words used - for an AdWords campaign and for the words used in the site's text and its alt tags - are chosen with great care from a marketing point of view. "You shouldn't rush and spend a lot of money," she says. She also says that, with Google's focus on links in ranking a site's importance, you might focus on this to boost your rank in the normal search. "Some people have had great success in putting something newsworthy on their site, getting a few thousand hits, and going on to the top 10 on that search," she says. Getting higher on that particular search is likely to generate more hits, which should help maintain a high position.If you do pay for advertising, through AdWords or otherwise, you should ask clients how they found you so you can work out how much it costs to "acquire" a customer through each method of advertising.If you ran a guesthouse, spent £25 through Google for five customers and £50 with the tourist board's website for 25, then it would be costing £5 to acquire a customer through Google and £2 through the tourist board. That would not mean you should stop using the former, but it would help you decide which to use if you could only afford one.Help Panel:What you can do for free&#183;Submit your site to the main free search engines and directories. Google accepts submissions atwww.google.co.uk/addurl.html, Yahoo atuk.docs.yahoo.com/info/include.htmland AltaVista ataddurl.altavista.com/addurl/new. The last two make a charge for express consideration, but this is unlikely to be worth paying for small businesses. You could also trywww.ineedhits.com/add-it/free/, a free submission service for 28 search engines.&#183;Try to generate more links to your site. Ask friends and associates to put a link on their site to yours, and offer to do the same for them. This will help others find your site and can improve your position on link-based search engines such as Google.
