In the 12 months since the global economy went into meltdown, plenty of companies have struggled to succeed under difficult circumstances. Few, however, have experienced as many make-or-break moments in recent months as the troubled handset maker Palm. In January, the company went to the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas with its future at stake: in the end, it not only unveiled the innovative Pre handset, but also turned it into the surprise hit of the show – delivering a promise to revive the company's fortunes along the way.Another crunch moment came in June, when the Pre went on sale in America. Some questioned the decision to join forces with the Sprint network – a distant third place in the US market – rather than its bigger rivals. Still, immediate reaction was good: more than 100,000 units were reportedly snapped up in the first week, meaning a match point had been saved.A week later, its chairman, Jon Rubinstein – the former Apple star who forged Palm's new approach – was installed as chief executive. Could it be that the company still most famous for the Palm Pilot had turned itself around after several years in the doldrums?Not quite. While green shoots may be on their way, the first hard evidence of Palm's potential comeson Thursday when the company announces its financial results for the past three months.After the initial launch buzz wore out, things appeared to tail off. Failure to meet the initial demand left many shops without even a demonstration handset to woo customers, and industry observers suggest perhaps 400,000 more handsets have been sold since June.That is a good launch, but not a great one – and with the Pre's European release due in the next few weeks, the stakes are as high as ever. The level of success of the US release determines how expensive the Pre will be in the UK and elsewhere, which then indicates how much more Palm can grow in the short term.Palm readingDeepak Sitaraman, an analyst with Credit Suisse who has followed the company's ups and downs closely, says international expansion could be key to Palm's long-term future. "What they need to do, obviously, is build out their distribution in the US as well as abroad and revitalise the brand – build it up outside the US, where it's not as well known," he says.Although he expects the quarterly results to be fairly positive, he is not convinced that Palm can sell enough phones fast enough to lift itself out of trouble. As a result, he has recently downgraded his predictions for the company's shares and cut his estimate of how many handsets Palm would sell next year from 8.1m down to 6m.It should be so much more straightforward. After all, the Pre is a neat little device that makes a worthy competitor to the iPhone. Reviewers have been impressed by the handset's touchscreen, keyboard and software – not to mention the innovative extras such as wireless charging. It's the sort of product that, if all things were equal, would put Palm back on track.But things are not equal. The mobile phone market is increasingly competitive at the higher end – much more so than when Palm last made a serious foray into Europe. The company is now so short of funds that it cannot afford expensive mistakes like a failed European launch – with just $255m (£155m) cash in the bank and a burn of $190m in the past year, it appears that without a substantial boost from the Pre and the forthcoming Pixi, the company has only a few months of funds left.Ian Fogg, a mobile industry analyst with Forrester Research, says that the situation is trickier because so many companies have now started producing their rivals to the iPhone. "It took a while for the product cycle to kick in and everything to come through … but we're seeing new Android phones from Samsung, Motorola, HTC and others," he says. "We're seeing the Palm Pre come to market, Nokia's Linux-powered handset, the Windows Phone range come out from Microsoft: we're seeing a lot of activity in this space. But Palm's challenge is that it is a much smaller company than virtually all of these others."Indeed, while Palm can boast at being the third largest smartphone maker in America, its presence around the rest of the world is negligible.From Sprint to a crawlThat situation has left the once-imperious company – and Sprint, the network it has partnered with – going back to basics in order to stimulate take-up.A series of price drops has seen the price of the Pre slashed in half over just three months. From the initial launch, when it cost around $199 to sign up, it is now possible to buy a Pre for just $99 with a two-year contract. That has annoyed early adopters, while encouraging hesitant buyers to take a wait-and-see approach in case the price drops even further. And these efforts may not be enough to help the company recover the momentum it lost in recent years, particularly outside its home territory."Awareness has eroded simply because they haven't offered that many new products here," says Fogg. "That was true for a period in the mid 2000s – from 2004 to 2008… I think they lost a lot of awareness at that time."This strikes at the heart of Palm's malaise: a history of hits and misses that the company has never quite shaken off.Founded in 1992, an initial set of stumbles eventually led to the Palm Pilot PDA and a $54bn stock market launch in 2000 that created a blaze of excitement. Palm appeared to be on to a winner until – like the rest of the technology industry – it was rear-ended by the dotcom crash, an event that it followed up with a series of confusing strategic decisions.A series of confusing eventsIt spun off its software division, bought a rival company, Handspring, to prop up its hardware offering and then switched to using Microsoft's Windows Mobile system. And then, when the rest of the world switched on to the iPhone and BlackBerry, it stayed still.Sitaraman says that inaction is the root of many of Palm's problems. "Clearly the product transition that they had from the Centro to the Pre was probably too long of a gap when it comes to handsets, given that the industry does move fairly quickly," he says. "That was probably a lapse on their part – they were in the process of creating a whole new software platform, and faced some challenges in getting there. Clearly it hurt them in the past."The turnaround started in 2007, when Elevation Partners – a Californian private equity firm – bought a quarter of the business for just $325m. They hired Rubinstein, a former Apple executive who, as part of Steve Jobs's inner circle, had helped propel the iPod to great things.Once installed as chairman at Palm, Rubinstein scythed his way through the staff, crafted a new strategy and brought in scads of Apple employees."The company lost its way," Rubinstein admitted last weekend. "Our goal is to&nbsp;maintain that original spirit of innovation that is in the company's DNA. The most important thing now is execution ... We're up against a lot of tough competition."That understates the scale of his task – which now looks increasingly like the most delicate of high-wire acts: after all, it appears that although he has constructed the right apparatus for success, Palm still faces being knocked off balance by the burden of history."What we have seen since the launch of the Pre is that they really have executed very well, with very few missteps – they've been incredibly sure-footed," says Fogg. "But the challenge is that they need to stay sure-footed, because they just haven't got a lot of wiggle room."From Pilot to Pre: Palm's history1992Founded by tablet computing pioneer Jeff Hawkins, who joined forces with former Apple software sales boss Donna Dubinsky and Ed Colligan, head of marketing with Radius (another Apple spin-off)1993Produced in cooperation with Casio and Tandy, the company's first device, the Zoomer PDA, is a flop - but Palm keeps itself afloat by selling software to Hewlett Packard and Apple1995The company decides to take full control of hardware, software and sales, but struggles to find the cash required to make progress. Eventually, Palm is acquired by US Robotics for $47m1996First Palm Pilot is released. After a slow start, it turns into a success - shifting more than 1m units after 18 months1997US Robotics is in turn acquired by 3Com in a $6.6bn merger1998Unhappy at 3Com's refusal to spin off Palm as a separate company, the trio of founders quit to form a new PDA manufacturer called Handspring20003Com spins off Palm as a separate company at the height of the dotcom boom, placing its value at around $54bn2001The dotcom crash wipes around 90% of Palm's value2002The company begins to spin off its software unit as PalmSource2003In a deal worth around $170m, Palm's hardware business merges with Handspring, the rival formed by its disgruntled founders back in 1998. PalmSource is spun off completely, and later acquired by software maker ACCESS for $324m2006Now a hardware-only business, Palm begins making handsets using Windows Mobile. By the end of the year, it buys back the rights to use PalmSource software from ACCESS for $44m2007Private equity investment group Elevation Partners buys a quarter of Palm for $325m. Former Apple executive Jon Rubinstein - who oversaw development of the iPod - is brought in as chairman2008Elevation invests a further $100m into the company, which then announces that it will stop making dedicated PDAs and focus only on mobile phones2009The company unveils the Pre in January, which then goes on sale in America in June and sells more than 100,000 units in the first week. Rubinstein is named chief executive, replacing Ed Colligan
Wikileaks ishosting what it says is a copy of the entire UK postcode list, last updated on July 8 2009, that contains "all 1,841,177 UK post codes together with lattitude [sic] and longitude, grid references, county, district, ward, NHS codes and regions, Ordnance Survey reference, and date of introduction. The database ... is over 100,000 pages in size."The 230MB file, zipped to 20MB, does indeed contain a huge slew of postcodes in comma-separated form, with those details as headers for each column.Oh my. We have no idea who has leaked this, but it is the gateway to some valuable information: Royal Mail, as we ascertained previously in the Free Our Data campaign, sells the Postcode Address File (aka PAF) for a considerable sum, and makes a good profit on it: in August 2007 the postal regulator Postcomm revealed that PAF operations made a profit of £1.58m on revenues of £18.36m, all but £4m from resellers.This isn't quite that, however, because the PAF includes the names and/or addresses of houses in each postcode. That would be 28m locations - and that's not what this file includes.Instead, it's got data that's more useful to government, containing as it does NHS ward data.Update:this seems to be thePostZon databasewhichallows you to link geographic and administrative data from government bodies, such as local authorities and the NHS, for all known Postcodes in the UK.  Use it to help plan routes, calculate distances between Postcodes, allocate sales force areas, distribute resources or locate facilities.We have asked Royal Mail for a comment, but received none so far.An early reaction from one web developer I know who uses postcodes to long/lat was not that impressed: "we can get this service free from Google via its mapping conversion system," he pointed out. "And that won't go slowly out of date." (Studies have shown that the PAF adds about 4,000 postcodes each month and drops 2,000 existing ones.)A good point - and it is worth pointing out too that postcodes can cover large areas of a street or more, so long/lat isn't that useful really, though it might be for route planning. A postcode will tend to be on a single route (rather than two adjoining streets, say); my own home postcode covers about half a mile, so the long/lat is by its nature not exact. (I've checked against this list, and it is the long/lat combination used by satnav systems, for example.) Satnav companies would steer clear of this because they would know there'll be some intentional errors in it which Royal Mail would sue them for using without a licence.But there are surely web developers all over the country who are downloading it right now just to have a poke around and see if there isn't something useful they could do with it. Free our data? It's certainly gotten it out there.Update:another web developer says "Google's lookup is not accurate (presumably due to licensing issues), and can only be used if you're using a Google map... Postcode to long/lat is also incredibly useful - it's what powers WriteToThem, TheyWorkForYou, PlanningAlerts..."The upshot: this is a really useful database, for particular applications. Why isn't it in the public domain, without copyright restrictions?
What if a news organisation came up with an idea for reading newspapers on the web which involved you looking at web pages that were just representations of the paper form of the newspaper, but without the benefits of the web? Wouldn't that be marvellously ironic? Wouldn't that be what the US's finest purveyors of satire,The Onion- self-styled as "America's finest news source" (well, Fox News had taken "Fair and Balanced") - would do?Except hang on, that wasGoogle, with its Fast Flip experiment. Of course, Google isn't a news organisation. It just does things like this which,in the words of Paul Bradshaw, make Google look as though it's treating news organisations in the manner of a small boy with a magnifying glass on a sunny day who's found some ants.But not to be outdone, overdone or undone, The Onion has launched its own iPhone App, costing $0.99 (£0.59 in the UK) where you can read The Onion on your iPod Touch or iPhone.It's calledThe Onion Microfiche[link takes you to the Apple Store in iTunes] - but there's one little wrinkle compared to those other news-reading apps you can get for the iPhone: all it offers is headlines.That's right - so you get "Man Unwilling To Discuss Lifetime Denny's Ban" (whatisit with American newspapers and their Random Capitalisation of Initial Words?). And that's it, apart from some random background noise.As it puts it, "You are clearly a busy person, otherwise, you wouldn't have such an important phone." (Nice.) "The Onion Microfiche application uses digital-capture technology to put a world of previously hard-to-find headlines at your fingertips." You can do most recent or random and share them on email, Twitter, or Facebook.Actually, sharing on Twitter would be a bit de trop, as The Onion already has1.6m followers, where it offers... the headlines. [link corrected]Such as, at the moment: "U.S. Government Finds 20 Trillion Buried By Absentminded Reagan In 1987" and "Amish Woman Knew She Had Quilt Sale The Moment She Laid Eyes On Chicago Couple".But to be serious (or at least truthful - and leave aside the truthiness) for a moment, what's not widely known about The Onion is that its writing starts from the headline. The writers sit around and bat ideas for headlines about, and the ones that get approved then get a story written below them.(A version of this method isused in various celebrity magazineswhich try to write their next best-selling instalment of the Brangelinaniston saga, as we've noted elsewhere.)But for some writers, there's only the pain of knowing that you had a marvellous headline that got vetoed and thus will never find its way to having three pars and a picture added below it. My favourite that never quite made it: "Man Knifed With Spork." Write the story below – if you can.And note too how this isn't a free app. Could it be the case for The Onion too that making content costs money? Perish the thought.
Last night Microsoft unveiled a new limited edition Modern Warfare 2 version of the Xbox 360, featuring a 250GB hard drive, two wireless controllers, a copy of the game, headset and some Call of Duty styling on the machine itself (or if you prefer, an "exclusive warzone design inspired by the epic thriller"). It'll be launched on the same day as the game - November 10 - and will only be available via Game and Gamestation stores. There's no confirmed price point for the UK yet, but it's going for $399 in the US.Hardware bundles aren't usually our sort of thing on Gamesblog, but this is a rather interesting attempt by Microsoft to build a strong connection between its console and what will certainly be one of the top three games of the year. After the announcement last night, Gamasutraspoke toXbox's US senior marketing director, Albert Penello, who said, "Every generation has games that get associated with [certain] consoles. Because of how strong the multiplayer is, and since we're going to have downloadable content first, it's a game that I think is associated with Xbox." The fact that the first two maps will be on Xbox Live first also gets a subtle mention in the UK press release sent out this morning.
Journalists and broadcasters have added their voices to the anti-piracy lobby, ahead of an approaching government deadline for comments as part of its illegal filesharing consultation.The National Union of Journalists and broadcasting union Bectu tabled a motion at the TUC conference yesterday condemning filesharing and demanding more action from internet service providers. They attacked ISPs' stance in the filesharing debate as "misleading"."Congress notes the growing problem of internet piracy and illegal online filesharing and believes this represents a significant threat to jobs in the creative industries, including the audiovisual, music and publishing sectors," the motion said.The unions stated that the creative industries contribute an estimated 8% to UK GDP and provide an estimated 1.8m jobs."Congress believes that internet service providers should now be required to take stronger action against the illegal distribution of content over their networks. That ISPs should therefore be required to send warning notices to offenders and to take additional graduated technical measures to prevent illegal downloading by individuals who ignore multiple warnings," they said.The unions also say that in contrast to Digital Britain's emphasis on legal measures as the first resort – that is, that rights holders should sue individual offenders – "we believe such technical measures should be given priority".Lord Mandelson, the business secretary,has proposed introducing lawsto suspend the internet connections of people who persistently fileshare and ignore warning letters. ISPs have largely condemned the proposals and voiced concerns over how they would be enforced and how they risk unfairly affecting the wrong internet users. Some music artists have raised similar concerns.The deadline for comments in the government's illegal filesharing consultation is 29 September.Bectu and the NUJ slammed the ISPs' arguments that the proposed laws threaten broadband consumers' rights and that disconnecting them could limit their freedom of expression."Congress believes this is an issue of preserving workers' jobs and that ISPs should not be allowed to pursue their ruthless commercial interests under the cover of false and misleading justifications based on freedom of information," the motion said."Congress therefore calls on the General Council to campaign for government to take early and effective action to introduce and implement such measures."The forthright comments from journalists and broadcasters follow a debate around filesharing and the potential crackdown that has centred largely around the music industry.NUJ and Bectu are both part of the newly formed Creative Coalition Campaign, which brings together industry groups from the creative sector and trade unions pushing for tough measures against filesharing.The Alliance Against IP Theft, a coalition of organisations against intellectual property theft, welcomed the new motion as demonstrating the breadth of industries affected by piracy.The AAIP director general, Susie Winter, said: "This demonstrates that the problem of filesharing does not just affect music and film, and that sports broadcasters, publishing, software and computer games are similarly affected."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
ARM has announced the first processor that it has optimised for performance rather than power-saving operation, which Eric Schorn, vice president of marketing in the processor division, says "is a huge departure from what we've done in the past. We've kind of taken off the handcuffs."ARM expects the dual-core version of theCortex-A9to run at 2GHz and above, which will be suitable for use in smartbooks or netbooks in 2011. The chip may also be used in TV sets, printers and other products.There will also be a power-optimised version of the chip running at 800MHz, which will consume less power (0.5W instead of 1.9W). However, ARM estimates that even the 2GHz part should provide at least twice the battery life of an Intel Atom chip.Both chips are scheduled for fabrication using TSMC's 40nm-G process.Schorn says the A9 is "roughly one third of the size of an Atom, and that translates into cost. So we believe our solutions will have a significant cost advantage in the marketplace."Intel used to sell its own StrongARM chip and developed the ARM-compatible XScale processor before selling off the business in favour of its own new design, the Atom. This has rapidly become the standard on netbooks, and Intel is further reducing the power consumption to get it into smaller devices -- including mobile phones. With ARM moving up and Intel moving down, the two companies will end up fighting it out in the marketplace.ARM's problem is that the Cortex chip doesn't run what Schorn calls "big Windows," which provides access to a huge range of standard software and peripherals. ARM-based netbooks will have to run alternatives such as Google Android, Windows CE or Windows Mobile, Ubuntu and other versions of Linux. "There's a variety of operating systems available," says Schorn.However, ARM dominates the mobile phone business, so there are thousands of applications written for ARM chips, and some of these could be attractive on smartbooks, netbooks, tablets such as the Archos 5 Internet Tablet and similar devices.Schorn also argues that there is less need to run "big Windows" software now that users are adopting online applications that work through a browser. How many buyers will agree remains to be seen. Suppliers such as Acer and Asus had high hopes for Linux on netbooks, but ultimately these models failed in the marketplace, after Microsoft made Windows XP available at very low prices.Still, Schorn says that, with the A9-40G, ARM is bringing diversity to the market, and increasing competiton, "which is a good thing and will benefit the consumer. And for us, it's a move out of wireless and into new areas. That's what it's about."Update: There's now a press relase,ARM Announces 2GHz Capable Cortex-A9 Dual Core Processor Implementation
Get down to some midweek chatting!
American computer manufacturer Dell has agreed to pay $4m (£2.4m) to settle accusations that it misled customers and tricked them into paying for expensive products and services.The case - brought by the New York attorney general's office - goes back to 2007, when complaints emerged about the way the company was advertising cheap financing and warranties. According to state officials, the Texan PC maker often advertised zero interest credit deals for new computers before denying the customer's application and then encouraging them to buy at a far higher rate - often more than 20% interest.This tactic - described as a "bait and switch" by attorney general Andrew Cuomo - was accompanied by regular failures to provide the support services that customers had paid for; sometimes leaving them hundreds of dollars out of pocket for warranties that were effectively worthless.Dell denied the allegations, but last year the New York Supreme Court ruled against the company - leading yesterday's announcement of a deal with Cuomo's office.As part of the settlement, Dell did not admit to any wrongdoing, but said it would pay $4m in penalties, costs and as restitution to affected customers - as well as agreeing to change its advertising practices.Cuomo said was a victory for consumers, and attacked Dell's "deceptive and illegal business practices"."Going forward, this deal means that Dell will have to clearly and fully disclose the terms and conditions of their products and services to avoid this kind of fraud at the consumer's expense," he said in astatement.
The news that Facebook hastripled in size in the past year has grabbed headlines, but the real news was that the social network is now - in Mark Zuckerberg's words - "free cash flow positive". That piece of accounting jargon indicates that, after more than five years, the site has taken the first major step towards becoming an honest-to-god profit-making company and (perhaps) indicates that a stock market launch couldfinally become a possibility.But the news that the site has money coming in needs to be examined a little closer. While it's a little difficult to discern exactly what this "free cash flow" constitutes for a private company like Facebook, one spokesmantold Reutersthat it "does not include any cash from private investment". That might indicate that Facebook is now making more than enough money to cover its taxes, capital expenditure and the cost of around 700 staff - but that the money put into the company by its backers (such as the$300m recently raised from Russian group Digital Sky Technologies) doesn't count.If all that extra money isn't being used to shore up vital day-to-day Facebook operations, that's probably good news - but whatever the case, the site hasn't hit the high notes quite yet.However, the fact that Facebook is making any moneyat allmight come as a surprise to some, given that many are sceptical that social networking sites have real money-making potential (and for good reason, given the history of the dotcom bubbles and here-today, gone-tomorrow social websites).However, after throwing around all kinds of ideas - some good,some not so good- Zuckerberg and company now seem to have settled on a number of ways to bring in the money:&bull; Self-serve advertising allows marketers to decide precisely who they want to appeal to, and buy ads to put in front of users who fit the profile. This has already proved appealing for some big brands: right now, I can see ads from 3 Mobile and Peugeot on my Facebook homepage, for example.&bull; It's not just big advertisers, either. Almost anyone can walk up and buy space on the site if they have the cash - and that includes other Facebook users, who try to direct you to their profiles, fan pages or elsewhere in order to get you to follow their cause or buy their product.&bull; There are also the gifts and other virtual property that users can buy and give to each other. This still seems like a crazy idea to some people, but it can prove a highly profitable business in the right circumstances - virtual goods prop up all kinds of online games, and nobody ever thought ringtones could be so profitable.In addition, the company is known to be working on a micropayments system (no doubt a money-spinner if they can pull it off) that will almost certainly allow it to take a slice of any transaction that takes place through the site. Whatever it is, there appears to be a business here, something even critics like Andrew Keenare now admitting.Now, that's not to say that Facebook can continue unabated. Even if its products are making money today, there are few guarantees for tomorrow.After all, at the height of its powers a couple of years ago, rival MySpace was boasting that it wasmaking almost $1m a day simply from selling adverts on its homepage. Since then, it has struggled to keep up momentum and found itself needing to slash jobs and refocus its business.For now, Zuckerberg and friends appear to be doing a lot of things right - but there are still plenty of lessons they need to keep in mind.
With its reputation for voracious, big-money acquisitions and hard-fought mergers, Silicon Valley is used to surprise deals. That has not stopped many observers, however, from being left puzzled by American software maker Adobe's unexpected move to buy online measurement company Omniture for $1.8bn (£1.09m).Omniture, which is based in Utah and offers a suite of products that allow website owners and marketers to monitor the way people use the internet, may seem a strange fit for the company best known for programs like Photoshop.Indeed, the news shocked many technology industry insiders - especially as it came hard on the heels of the news that Adobe hadsuffered a 29% decline in profitsover the same time last year. But despite questions about the potential for crossover between the two companies, Adobe chief executive Shantanu Narayen insisted that the deal was a "game-changer" that made sense for the veteran Californian business."We will enable advertisers, media companies and e-tailers to realise the full value of their digital assets," he said, adding that incorporating Omniture's products would allow them to "close the loop" for customers who use Adobe software to build their websites and online advertising campaigns.Adobe is one of the world's biggest software companies, employing more than 7,000 workers out of its headquarters in San Jose. While the company is probably best known for desktop programs such as Photoshop and Acrobat, it has been gaining greater influence on the web in recent years.Its Creative Suite product now contains a number of tools for building web content, and since 2005 - when itbought Macromedia for $3.4bn- it has also owned the popular Flash multimedia platform: now the de facto choice for online video, games and advertising.Despite this, however, some were still left scratching their heads about precisely how the two companies would come together."I don't really see the synergy in the deal," said Eric Peterson of research and consulting groupWeb Analytics Demystified. "But I admit that I love Adobe and so I'm willing to be surprised. I think of Adobe as a software company for creative types; Omniture sells software-as-a-service to analytical types. These are different business models and very different customers."Others pointed out that owning Omniture will allow Adobe to have a complete set of tools for website production - allowing customers to design, build, publish and monitor websites within a single system."This acquisition has the potential to embed measurement technologies into a burgeoning landscape of interactive media,"said Forrester analyst John Lovett."Adobe's content creation tools are widespread and this acquisition now provides the opportunity for both developers and content creators to use a measurement tool that is inherent to the development platform."That could be an important for Adobe as it seeks to mitigate waning take-up of its expensive desktop software business. CS4, the latest version of its suite of programs, received a lukewarm reception when it was released last autumn - perhaps partially due to the economic downturn.However Global Equities Research analyst Trip Chowdry said that the decision is underpinned by a more systemic problem than could simply be blamed on the recession - with customers increasingly looking to powerful free applications as a replacement for high-cost professional-level packages like Photoshop."Their Creative Suite is decline, and there's no way to organically revive it,"he told Forbes. "People believe software tools need to be free, and the market is saturated."
&bull; Heads are being scratched at the decision by struggling software giantAdobetosplash out $1.8bn on web analytics outfit Omniture. Coming just after the news that it hasseen profits drop by 29% on the same time last year, it's a slightly puzzling - and perhaps fundamental - change of course for the company best known for programs like Photoshop and Flash.&bull;Facebookcame up with a double whammy of news yesterday:it's passed the 300 million user milestoneand it's achieved positive cashflow ahead of its 2010 target. That doesn't necessarily mean that it's rolling in cash - despite the fact that investor Marc Andreessen told Reuters recently that it ison track to coin more than $500m a year in revenues. But it's certainly a big step for the company towards becoming the real deal.&bull; We've got a little robot chaser to finish up those big money items: featuring a teensy jumping vehicle that's being developed for the US military. The Precision Urban Hopper, as its known, is doing the rounds onlinethanks to its remarkable ability to leap over fences in a single bound. Here's aYouTube video of it in action.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Cynics have long dismissed social networking as a fad - but the appetite for connecting online appears to be growing more rapidly than ever, after Facebook announced today that it now has more than 300 million users worldwide.The announcement, made by the company's 25-year-old co-founder Mark Zuckerberg, underlines Facebook's reputation as one of the largest properties on the internet with an audience that could encompass almost every man, woman and child in the United States.The number is almost as large as the entire internet population of China, and equivalent to the number of web users in Europe's ten largest countries combined.It also marks the latest chapter in an astonishing period of growth for the company. The site reached the 250m user milestone in July, meaning that it has added an additional 50 million people in just two months.Zuckerberg indicated that had plans to continue expansion in the future, and suggested that reaching such a large group of people was just the beginning."It's a large number, but the way we think about this is that we're just getting started on our goal of connecting everyone," hewrote on Facebook's blog.Although Facebook is still growing in countries like the US and Britain - particularly as older users get bitten by the social networking bug - it is also expanding quickly in other parts of the world.The news comes just a few days after the siteformally rolled out Facebook Lite- a stripped-down version of the site intended for users with slower internet connections that it hopeswill stimulate growth in countries like India and Brazil.More importantly to those wondering about the company's plans for the future, however, was the news that Facebook was now cashflow positive - which means it is finally making money after five and a half years and an estimated $716m of investment."Earlier this year we said we expected to be cash flow positive sometime in 2010, and I'm pleased to share that we achieved this milestone last quarter," said Zuckerberg. "This is important to us because it sets Facebook up to be a strong independent service for the long term."The news prompted speculation that the company could prepare for a stock market launch as early as next year - a rumour that senior executives have tried to squash in the past.Update:The original headline on the story referred to Facebook making a profit. As readerAlan Patrick rightly pointed out, being cashflow positive doesn't necessarily mean the same as being profitable - since it may not include certain extra expenses. I've amended the headline accordingly.
If you're familiar with the oldArchos 5portable media player, this one's different. The newArchos 5 Internet Tablethas the old movie- and music-playing features but is based on the Google Android version of Linux, designed for mobile phones. Apps available via Archos's AppsLib Store will presumably have been adapted for the 5 inch (actually 4.8 inch) 800 x 480 pixel touch-sensitive screen.Archos says it will include several pre-installed Android apps "including the popular eBuddy instant messaging app, Twidroid for sending and receiving tweets, Craigsphone for posting or accessing classified ads, Thinksfree [ie ThinkFree Mobile]  for viewing Microsoft Office files, Quickpedia and much more."You can browse the internet using Wi-Fi or via a Bluetooth connection to a mobile phone. This provides access to thousands of internet radio stations and streaming videos. However, it also has built-in FM radio (receiver and transmitter), and you can use it to record TV via a DVR Station accessory or, in Europe, the optional TV Snap-on. Archos says an optional HD Cinema plug-in is needed to play WMV HD movies in 720p resolution as well as movies in MPEG-2/VOB format with AC3 sound.The Archos 5 Internet Tablet comes in two basic versions. The first has 8GB to 32GB of Flash memory. The second -- which is naturally a lot thicker and heavier -- has 160GB to 500GB of hard drive space.It goes on sale tomorrow from Archos, Amazon and various retailers at prices ranging from £199.99 to £369.99. GPS features cost extra after a seven day free trial.The Archos 5 Internet Tablet will not be Archos's only internet tablet. It will ship the9PCtabletaround October 22: it's one of the devices awaiting the public launch of Microsoft Windows 7.The 9PCtablet is a very thin netbook-technology tablet PC with a 9 inch touch screen, Intel Atom Z510 processor, 80GB hard disk, and built-in DVBT TV. The price is expected to be around €450-€500.The 9PCtablet will no doubt be compared with the Apple iTablet, if such a thing ever actually appears. However, the appeal of the 9PCtablet is that it doubles as an entertainment PC and a portable TV set. I rather doubt that the iTablet will handle broadcast TV.
Skateboarding sims have always interested me, not because I'm a skater myself, but because they usually attempt to capture the socio-cultural elements of the sport/pastime, rather than just the raw mechanics. The original Tony Hawk's Pro Skater set the agenda here, managing to emulate the seamless non-linear essence of freestyle skating - and it was fun to do with mates.It's this element that seems to be the guiding force behind Skate 3, which EA announced today for a May 2010 release. "Skate 3 breaks new ground by taking all of the camaraderie and competitive excitement of real-life skateboarding and brings it to the hands of gamers," boasts the press release. "Whether online or offline, players can now team up to build the ultimate skate crew in the definitive skateboarding co-op experience. In SKATE 3, players take part in team-based challenges, compete against rival crews and leave their mark on the all-new skater's paradise, Port Carverton."While plenty of skate games - like many urban racing titles - have allowed you to build 'crews', of non-player characters, Skate 3 wants you to do the same with online gamers. You complete challenges together and help build each other's careers. There's also a level design feature so that you can construct a personalised skate park.It's not a particularly innovative tactic; creating a broad social experience is essentially what Ubisoft was trying with Shaun White Snowboarding. However, it is interesting that Activision seems to have gone in a different direction with Tony Hawk: RIDE. Due out later this year, this one is based much more around the actual experience of controlling a skateboard - hence the inclusion of a Wii Balance Board-style controller, which you stand on and tilt to simulate actual skating moves. Here, the social emphasis is based around an offline 'hot swapping' mode, which allows players in the same location to take part one after the other.But are either of these doing enough to make the skate sim relevant again for a new generation of console users who have seen only diminishing returns from the genre of late? Are these evolutionary steps comparable to say, the introduction of open-world online racing in driving games like Test Drive Unlimited?Certainly, the one thing both of these 'franchises' are missing - if the activities atmylocal skate park are in any way representative - is a dating mode.
In this week's edition, two experts on online banking fraud fromActimize– one of the industry's leading companies – explain how they are combating the constantly evolving threat of cyber-crime.Dr Michael Recce and Bruno Piers also provide tips on how to minimise the risk posed by online transactions.Also this week, software developer Jon Gosier tells us about his companyAppfrica's plan to bring the internet to some of Africa's poorest communities.Plus, we round up all the rest of the technology news in a week that saw Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer jokingly threaten todestroy an iPhonelive on stage at a company event.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
One day. One day I'll remember to set this up the night before...
&bull; The reported reshuffle at Intel is shaking out, bringing up the question of who might succeed current chief executive Paul Otellini. According to theWall Street Journal, thefrontrunner to take over is Sean Maloney, - the British execwe interviewed in June.&bull; Last week we profiled theforthcoming launch of Google's new  Data Liberation Front- a group trying to make it easier for users to get their data out of Google's services. TheDLF is now official, with a site that offers you tips on how to leave the sticky embrace of the Googleplex, should you wish to do so.&bull; If you've ever fancied buying a slice of prehistory, then you might like to know that Bonhams is preparing an auction of dinosaur fossils, to be held early next month in Las Vegas. The star exhibit?A 40-foot T-Rex specimen called "Samson"that's expected to raise as much as $8m. Anyone up for a quick whip round? It'd look smashing in my office.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
As everyone knows, the videogame industry is cyclic. Roughly every five years a new generation of console technology arrives and we dutifully hand over our cash to experience the new visuals and, if we're lucky, the odd innovative new feature.The business ostensibly dislikes this rhythmic pattern. The implementation of new platforms is mind-numbingly expensive, both for the manufacturers and the developers. But yet, every five years, the rumours start, and with them the vociferous – yet never entirely convincing – denials...Today, in the second part ofan interview with Develop, the head of Microsoft Game Studios, Phil Spencer, claims that there are no plans for Xbox 360 because Natal will indefinitely expand the lifespan of the current model:"And in terms of putting more hardware on the market, what else can we do? Put more memory in it? I don't think that's enough. We like where we are at with the box – 360 currently has a great price point. Consumers don't want another $400 box right now."We instead want consumers and developers to know that we are all going to make a huge return on that original investment in the hardware – the one Microsoft made in building it, the one developers made in making games for it, and the investment consumers made in buying the console. In the current climate that's something people are going to appreciate much more."Convincing and sensible stuff, but unfortunately it's proceeded by the rather more ambiguous, "Do we need to sell a new console at some point? I don't think we need to right now. We'll wait until our experiences are at the right point…"You see, there's no such thing as denial when it comes to the generational business model – just flirtatious little stallers.This is an interesting point for the industry, though. In the midst of a recession and with two pieces of hardware that developers are clearly still extracting plenty of extra performance from, flirting with the possibility of replacements does seem a bit vulgar and unnecessary. And let's be honest, can anyone really afford to start thinking about PlayStation 4? Certainly not Sony, whichannounced losses of £685mback in May – and the company is still making a loss on each PS3 sold – even the skinny ones.At the end of last month Rich Hilleman, the chief creative officer of Electronic Arts, gavean interview to tech site Venture Beat, in which he ventured the following very brief prediction:"I expected we'll see a PlayStation 3.5 before we see a PlayStation 4 and an Xbox 560 before we see an Xbox 720."And this certainly seems to be the way things are shaping up. Xbox 360 had the whole New Xbox Experience refresh, and is soon to be reinvigorated with the Natal motion control system. PS3, meanwhile, has been slimmed down, has had video-on-demand and TV tuner features added, and has it's own motion controller on the way. Today there's beenspeculationthat Sony may be planning to offer a new iteration of the console before Christmas; designed with movie fanatics in mind, the bundle is said to feature a 250GB hard drive,PlayTVand Blu-ray remote control.The future then, or at least the near-future, is all about targeting and refinement. It's a bit more like how the car industry works: add a few little features to the basic product - a tweaked engine, nicer interiors, a fancy entertainment system - then market it to a fresh audience at a fraction of the price of developing a whole new model. Of course, Sega experimented with this approach between the Mega Drive and the Saturn, with various interstitial machines like the Mega CD, Mars and never-released Jupiter, but back then the consumers were hungry for a whole new generation and with the seductive PlayStation on the horizon, Sega's strategy just looked confused. This time round, no-one is lurking in the background with something radically new and highly advanced. Unless Nintendo is about toreallysurprise us all.
The job of football management sims is to emulate what happens in the real world, but Championship Manager has taken that brief rather too literally in recent years, following a trajectory that will be familiar to supporters of clubs such as Leeds United, Norwich City and Nottingham Forest.Champ Man, as it is affectionately known, was the king of fantasy football games for many years – indeed, it popularised and defined the genre – until, in 2004, developer Sports Interactive fell out with publisher Eidos, took its crucial database to Sega and rebranded its games as Football Manager.Eidos kept the Championship Manager name, plus its look and feel, and set up Beautiful Game Studios to keep the flame going. Which proved to be harder than anticipated. Despite several thoroughly justifiable critical maulings of its efforts, BGS persisted and, finally, it has prevailed.Championship Manager 2010 marks a notable return to form. It's not perfect, mind, and not necessarily as good as the imminent Football Manager 2010 (depending on what your priorities are regarding such games), but it is at least once more fit to wear the shirt, in football parlance. Champ Man fans of yore will find the interface, with its familiar blue window-surrounds, reassuring, and the email inbox-style main screen should be intuitive for all.Crucially, Championship Manager 2010 boasts a 3D match engine, which can be employed in training and the new set-piece creator. Less successful is the new scouting network, which has a pretty world-map screen, but demands that you allocate resources to individual countries before you can start poaching the cream of their young players – unlike Football Manager, which bombards you with scouting information from the off.  A £5 service called CM Season Live will update your games with real data from the ongoing season.But there lies the crux of the difference between the rival games: Football Manager can overwhelm you with sheer weight of information and stats; Championship Manager provides a simpler, more basic experience, which can be further tailored as you assign unfancied tasks to your Assistant Manager. Thus you can get on with whatever aspects of management you fancy. The downside is that it doesn't capture the sense that a football season is a giant, arcane soap opera like Football Manager does – Sports Interactive's efforts throws unexpected situations at you and places much more emphasis on your dealings with the media.If you seek a straight-down-the-line football management experience that tests your powers of wheeler-dealing, man-management, tactics and training, then you will find Championship Manager thoroughly satisfying, for the first time since 2004 (recent efforts were unspeakably shoddy). If you fancy yourself as the next Statto, though, you'd be better off with Football Manager. At last, the beloved old stager has found a hint of its previous form.
Mixing Final Fantasy's turn-based combat heritage with the fighting genre that gave us Tekken and Street Fighter sounds like a disaster waiting to happen – but Square Enix has proved it can work.Far from its epic RPG roots, Dissidia's fast-paced combat experience successfully integrates RPG elements – such as leveling, gear and summons – that action, fantasy and even the series' stat lovers will enjoy. The arenas take the form of interactive 3D environments, sadly often visually uninspiring.The goal – to knock out opponents by getting Health Points to zero – remains the same, but the introduction of Bravery Points (BP) mixes the experience up. The higher your BP figure the harder you hit, so you must combine BP stealing and health diminishing attacks to bring down foes.Special features add a further element to the gameplay, including the ability to "break" opponents. This is when an adversary's BP goes into minus figures, and all your attacks become critical hitters. Button mashing can get you so far, but advancement requires tactical skill. Aside from the mainstay quickplay, arcade and multiplayer modes, there's a story mode aimed at satisfying fans' lust for familiar faces and FF lore.Cosmos and Chaos are waging war and the heroes and villains choose sides for one final showdown. With more than 10 stories to play through, they star classic villains and heroes, united at the battle to end all battles.Stories are played out through multiple board-styled levels, interspersed with – often long-winded – FMV cutscenes and culminating in obligatory boss fights. Battles reward you with experience, equipment and money etc, and here's where you find the game's depth. You can casually play through Dissidia, but delving deeper reveals multiple layers – from unlocking accomplishments and specifying abilities, to "buying" new playable characters and modes, and upgrading your equipment and accessories. Easily accessible to quick-play fighting fans but still offering substance, Dissidia creates a balance between RPG and fighter than many may not think possible. The more you put into the game, the more you'll get in return.
Wet marks something of a departure for the cerebral Bethesda – a 3rd person shoot-em-up that bears more similarities to Max Payne than the likes of Fallout and Elder Scrolls that made their name.However, the biggest single influence is Quentin Tarantino, with a Kill Bill-inspired plot and a gritty, irreverent style straight out of Grindhouse.The title refers to Wetworks, industry slang for assassinations, rather than anything more gratuitous, although your heroine, Rubi, has clearly been designed with the target adolescent male audience in mind.Thanks to a training level that introduces you to all Rubi's abilities, Wet wastes no time setting out its store, namely over-the-top action sequences punctuated by stylised cut-scenes. Charging in without mastering the basics is rewarded with a quick restart, and you quickly learn that forward planning is not the way it works.Rubi is someone who likes to shoot, stab, even think while on the move, which takes a bit of getting used to. Fortunately, as soon as you execute a leap, slide or wall jump, the action slips into slow motion, allowing you time to reposition your crosshair to take out one of more enemies before the move is completed. You start the game with a katana and a couple of automatic handguns, the former somewhat disappointing and only useful when too close to your target to deploy the latter. Guns, however, are much more fun, employing a clever semi-automatic targeting system so one locks onto the nearest enemy leaving you free to pick out the other while moving. However, these are just the start of your powers, with new weapons and abilities unlocked by a score-multiplier function that recognises how stylishly you dispatch your targets.Shooting several baddies in a single move counts for more than one at a time, using headshots more still and so on. It's a clever mechanic that keeps you challenged once you've ceased to be impressed by Rubi's knack of doing even the simplest things with panache. For instance, why climb down a ladder when you can hold onto the rails with your knees and slide upside down, shooting as you go? Admittedly, most of the set pieces have been cribbed from the movies, with Sin City and Matrix Reloaded two obvious reference points, but the moment the colour pallet changes as Rubi goes into Rage mode, it's hard not to be impressed. Yes, it's largely a game on rails and the hand-to-hand combat something of a button-masher, but Wet is still a stylish, attitude-filled fight-fest that boys of all ages should relish.
Finally we now know from the horse's mouth. I met Alan Eyzaguire, director of software product marketing at Apple Europe (and Middle East and Africa) to talk about Snow Leopard, and of course the question that came up is the one of whether those people who have Intel-based Macs and are still running Mac OS X 10.4 (aka "Tiger") can upgrade directly from that version to the newly released "Snow Leopard", aka 10.6.Part of the challenge for such folk is that the intermediate step - buying and installing OS X 10.5, aka "Leopard" - no longer exists. Apple stopped selling Leopard disks on its store about a month ago, according to a UK spokesman (who was also there at the meeting). Instead, Apple offers Tiger owners the £129 "Mac Box Set", an "upgrade" - consisting of a Snow Leopard disk, plus iWork 09 (the latest version of Apple's office suite - with its Keynote presentation software, Numbers spreadsheet, and Pages page layout product), and iLife 09 (its consumer offering for music, movie-making, DVD authoring and photo organisation). [See our reviews ofiWork 09andiLife 09.]OK, I said, but is there actually anythingdifferentabout the Snow Leopard disk in that set from the ones you could buy in a store for £25? No.So could Tiger users just buy that then and save themselves the expense? Which drew the response that "We think Apple customers would like to benefit from the best software that there is and we think that's offered by iLife 09 and iWork 09."Um, yes, but that's not what I was asking. What if they don'twantiLife 09 and iWork 09? (You do need Leopard to run them, meaning there's no chance of someone having bought them and still being on Tiger.) Possibly they don't care about them. So once again, since they've had plenty of opportunity to buy Leopard but have held back - despite the attraction of those two software packages - why is Apple forcing them to buy them?"We just think that Apple customers could really benefit from having those. They're great software."Honestly: for non-answering of the direct question, it was a performance that would have had politicians being grilled on the Today program at the 8.10am slot standing up and cheering.So I summoned up the spirits of Humphrys andPaxman, and after only seven or eight different rephrasings - "it's great when people get the full experience", "if you have Snow Leopard it's great to have the latest iWork and iLife", "we wanted to make that [upgrade] as attractive as possible", "you get it almost for free", "it's a steal!" - we did eventually get to the core (hah) of the point.Yes, he conceded: you can indeed install Snow Leopard onto an (Intel-based, because it can't run on PowerPC-based machines) Apple computer running Tiger.Except, he pointed out, that doing so breaks the end user licence agreement (EULA). Here's the thing: the retail stand-alone Snow Leopard disk has a different EULA from the Mac Box Set."Technically, yes, it would upgrade a Tiger install," said Eyzaguire, sounding a little deflated, "but in the licensing, no."And Apple's spokesman helpfully dug out the precise bit of the agreement:If you have purchased an Upgrade for Mac OS X Leopard license [which is what comes in the Snow Leopard box], then subject to the terms and conditions of this License, you are granted a limited non-exclusive license to install, use and run one (1) copy of the Apple Software on a single Apple-branded computeras long as that computer has a properly licensed copy of Mac OS X Leopard already installed on it[emphasis added - CA]. If you have purchased a Family Pack Upgrade for Mac OS X Leopard license, then subject to the terms and conditions of this License, you are granted a limited non-exclusive license to install, use and run one (1) copy of the Apple Software on up to a maximum of five (5) Apple-branded computers at a time as long as those computers are located in the same household (as defined above), are used by persons who occupy that same household, and each such computer has a properly licensed copy of Mac OS X Leopard already installed on it. The Family Pack Upgrade for Mac OS X Leopard License does not extend to business or commercial users.You can read it yourself atApple legal(PDF).That said, Eyzaguire insists that the Mac Box Set has been "incredibly popular". Why, how many have sold? "We don't give numbers." Oh. "But it shows people want to stay current with one upgrade." Well, perhaps, except that they could have bought Leopard but clearly didn't, and Apple (and its staff) has been telling them straight-faced for the past few weeks that theonlyway they can upgrade is to buy the Mac Box Set - not that theycouldbuy the Snow Leopard disk alone and used that.Nor are the versions of iLife and iWork in the Box Set upgraded for the 64-bit Snow Leopard - they're still 32-bit - while the programs in Snow Leopard such as Mail and Safari and so on have been rewritten for 64-bit. (Can you guess at a selling point yet for next year's iLife and iWork versions, which - let's take an outside bet - might be called iLife X and iWork X? It's as relentless an upgrade elevator as Microsoft Office and Server.)Oh, and one last thing: much was made of Safari 4 and its conformance to Acid 3, the CSS 3 test - it gets 100/100 where another browser *cough* Internet Explorer 8 *cough* only gets 21/100.However, I pointed out, IE8 - like Google's Chrome browser - does have the (increasingly important, I think) advantage that its separate tabs run as different processes, so that if one goes haywire, you can kill it with a visit to the Process Manager or Activity Monitor (or command line, whatever suits). Is Safari going to go down that route? Response: furrowed brows. "Good question. I'll ask someone."The point is, of course, that conformance to Acid 3 is about good programming - but the process/tab thing is about architecture, which requires a much broader approach. It'll be interesting to see if Apple does introduce this. I think per-tab processes could be soon be seen as essential as browser tabs themselves have become.
Oops, late again! Thanks to Limni for the polite nudge. Now chat!
&bull; Kevin Russell, the chief executive of 3, says that the proposed merger between T-Mobile and Orangeshould be given regulatory approval, according to theFT. Meanwhile theTelegraphis reporting that T-Mobile's American operation could be looking tojoin forces with US network Sprint.&bull; There are plenty of technologists who want to save the world, but Norman Borlaug -who died this weekend- has a pretty good case for having done so already. The American scientist pioneered high-yield, disease-proof varieties of wheat that helped global food production double between 1960 and 1990; the result is that he is credited with saving up to a billion lives. An outstanding figure.&bull; Time to blow away the cobwebs with some Monday morning stuff to get your brain in gear.CNethas anintriguing interview with Techdirt's Mike Masnick, who is usually pretty good at articulating his views on the online wrongs of the media business. MeanwhileWiredhas a great little feature and gallery ofsurgical robots- and if, like me, you are a fan of both interesting cities and David Byrne, then you might appreciate this Wall Street Journal piece in which the former Talking Heads singerdescribes his perfect city.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Vauxhall Insignia Tourer&pound;19,658Miles per gallon: 48.7CO2 per KM: 154 GRAMSGood for: Bad packersBad for: BackpackersA busy junction in south London. Rush hour, and a rain-slicked road. The driver to my right misreads the lights and lurches out into the traffic, clipping a cyclist as he does so. The bike's front wheel crumples and the rider flips on to the bonnet, slides straight across and, as if I am witnessing a stunt, ends up standing, or rather wobbling, on the other side of the car. He seems fine, though clearly a little stirred and shaken. But then one of those unexpected, heartwarming moments. The driver, beside himself with anxiety, leaps out of his car, rushes to the cyclist and without a pause sweeps him into his arms in an enormous hug ... We all feel much better.My light changes and I drive off, sending up a silent prayer that it wasn't me who'd up-ended the cyclist. Apart from anything it would have been a shame to put a dent in the new Vauxhall Insignia I'm driving. It's only got 600 miles on the clock. The Insignia was launched amid much fanfare earlier this year as a replacement for the Vectra - a perfectly serviceable car that deserved a better reputation. But where the Vectra struggled to win plaudits, the new Insignia has been showered with awards.And now the estate version has been rolled out. GM has called it a "sports tourer" to give it a lifestyle dimension, but it is quite clearly an estate. Open the boot and a yawning chasm greets you. This is why people buy estates - and the Insignia "estate" has nothing to be ashamed of. In fact, with its sweeping lines, creased panels and stacked lights, you could make a case for the estate being more of a looker than the saloon. The model I tested came with a "power-operated tailgate" which means that you don't have to slam the lid; it closes under its own steam at the press of a button. It's the kind of luxury you start the week snorting at, and end up wondering how you'll ever manage without. If you want, and I can't really see why you would, you can legally drive with the hatch wide open, because there's an extra set of rear lights in the boot ...Much has been made of the mass-market, middle-of-the-road credentials of the Insignia. And, yes, on any given morning, the middle lanes of middle England will be clogged with thousands of harassed sales reps. But clearly today's Mondeo men have high standards: there's nothing tacky or cheap about the interior. The touch-points all have a warm, rubbery feel to them, the seats are comfortable and satisfyingly solid. In all, and this shows the ambition of Vauxhall, the Insignia looks like a cut-price version of Audi's all-conquering A6.The Sports Tourer is a well-considered offering from a maker at the top of its manufacturing game. So it is a bitter irony that Vauxhall is at the same time floundering in the waves of financial insecurity. Last year, GM sold more than 8m cars and trucks in 140 countries around the world; this year it has already sold more than 1m cars in China alone. Four of its models are among the top 10 bestselling cars in the UK (the Corsa, Astra, Zafira and Vectra). And the Insignia deserves to be on that list, too.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The understated Professor Layton and his hot-headed young apprentice Luke get involved in another mystery, this time investigating the death of Layton's friend Dr Schrader and how it may be linked to the mysterious Elysian Box. As in the good professor's previous outing, unravelling the case is a matter of solving hundreds of delightful brain teasers which you discover by wandering around its charming, hand-drawn scenery and prodding things with the DS stylus.Get a puzzle right and you earn Picarats, which are points you can exchange to unlock secrets and mini-games. Possibly even smoother than the original Professor Layton game, this features more voice acting and puzzles that seem a bit easier, although that could just be down to working through so many of them over the past year. Gentle, thoughtful and with a sense of humour that carries the lightest touch.• Nintendo, &pound;34.99
Not long ago all the best consumerist websites were about shares and the luxe lifestyle, now they're about scrimping, thrift and the price fluctuations of Kit Kats. As well as bargain hunting here you'll find dubious money saving techniques, such as the claim that if you mix cheap coffee with expensive coffee the cheap one will absorb the pricier brand. Not just for the hard up, Bitter Wallet recently broke the story on the PC World staffers who foolishly used Facebook to slag off their customers. The site also has a good line in exposing adverts of yesteryear (like the one for toy dog Gaylord), online trivia, and tips on how to escape excessive budget airline fees.
Although much of the time spent playing any of Final Fantasy's sprawling epics is spent killing monsters, the series has only recently strayed from its traditional turn-based combat where battles are won with tactics rather than dexterity. Dissidia takes things much further, presenting a series of one-on-one encounters featuring heroes of the series to date (including both Cloud and Tidus), straying firmly into conventional fighting game territory and slimming down its plot to a succession of brief cut-scenes.While far more kinetic, fights aren't simply a matter of battering your opponent, but stealing bravery points first - your bravery decides how much damage your attacks do. The RPG legacy means there's plenty of levelling up to be done and the gradual drip feed of visually staggering new skills proves highly compelling.ng• Square Enix, &pound;29.99
Since its 8-bit roots, the Metroid series has always been just as much about exploration as it has about blowing away Phazon-infused mutants. With its not remotely feisty heroine who displays no cleavage whatsoever, choosing instead the same all-over pressurised body armour as her male equivalents, there's plenty about Metroid that's offbeat.This compilation brings together both GameCube outings with the more recent Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, presents them all in widescreen and lets you use the Wii-remote for aiming. They're still as absorbing and dizzyingly vast as they always were and with each game taking nearly 20 hours to complete, having all three together represents great value for money and a coherent path between episodes that arrived years apart. Metroid Prime Trilogy provides all the Wii's best first-person shooting games on a single disc.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 16 September 2009The review below mistakenly gave credit for a website called everythingisterrible.com to one Jacob Anderson. EIT advises us that its team has never heard of Mr Anderson and that he did not originate the site.A creator of chop-up video hilarity, Jacob Anderson has been responsible for many a viral YouTube hit. Inspired by a 15-minute edit of Stephen King's IT he saw when he was a student - a tape which he says was "our Star Wars kid" - he's turned his editing skills to many a B, D and Z movie, reducing them to two-minute classics. The most recent example is a shortened version of Skateboard Kid, the adventures of a teen and his talking board that's so incredulous it makes Mega Shark Vs Giant Octopus look like an episode of Coast. Anderson's current success is Informercial Hell, in which he has edited together the starts of dozens of late-night infomercials and their histrionic voiceovers for five minutes of life-sucking merriment.
US officials say that a man accused of orchestrating one of the biggest identity thefts in history has agreed to plead guilty to stealing more than 40 million credit card numbers.Prosecutors say that 28-year-old Albert Gonzalez, of Miami, will accept guilty charges on 19 counts relating to the theft of information from some of America's largest retailers. Operating under a variety of pseudonyms - including "Soupnazi" - Gonzalez organised groups of criminals who broke into wireless networks belonging to major companies in order to exploit flaws in their database software to access millions of people's credit card information.The case - details of whichfirst emerged in 2007- saw a number of high-profile companies targeted, including book retailer Barnes &amp; Noble, discount clothing retailer TJX - which owns a string of TJ Maxx shops in Britain - and restaurant chain Dave &amp; Buster's. Eleven individuals were originally chargedlast year.According to the indictment against Gonzalez, he and a team of accomplices sold many of the stolen card numbers, while using others to create their own cloned cards which they used to withdraw vast sums of money. As part of his plea, Gonzalez will forfeit more than $2.7m (£1.6m) as well as property and other personal items, seized after investigators conducted a number of raids on properties linked to the fraud ring.Sentencing is due in December, where he could face a total of 45 years in prison - but even then, cases involving him do not end there.The guilty plea will settle charges brought in Massachusetts and New York, but Gonzalez also faces separate charges in New Jersey, where he is accused of running another - even larger - credit card fraud ring.It is not the first brush with the law for Gonzalez, however. He had previously faced a length prison sentence for his role with another group of hackers, known as the ShadowCrew, in 2003. However, he avoided jail by offering to become an informant for the US Secret Service in their case against the group - which led to a string of convictions for identity theft and fraud but left Gonzalez free.
Steve Ballmer has been at it again.On stage at a company event in Seattle, the Microsoft chief executive grabbed an iPhone andpretended to stamp on itto a chorus of boos.The incident apparently happened after he spotted an employee taking a picture of him using an Apple handset. After his mock attack, he left the iPhone on the floor and went about his business - but apparently made a few more jibes later in the presentation.The episode appears to be the result of exuberance, a dose of Incredible Hulk and partly a rallying cry for the troops who areunder fire and outsmarted by competitors.Of course, the Microsoft chief - who seems to slurp constantly from some unknown, unending energy source - has a history of bizarre on-stage appearances. Who can forget the soul-piercing screams of thedance monkey boy, or the sweat-laden, inner turmoil expressed during his'developers, developers, developers' chant?Whatever it was - venting his frustration or boosting staff morale - there is a certain poignant note to his reaction to Apple's device, particularly given howhe laughed at the iPhonesoon after it was announced."Five hundreds dollars?" he chuckled. "That is the most expensive phone in the world and it doesn't appeal to business customers because it doesn't have a keyboard - which makes it not a very good email machine. It may sell very well or not [but] I like our strategy, I like it a lot."Everybody loves a bit of hyperbole, and Ballmer certainly deals in it. But for all the fun and games, however, there is a deeper issue here. Does it make sense to mock his competitors, rather than learn from them?There is, of course, a genuine reason for using your own products - the theory charmingly known as"eating your own dog food", something in part pioneered by Microsoft. But there's a counterpoint to that,Not Invented Heresyndrome - where companies wilfully ignore things from outside their own walls. Sometimes there's a fine line between the two.For all the fun and games, perhaps Ballmer's latest moment of madness isn't just a piece of entertaining smackdown from a man who often appears to get his motivational tips from watching pro wrestling videos.
Earlier this week we reported how new Yahoo boss Carol Bartz hadsold more than $2m in shares since taking over in January, part of a number of sizeable sales by senior executives at the company that seemed a little incongruous, given the web giant's troubled financial results of late.When I had contacted Yahoo about the share sales, a spokeswoman told me that Bartz sold her stock to cover tax liabilities, but would not comment at the time on the sales conducted by other directors (admittedly, this was late on Friday night before a long weekend).Without a great deal of information from Yahoo, we were left with a number of questions: what had forced Bartz to sell so much stock just months after taking control of the company? Why had others followed suit? Why had investor-turned-director Carl Icahn traded huge portions of the company?(OK, we know the answer to that last one: he's a shark)Eric Jackson, theformer dissident Yahoo investorwho put the numbers together, followed up himself with an opinion piece on TheStreet.com in which he called out their actions as"pigs-at-the-trough behavior".It certainly looked that way to the naked eye. But what was really going on?Here's a little more light shed on the issue thanks toBen SilvermanofInsiderScore, who got in touch to tell me that he thought we were making hay out of what he believed was a non-issue. He said by email that Bartz sold her shares to cover a tax bill due from the options she was granted.Bartz's dispositions in March and June were related to the vesting of a restricted stock award she received in January. That restricted stock award was part of the "Make-Up Grant" clause of her employment contract which directed that she receive $10 million, including $7.5 million in restricted stock, in compensation for foregoing future compensation due her by AutoDesk.When tranches of the restricted stock vested in March and June, Bartz was liable for the taxes associated with the shares. The IRS treats those shares as having a cost basis of $0 and the value of those shares as ordinary income. As such, Bartz would be liable for taxes associated with the number of shares vested times the market price of the stock (for the March tranche, she owed the government taxes on a little more than $2 million in income as a result of the shares vesting). Bartz will, in all likelihood, conduct similar transactions on September 30 and December 26 when the other tranches of her restricted stock award vest.Essentially: the rather generous terms of Bartz's compensation package mean that she was probably exposed to a large tax bill soon after joining the company. She sold shares in the company to cover that bill. Silverman added that some (though not all) of the share sales by other directors were for similar reasons.There aren't clear indicators about what Bartz owes the taxman, but if Silverman's right that sounds fair enough - though given that Bartz has significant personal wealth thanks to 17 years building up software firm AutoDesk, it is interesting to wonder why she chose to pay her tax bill using Yahoo shares (which optimistic executives would believe could increase in value, of course) and not cash in the bank.However, this still strikes me as a remarkable piece of management by Yahoo at board level and in terms of public relations. What better than to quash the morale of employees than lure in a new CEO with a very substantial compensation package which then effectively forces her to sell vast amounts of equity in the company?It's the sort of thing that has left Yahoos I know grumbling about her long-term commitment - and it certainly must seem a bit rich to receive one of herfamed weekly memos telling staff to buck upknowing that she's earned millions for essentially signing away asignificant slice of the company's business to Microsoft.In any case, perhaps it's better to let her speak for herself. Here she is being interviewed on US financial channel CNBC, in which she justifies the Microsoft situation and says she's going to be around for a long time.This wasn't enough to satisfy Jackson, who hasfollowed up again questioning the evidence to back up her statement. He also points out that she is on course to clear up to $6m in share sales by the end of her first year in charge - something he suggests is Yahoo using its shareholders to sweeten the deal to get Bartz on board, and that she has been given a "boatload of cash way too soon".Yahoo may be an example here of a much wider malaise, because the real question is how you tie executive compensation in to actual performance. Where do you draw the line when you're trying to hook in a top executive for your public company? How much say should shareholders have over the sweetheart deals offered to new executives? And, is it justifiable for senior executives to cash out while the company they run goes through one of its worst ever periods?Those are we all need to consider - even if the answers are very hard to divine.
You have an important study that will be part of your case to a government minister considering the future of your organisation. You have found someone to review it. Would you commission them without swapping letters or email, and without taking any notes of their observations afterwards?If you're Ordnance Survey, then it seems yes, you would. In a response to a Freedom of Information request – part of a series of requests Guardian Technology has made since May – OS revealed that after it prepared an internal study comparing international models of funding mapping agencies, it asked an "internationally­recognised expert in geographical information and national mapping" to review it.But in an admission that makes the preparation of this potentially key report look rather slipshod, OS saidin response to a further FoI requestthat "a copy of the report was provided to the person concerned and engagement on this matter was conducted orally with no permanent record made of these conversations".OSalso declined to answer further queriesthat would have given more indication of the affiliations of the "internationally recognised expert" – specifically, which mapping organisation the person works (or worked) for, and whether they are male or female. OS declined to answer, "because in our reasonable opinion the provision of the information requested would prejudice the anonymity of the individual and would serve to substantively assist in identifying them".But the Free Our Data campaign believes that the identity of the "expert" is important – and that OS still has important questions to answer about the analysis it has conducted into its own funding and organisation.For the public, OS's planned reorganisation into a "hybrid" model with an arms-length "commercial" organisation that will market products using its brand has been presented as a fait accompli following discussions with the then minister Iain Wright (now schools minister).Sir Rob Margetts, appointed as OS chairman in  August 2008, told an invited audience – including Wright – on 12 May that "we did, with outside help, a review of equivalent organisations around the world ... we wanted sustainability and high [data] quality and came to the conclusion that at nearly every organisation that had gone to a free data model, the quality had declined and that users and customers were increasingly dissatisfied with the product."But the international comparison study, which Guardian Technologyforced OS to release through FoI, is limited, vague, rushed and – to many observers – inconclusive at best. And the costing to government of the reorganisation – apparently revealed in a documentavailable via the Wikileaks website– is also inconclusive, as it assumes growth targets that will be hard to meet in a recession.To those failings – neither of which reflects well on Sir Rob – is now added the decision by OS to verbally "commission" someone who worked for free (previously admitted by OS), and whose opinions about the work did not need to be recorded.Are those the actions of an organisation that is seriously considering which financial model it should adopt to best to help the British economy – or of an organisation that is desperately taking any measure to protect an outdated model?Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Gameloft has somehow managed to squeeze a thoroughly decent-looking Grand Theft Auto clone onto the iPhone/iPod Touch. Gangstar: West Coast Hustle makes an extremely good first impression, boasting 3D graphics as good as anything else you'll find on the iTunes store. However, given that it's currently on sale for less than four pounds, one is immediately suspicious of what the catch will be.Playing as Mexican gangbanger P. Thug, you're led through a Groundhog Day-ishly repetitive series of missions following a plot that will probably seem familiar to anyone who's ever seen a film set in South Central LA. Most of Gangstar involves seeking out one of several bosses, who'll deliver instructions via some terribly hokey gangster dialogue (sample: "OK, here's what's up, Locos wanna start a war with us, they got one") before you embark on an assigned mission which will almost certainly involve driving to one or more locations in order to shoot some people, before driving off again.While it's perhaps unfair to draw comparisons with similar games available on the PS3 or Xbox360, the Gangstar environment feels very empty compared to the likes of Vice City or Liberty City. There's fewer cars on the road, fewer people, little in the way of variety in its design or gameplay, not that many interesting cars to steal, and for a sandbox game there's not all that much to keep players amused when venturing away from the main story. Although much of this is understandable given the platform's limitations, ultimately this is a half fat, low calorie take on the sandbox car-jacking genre.It's to the developers' credit then that all this isn't as boring as it sounds. When shooting enemies the targeting system makes great use of the touchscreen, and it's markedly simpler than the awkward processes that some of GTA's earlier 3D incarnations were infamous for. The driving element isn't bad either - with a break and accelerator on the touchscreen, steering is done by tilting the iPhone/iPod, and despite being a little frustrating when negotiating tight corners, it's mostly quite smooth and pretty good fun.Despite its great looks, Gameloft could surely have delivered a more satisfying game if they'd stuck to 2D and paid a little more attention to gameplay and storyline. Yet for it's tiny price, Gangstar: West Coast Hustle is undoubtedly a great stop-gap for users awaiting the forthcoming release of Chinatown Wards for iPhone/iTouch - a 2D game which promises to be much closer to the true GTA experience.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?First of all, in general I am not a fan of technology – for one thing, I have found the telephone to be an imposition. However, Pro Tools has let garage bands record their music to a professional level, and that's been a great thing. I also love iMovie on the Mac.When was the last time you used it, and what for?With iMovies, I make little movies with my son, either gag commercials or a little character called the Maestro, that we created ourselves.What additional features would you add if you could?I don't know that I know enough about what's in Pro Tools to know that – I'm still learning about what's in there.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I think it will be easier to use – and will hopefully have prettier colours on the screen.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That you can't smell it – that the textures in the experience are always smooth and hard. And we need to find a way to lower the power usage of computers – the energy usage is a lot bigger than we thought.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?For a while I hated my cellphone – sometimes in Hollywood, the cellphone seems like a leash. Often I would lose it on purpose – but I'm better now, I've grown up.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Read the documentation – new technology is always so pretty and gleaming, but a lot of people skip reading how to work it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I guess I'm a bit of both. I used to go to Star Trek conventions with pointed ears, so I'm defintiely a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Apart from my car – a Honda Accord, I'm going to drive it till it dies – I guess it would be my Apple computer, my iBook.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, Mac, Mac – because it works. It seems to just be more liquid, and friendlier.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I'm still buying discs, but not as many as I used to. Now I try to get those movies I'll be seeing more than one time.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Well, it seems like it was going to be a good idea, but now they are experimenting with giving machines emotions.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Pro Tools – I want to really get my head around that. I'd also like to be a wizard on an iPhone.•James Marsters is best known for his role as the vampire Spike on the TV series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel. He has also appeared in the BBC's Torchwood. His most recent film, Dragonball Evolution, is out now on DVD and Blu-ray
To add to the travails of Spinvox - the voicemail-to-text company whose technology has beenvery roundly called into question(and left some doubters unpersuaded) - is a further one: the company is up for sale, according to one of its venture capital investors.According to the annual filing dated 31 May 2009 from Invesco, which had a 0.71% stake in Spinvox according to a July 8 filing (but now less after a £15m capital injection in during July/August),More disappointingly amongst the unquoted investments, since the year end, the Company's holding in SpinVox, the voicemail to text messaging business, was written down in value after the Company chose not to invest in a further funding round, which was dilutive to non-participating investors. The business has been put up for sale, and it is possible that, should a good sales price be achieved, the new valuation may be exceeded.According to the numbers, Invesco put in £759,000, which has now been written down to a value - estimated, of course - of just £75,000.Does that mean game over for Spinvox? Not quite.PaidContentsays Spinvox is declining to commenton the Invesco report but has asked the company to withdraw it on the basis that it wasn't for Invesco to say so. (We think: tough. Better for financial statements to tell the truth than dissemble.)PaidContent:A sale could work out best for CEO Christina Domecq (who owns nearly 17 percent, according to the July filing), private investor Martin Hughes (17.9 percent), GLG (SEO: 066570) (15.72 percent) and CMO Daniel Doulton (8.8 percent). Share proportions may have changed following a recent emergency investment of over £15 million and the provision of a £30 million debenture loan.Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC's technology and business correspondent who really got the question of Spinvox's technology brought under the spotlight,noted in Augustthat unaudited accounts seem to suggest it is losing money hand over fist, and that the £15m of money comes with strings that could see the company required to pay back £30m. That's the sort of thing that we'd tut over if it were loan sharks on doorsteps, of course, but companies in distress seem to have different rules applied.The question now is whether anyone is going to want to buy Spinvox - or, indeed, its technology. Stay tuned.
Video games, as a form of mass entertainment, have been with us for around 35 years. But as hard as this may be for some of us to comprehend, creative genius has been around much longer. Before micro chip technology, however, some of the greatest minds the planet has ever seen were forced to channel their brilliance into other pursuits like painting, literature, science and war.So let's say you could bring back one historical figure to work as a games designer. Who would it be and why? Which great poet, profound philosopher, or ground-breaking mathematician could have been a match for Miyamoto or Will Wright or Peter Molyneux? And what they have produced?Here are three suggestions to get you going...Leanardo Da Vinci (1452 – 1519) - mathematician, inventor, anatomist, painterThe Italian polymath pretty much invented everythingexcepta videogame, so provided with the technology to do so he would have doubtless excelled. Given his status as the original renaissance man, I'd expect something epic in scope like Civilization or Sim City. Alternatively, a helicopter shoot-'em-up.Isaac Newton (1643-1727) - physicist, philosopher, mathematicianHis Laws of Motion remain the underlying principles of videogame physics to this day, and his fascination with optics would surely have been sated by televisual technology. Would possibly produce something like Tetris, but with falling apples.Jean-Paul Sartre (1905 – 1980) - philosopher, playwright, novelistPress 'start' to play. But why should we be compelled to start in a non-determinist universe? And should human consciousness be portrayed in puppet form, or is this a perversion of the desire for being?Over to you...
It's Friday - you've done enough work this week, so get in here and start typing things about Monster Hunter (other games are available. Apparently).
&bull; After detailsfirst emerged last month, Facebook has launched itsLite versionfor those with slower broadband connections. The move is part of a growth strategy to expand the social networking site globally -something we elaborated on a few weeks ago.&bull; Courtney Love, the widow of Kurt Cobain,plans to take legal action against Activisionfor their representation of the former Nirvana frontman in the latest version of Guitar Hero - blaming them for breaching a contract over the way they have included his image in GH5.&bull; Gordon Brown hasapologised for the "appalling" treatment of computing pioneer Alan Turing, reports theBBC. The statement was issued in response to a petition to get official recognition for Turing's career, which included groundbreaking developments at Bletchley Park, but ended ignominiously when he was found guilty of being a homosexual - a conviction which led to chemical castration and, ultimately, his death.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
In response to a petition,the prime minister has apologisedfor the "appalling" treatment of computer scientist and code-breaker Alan Turing, who was given experimental chemical castration for being gay. He committed suicide two years later, at the age of 41.Gordon Brown's statement, published on the official Number10.gov.uk website, concludes: "on behalf of the British government, and all those who live freely thanks to Alan's work I am very proud to say: we're sorry, you deserved so much better."Turing made a significant contribution to computer science with his 1936 paper, On Computable Numbers, and came up with the concept of what we still call the Turing Test for intelligent machines. However, he is best known for his code-breaking work at Bletchley Park during the second world war, where he helped to develop the Bombe that deciphered messages encoded using Enigma machines.The prime minister's apology says: "It is no exaggeration to say that, without his outstanding contribution, the history of World War Two could well have been very different. He truly was one of those individuals we can point to whose unique contribution helped to turn the tide of war. The debt of gratitude he is owed makes it all the more horrifying, therefore, that he was treated so inhumanely."The apology was prompted by anE-Petition at the Number10.gov site, which attracted more than 30,000 signatures.The petition was launched by John Graham-Cumming, a computer scientist, blogger, and author of The Geek Atlas.In early August, he wrote that: "If 500 people sign it there will eventually be a response from the government". It reached a much bigger audience with the backing of supporters such as Ian McEwan, Richard Dawkins, and gay-rights campaigner Peter Tatchell.But asGraham-Cumming commented later: "You don't have to be gay to think that prosecuting a man for a private consensual sex act who just seven years before had been hailed as a hero of the Second World War was simply wrong. You simply have to be human."
A few days ago, CNET and other sourcesreportedon a Sony demonstration at the IFA consumer electronics show in Berlin. The company had the PS3 version of futuristic racer WipeOut playing on a prototype Bravia LCD display with 3D capabilities, which is due to hit the market at the end of next year, and will apparently use a sequential frame display with active-shutter glasses.Furthermore, the technology's implementation into a TV is only the tip of the 3D iceberg. Sony apparently has plans to build it into Blu-ray players and future versions of the PS3 itself, so players will be able to enjoy 3D gaming via any 200hz HD display. The details are ambiguous, but it seems the picture processing technology should work with most games - although Sony now appears to bebacktracking from claimsthat a simple firmware update could make all games function in glorious 3D (morehere).Whatever the case, with Sony clearly making 3D a priority, and UK developer Blitz heavily toutingits own 3D engineto the industry, this is a hot topic for the games business - just as it has been in movie land.The question is, what does it mean for us gamers?Obviously, people are enjoying the onslaught of 3D technology in the cinema. Landmark titles such as Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs and Monsters Vs Aliens have performed astonishingly well at the box office - indeed it's flicks like these that have beencredited withbringing about a modest but significant 4% upturn in US box office takings over the summer - even during a recession. And it looks like Avatar is set to cement 3D as a defining cinematic technology, rather than an amusing gimmick that crops up every thirty years or so when Hollywood runs out of better ideas.But there remain question marks over what 3D actually brings to a movie, apart from the initial wow factor of having stuff flying out of the screen. Are Up and Bolt better films for employing the technology? Does it bring an extra dimension to the narrative experience? Or is it leading to a generation of movies that work like glorified theme park rides, providing little more than an ephemeral occular thrill? And of course there are plenty of skeptics who suggest that this is all just a gigantic anti-piracy ruse on the part of the studios.All the same arguments will soon be applied to 3D videogames (indeed you can already buy anNvidia stereoscopic 3D kitfor your PC). While virtual reality once promised a truly immersive experience (let down in the nineties by cheap hardware with low resolution screens and sickening lag and 'slosh' effects), current 3D technologies only provide theillusionof depth. Andrew Oliver at Blitz has talked about combining 3D processing with motion tracking allowing players to peek around objects that project 'in front of' the screen, but you still won't get 360 degree movement around them.Without a doubt, however, explosive action games like Gears of War and Call of Duty will be wonderfully accentuated by 3D technology, while horror titles such as Resident Evil will get to employ the same shock tactics as 3D horror movies like My Bloody Valentine and The Final Destination. But will there be games that could only work in 3D; that use the feeling of depth as an indispensable gameplay component?Game designers are certainly fiddling around in this area - and not just at the big publisher-backed studios. Montreal-based 'experimental game collective' Kokoromi is currently researching the use of various 3D technologies as facilitators to new design possibilities - itsGamma3Dwebsite shows some of the results.I'm inclined to think that the most imaginative and intrinsic implementations of 3D technology will come, not from big FPS of third-person action franchises, but from designers like Tetsuya Mizuguchi, Jun Fujiki  or even Jeff Minter who take a more abstract, spatial approach to virtual environments. Maybe the 3D killer app will look less like Killzone and more like Tetris.What do you think?
Exciting news for Sonic fans as Sega yesterday revealed that the beloved blue hedgehog will be returning to a 2D environment in a new release next year.The game, which has the development codename 'Project Needlemouse', will satisfy the clamouring of the thousands (okay, maybe hundreds) of fans disappointed by Sonic's 3D outings such as Sonic Adventure on the Dreamcast and the more recent Sonic Unleashed, released last year.The news was confirmed by Sega associate brand manager Ken Balough, speaking to Gamespot, who said:"Old-school Sonic fans have long asked to see Sonic return to a more 2D style of gameplay. Many liked the daytime stages in Unleashed but wanted to see a game that plays purely similar to the early games of the Genesis. Project Needlemouse is that critical first step that brings Sonic back to his 2D roots."The full interview can be readhere. There's also aNeedlemouse websitefloating around featuring some decidedly Sonic-looking landscapes, though the disclaimer running along the bottom suggests this is the work of a designer looking to flaunt his wares rather than an oblique marketing strategy on Sega's behalf.Sonic's first outing was in the 1991 MegaDrive release Sonic the Hedgehog, which wowed gamers with its speed and frenetic gameplay. The fact that I've played Sonic 2 in only the last couple of months suggests that there's definitely a market for more of the same.Xbox Arcade and WiiWare have revived interest in the retro gaming market in recent years, and made developers realise that there's still money to be made in playing up to gamers' nostaligia. But this announcement is partly a reflection of Sega's failure to make Sonic 'work' in 3D. Sonic fans have never had a Mario 64 or Mario Galaxy - a great 3D game worthy of such an iconic character - and Needlemouse makes it look even less likely that ever that they will.
National Geographic has a fascinating simulation of why the US World Trade Center towers collapsed after the planes hit them on September 11 2001.It's part of aprogram investigating "science and conspiracy".Basically, it's because the fuel in the (nearly-full) tanks caught fire, which weakened the columns, which bent slightly, which meant that the roof - and other floors- fell in.We know that from the real-life example, of course. But it's interesting to see it demonstrated here. Not, of course, that this will satisfy the wingnuts who think it was a conspiracy. Their loss.But sometimes this is what engineering is about: figuring out why things happen after the event. (Other videos on the National Geographic site ask whether controlled demolition could have done the same job, and whether the hijacked planes were replaced by planes carrying explosives. Enjoy.)
You're looking for a new place to live, and you've found a marvellous place - beautiful location, surprisingly good transport when you consider the lovely views, and it's got electricity, gas and water. Compared to other places you've looked at with similar qualities, it's pretty cheap.In fact, it's really desirable, and you've got very little time before you have to move out of where you are.But wait a minute - what about the internet? You ask the owner, who explains that while it does have broadband, in common with pretty much everywhere in Britain, due to a peculiarity of the phone lines you'll never get more than 1 megabit per second. It's not enough for iPlayer or online gaming.What do you do - accept it, abandon it, beat them down on price, pray for a better connection... what?
At the close of Wednesday's iPod announcement, the resurgent Steve Jobs shook hands with various people in the crowd and even found time to chat with some hand-picked journalists. Notable among them was David Pogue, the gadget reviewer for the New York Times, and one of the few writers regularly allowed to step inside Jobs's magic circle.In abrief Q&amp;A published on the NYT site, Pogue asked Jobs about whether electronic book readers were interesting to him, and got a zingy little response."I'm sure there will always be dedicated devices, and they may have a few advantages in doing just one thing," he said. "But I think the general-purpose devices will win the day. Because I think people just probably aren't willing to pay for a dedicated device."He said that Apple doesn't see e-books as a big market at this point, and pointed out that Amazon.com, for example, doesn't ever say how many Kindles it sells. "Usually, if they sell a lot of something, you want to tell everybody."No surprise, really - after all, Jobs has panned e-book readers in the past as folly, famously even suggesting it's a terrible idea because"people don't read anymore".But notice the subtle change in his approach. No longer does he say "the idea is terrible", but instead suggests that if and when peopledowant to read books on an electronic device, it will be sold to them through the back door - not on a dedicated gizmo. Hardly a stretch to imagine that he thinks the iPhone, or something like it, would be that sort of device.So, the question of book readers is deeper than it first seems. But there's another question here, too: should we believe what he says in any case?Over the years, Jobs and his lieutenants have routinely suggested that certain features or products are a no-go area. The reasoning, often, is that consumers simply do not want a particular item or the market for them is not big enough.Yet Jobs has a reputation for persuading people to splash out to products they didn't even know they wanted - it's part of what makes him one of the ultimate salesmen. So the subtext of "consumers don't want something" is actually that Jobs does not believe in the concept and doesn't want to sell it. But the language means that when Apple finally does sell the item in question, it's easy to paint the change as the result of a shift in consumer trends, even if it's just Apple's opinion that has changed, not the public's.A great example from yesterday was the nano'sbuilt-in FM radio- for so long, a feature that lots of iPod users asked for but Jobs rejected (and always with a certain sense that FM just wasn't advanced enough to be worthy of iPod status). After all that time spent keeping FM out of the iPod, Apple sticks a receiver in just when nobody really cares any more.That's hardly his first change of heart. Let's take a look at a few examples from recent years, starting back in 2004, whenJobs said that Apple wasn't working on a video iPodbecause consumers didn't want to watch long movies on tiny screens:"One of the things we say around Apple, and I paraphrase Bill Clinton from the 1992 presidential race, is 'It's about the music, stupid.' ... You can't watch a video and drive a car. We're focused on music."A year later, Apple released thevideo-capable 5th generation iPod.Here's another one: in 2005, when Apple announced its ill-fated partnership to create iTunes-compatible phones with Motorola, senior Apple executive Eddy Cue said that not only did the company not want to move into the phone market,but it also wanted to avoid the high-end market."What we've talked about is a something that is valuable for the mass market," Cue said. "It has to be a phone in the middle-tier of the market, not a $500-tier phone. It has to be very seamless to use."Two years later - and partially because of frustrations of working with Motorola - the company announced a little product called the iPhone, initially priced at $599.And then there is the almost mythical tablet Mac:something that Jobs has denied for years, but that numerous, well-sourced reports have said isall but certain in the coming months. Even if it never emerges, it's clear that the staff in Cupertino are working feverishly on a product that fits the bill.There are examples of the company sticking by its guns - music subscriptions are something Apple has been bugged about for years, and has yet to implement - but there are enough times that a denial has been followed by the product in question to make it worth being sceptical.This is not to say precisely that Steve Jobsliesabout such features - but that he has a history of making categorical statements which are eventually overturned. Whether he actually believes that Apple aren't going to make a certain product and then changes his mind, or whether he's simply bringing down the veil of secrecy to keep the competition on their toes, I have no real idea.But one thing's certain: when Steve Jobs says people don't want e-book readers, that doesn't mean Apple won't make one.
This week it's more erratic than public transport, but Chatterbox is here again!
The Swedish company that bid £4.7m to buy notorious file sharing website the Pirate Bay has been banned from trading shares on its stock exchange amid claims that it had "seriously violated" rules.The move comes amid claims that Global Gaming Factory X took a "casual" approach to financial disclosures surrounding the bid, which it launched in June.The company, which makes software and runs a chain of internet cafes, had shocked the technology and media industriesby announcing that it planned to buy the Pirate Bayand turn it into a legitimate operation.It proved particularly surprising coming just two months after four men weresentenced to prison and fined a total of £2.4mfor their links to the controversial site.The deal appears to have come crashing down, however, after questions were raised about how Global Gaming - which made around £500,000 last year - intended to pay for the acquisition.Following an investigation by Stockholm-based AktieTorget - the equity market on which GGF trades its shares - officials announced yesterday that the company would be permanently barring from doing business on the exchange."Following a recommendation from the disciplinary committee, the board of AktieTorget has today decided to exclude Global Gaming Factory X from organised share trading," said the exchangein a statement. "The decision applies with immediate effect."The statement said that Global Gaming had "seriously violated" the exchange's rules by failing to ensure that information it provided to investors was "accurate, relevant and reliable"."They give a systematic impression of a lack of accountability and of an almost casual and unsuspecting approach to disclosure requirements."Concerns about GGF's actions had spread almost as soon as the company announced its plans earlier this year, and Gunther Marder, head of the Swedish Shareholders' Assocation, said "everything seemed shady from the start"."It is impossible to say what has been true and what has been a lie," he told the Associated Press. "This entire affair has been lined with clumsy statements and doubtful claims."Last week AktieTorget had suspended GGF's shares, with senior officials suggesting that the company had failed to produce any evidence that it had the funds, or agreements with investors to provide the required cash.Global Gaming's chief executive, Hans Pandeya, had reacted to that news by brushing off concerns and suggesting that "nothing can stop it". He continued that line yesterday, suggesting that he would pay for the deal himself if the investors - who remain unidentified - decide to drop their involvement.
&bull; Steve Jobsreturned to the public eye yesterdayby hosting Apple's annual iPod announcements (here's our liveblog), but the only real product news in an otherwise lacklustre event was a boost for the iPod nano, which now boasts a video camera and other add-ons. That fact didn't stop Jobs from chiming in on his competitors, however: as well as pops at Nintendo and Sony, he also took the time toswipe at Amazonin a brief Q&amp;A with New York Times gadget guy David Pogue.&bull; While Apple was out wooing the press in California, Microsoft has been doing some deals in the UK - or with Tesco, to be more precise. According tothis announcement, Tesco customers buying some DVDs will now be offered the chance to download a version of their movie for computer consumption. Silverlight only, unsurprisingly.&bull; And before I go, just time to mention that this week's Technology Guardian is on the streets now: featuring all kinds of lovely stuff, including a look at whetherflattening iPod sales are bad news for the download business, and hear about a machine at Bletchley Park that is set tobecome the world's oldest working computer. We also hear from Bruce Schneier onhow to take control of the files we delete online. All that and more with a copy of the Guardian today.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Because I've been impressed with the evaluation version I've been running on two notebooks, I've ordered Windows 7 Ultimate to install on my desktop, a 15-month-old Dell XPS 420 with a Pentium Q6600 processor and 4GB of RAM. It's currently running Vista. Is it feasible to turn my 32-bit desktop into a 64-bit system?Graham SidwellYour quad-core PC certainly has enough power (some people have managed to run Windows 7 on old Pentium III chips). However, it's worth running the freeWindows 7 Upgrade Advisor Betato check your system. This will tell you which programs you must uninstall (in my case, Microsoft Private Folder 1.0), and which you can update. All modern 32-bit software should run correctly on the 64-bit platform, though it will not run old 16-bit software. (Nobody should have written any of that since Windows 95, but some 32-bit programs had 16-bit installation routines.)Unfortunately, the Upgrade Advisor does not advise on 64-bit drivers for people running 32-bit systems, which is what you need. While 64-bit versions of Windows XP and Vista have been the standard on Windows servers for years, desktop and notebook PCs are not as well supported, and you may have problems getting drivers for some components (such as wireless cards) and peripherals. In some cases, manufacturers are still providing Microsoft with drivers, so they're not on the DVD, but running Windows Update after installing Windows 7 solves the problem. Since Dell supported 64-bit Vista on the XPS 420, the chances are your system will work correctly.You can use Windows 7 to upgrade from Vista, and this is simple. However, there is no supported upgrade from any 32-bit version to the equivalent 64-bit version. You will therefore have to reformat the hard drive and do a clean installation. There are wizards and a Windows Easy Transfer tool to help you save and migrate your settings and data.
