Do you know any PC makers that supply quiet PCs off the shelf? I don't want to use it in a music studio, just in my bedroom. Chris WhitbreadThere are a few PC manufacturers that supply quiet PCs for home users, typically Windows Media Center PCs for use in the living room. Good examples include Germany'sHush Technologies, which also supplies quiet business machines, the D.Vine Quiet Media Center recommended byQuietPCand the hi-fi style Elonex Artisan LX.Otherwise, most new, well-made PCs seem to be pretty quiet, but if you are unlucky enough to get one of the noisier examples, manufacturers could be unwilling to take it back. You can increase your chances of getting a quiet system by choosing one powered by an Intel Pentium M processor (designed for notebooks) and an ITX or BTX motherboard, and by avoiding high-speed graphics cards. Fast chips tend to run hot, which leads to increased fan noise. Apple's Mac Mini is extremely quiet and could be a good option if it runs the software you need.
I have a Philips MP3 player that synchronises with Windows Media Player. Can I get podcasts, and if so, how? John Matthew ThompsonA podcast is just an MP3 file (usually), so you could download one manually. However, the process can be simplified by subscribing to podcasts and using a "podcatcher" such as Doppler or iPodder. Jake Ludington explains how to do ithere.Podcast Alleyoffers lots of podcasts, help files and links to programs for different computers.
At random intervals, the hard drive on my computer bursts into activity, and grinds away for 30 seconds or more, even when the computer is not running an application. I am using Windows XP. Is this normal, or should I suspect some problem? Ken JoyI'd expect an unattended PC to remain inactive or hibernate. Windows XP now does some auto-defragmenting of the hard drive to optimise the startup, but I'd guess this would take more than 30 seconds and not happen often.Go to the Control Panel and look under Scheduled Tasks to see if there are any -- eg virus scanning. If you can't find anything, run Silent Runners (http://www.silentrunners.org). This creates a text file of all the programs running on your PC. Do a few web searches to see if you can find a program that shouldn't be there -- but don't delete anything unless you are really sure it's malware.
I make extensive use of the AutoCorrect option in Word (XP Home). Can these options be exported to a new PC? Stafford M LinsleyYes. There's an explanation of how to do it athttp://word.mvps.org/FAQs/Customization/ExportAutocorrect.htm.
Is the 2GB limit on Outlook real or an urban myth? An article in Guardian Weekend magazine said Outlook will fall over if the file size exceeds 2GB. Name withheldMicrosoft Outlook used to have a 2GB limit for mail folders (.pst files), as did many other programs based on 32-bit addressing - try [2GB limit] in Google. With Outlook 2003, Microsoft switched to Unicode and changed the default limit to 20GB, though it recommends not going beyond 18GB. SeeMicrosoft Knowledge Base article ID 830336for more.
No reviews inTechnologythis week - they'll be back next week and will include Animal Crossing DS, mainly because it is all I'm playing at the moment - but our very own Keef doesn't care. He haswritten a pieceabout boss battles - remember them? Working on the assumption that you are buyingColossus- you are, aren't you? - then you'll be thanking him for his advice sooner than you think. An opportunity to discuss our favourite boss battles you say? Oh go on then. My vote goes toGanondorfin Ocarina of Time, complete with collapsing tower and all.
Chat chat away.
In one of the more bizarrenews itemsthat came out in the week I was away, theCanadian Red Crosshas taken umbrage with the red cross emblem that emblazons in-game power ups of many first person shooters and action adventures. From an interview with the Red Cross' head of international law fromGamesIndustry.biz:"We would be willing to work with a videogame manufacturer to produce a game which shows the emblem in its correct use, as a symbol of protection during armed conflict, and where the player is rewarded for using the emblem correctly. Such a game could reward the player for respecting the rules of war and thereby, help the Red Cross Movement with its work to promote such respect," Meyer continued.According to the humanitarian organisation, using its emblem in a combat situation violates a part of theGeneva Convention.
This week's print edition is, well, printed, and there's a broad range of topics to intrigue you.A sweet solution to fuel troublesIf you filled up at Tesco recently, did you know you were putting bioethanol - made from sugar, not oil - in your car? It's the new eco-friendly component to fuel.. and could be the start of a revolution in garages across Britain. Ian Sample reports.A dog's dinner of a systemPet Passports are supposed to keep animals safe but are let down by compatibility issues.'We are trying to make it better'Last week's controversial article on Lotus Notes drew heartfelt responses from administrators and users. We print an edited selection.The ringmaster of the blogosphereTechnorati.com began as a case of 'scratching a personal itch' and has grown to be a vital tool for web watchers. Glyn Moody profiles Technorati creator Dave Sifry.TechnobileKate Bevan: Beware wizards - they will cast a spell of idiocy over your network and PC.Why government wants to give you a double identityMichael Cross: You wait ages for a national identity scheme, then two come along at once.Know your enemy - it's the only way to thrash himKeith Stuart: That videogame stalwart, the end-of-level boss, is back in fashion, so here's a simple, five-point guide to dealing with any troublesome boss.Frustrated author? Publish yourselfVictor Keegan: Are books about to go the same way as music and videos, with everyone able to publish from their back rooms, cutting out all the agents in the middle?Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your full name and post town - without them, we won't publish your comment.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Newly asked questionsDo Amazon and Google plan to rival the iTunes store?It would be surprising if they didn't launch music download stores.Why is that robot helping to operate on my knee?Because it's more accurate than a human.Will the PS3 have true high-definition games?Almost certainly not at the beginning - and perhaps not for a long time.GadgetsMotorola's L6 phone: thin and beautiful, but not very useful | Kodak's V570: a compact camera that lets you see the bigger picture | Hercules DJ Control MP3: bedroom DJ mixer that is as simple as MP3
Microsoft opened a new front yesterday in its six-year war with the European commission by insisting that it had fully complied with the 2004 anti-monopoly ruling imposed by Brussels and accusing it of ignoring evidence and denying due process.The defiant response by the world's biggest software group to the commission's charge of non-compliance brings closer the threat of daily fines of up to &euro;2m (&pound;1.4m) - backdated to mid-December - and the prospect of a new legal battle.Brussels, whose stance has stiffened in the last few weeks, has accused the software group of failing to provide "complete and accurate" interface documents enabling rival work group servers to achieve full inter-operability with Windows PCs.Last night the commission said it alone would determine compliance and cast serious doubt on the claims, insisting that Microsoft had provided new documents late and these were not much different from earlier ones. It also suggested that the offer to open up the Windows source code might not be enough to ensure full compliance and needed to be explained.Microsoft lodged its formal response to the allegations of non-compliance issued on December 22 just eight hours before yesterday's deadline and called for the threat of fines to be lifted. It accused Brussels of ignoring evidence "in its haste to attack the company's compliance".It confirmed that it wanted an oral hearing on the allegations before national competition authorities and senior EU officials - a process which delays the imposition of penalties and may not be complete until just before the court of first instance, Europe's second-highest court, in April hears the company's appeal against a record &euro;497m fine for abuse of dominance.In a hardening of attitudes, Microsoft backed its assertion of compliance by filing a 49-page report from five unnamed computer science professors in Britain and Germany backing its case. "These are very, very credible scientists," it said.Their evidence flatly rebutted the view of Prof Neil Barrett, an independent British trustee approved by both sides, that Microsoft's inter-operability information was "totally unfit at this stage for its intended purpose".Prof Barrett and the EU officials handling the Microsoft case visited the Redmond headquarters of the software group in Washington state last month to examine more fully the technical documents and parts of the source code behind the Windows operating system the group offered to disclose in an effort to comply with the 2004 decision. They are known to have returned unconvinced while Microsoft's opponents in the "open source" software community dismissed the source code offer as "largely irrelevant".Georg Greve, president of the Free Software Foundation Europe, said it was "like asking to learn Russian and being handed Tolstoy's War and Peace in the original". He accused Microsoft of "always playing for time, delaying, stalling and wiggling out of its obligations".But the group said staff and contractors had spent 30,000 hours creating 12,000 pages of documents and offered licensees 500 hours of free technical support.
That videogame stalwart, the end-of-level boss, is back in fashion. Once a mainstay of arcade game design, these creatures have fallen out of favour recently, with modern designers generally favouring a non-linear structure. But smash hits Resident Evil 4, God of War and Shadow of the Colossus have brought them back into the spotlight so once again we're all facing the prospect of being pulverised by giant monsters. If this prospect fills you with dread, simply follow our five-point guide to dealing with any troublesome boss.&middot; Keep moving. Whatever you do, don't stand still. Even for a second. This is the only cue an end-of-level boss needs to swipe at you with a giant fist or blast you with deadly lasers. Keep running and jumping - it may not look heroic (imagine Russell Crowe in Gladiator throwing aside his sword at the first sign of trouble and leaping around the arena), but it'll keep you alive.&middot; If the boss stops, panic. Bosses usually move about - when they stop it means they're about to unleash their signature move, the aforementioned fist or laser blast. Try to avoid being parallel to them when they stop. Unless, of course, it's the sort of boss who blasts the whole screen apart from the thin corridor directly in front of them. In this case stay where you are.&middot; Scan for weak spots. Every boss has one, sometimes more. They're either permanently vulnerable but hard to hit, or they only become vulnerable at certain moments, usually after their signature attack. Weak spots will be brighter than any other part of the boss, and may even sparkle. Bosses, like politicians, aren't very good at hiding their secrets.&middot; The quarter rule. Keep checking the boss's energy gauge - when there's around a quarter left, more often than not, they'll introduce a new attack, which throws you off-guard. There will be a visual clue before this happens, though. Some bosses will chuckle, others morph into bigger bosses, some pretend to have exploded. Do not be fooled.&middot; Take a break. If you feel yourself becoming enraged beyond the realms of human endurance, give up and do something less stressful for a few minutes - like filling in a tax return. Often when you come back your unconscious mind will have figured out how to triumph. This could be down to prehistoric instinct, perhaps gained when early man fought real end-of-level bosses such as sabretooth tigers.If all these tactics fail, it's not your fault, it's the designer's. Simply take the game back to the shop and demand a refund. Consider it a moral victory. These always make us feel good, even when they're achieved over fictional beasts with gigantic fists.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Are books about to go the same way as music and videos, with everyone able to publish from their back rooms, cutting out all the agents in the middle? Demand is certainly there from the legions of frustrated writers unable to interest an agent, let alone a publisher, in their musings. The technology to self-publish, using print-on-demand facilities, has been around for years but is now getting cheaper and easier with the publisher doing everything from the ISBN number to placing your tome on Amazon. Judging by the number of self-publishing websites, it may not be long before we reach the tipping point of mass adoption.To test how easy it has become, I decide to try it out for myself with some material at hand in the form of the entries to the Guardian's text message competitions in 2001 and 2002, nearly all of which were anonymous and have not been published. First, I tried a small UK outfit operating from a loft in south London which has appeared in these pages before, Publish and Be Damned - or PABD (named after the words of the Duke of Wellington when his mistress was about to spill the beans).I was impressed by the friendliness of its website and that it was confident enough to list the prices of competitors. It charges &pound;160 for the first half-dozen copies, although specialised services, such as editing, cost more. All went reasonably well until we got to the stage of "manuscript submitted". I didn't receive the expected email with news of a proof copy, queries went unanswered and the only telephone number turned out to be in Canada, where the recipient was not pleased to be awoken early in the morning.After a couple of months' wait, I reluctantly switched toLulu.com, a trendy US company that also publishes your CDs and DVDs. It was pretty impressive. An audio guide takes you through a series of simple steps and its claim not to have any set-up fees or minimum orders turned out to be true.Lulu's claim to publish in five easy steps (data, uploading manuscript, binding, uploading cover and finally fixing a price) was accurate, subject to two vital provisos. Your manuscript must be "oven ready" in a format such as Word or OpenOffice or a PDF with the pagination in order. Mine turned out to be aligned too far to the left and the typeface looked bad when we got the proof (both my fault).Second, you must get the size of the pages of the script and the cover to coincide exactly with the templates on offer, which was easier said than done. For a cover you can either take one of their standard ones or upload your own. I persuaded someone to do the cover for nothing, which turned out to be the most professional part of the book.The total cost of getting the proof copy to me about 10 days later was only $6.33. That means I had published one copy of a small book (under 100 pages) with a full-colour cover for only &pound;3.60. Not bad at all. The final stage is to add on the royalty you want on each copy. Lulu gets 25% of that. The catch was something I hadn't realised at the start. They are shipped from the US and postage more than doubled the cost. So I decided not to move to publication.At this moment I got an unexpected email from PABD saying my proof was ready. It was more presentable than the Lulu one. It accepted some proofing changes over the weekend and I will now proceed to the final stages. If all goes well, the text poem book could soon be on PABD's site (at cost price).One other site with a different business model is Grosvenor House, which charges &pound;495 for a bespoke service including add-ons (such as text editing, jacket design with 2,000 colours, distribution, five free copies and marketing) that cost extra with other companies. It looks as though the publishing industry could be in line for a much needed shock. Vanity publishing is dead. Long live print on demand.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Thin and beautiful, but not very usefulThe best-selling phones now are ultra-slim handsets with low-end functionality. Sure to be a hit is the Motorola L6, a version of the company's popular RAZR. Just like its predecessor, the L6 is incredibly thin, measuring just 11mm wide. It also bears the RAZR's trademark flat, and not very responsive, keys which for this user make texting a chore. Apart from its design and voice reception, which really is special, there aren't many reasons to fall in love with the L6. Battery life is poor, especially if you use it for anything other than voice calls. The camera is a low-end VGA snapper that takes poor quality images and there's no chance of the L6 playing music files. If you want to do that, there is a better-specified version called the SLVR.Compact camera that lets you see the bigger pictureThanks to a novel two-lens system, Kodak's V570, a digital compact camera (&#163;270) lets you cram more into your snaps. One lens provides the wide-angle shots with a fixed 23mm range, while the second lens is a 39-117mm zoom. The camera flits automatically between the two lenses as you zoom in and out, and if you want to go ultra-widescreen, you can use the panoramic setting, which will stitch all your photos together as you take them. This is a novel solution to the wide-angle problem and a very nice looking camera. If you take a lot of landscape shots, this compact should help you take it all in. One word of warning, however: the quoted 5x zoom is slightly misleading. The optical zoom lens does 3x zoom, but the gap from 23-39mm is filled by a digital zoom, which loses picture quality.Bedroom DJ mixer that is as simple as MP3Wannabe Fatboy Slims will love the &#163;80 DJ Control MP3 from Hercules. Basically a mixer very similar to those that have been used in bedrooms for decades, it comes with jog wheels, crossfaders and effects buttons. The difference is this one connects to a PC via USB and allows you to DJ using MP3s. It is a cinch to set up and once you have dragged the MP3s you want on to the virtual decks on the PC screen and plugged in your headphones, you're away. Oddly, most of the gadget's controls are replicated on the interface on the PC screen, which can be confusing. Also, you can't use the software without having the mixer plugged in. However, I imagine many of tomorrow's DJs will get their first shot at mixing on a device like this.
Because it's more accurate than a human. A new study by Imperial College London found that using Acrobot, a robotic assistant, in knee operations led to better results than the alternative.The study looked at 27 people having "unicompartmental" knee replacements, where part of the knee joint is replaced or resurfaced due to bone degeneration. One group of 14 had conventional surgery, while the surgeon had robot assistance in the other 13.Acrobot does fairly simple tasks, helping the surgeon to line up the replacement knee parts with the existing bones for partial knee replacements. It was slower, but more precise: all of the Acrobot-assisted operations lined the bones up to within two degrees of the planned position, while only six (40%) of the conventional operations were as accurate. There were no side effects, and usually quicker recovery.Acrobot isn't the first robot to help surgeons. In 2000 the US Food and Drug Administration licensed da Vinci, a robot for cutting and stitching in some abdominal operations (like gallbladder removal) and in 2001 cleared Zeus, a robot which helps control various retractors - used to improve access to the operating focus - in abdominal surgery.Acrobot was developed more than 10 years ago at Imperial College, and is now the main focus of a spinout company of the same name, which funded the study. Professor Justin Cobb, a consultant orthapaedic surgeon who cofounded Acrobot, says that such robots "can be an enormous help, preventing surgeons from making mistakes".He also says it could make a difference to health economics: "By improving the accuracy of surgery, and ultimately improving the outcome for patients, we can make sure the knee replacements work better and last longer, preventing the need for additional surgery."Robots are certainly making strides in the operating room: teams around the world are working on systems that will be able to perform procedures where precision is essential, such as spinal operations, minimally invasive ("keyhole") surgery, microsurgery on unborn babies and some forms of heart surgery.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Almost certainly not at the beginning - and perhaps not for a long time. The videogame site Kikizo has managed to seduce (not literally, we hope) an indiscreet developer into showing off the newly arrived PS3 kit. The full article is athttp://tinyurl.com/cudu2but the upshot is lots of hype debunking, and the revelation that although Sony talked up the idea of "true HD" games with 1080p (1920x1080) output, most games won't attempt that and will instead fall back on 720p (which is still high-definition). Plus the fact that the now infamous Killzone demo at last year's E3 was not real-time PS3 code, but a mocked-up pre-rendered approximation.Furthermore, the PS3 won't be the massive leap over Xbox 360 you might have been led to believe; indeed, the two machines are comparable. The PS3 just has a trickier architecture, though it might show off a bit more once developers have learned how to exploit eight processors and more potential bottlenecks than the London road network.But it's that meeting between the high-definition promise and reality that's most noticeable. As Kikizo's insider says: "Sony wanted 1080p, but we're working at 720p and 1080i, same as on the Xbox 360. Even with [final hardware] in mind, reaching good frame rates at 1080p with next-gen graphics is almost impossible. Instead many developers, ourselves included, are reworking so they run at 720p. PS3's output takes care of upscaling it - so no native 1080p, but it still looks killer."Other non-Sony affiliated developers around the industry have been saying the same - although their downbeat assessment should not be taken to mean there will never be a 1080p PS3 game. There will. It'll just be very rare, and most likely the preserve of Sony's closest development chums.And how about a PS3 launch date? More bad news: "We think that in Japan [the PS3] will most likely release during summer, Q4 in the US, and Europe in winter or spring 2007." Still, it will give you time to save up for a high-definition flat panel TV.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Chipping in to the chip and pin debateAs an American Express charge-card user I am already having trouble at checkouts because AmEx (and I believe most, if not all, American credit cards) has not joined the European rush to chip and pin (The magic numbers, February 9). Presumably US customers are more suspicious of having personal data entered on a card chip. So far I have not found a single person on a retail counter or checkout who is aware of the fact that AmEx cards do not have a chip.Patrick BoylanLeicester&middot; What concerned me is the attitude taken by the Forum for Private Business representative. Chip and pin has been an unnecessary and unsafe development propagated by the banks and organisations such as the Forum for Private Business in an effort to make more money. Removing the personal element from financial transactions removes the most aware and dynamic safeguard that currently exists.Among other things, a machine cannot tell you that the card being used by a man has the name of a woman on it, nor will there be a culture of checking and double-checking that good retail businesses encouraged in the past.February 14 marked a sad day.Michael Wynters&middot; There is a general failure to mention card issuers who have yet to convert their cards to chip and pin and are still using chip and signature technology. Signature is still a valid method of authorising your card if it has yet to be converted to chip and pin but this is not being pointed out to consumers. The knock-on effect is likely a reduced spend on these type of cards.While in full support of the move to chip and pin for fraud purposes, I don't feel that Apacs has managed the message fairly for those issuers who have yet to, or are in the process of, switching their technology over.Claire TweedNottingham&middot; In America, at the supermarket queue the first thing you do is put your card into the pin machine. While the cashier is swiping your goods, you can enter your pin and select whether you would like cashback. All that has to be done at the end of the process is for the final amount to be checked and approved with one button.So much faster than in the UK. Of course, it depends a little on having someone to bag your goods for you as you go.Louise MarstonThe joy of bloggingHow is the blogosphere doing? (February 9) doesn't refer to the main reason that blogs are created. In the 1960s, thousands of new music groups were formed because the technology allowed tapes to be easily made. When desktop publishing came along, newsletters on everything arrived. When news groups on the web became available, every possible subject was covered in no time.Blogs are therapeutic, and I would advise anyone with any grudge or enthusiasm on anything to start a blog.Stan HaywardLondonThe brand plays on&ge;This is no surprise, really. Rudimentary brand logic would have declared this product a non-starter (Why did Dell discontinue its hard-drive MP3 player? Feb 9). Dell thought it was in the business of selling MP3 players. That was wrong.Those who sell MP3 players are in the business of creating music-lovers. Big difference.It's all in the brand. In what the brand delivers, and what it creates with customers. Music isn't hardware or software or price point. It's an experience.http://tenayagroup.comThe random factor&ge;This is worrying, my friends. I mean I already know that it's happening to me. Ever just sit there for hours clicking "random article" on Wikipedia (Technobile, February 9)? Oh, so just me then, is it? I'll just go sit in the corner with my iBook then and read about the Pulkovo Observatory.http://mekaulay.wordpress.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It would be surprising if they didn't launch music download stores. Both are powerful brands, though they come at the process from different ends: Amazon sells music (as CDs), while Google sells digital content (videos, from its Google Video Store). This week the rumours swirled, following reports in both Newsweek and the Financial Times that Amazon, in particular, sees digital music sales as a way to up its income, and that the music industry would welcome further competition.Jeff Bezos, founder and chief executive of Amazon, told analysts last week that the company "is especially well positioned to capture a bigger part of that [digital download] business." He certainly wanted some uplifting messages for them because Amazon's financial results - record quarterly sales, but reduced profits partly due to increased shipping costs - weren't stellar.The rumoured plans may include a system by which people who buy a CD also get digital copies of the music they've bought, to transfer directly to a digital music player. But there might be a few flies in that ointment: if you return the CD, will Amazon be able to deactivate the music you've downloaded? Will artists get paid royalties for both a CD and digital sale? And if you don't want the digital songs, do you get a discount on the CD?US music industry insiders suggest Amazon will launch something soon - though whether that will reach the UK this year is another matter. Amazon UK did not return calls for comment.And Google? Late last year the rumour was of a tie-up with iTunes Music Store. More recently the gossip was that it would buy Napster, the legal download service. Neither has come to anything. So what does Google say? "We have no plans to acquire Napster, nor do we have plans to develop a music store at this time. Google recently introduced a music search feature that offers users faster access to music-related information. For certain music-related queries, we display links to third-party sites where interested users can purchase music directly." Still, in February 2003 it did register Googlemusic.com. It would seem a shame not to use it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
&middot; There are 120,000,000 Notes and Domino licenses in 60,000 organisations worldwide. More than 80% are using Notes 6.x or later. Notes 6, 6.5, 7 is competitive with any email experience on the market. We even have some pretty impressive stuff like integrated Sametime instant messaging ... That means you open any email and can see if the sender or recipients are online. Here is where Notes being a rapid application development (RAD) platform is actually a great thing - we built this as a platform capability, and it thus is available in any Notes application, not just the ones we ship in the box. To turn on presence awareness in any customer-authored Notes application means the developer need only click a single checkbox. Not only can't Outlook do this - Microsoft can't do this.Ed Brillworldwide Lotus Messaging sales&middot; Users can sign up to do usability testing of the next version of Lotus Notes athttp://tinyurl.com/7gkgs. We are trying to make it better.Mary Elizabeth Ravendesign team lead for the next version of Lotus Notes&ge;I considered writing an essay comparing Lotus Notes to the works of Thomas Pynchon - difficult to handle for the average person but beautiful to those who have persisted.Pete Lyonslead developer for the IBM/Lotus Workplace's mail router and protocol serverswww.developingstorm.com/pete/blog&middot; Some hard facts for you: in 16 years, the Notes Client has never had to be patched due to a security issue. [In fact "highly critical" flaws were patched last week.] Notes Clients have not been affected by internet worms/email viruses. Most Fortune 500 companies use Notes.Andy DennisLan2Lan Ltd, Woking, Surrey&middot; Notes is a RAD tool. You can make simple to reasonably complex applications that are easy to distribute over international networks, that can store and retrieve all sorts of textual information. It's quick, easy and makes distribution and collaboration utterly trivial. Notes Mail is an application written using Notes RAD features. It is not a specifically written email program. It is an attempt to make a Notes application as fully featured as a custom mail application written from the ground up to fulfill the single specific task of email handling.Therefore it is not as good. It is a "kludge"; it will always be a "kludge". Outlook is a better email front end. But Outlook has a piss-poor email back end, doesn't allow application development of any kind, and doesn't offer any kind of distributed database management at all.Simon MottramLondon&middot; It is absolutely true that the Notes Client is not the most user-friendly in the world, but it is designed to not only support email, but databases, and custom applications ... Investment in training can bring big benefits. Even in the Notes mail file, if you show a user how easy it is to search for an email once the mail file is indexed, they begin to like the extra functionality Notes offers.Neil GowerManchesterAnd the users respond...&ge;I won't say that Lotus Notes was the reason I quit my last job, but it was definitely a factor in my decision.Jeff AtwoodBerkeley, California&ge;I was warned that Notes was inaccessible. Actually, most, but not all, features of the newer versions are quite usable, although there are aspects of it that give me real fits. But what's interesting is that just about everyone I talk to who uses Notes, hates it with a passion.Jonathan MosenLubbock, Texasjmosen.livejournal.com&middot; Lotus Notes client v6.5 is probably the better of two evils as there is at least a (half) decent way of organising your emails. For those of us that are forced to use the iNotes web version, things are a big pile of **** (sic). When you delete an entry from your inbox and click on the item immediately beneath it to read that, the mail you deleted causes the list to scroll up before the "selection" coding is actioned, so you end up reading the item two below the one you deleted. Loved the article. Hate the product!!Roger AudleyNottingham&middot; I am one of the people who like Lotus Notes ... As an email client it has its faults, but don't they all? Where Notes wins out is of course on collaborative processing, and I have not seen anything to match its abilities for discussion groups, shared data resources, noticeboards and the like; also I found its security features powerful and not hard to administer. The real problem is that it only really works in closed communities, usually single companies.Roger KidleyJakarta, Indonesia&middot; One Notes implementation I worked on would turn chunks of text bold and purple at random. The only way to undo it was to delete and retype the offending text. I asked the sysadmin why - he just shrugged and said, "it's a feature".Ben KingLondon&middot; I can understand that it's useful to have a stable back-end system in place for IT, but as a user I don't see any sign of this (in fact I experience more system slowdowns and crashes than when I used Outlook) and productivity within an organisation is surely affected more by the 1,000-odd end users, rather than the few IT staff.Dr Andy FlowerCambridge&ge;The Notes user interface is not intuitive and is hard to learn. The Notes client uses concepts and metaphors simply not comparable in any other Windows application, and presents a multitude of options which overwhelms new users. The Notes client is a unique and overly complex dinosaur.The Agileware bloghttp://blog.agileware.net&ge;I have had numerous discussions with IBM in which I raised the issue of the users disliking the client - their response was nearly always to minimise the issue. I have left many a discussion with IBM with no answer to the question: "What are you doing for the end user?"Graham ChastneyRibbleton, Lancashirehttp://oak-grove.typepad.com&ge;Basically, web administrators/IT people love Lotus Notes because of its great back-end support, robust administration and collaborative potential. So they choose it for the organisation. Sadly, the vast majority of end users hate it, because they use it almost solely for email and calendaring (if that's a verb)... Our organisation has 10 workstations, and uses none of Notes' collaborative applications because it has no need to.Nick Templecoordinator of the Global Ideas Bank, Londonhttp://globalideas.blogs.com&ge;That [mail updating] problem was fixed years ago in Notes 6! The rest of the Guardian piece is mere speculation ... There is no actual research to back up the claims and many of the facts are plain wrong. Round over. The Guardian didn't lay a glove on Notes.Dave DelayIBM developerhttp://runtimelog.blogspot.com
Quiet PC?Do you know any PC makers that supply quiet PCs off the shelf? I don't want to use it in a music studio, just in my bedroom.Chris WhitbreadJack Schofield replies:There are a few PC manufacturers that supply quiet PCs for home users, typically Windows Media Center PCs for use in the living room. Good examples include Germany's Hush Technologies (www.hushtechnologies.net), which also supplies quiet business machines, the D.Vine Quiet Media Center recommended by QuietPC (www.quietpc.com/uk) and the hi-fistyle Elonex Artisan LX. Otherwise, most new, well-made PCs seem to be pretty quiet, but if you are unlucky enough to get one of the noisier examples, manufacturers could be unwilling to take it back. You can increase your chances of getting a quiet system by choosing one powered by an Intel Pentium M processor (designed for notebooks) and an ITX or BTX motherboard, and by avoiding high-speed graphics cards. Fast chips tend to run hot, which leads to increased fan noise. Apple's Mac Mini is extremely quiet and could be a good option if it runs the software you need.PC podcastingI have a Philips MP3 player that synchronises with Windows Media Player. Can I get podcasts, and if so, how?John Matthew ThompsonJS:A podcast is just an MP3 file (usually), so you could download one manually. However, the process can be simplified by subscribing to podcasts and using a "podcatcher" such as Doppler or iPodder. Jake Ludington explains how to do it athttp://tinyurl.com/bnwjg.Podcast Alley (www.podcastalley.com) offers lots of podcasts, help files and links to programs for different computers.Mystery actionsAt random intervals, the hard drive on my computer bursts into activity, and grinds away for 30 seconds or more, even when the computer is not running an application. I am using Windows XP. Is this normal, or should I suspect some problem?Ken JoyJS:I'd expect an unattended PC to remain inactive or hibernate. Windows XP now does some auto-defragmenting of the hard drive to optimise the startup, but I'd guess this would take more than 30 seconds and not happen often. Go to the Control Panel and look under Scheduled Tasks to see if there are any - eg virus scanning. If you can't find anything, run Silent Runners (www.silentrunners.org). This creates a text file of all the programs running on your PC. Do a few web searches to see if you can find a program that shouldn't be there - but don't delete anything unless you are really sure it's malware.AutoCorrectingI make extensive use of the AutoCorrect option in Word (XP Home). Can these options be exported to a new PC?Stafford M. LinsleyJS:Yes. There's an explanation of how to do it athttp://tinyurl.com/2wge2.Outer limitsIs the 2GB limit on Outlook real or an urban myth? An article in Guardian Weekend magazine said Outlook will fall over if the file size exceeds 2GB.Name withheldJS:Microsoft Outlook used to have a 2GB limit for mail folders (.pst files), as did many other programs based on 32-bit addressing - try [2GB limit] in Google. With Outlook 2003, Microsoft switched to Unicode and changed the default limit to 20GB, though it recommends not going beyond 18GB. See Microsoft Knowledge Base article ID 830336 for more.Backchat&middot; Sky by Broadband uses the Kontiki file sharing system, and Patrick S Briggs wanted to remove it. I mentioned a Kontiki file called KClean.exe, which then disappeared from the sites I offered. Vince Taisipic, a product manager at Kontiki, says: "KClean is a low-level customer support utility not really intended for general availability through the web or for unassisted use. It's best for users to obtain KClean from the organisation offering the product that's in use, and to apply KClean under the guidance from their customer support." He adds that "Kontiki 5.0 release will include a much improved uninstaller." More on the blog athttp://blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack.&middot; As Michael Robinson and other readers pointed out, last week's reference to a 3.5in jack plug should have been 3.5mm.&middot; On February 2, Nicolas Blaza complained about being redirected by Google. Jamil Shehadeh replies: "If Nicolas is based in the UK, he can only benefit from having google.co.uk as his home page. To the best of my knowledge, the default results for .com and .co.uk are the same, with the added benefit of being able to limit searches to the UK."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Windows Vista usesBitLocker Drive Encryptionlinked to a TPM (Trusted Platform Module) chip on the PC's motherboard, which will not only help control piracy, it will stop the government and the police from reading your hard drive. According to aBBC News report, Cambridge University security expertRoss Anderson"urged" a house of Commons home affairs select committee "to look at establishing 'back door' ways of getting around encryptions" and "The Home Office later told the BBC News website it is in talks with Microsoft."Comment:It's not clear how this came up, but the committee was considering a request from the police to be able to hold terrorism suspects without charge for 90 days, because they are apparently incapable of examining a hard drive any quicker. As Anderson commented on hisblog:The police are short of forensic capability, sure; and that's going to get worse until they get their act together. But they're also short of interpreters. I don't think they'd dream of asking for increased detention powers just because not enough coppers speak Somali. Parliament would just tell them to hire interpreters from commercial agencies. Why do people get away with such poor policy arguments when computers are involved?It's pretty shocking to find a security consultant recommending backdoors, but Anderson defends his stance in a comment, writing:I'm in favour of court-mandated shortcuts past rights-management systems, on competition-policy grounds. In our APIG submission I wrote 'In cases of abuse, judges must be able to order rights-management mechanisms unlocked'.I don't see the Vista security mechanisms as being security for me, but as security for them. It's just not the same as the key escrow debates of the 1990s - in which I opposed key escrow on principle. The technology's being used for different things here.If you want privacy, use PGP - or better still, some low-observable communication technology, such as throwaway prepaid mobile phones or webmail accountsEither way, I hope Microsoft tells the British government to take a running jump. First, because widespread hard drive encryption -- and therefore increased privacy from government and other intrusions -- is one of the quid pro quos for the increased control over movies that will benefit Hollywood studios and other mercenary copyright barons. Second, because the British government will not be the only one that feels it should be entitled to intrude. There's a long line of repressive regimes who take exactly the same view, starting with China.Of course, if Microsoft does give in, it's going to be funny watching it trying to promote Vista. "Hey, our new system is really secure ... except for the backdoor we've provided so your government can get into it!"
While it's not quite up there with the announcement of a new Dr Who or James Bond, unveiling a fresh Lara Croft model is, these days, at least comparable to Burton revealing the latest downmarket lad icon to appear in its shop window photography (current victim - England cricket player Kevin Pieterson).And the winner is... 20-year-old model Karima Adebibe from Bethnal Green who will spend a glamorous two years as the face of Lara. As the press release witters:"Starting immediately she will embark on a gruelling training programme which includes an SAS survival, combat and semi automatic weapon firing course in Eastern Europe and a crash course in world archaeology, deportment, elocution and etiquette lessons"All of which will no doubt prove invaluable for a life spent attending videogame events and holding plastic guns in a provocative manner. More useful to the modelling aspects of her new job will be Adebibe's previous experience as a Top Shop sales assistant - she will certainly have mastered the art of standing dead still while looking moody and vaguely threatening."This is an incredible opportunity for me and one which I plan to grasp with both hands" said Karima, showing an admirable understanding of the role that double entendre will now play in her career. Later in the same press release, Matt Gorman, Brand Controller for Tomb Raider, comments, "Karima has all the assets needed to accurately portray the world's favourite female action hero". Are they doing it on purpose?Karima follows in the footsteps of Lucy Clarkson, Rhona Mitra, Nell McAndrew, Vanessa Demouy, Lara Weller and of course Angelina Jolie as the living embodiment of Ms Croft - all of whom now enjoy successful and high profile careers in the entertainment industry. Apart from the first five.
Michael Bloomberg is the Mayor of New York City. He's no friend to games, also no friend to folks who take a desk-break from their jobs. According to theAssociated Press,The Republican mayor stopped by the city's legislative office in Albany a few weeks ago when he was visiting the state Capitol to hear the governor's State of the State address.Office assistant Edward Greenwood IX was going over some papers at his desk as Bloomberg made the rounds with his photographer, greeting workers and posing for pictures. When the mayor reached him, Greenwood stood, they shook hands and the photographer snapped a photo.But the eagle-eyed mayor - a billionaire former businessman with a certain idea of how offices should be run - noticed Greenwood's game of solitaire glowing on his screen. He said nothing about it to Greenwood but later told an aide to give him the ax.Sacking of the six-year veteran of the company is quite a heavy way to make an example. Bloomberg explains,"There's nothing wrong with taking a break, but during the business day, at your desk, that's not appropriate behavior."It's rather unfortunate, then, that Microsoft chose to include games in their operating system as a default option.Let this be a lesson for all those Patience-addicted people out there: taking your pastime to the office may result in the loss of your job. Sure it may be harsh, but think of the upside: you'll have loads of free time for playing Solitaire.
"The BBC, Britain's Meteorological Office, Oxford University, and the University of California at Berkeley on Tuesday launched a program, and software, to mobilize idle time of home computers to better predict climate change," reportsTechWeb News.It's using Windows 2000/XP screensaver software "produced by the BOINC (Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing) Project, the same group which created the SETI@home software." There's also code for Linux but not Mac OS X.For more info and to download the software, go tohttp://bbc.cpdn.org/The BBC's FAQ says "You are advised not to run the experiment on a laptop." Because it's processor-intensive, there are potential overheating problems.Update: TheBOINCsite says: "The experiment is described on a BBC television documentary Meltdown (BBC-4, February 20th, for UK BOINCers). Simplified client software is available atbbc.co.uk/climatechange. Experienced BOINCers can attach to http://bbc.cpdn.org (check out the new graphics!). "
My favourite cycling jacket has a beautiful design feature. One of the back pockets has a buttonhole on the inside, and then there are two little loops on the hem around the armhole. The idea is that you could have an MP3 player stowed in your rear pocket with the headphone wires routed up inside your jacket. It's a nicely executed, clever detail. But one I'll never use.On Monday, a coroner's court in London heard the beginning of an inquest into the death of Patricia McMillan. The 32-year-old law student was cycling to work when she was hit by a lorry, dragged under its wheels and killed. She was wearing an iPod at the time, and a close friend speculated whether her failure to hear the lorry had contributed to the fatal incident.Although this explanation remains, at this point, speculative (pending the coroner's full findings), it hasn't prevented newspapers reporting the iPod factor as a cautionary tale. There are two annoying subtexts here - one implicitly blaming the victim of the tragedy, and the other reinforcing the idea that the Grim Reaper waits on every corner to scythe down cyclists - but I'm trying to get past that. The heart of the matter, surely, is this: just how dangerous is it to listen to music while you ride?The idea is very appealing. But I don't do it because, instinctively, I feel I need all my senses to be safe. You're always listening for the car behind, even if you're barely conscious of doing so. And often it's precisely because you're listening out that you look behind, and then reassure yourself that the driver has seen you.There's no way of knowing whether being able to hear the lorry would have saved McMillan. But what cyclists do know, because it happens every day, is that pedestrians step out in front of us because they haven't heard us coming. This problem is only made worse by people who are on the phone or have earphones in.But perhaps there's a philosophical as well as a practical reason for cyclists to avoid turning ourselves into dangerously distracted solipsists on wheels. The iPod phenomenon belongs to a new existential mode in which we do all we can to insulate ourselves from our environment in a capsule of creature comforts. Every individual becomes his or her own gated community: status-conscious, exclusive and forbidding uninvited intrusion. The car, with its sound system, climate control and cupholders, is the apotheosis of this antisocial protective shield. I like to think that the bicycle offers, among other things, a different way of being in the world, one that is potentially more human and social. And like music itself, the best way to enjoy cycling is live and unplugged.Bike doctor: All your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,How easy is it to travel with a bicycle on an airline? Are there any special requirements and what will it cost?Steve D'Almeida, via emailIt's surprisingly easy - in many ways, easier than travelling by rail.But first, when buying your ticket, check the airline's requirements and whether a reservation for a bike is necessary. Some airlines charge a modest fee (eg, EasyJet levies &pound;15 per flight), but for long-haul journeys most will carry your bike as part of your baggage allowance at no extra cost.Good packing is crucial: a bike bag is now often mandatory. If your bike is valuable, then as much padding as possible (ie pipe lagging and bubble-wrap) is also a good idea - baggage handlers cannot be relied upon to have tender feelings for bicycles. You should also remove the pedals, turn the handlebars so that they are flat with the frame and let the air out of the tyres or they may explode (cargo holds are not pressurised).A disposable solution for cycle tourers is to get a cardbox box from a bike shop. But you will have to find another for the return journey.
The beta version of the Windows Live service for Office (and office) users goes live today (2pm GMT). As the unofficial*LiveSide blog revealed yesterday, there are three service levels:Office Live Basics: Create your own professional Web site in minutes! Microsoft Office Live Basics is the perfect way to get started on the Web. It features all the basics you need to create your first Web site, including free hosting, Web site statistics, personalized domain name, and e-mail addresses.Office Live Collaboration: Microsoft Office Live Collaboration lets you store, share, and manage your everyday business information in one central online location.Office Live Essentials: Get the essentials for establishing and managing your business online. Create your own Web site, access e-mail, share documents, and track projects -- in or out of the office from almost any Internet-connected computer.All products will be free during the beta as testers will be supplied with products keys they enter online. After the beta period, Basics will remain free and packages for Collaboration and Essentials start at $29.95 USD per month.With the Basic version, Microsoft will host your (free) domain name and Web site, and you get five email addresses with 2GB of storage each. You get 30MB of Web space and 10GB of bandwidth per month.Users can register athttp://www.officelive.com/and Microsoft is looking for about 100,000 beta testers. The target market is small businesses that use Microsoft Office, of which there could be more than 100 million.* correctedUpdate:There's now apress release....
According toWired News, researchers have found that people think they have correctly interpreted the tone of an email 90% of the time, but in tests, their interpretations are no better than chance. "That's how flame wars get started," says psychologist Nicholas Epley of the University of Chicago, who conducted the research with Justin Kruger of New York University. The story says:The researchers took 30 pairs of undergraduate students and gave each one a list of 20 statements about topics like campus food or the weather. Assuming either a serious or sarcastic tone, one member of each pair e-mailed the statements to his or her partner. The partners then guessed the intended tone and indicated how confident they were in their answers.Those who sent the messages predicted that nearly 80% of the time their partners would correctly interpret the tone. In fact the recipients got it right just over 50% of the time.The problem is that people interpret (or misinterpret) messages according to their own "moods, stereotypes and expectations" :The reason for this is egocentrism, or the difficulty some people have detaching themselves from their own perspective, says Epley. In other words, people aren't that good at imagining how a message might be understood from another person's perspective.Comment: Same thing applies to blog posts....
'A word about the baboons," says the man from Jaguar, as the South African sun beats down like a hammer. "You may see some at junctions. They are aggressive and give a nasty bite. Please - steer clear."Sometimes it was hard to work out if Jaguar's decision to launch the new XK in the exotic winelands around Cape Town - home to some of the best driving roads on the planet, as well as the odd pushy baboon - was a sign of supreme confidence, or a lack of it. On the one hand, with their superb sightlines, mammoth straights and whizzy bends, these routes certainly gave the XK plenty of opportunity to let rip (or, as Jaguar charmingly puts it, plenty of opportunity to be driven "enthusiastically"). On the other, with all those glorious seascapes, giddy mountain passes and fields of gambolling zebras, you could launch a bin lorry round here and still be fairly sure of positive feedback.The moment you strap yourself into the XK, however, and hit the fiery red start button, such reservations disappear. This car, you swiftly realise, would be a thrill to drive whether you were in Cape Town or Kirkcaldy. Its superslick six-speed automatic gearbox - highly "enthusiastic", especially in Sport mode - is equipped with manual override, activated by paddles on the steering wheel. But if the XK decides your driving isn't sporty enough for Sport mode, it will simply mutter, "Oh, give it here", override your override and take back the reins. It's a bit like being driven around by a young, hot-blooded and particularly impatient parent.Seat adjustment, too, is governed by no fewer than five buttons, including one that will get the soft leather upper to close in and deliver what can only be described as a big hug. You need never be sad or lonely again. Along with this micro-pampering comes a dash display featuring icons that swell up as your finger merely comes near, letting you concentrate on the road. This, clearly, is a car that takes responsive to a whole new level. You don't so much get into the XK as put it on.Appearance-wise, it's as if someone took the old XK8, told it to clench its muscles, then pulled an aluminium skin taut over the result. They've dropped the front, raised the back, and yanked it in so sharply round the boot that the wheel arches stand out like a thoroughbred's haunches (boot capacity is still a good 320 litres in metric though, or two golfbags in imperial). Similarly, at the other end, the flanks swoop in like a prizefighter's fists around a stubby nose and that familiar power-bulge bonnet, thrusting the wheels to the corners. The sleek old gentlemanly Jaguar elegance is still there, but it now comes with a whole lot of not-very-Jaguar-like attitude. A 4.2-litre V8 engine boots it from 0-60mph in 5.9 seconds. The only thing capable of beating that round these parts has whiskers and spots - and a cheetah needs four hours to get its breath back. Top speed is 155mph, although this has been electronically limited, since taking it up to, say, 160mph would obviously be irresponsible.But who cares about all that high-end oomph when you'll never use it? (Not legally anyway.) No, the XK's real clincher is the fact that the engine hasn't been so much tuned as orchestrated, with all sorts of pipes and tubes set up, thrillingly, to pump the resulting purrs, growls and roars - plus a sprinkling of intake and exhaust noise - directly into the cabin. So even a three-point turn can feel like a big day at Brands Hatch.When I drove the coupe (there is also a convertible) past the boulders and mangrove swamps lining the approach to the winding Franschhoek mountain pass, it sounded crisp and eager at light throttle. Then, as the road climbed, I knocked it into Sport. The gearbox instantly dropped a ratio and the cabin filled with the sort of noises not heard on Earth since the Jurassic period. The experience was extraordinary, especially with all the XK's computer systems giving the suspension, brakes and wheels a constant talking to, ensuring seamless road-holding. It's a car even I couldn't drive badly.Pedestrians may or may not be grateful to hear that the XK also comes with an intriguing safety feature known as "pyrotechnic bonnet deployment". Should an impact occur, the bonnet will spring up to soften the blow. Thanks to a sensor, this can only be triggered by human contact, which is good news for pedestrians but bad news for dogs.The news that the next Bond villain will be driving an XK, doubtless in bad-boy black, is perhaps the best indicator of an attitude change for Jaguar, which desperately needs a hit to arrest a sales slump. But why stop at Bond? If Darth Vader ever returns, he'll be driving a Jaguar XK. And this time nothing will be able to stop him, not even a Cape Town baboon.ModelJaguar XK coupePrice&pound;58,995Top speed155mph (limited)Acceleration0-60mph in 5.9 secsConsumption25mpg (combined)CO2 emissions269g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelA cheetahOn the stereoNothingEn route forKirkcaldyThey'd rather walkYoda
Happy Wednesday. Tell us all about it.
As Keith blogged below Opera arelaunchinga web browser for the DS. Quite how this fits in with Nintendo's ultra protective stance on online remains to be seen. How useful a browser will be anyway is a moot point - browsing on the dual-screen will certainly be different - although using the stylus and on-screen keypad should make text input relatively painless. I'm in two minds really. Yes, I guess it's a nice feature to have, especially if I am at an airport or coffee shop without a laptop. But the DS is all about the games and is better leaving the add-ons to competitors (the PSP's GPS system and camera will be out later this year)
Nintendo has announced plans to release a DS web browser and TV tuner. Fans have discussed the possibilities of both for several months, but official word was given at the DS Conference 2006 event held yesterday in Tokyo.The web browser will be provided byOpera, well-known for its mobile phone browser software, and will be sold on a card that simply slots into the DS to allow innovative dual-screen surfing. In apress releaseissued by Opera this morning the company provided a few more details:"With an on-screen keypad and stylus, users can easily navigate the Web from their Nintendo DS with PDA-like functionality. Based on the same core as the Opera desktop browser, Opera delivers superior speed and rendering of Web pages on the Nintendo DS."Interestingly, Nintendo seems keen on pushing the web-enabled DS as a serious surfing tool rather than a bit of online fun for gamers. As Masaru Shimomura, Deputy General Manager of Nintendo's R &amp; D Department, asserts, "Within just five seconds of turning on the system, the Nintendo DS is already fully operational. This makes it the ideal device to enable people to swiftly obtain the latest information from the internet, wherever they are."According to the Opera release, Nintendo is yet to announce a release date - although aGoogle translationof Nintendo's Japanese website, where a slideshow presentation of the DS Conference has been posted, suggests a June launch - at least in Japan.The company's plans for a TV tuner are less clear, but from the Nintendo website it seems that the tuner will arrive as a small(ish) card that slots into the DS. It looks like the Touch Screen will act as a remote control.Both of these elements bring the DS more in line with Sony's PSP in terms of multimedia ambitions. It will be interesting to see what kind of international roll-out is planned...
There's been quite a kafuffle lately over traditionally marginalised groups challenging assumptions and derogatory representations in mainstream gaming products. While the Haitian community wasn't the first todo so, their plight against GTA publishers Rockstar (ne Take Two) forced the company to change lines of dialogue in GTA: Vice City which it deemed offensive. More recently, thegay and gay-friendlycommunitiesof online title World of Warcraft received an apology from publisher Blizzard after it tried to shove the sexuality issue under the carpet.In the past week, another maligned group has called for the boycott of Activision's GUN game. TheAssociation for American Indian Development(AAID) has charged the makers of the Western title with condoning the devastating eradication of North American Indian tribes. From their website,boycottgun.com:WE ARE DEMANDING OF ACTIVISION INCORPORATED, (THE PUBLISHERS OF "GUN") TO EDIT AND REMOVE ALL DEROGATORY, HARMFUL AND INACCURATE DEPICTIONS OF AMERICAN INDIANS FROM THE VIDEO GAME "GUN" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE SLAUGHTERING OF THE "RENEGADE" APACHES, THE ATROCITY OF "INDIAN SCALPING" AND THE MIS-INFORMATION OF INDIAN TRADITIONS OF "KILLING" SACRED WHITE ANIMALS. WE ALSO DEMAND THAT UPON THE RE-RELEASE OF THE EDITED VERSION OF SAID VIDEO GAME, THAT ACTIVISION DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE TO THE GREAT APACHE PEOPLE AND IS CULTURALLY AND HISTORICALLY ACCURATE TO THE STRUGGLE AND PLIGHT OF ALL PEOPLE OF AMERICAN INDIAN ANCESTRY.They clarify their point further (without the use of ALL CAPS):To create a game where one must slaughter members of a racial group in order to move forward promotes and condones the near genocide of Native Americans in this country. If a game were created that had its hero slaughter, say African Americans, Irish, Mexicans, or Jews, would there not be an outcry of extreme proportions? We're not talking about generic bandits or outlaws who could be any race - this is a game that specifies the slaughter of a living, breathing existing racial group of human beings. There is no indication of the complexities of the period, even as interviews with it's author, talk about how he was able to delve into the history of the period. Native people during this time were protecting their homeland, their way of life. Something that is instilled in good old American values.The plot sickens. Activision have been contacted and this is what they have to say (viagamecloud):It was not Activision's intention to offend any race or ethnic group with GUN, and we apologize to any who might have been offended by the game's depiction of historical events which have been conveyed not only through video games but through films, television programming, books and other media.Is this political correctness gone mad? Do they have a point? I just hope they've never seenCuster's Revenge.A whole lot more on the GUN and Custer's Revenge controversies atGamerGod
As promised, Apple has begun shipping its followup to the PowerBook notebook, the MacBook Pro, this month. But to the surprise of many, it'sfaster than was initially announced:All models of the new MacBook Pro will ship with faster Intel Core Duo processors than previously announced, delivering even greater performance at no additional cost. The $2,499 model now includes a 2.0 GHz Intel Core Duo processor, up from the previously announced 1.83 GHz, and will begin shipping this week. The $1,999 model now includes a 1.83 GHz Intel Core Duo processor, up from the previously announced 1.67 GHz, and will begin shipping next week. In addition, customers may now upgrade to a 2.16 GHz Intel Core Duo processor as a build-to-order option on the Apple Online Store.So what's going on? We think that between the announcements and the shipping is that Intel has certified the chips, which all come off a production line, to runand workat the faster speeds. The reality is that all chips come off production lines capable of running faster than the number on the label (henceoverclocking) but that they aren't guaranteed by the maker to do so without some very hefty testing. Run them too fast, and your overclocking can turn into overcooking, which (as they say) adversely affects the user experience.But it certainly makes a pleasant change for people to get more than they bargained for. (Remember 1999, when Apple had toship slower G4sbecause Motorola couldn't produce enough 500MHz G4 chips? Ah, 500MHz - now that was a speed.) Now we await the eager owners'Xbenchreports on how quickly the machines work - and how quickly, or slowly, the battery runs down, since battery life has been a topic on which Apple has been uncharacteristically silent with the MacBook Pros.
Mac users looking for a browser that isn't Safari (which to me always feels as though it's made with the heaviest of metals, and thus somehow unwieldy to work with) and isn't Firefox should certainly look atCamino, which you could probably class as YAMO (Yet Another Mozilla Offshoot).Today it has just hit 1.0 status, as its head developer Mike Pinkerton blogs inSucking less, on a budget: 1.0 Has Arrived!I'm posting this with Camino 1.0 final. The website has been updated. The press release has been issued. Today is the day that we take that step from obscure open source project to real, non-alpha, non-beta, feel-safe-to-tell-your-mom-about-it project.There are so many people I'd like to thank who made this all a reality. Some have only been with the project for a short time, others have been with it since almost the very beginning. Some contribute by submitting bugs, others contribute their time to help us figure out which bugs are real and how important they are. Some contribute artistic talent, others contribute code and bugfixes. Some contribute just by telling their friends about this cool alternative to Safari and Firefox. Everyone in the community shares my gratitude for making Camino what it is today.There's aninterview with and by Om Malik; plus the promise that RSS detection, which is really what Safari and Firefox have that Camino lacks (though if you're at all into Applescript, it has what they lack), will come in a future version. Perhaps we'll reach a sort of browser nirvana where they all haveexactly the same features. Now that would be a thing.
Campaigners today called for tighter regulation of services enabling parents to track their children's mobile phones.One million Britons under the age of 10 already own a mobile, and there is a burgeoning market in tracking services allowing parents to keep track on their children.Most companies currently work to an industry code of practice endorsed by the media regulator Ofcom, but some activists believe that, without formal regulation, it is only a matter of time before that succumbs to serious safety breaches."This is technology which in some ways is wonderful, but can be dangerous too," said Judy Mallaber, the MP for Derbyshire's Amber Valley, who yesterday asked parliament to consider such regulation."For a lot of parents, it's quite reassuring - but when you've got people who groom children, you need to have better checks."Concern over child safety has created a thriving market for parental applications, with new companies springing up.Some simply offer controls to block unwanted calls, but others can track mobile phones using the same global positioning systems as in-car navigation devices.One mobile device being marketed directly at children - the "Teddyphone" - can be turned into an eavesdropping device simply by sending a text message.As a result of such developments, many experts are concerned about the possibilities for abuse."We don't say that these services have no value, but we are deeply dubious of their potential," John Carr, the technology adviser for the children's charity NCH, said."We've always had a slight uneasiness because of the less than stringent tests checking that it's really is a parent or guardian. Some devices coming out are more about surveillance rather than simple tracking."Potential problems are not necessarily limited to children, Ms Mallaber said."We are sleepwalking into a world where a jealous partner or obsessed stalker can spy on you just by getting your phone number," she added.Last week, security experts on one website published instructions explaining how to track the location of any mobile without getting permission from the owner.With little more than "some trickery" and a phone number, investigators at Rootsecure were able to track the location of somebody else's handset.However, the operators of such services say the current system of self-regulation should be adequate to prevent misuse."We did manage to get broad agreement on most aspects of security, and the code of practice does cover most areas," Richard Jelbert, of mTrack, which operates a number of tracking services, said."It's good to have a debate, but the danger is that technology moves on far faster than the legislation."Despite the rapid growth in the ownership of phones over the past five years, some areas of the industry remain largely unregulated.Last week, the premium rate regulator Icstis said it planned to examine existing systems after it emerged that some networks enabled children to access hardcore internet pornography by using their mobile phones.
Microsoft's anti-spyware program, which will become Windows Defender in Vista, is now available.The site says:Windows Defender (Beta 2) is a free program that helps protect your computer against pop-ups, slow performance, and security threats caused by spyware and other unwanted software. It features Real-Time Protection, a monitoring system that recommends actions against spyware when it's detected, and a new streamlined interface that minimizes interruptions and helps you stay productive.
I blameRobert Scoble.Not that he needslinkbait linkbait linkbait....
A couple of times recently I have been unable to type anything in the subject windows when I was trying to access a known site or searching for something on Google. This could be fixed by restarting, but during closedown a window flashed up saying that SMAX4PNP was running and did I want to close it. Was this the cause of my problem and if so how can I fix it? Alison HumphreysSMAX4PNP is just a SoundMax card agent, and you don't really need it, but it seems to be harmless. However, having had similar problems myself recently, I wonder if you have installed Google's Tolbar 4 beta? My PC (XP Pro SP2) was running perfectly until I installed it, and after that I got random errors including some programs failing to run and others running with blank tabs (eg the Windows Task Manager). After I uninstalled Toolbar 4, the problems went away.This turned out to be a lucky guess. Allison said that she had installed Toolbar 4, and uninstalling it solved her problem.I've no idea how widespread these effects are -- perhaps not very -- but I'd be interested to hear if you are happy with Toolbar 4 or not.
According toEurogamer, the German publishing team atDeep Silverare all set to release their forthcoming Real Time StrategyWOFOR: War on Terror. Unfortunately, it's only available in the German language.I've already waxed lyrical about the inevitablepolitical slantof computer gaming onmultipleoccasions, and so am aware that this game is as objective as a Daily Mail column, however for the record, here's the blurb:"The time is an uncertain one. Tensions are high, people are scared. Terrorist groups work in unity, launching lethal assaults in major metropolitan cities across the globe. Their agenda is unknown; their attacks are precise and deadly. Innocents die. Multinational strike force WOFOR (World Forces) stands between the terrorists and global anarchy."If you'd like another approach to the War on Terror, check outNewsgaming.com'sSeptember 12th.Personally, I'm looking forward to the release of War on Propaganda.
Nowadays a lot of people are on the web 24/7 (or at least their PCs are) but in the early days, many visits were prompted by special occasions, such as Valentine's Day. Indeed, at one time the web sometimes seemed to be a succession of special events, from Christmas and the Chinese New Year through Easter to Halloween, with a few sporting highlights thrown in (Super Bowl, Tour de France, various Olympics,the Iditarod). This was reflected in my old Web Watch column and a few special features, several of them about Valentine's Day.February 14 provided a good excuse to go online,send an e-card, findsomewhere romantic to go, look upa special recipe, or browse a bit ofValentine's Day history. CheckCupid's Checklistfor examples. Apart fromspecialised sites, it also offered millions of webmasters the chance to add something that might attract new readers, and maybe even sell something. Bring out those Valentine's Day specials on violin cases....Today,Wikipediahas it pretty much covered, assuming you hit the page when it isn't vandalised. However, since I'm a Big Sex-Biscuit for the day, I'll also point you to the old and undeniably pinkValentine's Day Name Creator. "Warning: This might make you feel ill."
Dave Sifry of Technorati has postedthe second part of his State of the Blogosphere report, which compares blogs with mainstream media (MSM). The New York Times is tops for linkage, but the BBC, Guardian Unlimited and even Times Online are all doing well.The graphs show a typical power law distribution with a "big head" and a long tail. Sifry also identifies another area:This realm of publishing, which I call "The Magic Middle" of the attention curve, highlights some of the most interesting and influential bloggers and publishers that are often writing about topics that are topical or niche, like Chocolate and Zucchini on food, Wi-fi Net News on Wireless networking, TechCrunch on Internet Companies, Blogging Baby on parenting, Yarn Harlot on knitting, or Stereogum on music - these are blogs that are interesting, topical, and influential, and in some cases are radically changing the economics of trade publishing.At Technorati, we define this to be the bloggers who have from 20-1000 other people linking to them. As the chart above shows, there are about 155,000 people who fit in this group. And what is so interesting to me is how interesting, exciting, informative, and witty these blogs often are. I've noticed that often these blogs are more topical or focused on a niche area, like gardening, knitting, nanotech, mp3s or journalism and a great way to find them has been through Blog Finder.Sifry also introduces a new Technorati feature: "sort by authority."
In his keynote speech at the DICE 2006 conference in Las Vegas, Microsoft's Peter Moore said Xbox 360 shortages should soon be over, saying: "You should be able to walk into a store in the next four to six weeks and see [Xbox 360] hardware on shelves." reportsGameSpot.Moore's real regret, however--which he repeated over and over again throughout his address--was that Microsoft has been neglecting the PC as a gaming platform. "I want to apologize for the dereliction of duty to our company's number-one platform, the PC, in terms of gaming," he told a crowd still recovering from the previous evening's award ceremony. "We've been a little distracted for the past few years," he said, referring to the company's drive to release the Xbox 360. "Mea culpa, we've been busy."Comment: Well, Microsoft is going to try to establish Vista as a games platform ... and one where the PC works in conjunction with both the Xbox 360 and Windows Mobile phones.
On this Valentines Day spare a thought for those numerous copies ofWe Love Katamarithat remain unloved and unwanted in gaming outlets across the UK. Yes, thechartsare in. And yes, no sign of the critically acclaimed "roll-em-up" is to be found (although, inexplicably, Simpsons Hit and Run is still selling well! Reviews? Who reads 'em eh?)The Katamari titles may not be the pinnacle of gaming genius that many journalists - so pleased to be playing something different - say they are. But they remain hugely playable and a perfect example of how a little imagination can go a long way. Sadly this hasn't been enough and the game has seemingly flopped in the UK. So, why is this?The obvious issue is the game itself. Compared to the urban/sports/car norm, Katamari is an arthouse offering with limited appeal. But why? The game may lack the traditional gaming reference points, but show it to anyone - especially non-gamers - and they'll find something that is easy to pick up and play.There are other factors too. The pack artwork - all crayon and primary school doodling - may fit in with the theme but only further detracts from a casual purchase. The price too - the game was sold at full price, inexplicable for a leftfield offering like this - was an issue. And then there were the hardcore gamers who have already imported - in many ways these were Katamari's target audience.So the first of February's cult classics has not performed - and neither has the amusing and inventivePyschonauts. Shadow of the Colossus though should do well - too many people have bought into the Ico legend for it to fail - but Katamari proves that the market for gaming innovation in the UK is still far too small.
It's all up to you...For further explanation, please seehere.
Considering that each copy of Memoirs of a Geisha found in China breaks at least two laws and defies the will of communist censors, you might think that DVDs of the banned film would have to be sold under the counter.There is nothing secretive, however, about the pirated display of this diplomatically controversial movie. It is flying off the shelves and into millions of homes for less than &pound;1 a copy - the latest evidence that the market rather than the authorities often controls the flow of information in China.Pirate DVD shops might not normally be considered outposts of free expression, but they are among the many gaps in the great wall of propaganda, which is being breached by a motley crew of bloggers, copyright dodgers and curious consumers.Following Google's decision last month to censor search results in China, much has been written about the country's restrictions on "socially unhealthy" content and its sophisticated control techniques. Yet, government censors have told the Guardian they are no longer capable of blocking all sensitive information, so they must work harder to guide its course and respond to public opinion, particularly via the internet.Memoirs of a Geisha is a case in point. Earlier this month, the government denied approval for the release of the Hollywood epic, citing "the current political situation". Officials feared that the film - in which the Chinese actress, Zhang Ziyi, plays the part of a Japanese geisha whose virginity is put up for sale in the 1930s - would become a focus of public anger towards Japan. The ban is thought to have been largely influenced by an online outcry. Many bloggers called Zhang a whore and a traitor."She is the most shameless Chinese woman in the world. I wonder whether she ever thought about the pain brought by the Sino-Japanese war," wrote one of the least offensive web critics.But government censorship has only served to boost the pirate DVD business.At a popular DVD shop in north-west Beijing, staff say they sell 60 copies of Memoirs every day, making it one of their top two moneymakers (along with Brokeback Mountain, which has also yet to win approval for release in China)."I guess about 70% of the stuff we have is pirated," said a sales assistant. "The police come from time to time and we close until they've gone. But they come back in private and ask us to give them free DVDs. Then we open again."Prohibited materialThe motivation is purely business, but the effect is partly political. Much of the material for sale is officially prohibited because it contradicts the government line. Among many banned items on sale is Seven Years in Tibet, in which Brad Pitt plays a character sympathetic to the Dalai Lama; Devils at the Doorstep, a film about Japanese troops in a Chinese village that won the 2000 Grand Jury prize at Cannes; and Stanley Kwan's Lan Yu, set around the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement."Censorship isn't all bad because it stimulates demand and promotes the development of the piracy business," said one radical blogger, Muzimei, whose name was once among the list of banned words on the internet, despite being used commercially to sell everything from underwear to cockroach killers. "Forbidden things are always attractive. The politicians at the top introduce policies. The people at the bottom find a way around them."Missed royaltiesThis applies not only to the film business. One of the bestselling books of the past few years is A Survey of Chinese Peasants, a searing expos&eacute; of the plight of China's vast rural population. The official version was banned in 2004, but at least 30 pirate versions have been published. The authors, Chen Guidi and Wu Chuntao, estimate they have missed out on royalties for 8m copies.Such is the hunger for information and debate on the web that news providers and commentators find ways to circumvent restrictions on sensitive material. Companies such as Microsoft help the authorities block sensitive words, but bloggers and forum commentators quickly introduce slang terms to get around these walls. Some use initials, others mix English and Chinese, still more add a space or exclamation mark in the middle of a sensitive word. "When the government bans something, it just makes me want to know more about it," said the blogger, Laoyang.There are many restrictions on online chat. Controversial blogs are shut down, and chatroom moderators kick out participants who post comments likely to antagonise the Communist party.But no restriction is entirely effective. Despite Google's self-censorship, a search for "Tiananmen Square" on its China-based search engine produces several articles and pictures of the 1989 protests on the first page of results. Part of the challenge for the authorities is volume. The number of internet users in China has surged from 620,000 in 1997 to 110 million. It is estimated that there are between 5m and 10m blogs. Censors say they have had to change tactics."It is becoming more difficult to block and monitor web traffic so we need to switch to guidance," said an official responsible for internet surveillance. "Strict management didn't work. It is like trying to control a flood. Guiding is more effective than blocking."Even with an estimated 30,000 internet police, he said it was difficult to monitor bulletin boards. "The technology hasn't reached a level that will allow us to control them. And we must also consider the trend of democratisation, which cannot be stopped," he said. "China is very big. If you want to control such a large country, mere politics is not enough. You must control minds. You need to win the battle for ideas."In this battle, Memoirs of a Geisha is a mere skirmish. Further clashes can be expected between censors and pirates, propaganda officials and bloggers, the government and the market.At a glanceDVDsSome 95%of all DVDs sold in China are pirated, costing the film industry $280m (&pound;160m), according to the Motion Picture Association of America. Pirate DVDs typically sell for less than &pound;1 and you can try them out in the shop before you buy them. Most go on sale within days of general release in America.ExportsCustoms officials estimate that 67% of the fake goods seized at US and European borders originated in China, despite Beijing's seizure of 500m pirate discs in the past five years.SoftwareComputer stores in Beijing offer to install a pirate version of Microsoft software for less than &pound;1. The US patent office estimates that more than 90% of all intellectual property sold in China is fake.InternetMore than 45% of Chinese internet users download music on a daily basis, and 37% frequently download movies, according to the China Internet Network Information Centre. The vast majority pay nothing.BooksFour out of five copies of Chinese bestselling books are fake, according to the Beijing Book Distribution Research Institute. Pirated versions of My Life - the memoirs of former US president Bill Clinton - went on sale before the original and sold for 18 yuan (&pound;1.30), 60% less than its full price in shops.
On Valentine's Day the media traditionally drops its air of clinical reserve and prostitutes itself to the card industry with vaguely romance themed comedy stories, images and interviews. Already this morning I've witnessed the GMTV weather girl standing on a giant heart in the middle of a crowd of people looking to get their wedding vows confirmed at 6.58 in the morning on live TV. Over on the BBC they tried to be more serious with a story about how our demand for fresh cut flowers is having catastrophic effects on the environment. Sadly, I lost interest before I found out why. There's also a picture of two elephants forming their trunks into a love heart in The Mirror...Anyway, Gamesblog is not immune to the hysteria - so here's a question for you: which videogame character haveyouformed an inappropriate fondness for? Is there one polygonal prince/princess who you would gladly send a Valentine card to if it were not for the insurmountable barrier thrown up by their lack of actual existence?Well, swallow your pride, take a deep breath and share. I'll go for Soul Calibur's Olympian beauty Sophitia Alexandra or ghost-busting college student Miku Hinasaki from Project Zero... already I feel I've said too much...
Talking of cover stories, New York Magazine has a big piece on"The Haves and Have-Nots of the Blogging Boom"such as Nick Denton andJason Calacanis, both of whom declined to be interviewed for the story.... Still, it does cover Engadget's Peter Rojas, who was laid off from Red Herring (as describedherein 2003) and freelanced for theGuardian Onlinesection (amongst others) for a while. He's now a millionaire -- and featured on the cover.There's also Arianna Huffington, whom the blogosphere originally thought was a bit of a joke:In May 2005, Huffington, the political columnist and sometime candidate for California governor, started the Huffington Post, a blog where her celebrity friends post their rants about politics and culture. By the end of the year, it was clocking 18 million page views a month and had become the fifth-most-linked-to blog in the world. Its ad rates are at the top of its class, about $10 to $30 for every thousand views. With financing from a slate of investors including Ken Lerer, former executive vice-president at AOL Time Warner, the Huffington Post launched with a full-time staff of four and an office in Manhattan -- and the ability to post around the clock.As the story says:Yet the rapid rise of the Huffington Post represents a sort of death knell for the traditional blogger. The Post wasn't some site thrown up by a smart, bored Williamsburg hipster who just happened to hit a cultural nerve. It was the product of a corporation--carefully planned, launched, and promoted. This is now the model for success: Of Technorati's top ten blogs, nearly half were created in the same corporate fashion, part of the twin blog empires of Jason Calacanis and Nick Denton.It's not too late to make your millions blogging, but probably a lot harder than it was four years ago.Blogs to Riches has severalrelated stories: Linkology: How the 50 Most Popular Blogs Are Related  The Early Years: A Timeline of Blogging  Five Cool Blogs to Check Out Now  Meet the Bloggers  The Long Tail Theory: Why B-list Blogs Can Make It, Too
Ralph Baer, father of Pong (the tennis videogame only predated byWilly Higginbotham's Tennis for Two), willreceiveaNational Medal of Technologyfrom the US White House for his dedication to new technologies, says/.andGamasutra. The award is actually the 2004 medal, which suggests that technology moves rather slowly in the real world. I wonder as well if Baer would have been included in the shortlist if it had been drawn up after Hot Coffee-gate.From Gamasutra:The award, which is America's highest honor for science and technology, goes to those who "have helped commercialize new technologies, create jobs, improve American productivity, and stimulate the Nation's economic growth and development", and was established by Congress in 1980.The event will be webcast today from the White Housewebsiteat 10:40am US Eastern Time.
Videogame site, Kikizo, has managed to seduce an indiscreet developer intoshowing off its newly arrived PS3 dev kit- with the promise of total anonymity, of course. Consequently, the resulting article is intriguing but also frustratingly vague.There is, for example, a point where the writer discusses some impressive scenic effects, but is hamstrung by the inability to explain how they fit into the game design:"the depth-of-field optical filtering, astounding texture quality, convincing material movement, and later in a sequence, heat distortion and complex fire-based effects all shine through - and still offer a satisfying wow factor."Well, that's all very exciting, but without context it's just a list of technical terms and adjectives.There's also a lot of predictable hype debunking. Turns out that - gasp! - the now infamous Killzone demo at E3 last yearwas categorically notreal-time PS3 code, but a mocked up prerendered approximation. Excuse me while I recover from my surprised swoon. Also, PS3 won't be the massive leap over Xbox 360 that some would have us believe (another staggering revelation) - indeed the two machines are comparable - the 360 architecture being more user-friendly, PS3 being more tricky and likely to reveal hidden depths further down the line when developers have learned how to exploit eight processors and more potential bottlenecks than the London road network.As for 1080p, or 'true HD' as Sony called it at CES - lord help us, it seems most games will not even attempt to output in it, falling back on sensible 720p instead. Or as Kikizo's insider says:"Sony wanted 1080p, but we're working at 720p and 1080i, same as on the Xbox 360. Even with [final hardware] in mind, reaching good frame rates at 1080p with next-gen graphics is almost impossible. Instead many developers, ourselves included, are reworking so they run at 720p. PS3's output takes care of upscaling it - so no native 1080p, but it still looks killer."I've been hearing the same from other non-Sony affiliated developers around the industry - although their downbeat assessment should not be taken to mean there willneverbe a 1080p PS3 game. There will. It'll just be very rare, and most likely the preserve of Sony's closest development chums.As for a PS3 launch date, Kikizo's injudicious source has more bad news:"We think that in Japan it will most likely release during Summer, Q4 in the US, and Europe in Winter or Spring 2007 - these are our internal projections."Spring 2007?! Oh well, that'll give me time to save up for one ofthese...
Web companies including eBay and Yahoo join a new initiative to reduce internet fraud today. Under the plans, millions of internet users will be sent battery-operated "smart cards" which generate ever-changing pin numbers. Users will have to enter the current pin number before a transaction is authorised.Motorola will incorporate the technology into its mobile handsets, allowing payments to be made by phone. The internet security firm VeriSign, which is setting up the scheme, says it gives online customers an extra layer of protection. It is expected to roll out later this year.
(3GSMis on in Bercelona, and we have our special correspondent - who goes by the code name of "Richard Wray" - to spy on those gathered there. Here's his first report.)What brings the bosses of Vodafone, T-Mobile, Orange, Telefonica Moviles, Telecom Italia and even China Mobile together? The threat posed by the internet, apparently. As executives and their assorted hangers-on got familiar with the new venue for the industry's annual backslapping-fest the 3GSM WorldCongress, moved from Cannes to Barcelona after 14 years, the industry's big guns were sat around the top table to wow the world's press with their latest idea.Pause now to imagine what it might be. A breakthrough concept. Think for a moment. Radical. New. Got an idea? OK? Ready? Here it is, then.Instant messaging on mobile phones.Phoo. Breathe out. OK, IM is not a new idea, having already attracted at least 300m users on the web. But we're talking about an industry that has never been very good at coming up with new ideas. The worry for the mobile phone operators is that the likes of Google, eBay, Yahoo -- and AOL on a good day -- have managed to create communities of people that want to chat to each other.Initially this chatting posed no threat to the closely guarded revenues of the operators as the internet was far from mobile and most people connected to the web used their mobile while they were online. But the rise of wireless technologies potentially outside the operator's control, such as Wi-Fi and -- coming to a town near you soon --WiMax, coupled with the introduction of easy to use VoIP services such asSkypewill allow these internet companies to take their communities based around IM and make them mobile.Perhaps the most telling words to come out of the first day of the 3GSM Congress were comments from Nokia's mobile phone chief Kai Oistamo that "With companies like Skype, Google, Yahoo and Vonage and so on, one can firmly say that VoIP has become the topic of the day."Nokia was careful to reassure the operators that they can use VoIP to their advantage but the subtext was that the world's largest maker of mobile phones realizes that the internet boys are coming. Nokia took the opportunity at the show to launch a new phone [perhaps this wasn't that surprising at a show about the mobile world - tech ed], the Nokia 6136, which can exploit unlicensed spectrum such as that used by Wi-Fi services.In the hands of a Google or a Skype the 6136 could become a powerful tool to break the stranglehold which the mobile phone networks have on mobility. Getting together to launch IM appears to be a tacit admission by the mobile phone operators that while they may lose the initial battle, as techies meld IM with VoIP to knock them out of the game, they are going to fight hard to keep hold of the rest of us (and charge us for the privilege).Tuesday's excitement will be around mobile TV as Steve Ballmer takes the stand and announces that Virgin Mobile and BT are using his latest HTC-produced smartphone for a service to launch in the UK later this year. But as delegates file off to their opening night party -- to swap stories about who has had their mobile pinched by the local pickpockets -- the message from the operators is clear: Googleet al, stay off our turf.
