Intel has teamed up with the rapper 50 Cent toannouncea new set of earphones that can measure the wearers’ heartbeat, syncing the data with fitness tracking apps.BioSport In-Ear headphones use an optical sensor to monitor heart rate and send that information down the headphone cable to a bespoke app running on a smartphone. They were announced by 50 Cent’s company SMS Audio on Friday, and are based on Intel’s smart earphone design unveiled at the Consumer Electronics show in January.“With SMS Audio, we will bring smart headphones to market that eliminate the inconvenience of add-on devices with an integrated, one-device fitness accessory offering high-end style and premier sound quality for an exceptional fitness experience,” said Michael Bell, general manager of the new devices group at Intel.No chest strap or watch neededThe earphones will allow runners and other athletes to track their heart rate throughout a run or workout session without having to wear a wrist or chest heart-rate monitor.The earphones are powered by the smartphone, meaning they require no battery or power, and are water resistant. The data can be synced with existing apps, including RunKeeper which helps runners track their progress, training and race times as well as routes and schedules.“The wearable technology collaboration between SMS Audio and Intel elevates our capability to bring smart exercise to consumers,” said Brian Nohe, president of SMS Audio.The headphones will be available in the fourth quarter of 2014, with pricing yet to be announced.SMS Audio joins LG and other technology companies who havealready launched heart-rate monitoring earphones.The launch is part of Intel’s push into wearable technology, which it announced was to be a key part of its business at CES in January, with reference designs and new technologies for manufacturers to use to create new wearable products like the earphones.•Apple buys Dr Dre’s Beats for $3bn•Beats Studio Wireless review: expensive headphones with lacklustre sound
Twitter has suspended an account linked to the Anonymous movement after it wrongly accused a man of shooting Michael Brown, the 18-year-old whose killing sparked protests in Ferguson, Missouri.The account,@TheAnonMessage, accused the man on Thursday afternoon UK time, and threatened to release more “dox” – personal identity documents – on him as a follow-up. Butthe St Louis County police department rapidly confirmedthat he was not even an officer with them or Ferguson police department, and asked the Anonymous account to “not release more info on this random citizen”.Twitter said: “We do not comment on individual accounts, for privacy and security reasons,” but the account was likely to have been suspended for breaking the service’sruleson posting personally identifiable information. The rule states: “You may not publish or post other people’s private and confidential information, such as credit card numbers, street address or social security/national identity numbers, without their express authorisation and permission.”Shortly after, a second Anonymous account,@Crypt0nymous, accused the first of releasing information it knew to be incorrect – or at least, which it couldn’t confirm:Lets finish this before@TheAnonMessagedoes. So, we had a conversation on IRC today on who could be the murderer. We got 2-4 names.&mdash; Anonymous (@Crypt0nymous)August 14, 2014@TheAnonMessagesaid that he wasn&#39;t sure, but still gonna release. Some people he knew on IRC supported him and this idea.&mdash; Anonymous (@Crypt0nymous)August 14, 2014I warned@TheAnonMessagedue op importance and public safety, lynch danger. He said if he would pick the wrong guy, he would blame it on&mdash; Anonymous (@Crypt0nymous)August 14, 2014his source, an Anon on IRC. This Anon also agreed. Due my warnings that even I, someone who isn&#39;t really involved, got 2 names, he ignored.&mdash; Anonymous (@Crypt0nymous)August 14, 2014Gabriella Coleman, an academic who specialises in Anonymous and other “hacktivists”, suggested three reasons why the account may have been so reckless:My theory for this morning&#39;s Anonymous dox 1) loose cannon account 2) agent agent provocateur 3) trying to force PD to release the name&mdash; Gabriella Coleman (@BiellaColeman)August 14, 2014After Twitter stepped in to suspend @TheAnonMessage, the account holder switched to using theirback-up account,@TheAnonMessage2, and claimed that their “plan” worked:BREAKING:#Fergusonpolice plan to release the name of the officer who murdered#MikeBrowntoday to stop accusations.&mdash; TheAnonMessage2 (@TheAnonMessage2)August 15, 2014Well, our plan worked. They are held responsible for the safety of Bryan&#39;s life. So they have to release the name.#Ferguson&mdash; TheAnonMessage2 (@TheAnonMessage2)August 15, 2014I can guarantee you, if it was not for our actions,#FergusonPD wouldn&#39;t be revealing the &quot;real&quot; name today.&mdash; TheAnonMessage2 (@TheAnonMessage2)August 15, 2014The failed “doxxing” is the second time incorrect information has been released by activists after Brown’s killing. In the initial reaction to the shooting,a picture of a woman making racist commentsabout the protests on Facebook was circulated, with popular Anonymous accounts falsely alleging that she was the “wife of the #Ferguson police chief”.Prosecutors seek leniency for hacker Sabu who helped tackle Anonymous
“The internet,” arecent headlineadvised, “is a lawless jungle too dangerous for children to use, former government adviser warns”.What dangers was the adviser referring to, and exactly what remedies he or she had in mind? The quote, it turns out, was from the former Department of Education adviser Anthony Smythe. He is now the managing director of UK charity BeatBullying, and what he actually said is that the internet is a “lawless jungle that willsoonbe too dangerous for children to use”. He also lamented that current cyberbullying law is “not fit for purpose”.And what is the basis for this bleak and somewhat anarchic depiction of the online world? A “series of high-profile cases of teenagers taking their own lives”. Based on these cases, the newspaper decided to call for “tougher legislation to make the internet a safer environment for young people”.Heading the international non-profitFamily Online Safety Institute(FOSI), which works to make the online world safer for kids and their families, I welcome efforts to tackle difficult and complex issues such as cyberbullying, sexting and online addictions and to help kids and their parents find existing resources and where to get help.But I caution against crafting laws based on some highly publicised cases and fear-inducing statements about lawlessness and jungles. Instead, we need to take a more careful look at the data and then proceed with caution.Prof Sonia Livingstonefrom the London School of Economics told me: “Our recent research suggests that bullying overall is fairly stable but that the proportion of bullying that involves internet or mobile devices is increasing. Nonetheless, only a small minority of children report receiving nasty or upsetting messages online, so the internet is far from a lawless jungle.“On the contrary, it is subject both to national law and to social conventions which are, our research also shows, strongly shaping of most children and young people’s online behaviour. Those that ignore the rules and conventions are, often, children who suffer some form of disadvantage – in other words, often the ‘bullies’ are, in other areas of their lives, also ‘victims’, making tough law enforcement solutions quite inappropriate for children”.Dr Justin Patchin, co-director of theCyberbullying Research Centeralso disagreed with the editorial. “The internet is no more a ‘lawless jungle’ than the schoolyard, the shopping mall, or the living room. There is no evidence that I am aware of that the risk of physical (or even emotional or psychological) harm is higher among children who regularly use the Internet compared to those who don’t.“In the US, it is clear from numerous data sources that young people are more likely to be victimised at school than online. And that is really saying something because the school is one of the safest places for kids to be. Everystudythat I have looked at that has explored both bullying at school and bullying online shows that the former occurs with greater frequency than the latter”.So by all means, let’s have newspapers and NGOs create campaigns to raise awareness and to lobby for changes in the law. But let’s have those efforts rooted in solid research and reasoned thinking and not throw around unsubstantiated statements and fear-based messaging.We need to empower parents to confidently navigate the online world with their kids - not to scare them into thinking only new laws can keep them and their children safe online. And if we do craft new laws and regulations, let’s be mindful of the law of unintended consequences. Would criminalising cruel, childish behaviour really solve the problem we’re all working to overcome?At FOSI we believe in the importance of education and empowering young people to become good digital citizens. This means teaching and modelling responsible online use and encouraging kids to be an upstander, not a bystander, in the face of mean actions by others.In the very worst cases online bullying can be dealt with by the courts, but for everything else, let’s help kids to become resilient, by helping themselves and then helping others.As adults, we need to work together to create enlightened public policy and evidence-based educational efforts. That will address the root problems of bullying in all its online and offline forms, working closely with social media sites and app developers to create a culture of responsibility online.•Stephen Balkam is CEO of theFamily Online Safety Institutein the US
Swarms of small robots in their thousands that collectively complete complex tasks are now possible – and could be the future of robotics, according to researchers.The Kilobots are a team of 1,024 simple robots that operate as a collective, much like the Borg in Star Trek or termites in a termite mound, and been shown to demonstrate the ability to swarm together to form complex shapes like the letter “K”, or a starfish.“The beauty of biological systems is that they are elegantly simple — and yet, in large numbers, accomplish the seemingly impossible,”said Prof Radhika Nagpalfrom the Harvard school of engineering and applied sciences. “At some level, you no longer even see the individuals; you just see the collective as an entity to itself.”Video of the kilobots in action.The kilobits demonstrate how simple machines performing simple behaviours can create complexity en masse. The robots, which are a couple of centimetres in diameter and vibrate tiny legs to move, are given a simple instruction like “make the letter K” and then left to get on with it without further human interaction, communicating with each other via infrared.Four robots move to the centre of the shape, while the rest follow the edge of the group and use their relative positions to take turns to fill in the shape. If a traffic jam forms, nearby robots sense the issue and co-operate to fix it as well as other errors.‘Enormous numbers of co-operating entities’This is the first time that more than 100 robots have been demonstrated cooperating in a collective, with 1,024 being an important step towards mass swarms of tiny robots able to operate a bit like the simple biological cells that club together to form complex organisms, animals and humans.“Biological collectives involve enormous numbers of cooperating entities – whether you think of cells or insects or animals – that together accomplish a single task that is a magnitude beyond the scale of any individual,” said Michael Rubenstein, lead author on the study published in Science.The technology is being heralded as an important milestone in the development of collective artificial intelligence, and could lead to the development of complex machines that build themselves out of swarms of tiny, simple robots.Kilobots working in unison. Photograh: Harvard SEAS“We can simulate the behavior of large swarms of robots, but a simulation can only go so far,” said Nagpal. “The real-world dynamics — the physical interactions and variability — make a difference, and having the Kilobots to test the algorithm on real robots has helped us better understand how to recognise and prevent the failures that occur at these large scales.”For now, these small robots simply make shaped by sliding across a table top, but the next stage is to refine the intelligence and develop smaller robots capable of the same tasks, eventually aiming for the nano scale.•Self-assembling origami robot is world’s first Transformer
A major games event is not the best place to discover a new video game. You’re in a small demo room surrounded by specialist journalists who are clearly better at games than you; it is hot and cramped, and behind you, watching with nervous intensity, is a developer who has spent the last two years of his or her life working 18 hour days to get to this point.That’s my excuse for getting attacked by a yak.This is Far Cry 4, the latest in Ubisoft’s visually sumptuous series of open-world action adventures. This time, the madness takes place in the Himalayan region of Kyrat, where an insane dictator named Pagan Min (voiced with barely contained zeal by Last of Us actor, Troy Baker) rules with an iron fist, and a talk show host’s dress sense. You are Ajay Ghale, a prodigal son, returning to free his homeland.The structure is standard Far Cry – there’s a big, rich, impressively detailed environment to explore filled with indigenous creatures and gun-toting maniacs. There are enemy camps to raid, there are sub-quests and side-missions; there is a story to fulfil. But everything is bigger and brighter and more detailed. Far Cry 4 is beautiful really.Enemies and animalsThere are two missions to try at Gamescom. In the first, you must handglide into an enemy fort and take out the head honcho – but first you have to navigate through his patrolling goons. Enemy AI is now sharper, so they’ll spot you fast, and remember where they saw you; so creeping stealthily through the ruined buildings, which are dwarfed by the surrounding mountain peaks and draped with great snow drifts, is the way to go.A few feet in and I stray too close to a yak, one of the many new creatures to discover in the game. Before I know it, this great, shaggy monster is butting me across the map, snorting furiously. The animals mean business this time. There are snow leopards that use stealth tactics, stalking up on you then springing at the last moment. Big cats can also climb onto ledges. At the larger end of the spectrum are elephants, which you can ride if you’re brave, and rhinos – these beasts are capable of ramming a jeep and flipping it over. With you in it. Watch out for those guys.To cope with this savage new menagerie, the game has added an extra item: bait. You can lob chunks of meat on to the landscape, which will divert and guide the attention of carnivorous monsters, as well as guards, weirdly enough. And of course, you can use bait to tempt tigers and bears straight into enemy bases, then watch the graphic horror ensue. Nature is scary.There are apparently several larger encampments, called fortresses, in the game – many requiring you to shut down two separate alarm systems to prevent reinforcements, who’ll come in various forms, rather than just riding in on a jeep, guns blazing.Apart from all that, Far Cry 4 feels like its predecessor. The same weapons wheel; the same mix of weapons and items. The skill tree is back, but with new abilities, you still feel like an interloper in a world with its own systems and rules. But now everything looks just gorgeous, from the powdery snow that puffs from mountain edges, to the glowing, flickering flames that quickly engulf the sparse vegetation. And the animal animation is exquisite.Hit and mythOne of the mystical Shangri-La missions – complete with teleporting enemiesWe also get to see one of the Shangri-Là missions, which are kind of mystical quests in a strange dream world. Here, vast temples are protected by magical warriors, who’ll sprint toward you then disappear in a puff of blue smoke, only to rematerialise inches from your face. There is a woozy red sheen to everything, reminiscent of the drugged out sequences in Far Cry 3. You can even call on a spirit tiger who’ll attack enemies for you.It’s strange and disorientating, but it fits with the way this series has always delved into exotic legends. Apparently, Ubisoft even sent a design team to Nepal to research the local mythology.As revealed at E3, the game has a new co-op mode, which will allow players who don’t own the title to hop in and help out – more details on that will no doubt surface soon.For now, Far Cry 4 is clearly another lush, expansive adventure, with a firm grasp on its habitat and a wonderful sense of scale. Just watch out for the yaks. The yaks are not friendly.Far Cry 4 is released on November 18 for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, Xbox One and Xbox 360
A three-dimensional cinema sound technology which has been used in many new Hollywood films is now being made available for home cinema systems.Dolby’s Atmos technology creates realistic “sound objects” at specific points around the viewer, reflecting the action on screen. It can create the effect of cracking thunder in the distance or falling rain around the viewer, making the audience feel they are inside the action, the creators hope.Gravity director Alfonso Cuarón described the new technology as “a dream come true, where you can explore the possibilities of depth and separation as never before”.Atmos was launched in 2012 as the fifth upgrade to Dolby’s 39 year-old “stereo” surround sound product, and has since been hailed as “one of the most significant developments in the history of cinema sound” by Pinewood Studios.“Atmos” is the fifth update to Dolby’s surround sound product since it launched in 1975, using up-firing speakers to bounce sound off the ceiling in a home cinema set up. Photograph: DolbyThe technology is designed both for cinemas and home cinema systems, with each piece of audio encoded as a sound object targeted at a specific point around the audience in a three-dimensional space. Up to 128 individual audio elements can be played at once by the system - a number only Gravity has come close to exploiting so far during a scene featuring hurtling space debris.Cinemas need extra speakers in the ceiling“We’re banking on great movies with Atmos soundtracks to make the upgrades tempting,” explained Jonathan Jowitt, Dolby Europe evangelist.More than 100 films have already been made and released using Atmos, including Brave, The Hobbit, Iron Man 3, Gravity, Star Trek Into Darkness and Guardians of the Galaxy to name a few. Several UK cinemas, including Empire in London’s Leicester Square, have the technology installed.Dolby Atmos in the cinema. Photograph: DolbyCinemas need ceiling-mounted speakers to demonstrate Atmos, and although home cinema enthusiasts could also install speakers in their ceiling, it is possible to improvise and create the same effect.“Our research discovered that a sound appears to come from above a listener when it has a ‘notch’ – the combination of the sounds bending over your head to your ears as well as the reflections from your shoulders,” Jowitt told the Guardian.Sounds without that “notch” appear to come from directly in front of a listener, rather than above. Dolby uses processing technology to build a system that could use speakers which instead of being mounted to the ceiling, bounce the sound off the ceiling to create the same effect.The result is a virtual overhead speaker, created by directing a small speaker at the ceiling - and the difference between that and roof-mounted speakers is impossible to discern.During the Life of Pi, each flying fish has its own sound object that moves through the room as the fish flying on and off screen. Photograph: DolbyA cinema may have at least 36 speakers and a home system seven or eight, but Dolby uses the same rendering techniques to make the sound track fit the equipment and the room.“All the audio from the film is just condensed to fit the speakers available using the same spacial coding as the cinema,” Jowitt explained.One for the home cinema enthusiastsPeople looking to upgrade their existing home systems to Atmos will need to buy kit including a new audio receiver, which decodes the sounds and spits them out to the speakers. Audio receivers less than two years old might be compatible with the Atmos software update, Jowitt explained, but the system will still require at least two “up-firing” speakers.The good news is that the Atmos soundtrack can be squeezed onto a Blu-ray disc or into the existing Dolby Digital Plus technology used by streaming services including Netflix, which means an existing Blu-ray player or streamer should be able to handle it.Jowitt acknowledged that the system is likely to appeal to home cinema enthusiasts rather than the average family, who are likely to make do with standard TV speakers or with the popular “sound bar” speaker.Whether that is enough to get users to upgrade in the near future is unknown. The market is currently polarised with the home cinema enthusiasts on one side and normal users who make do with TV speakers or a simplesound bar.More than 20 manufacturers including Denon, Marantz, Onkyo, Pioneer and Yamaha, have already licensed Dolby’s Atmos for home for a range of different devices, many set for release in September at the IFA electronics trade show in Berlin.•Are curved TVs just a marketing gimmick?
Bengu Atamer was YouTube’s first hire in Europe, moving through roles overseeing business development in its content partnerships team, and audience development.She’s now the director of multi-channel networkBuzzMyVideos, whose chief executive Paola Marinone is another former business development exec for YouTube in Europe.The pair thus have plenty of experience watching the evolution of YouTube and its global network of creators, and can talk about changing viewer behaviour, YouTuber/brand partnership trends, and…“Whispering!” says Marinone, halfway through an interview picking the co-founders’ brains on their company and the wider market.“Whispering is a very big, international trend right now. It’s people that are just beauty, cosplay or entertainment creators, but they just whisper!”And so they do: another trend (often known as ASMR, or Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response) that’s beenquietly thrivingin corners of YouTube well outside the radar of the traditional media world.It’s an MCN’s job to pick up on these kind of trends – Marinone says she’s also been marvelling at the popularity of toy unboxing videos, not least on Brazilian channel DisneyCollector, which was thethird most popular on YouTube in June.BuzzMyVideos doesn’t have anything that big yet, but two years after launching in “open beta”, its network is growing steadily: it now has more than 5,000 YouTube channels on its books, which it says generates more than 200m monthly views from 14m subscribers.That’s still relatively small compared to the biggest fish in the MCN world. Maker Studios – which is beingbought by Disney– claims 6.5bn monthly views and 450m subscribers for its network. RivalFullscreen claims 3bn monthly viewsfrom its channels, also with 450m subscribers.Marinone and Atamer point out that BuzzMyVideos has been deliberately quiet during its beta period, which ended in early July. Its hope is that it can continue growing by signing up emerging talent – whispering or otherwise – from around the world.“There are thousands of potential Justin Biebers, Michelle Phans and Psys out there, but they just don’t know how to grow in the platform. We are focusing very much on the international market,” says Marinone.“More than 80% of YouTube views are coming from outside the US, so we’re building something that can work for all those other countries. By 2016 the forecast is that digital [ad] spend is going to be more than $160bn, and more than 70% of that is going to come from outside the US.”Atamer cites Turkey and Russia as places where BuzzMyVideos is seeing rapid growth for channels from local creators, both in their home countries and abroad. “We’ve seen the numbers taking up really quickly, even maybe more quickly than some of the mature markets,” she says.“Russia is an interesting market with its own dynamics, and Turkey as well. It can be more challenging to operate in these different markets, but in an exciting way. The effort we are putting in to making local content go international is paying off.”The company citesDaniele Brognain Italy,Hayrettinin Turkey andMixStyleCappuccinoin eastern Europe as three examples of creators rising fast on its network.MixStyleCappuccino is one of BuzzMyVideos’ emerging channels.In its beta period, BuzzMyVideos focused mainly on creating technology to help its network of creators build audiences on YouTube. In 2014, like all MCNs, it’s turning its attention to helping those people attract sponsorship for their videos from brands.“We have all these content creators, who are very eager to work with brands, but it has to be in the right way,” says Marinone.“They need to believe in what they’re saying, and be genuine with their audience. If they’re not, the audience will switch to another channel: ‘You’re just trying to sell me something’. Trust is very important between YouTubers and their audience.”She sees BuzzMyVideos’ role as a bridge between the worlds of big brands and emerging YouTubers, including educating brands on the bonds between those creators and their audiences, and why clunking sales messages aren’t going to work.“Brands know they need to be there, on YouTube, even if they don’t really know how, why and what to do,” she says. “It’s very easy to do something wrong, and when you put a brand and YouTuber together, they might not always speak the same language.”BuzzMyVideos is still working on tools for its creators. It has just launched something likeBuzzscorecard, which analyses a YouTuber’s individual videos as well as their overall channel, and recommends tweaks to maximise the likely audience – “We’d like creators to be able to focus on the content, not marketing and SEO and all this stuff,” as Marinone puts it.Some MCNs are talking a lot about taking their stars beyond YouTube in 2014, whether through deals with sites like Yahoo, Vimeo and Amazon, or by launching their own portals –Maker.tvfrom Maker Studios, for example.As former YouTube execs, Marinone and Atamer are understandably still enthusiastic about Google’s platform – “the audience is there at the moment” – but are monitoring developments elsewhere with interest.“We think there are a lot of opportunities out there in terms of platforms and publishers: there are going to be some nice developments in the next 6-12 months,” says Marinone.“The trend of the industry is to talk about creating your own platform. Well, that’s definitely not what we’re going to do. If you want to create another YouTube… well, good luck! It’s very tough, and very expensive.”Like most MCNs, BuzzMyVideos’ strategy is likely influenced by the potential for a bigger media company to buy it at some point: something Maker Studios has already managed, with Fullscreen long rumoured to be on the verge of its own exit.Unsurprisingly, Marinone and Atamer talk up their ambitions for independent growth, while accepting that the growth of YouTube as an entertainment source – particularly for younger, TV-ditching viewers – is drumming up plenty of interest in MCNs from the traditional media world.“People say ‘Maker has been sold, Fullscreen is going to be sold, why are you still in the business? But we wouldn’t be here if we weren’t thinking the market was going to grow,” says Marinone.“Maker Studios and Disney was a wakeup call for many other companies though,” adds Atamer. “There is a huge gap between the TV and online advertising spend, but they have realised that this is going to be something big, and the balance is shifting quite fast.”One last question on trends, for Atamer with her background in audience development at YouTube. How have the habits of that audience for online video changed over recent years, and what can old and new media companies alike learn from it?She seizes on the “change” part of the question, noting that YouTube viewing behaviour isn’t set in stone – traditional TV viewers do X, and YouTube viewers do Y – but has rather evolved with the platform.“For a long time, YouTube tried to make longform content work, but the audience didn’t go for it. It just didn’t work, it was all short clips. But now, if you look at the kind of content coming, for example Vice with 45-minute documentaries, it’s working perfectly,” says Atamer.“The platform has changed, and the behaviour of the audience has changed too. And it also depends on the location too: the audience from Italy is different from the audience in Turkey, and so on.”Marinone chips in. “We are at the beginning of the evolution of online video,” she says. “It’s not that the market has gone: it’s still there to be grown. It’s like version 0.1, not even 1.0.”•YouTube MCNs stake claim to the future of TV
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow to make tilt scrolling that doesn't suck &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment:In 2008, I addedtilt scrolling to Instapaper. Today, that's an "innovation" in Amazon's Fire Phone, butFarhad Manjoo says they blew it.Fascinating description of how he implemented tilt scrolling - and the sneaky gotchas that can drive users mad if you do them wrong.Apples to apples, Part II &gt;&gt; Jesse SquiresSquires has been comparing Apple's new Swift against Objective-C since iOS 8 beta 1, and found it slower. But now:Take a deep breath. Yes, yes this is real life. The tables have completely turned (no pun intended). I've been running these trials since the first beta, and this is the first time that Swift has performed better than Objective-C for every single algorithm, with standard optimizations. And not only is Swift faster, but it is faster by significant margins.As of beta 5, the Swift optimization level of -Ofast has been deprecated in favor -Ounchecked. This renaming is a delightful change. Previously it read as, "Ooooh fast!", begging for misuse and misunderstanding. But now it's more like "Oh... unchecked?", which better reflects its unsafe nature.This should come as no surprise. Swift performance at this optimization level was always better than Objective-C, with the exception of the std lib sort — which no longer the case.The Digitally Native Music Consumer &gt;&gt; Midia blogMark Mulligan:Digital Native music behaviour is evolving at a far faster rate than music industry product strategy.  Some of the key behaviours are:•Online music video and radio are the two most widespread music activities for Digital Natives, both with 69% penetration.•With 52% penetration, streaming is the digital music zeitgeist for Digital Natives.•Digital Natives differ from other consumers most in free music activity.•P2P adoption is widespread but it is a new wave of piracy technologies, such as free music downloader apps and YouTube rippers that appeal most to Digital Natives.•Free music downloader apps are most widely adopted by Brazilian Digital Natives – with 48% penetration - whereas YouTube is popular across all markets.Worldwide smartphone shipments edge past 300m units in the second quarter &gt;&gt; IDCThe dominant smartphone operating systems (OS), Android and iOS, saw their combined market share swell to 96.4% for the quarter, leaving little space for competitors. Android was the primary driver with its vendor partners shipping a total of 255.3 million Android-based smartphones in 2Q14, up 33.3% year over year. Meanwhile, iOS saw its market share decline despite posting 12.7% year-over-year shipment growth. While Android and iOS both realised [shipment] gains from a year ago, the rest of the market recorded losses."With many of its OEM partners focusing on the sub-$200 segments, Android has been reaping huge gains within emerging markets," says Ramon Llamas, Research Manager with IDC's Mobile Phone team. "During the second quarter, 58.6% of all Android smartphone shipments worldwide cost less than $200 off contract, making them very attractive compared to other devices. With the recent introduction of Android One, in which Google offers reference designs below $100 to Android OEMs, the proportion of sub-$200 volumes will climb even higher."IDC reckons 301m smartphones shipped;ABI Research saysmore (323m) and that 20% (64m) of all those were AOSP - and that it's growing faster than "Google Android".Either way, AOSP (as an ecosystem) is clearly bigger than Windows Phone, and sales are easily outstripping iOS.Uber, Lyft want to make nice with cities that have tried to shut them down &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe National League of Cities, a group of municipalities from across the United States,announcedThursday that it was forming a new network of startups, cities, and academics to "identify the regulatory challenges posed by the disruptive technologies that power the sharing economy."The aptly named "Sharing Economy Advisory Network" comes as many of its member cities have conducted sting operations and issued citations against companies like Lyft and Uber, which allow users to summon cars with the tap of a smartphone app. These cities say that such firms operate as illegal taxis and should be subject to relevant legislation. Both Lyft and Uber have previously fought and won similar battles in some jurisdictions: California formalized rideshare operations in September 2013.Email is still the best thing on the internet &gt;&gt; Atlantic MobileAlexis Madrigal:Getting an email address was once a nerdy right of passage for Gen-Xers arriving on college campuses. Now, the kids are waging a war of indifference on poor old email, culling the weak and infirm old-people technology. One American professor maintained that, to his students, "e-mail was as antiquated as the spellings 'chuse' and 'musick' in the works by Cotton Mather and Jonathan Edwards." The vice-chancellor of Exeter University claimed, "There is no point in emailing students any more." The youth appear to think there are better, faster, more exciting ways to communicate than stupid email.Yet, despite all the prognosticators predicting it will—choose the violence level of your metaphor—go out of style, be put out to pasture, or taken out back and shot, email grinds on.You can't kill email! It's the cockroach of the Internet, and I mean that as a compliment. This resilience is a good thing.With all the unbundling of email functions that's going on, he suggests that "email might actually become what we thought it was: an electronic letter-writing platform."Microsoft considered rebranding Internet Explorer to escape negative perception &gt;&gt; NeowinMicrosoft's Internet Explorer has a bit of a brand identity issue on its hands. Because of decisions made many, many years ago, Internet Explorer 6 has left a sour taste in the mouths of developers and consumers. Even some of the older iterations like IE7 and 8 are still loathed by consumers but later iterations like IE10 and 11 have fared much better in terms of providing a positive web browsing experience.During an AMA that took place today on Reddit, the team was asked if they had ever considered rebranding the browser to escape the negative perception left behind by earlier versions of the browser. While Microsoft, at first, joked about renaming, they did say that they actually considered it. In fact, they revealed that there was a "particularly long email thread" talking about the change but the final decision was to keep the name in place.Is Internet Explorer the oldest web-only brand name around? Dates to August 1995. AOL is older (1991) but didn't start on the web. Netscape is dead. Any older than IE?How long do Android phones last? &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansModelling from the "daily activations" and the new "monthly active users" figures given out by Google (and so only applicable for "Google Android" outside China):These are (to repeat) approximate numbers, but it seems clear that Android phones remain in use for well below the 24m average for the market, and during the peak growth period the replacement rate was closer to one year. The chart [below in the original post] compares what a 24m replacement cycle would have looked like compared to Google's own numbers. [Active users would have been significantly higher at each data point on the graph shown at I/O.]The cycle clearly seems to be lengthening, but it's not clear yet how much.Meanwhile, we don't have comparable data for iPhones, but the fact that around a third of the active base is on the iPhone 4 or 4S does rather speak for itself: if anything the iPhone is on longer than 24 months, especially if you take 2nd hand into account (though quite a lot of that second-hand seems to be exported to emerging markets, complicating the picture).This has some interesting ecosystem implications. It looks like the Android ecosystem has to sell significantly more phones than Apple to get the same number of active users. This is probably good for the OEMs (presuming the replacements are not people switching away from Android to iPhone), but less good for Google. Ironically, Apple might prefer it to be the other way around as well - it would probably prefer you buy a new phone every year. But this makes comparing market share problematic - it looks like a given number of iPhone unit sales might mean more customers than the same number of Android unit sales.So sales market share might not directly reflect installed base.Not a surprise.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Experts have warned of more internet blackouts after a crash disabled eBay in northern Europe this week, as the decades old systems used to organise the world wide web creak under the sheer weight of new devices and websites.The web passed a milestone in its relentless growth on Tuesday: traffic across a key element of the internet reached unprecedented levels and caused meltdown for some of the older pieces of equipment which keep information flowing.As engineers around the world rushed to fix the problem, one internet traffic monitor reported that the number of routes suffering outages on Tuesday had doubled to 12,600. On a typical day outages normally affect 6,000 routes.Complaints began to flood chat forums and Twitter as eBay auctions ground to a halt and office workers found themselves locked out of Microsoft's cloud service Office 360 or unable to use the password protection service LastPass."The internet just broke under its own weight," said technology website The Register.At the heart of Tuesday's problems was a system known as the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) – essentially a map of the internet that lists hundreds of thousands of routes or pathways connecting laptops, tablets and smartphones to each other and to websites and company servers worldwide.BGP lists routes for the external web, connecting networks owned by broadband providers such as BT or Virgin, linking them to each other, to broadband providers in foreign countries and to destinations such as Apple or Google data centres.This week the number of routes mapped by BGP passed 512,000. The number is significant because some older routers – the machines which form the backbone of the internet by selecting the pathways taken by packets of information – are not able to remember more than 512,000 routes. Beyond that number they begin to slow down or simply forget routes, causing outages.Some web watchers are blaming the rise in traffic on an apparent mistake by the giant American broadband company Verizon, a problem which lasted only five minutes but was big enough to bring down large swaths of the internet.Vancouver-based firmBGPMon, said most of the larger internet companies were around the 500,000 mark - each provider has a slightly different list of routes. Level 3, which joins up national internet companies, was at 498,000 on Thursday."Now that we are so close every minor mistake tips us over," said Andree Toonk at BGPMon. "In a few weeks we will organically go over that 512 limit and we will probably run into a similar situation again. There will be outages and certain destinations will become unreachable. For a lot of people in the industry this was a wake up call."Toonk says the problem began on Tuesday at 8.48am UK time, when a flood of 15,000 new routes was introduced. He found almost all the new routes came from Verizon, which connects millions of American homes and businesses to broadband.Each route is a gateway giving access to thousands of individual IP addresses. But instead of announcing a few new routes aggregating packets of thousands of addresses, Toonk said Verizon announced lots of new routes aggregating small blocks of just a few hundred addresses, and that this was probably a leak from its internal system."Old hardware that is at least five years past its end-of-life sulked, because it ran out of memory," explained James Blessing, chair of the Internet Service Providers Association, which has close to 300 members across the UK.The US technology giant Cisco has beenwarningsince May that some of its older routers would collapse under the strain unless they were given a software update. But updating or replacing them can be complicated. "You can simply change some values on the boxes and then restart the entire machine," said Blessing. "Unfortunately these boxes have hundreds of customers attached to them so getting permission from them all to do that is a pain."Without the update, however, another traffic spike will turn these Cisco routers into "really expensive doorstops", as one IT expert warned.But a bigger, related problem is looming – the world is running out of internet addresses. National broadband providers have been slow to move away from the current system that assigns an internet address to each device, much like telephone numbers. Known as IPv4, the system has 4.3bn potential combinations, but the next generation, IPv6, which uses more digits and combines them with letters, will have a potential 340 trillion trillion trillion – more than the planet is ever likely to need (or at least for a while).Some parts of America have already adopted the new address system but the UK is playing catch up. Sky, Virgin and BT have already issued some wifi boxes to their residential customers capable of using IPv6, and Virgin is running both systems in parallel, but none of the companies has entirely made the switch."We are reaching breaking point on this area of handling internet addresses," said James Gill, chief executive of GoSquared, an internet traffic measurement group. "These outages will continue happening because of the growing number of devices on the web."
The GMB union is calling on Co-operative members to help oust Amazon lockers from the mutual's grocery stores.The union, which has pursued a long-running campaign over pay and conditions at the online retailer's British warehouses, said it had already raised the issue with the Co-op's chief executive Richard Pennycook and was now calling on members to throw out a "cuckoo in the ethical nest"."GMB needs the support of Co-operative members to ensure that Amazon improves security of employment, treats workers fairly and pays them a wage they can live on in their distribution chain in the UK and elsewhere in the EU," the union said. It claims that the majority of Amazon staff earn £6.39 an hour, only just above the national minimum wage, with permanent staff starting on £7 [ see footnote]. Amazon was unavailable for comment.Amazon is putting lockers in 160 Co-op stores where shoppers can choose to pick up goods ordered online, after teaming up with the mutual in 2012.The Co-op declined to comment.• This article was amended on 18 August 2014. Following publication Amazon has asked us to point out that its permanent staff earn a minimum of £7.10 an hour and that outside of the run up to Christmas about 80% of employees at its warehouses are permanent.
Google is going to great lengths to reinforce some of the world’s undersea data cables after a series of shark bites, aproduct managerhas revealed.The fibre optic cables, which carry internet traffic around the world, are protected by a series of layers to protect against impact and from movement that could break the glass fibres.Showing underwater surveillance video of a shark biting a cable, a cloud product manager said that Google is working with partner companies on cables across the Pacific to reinforce them with a Kevlar-like matting to prevent damage.Older copper cables have not seen the same problem, and it has been speculated that sharks are attracted to the magnetic field created by the high voltage carried through the cables, which resembles those created by fish.Fibre optic cables carry data across continents, in this case across the Pacific, and are the backbone of the internet. Each cable is made of many individual optical fibres, which are delicate but can transmit data at up to around 1 Gigabit per second or around 100 times faster than copper cables.Shark attacks undersea cableEach fibre cable requires power to be sent along the same line for optical repeaters that are placed along the cable amplifying the signal at set distances, typically 100km.Most cables have shielding to specifically prevent electrical transmission outside of the protective layers, although whether this shielding prevents all electrical and magnetic fields from expanding beyond the cable is unknown.Google is likely not the only company that suffers from shark bites and has to spend large amounts to protect their undersea infrastructure. Routes across the atlantic require more than 50 repairs a year, broken by a range of things including fishing trawlers, anchors, earthquakes and water pressure at depth.The search company recently announced that it was part of a six-company consortium planning a new high-speed cableconnecting the US to Japan, to speed communications between the US and Asia.Google did not comment on the story.• This article was amended on 15 August 2014 to give the Pacific Ocean a capital P in accordance with the Style guide.Eight Twitter bots worth following
Reddit, the social news site, is encouraging journalists who use it to follownew guidelineson ethical sourcing.The rules, which the site is calling “pressiquette”, a play on the “Reddiquette” guidelines which all users are expected to follow, tell journalists to “respect the community when sourcing content… remember that each subreddit belongs to its community [and] engage with transparency.”“If you see an interesting story or photo on reddit, message the redactor who share the piece to ask for their permission prior to using it in an article or list,” the site says.“Please respect redditors who may wish to stay anonymous, or not be featured in an article.”Reddit also encourages journalists to “be transparent” in their efforts to generate content, and to make an effort to let redditors connect with their articles “organically”.In many ways, the rules echothe advice Reddit gives its own users, known as “reddiquette”. Those rules also encourage users to “look for the original source of content” and to “adhere to the same standards of behaviour online that you follow in real life”.Until an administrator changed the advice in response to questions from the Guardian, however, one rule also encouraged users to “link to the direct version of a media file when the page it was found on doesn’t add any value.”That practice, known as “hotlinking”, is a common complaint of artists whose work regularly appears on Reddit, since it can send thousands of users to their site without a single one seeing an image credit or advertisement. The rule now only encourages hotlinking “if the page it was found on isn’t the creator’s and doesn’t add additional information or context”.The rules also clarify the relation Reddit the company has with Reddit the community. The company itself gets asked for permission to use photos on an hourly basis,according to its general manager, despite having no ability to grant that permission, which remains firmly vested in the original poster.In fact, since Reddit doesn’t host images itself, except for small thumbnail previews, the original picture is always hosted elsewhere – typically Imgur, which began as an image hosting site for Reddit but has now grown into a social network in its own right.As well as helping media organisations which think that Reddit can grant permission for users’ content, some of the guidance seems to be aimed at sites such as Buzzfeed, which have longbeen accusedof simply trawling Reddit and other social networks for material to post.On Tuesday,Gawker reportedthat more than 4,000 BuzzFeed posts have been removed from the site, apparently as part of a drive to remove articles that were,in the words of CEO Jonah Peretti, “trolly” or “poorly sourced”.
Reports this week have claimed that the internet is in danger of becoming “full” because the number of internet connections rose above a crucial limit. A small number of sites could have been taken momentarily offline by the issue with the infrastructure supporting parts of the internet.The issue revolved around a limit on the number of concurrent connections made to routers that underpin the internet. These operate in a similar manner to home routers spreading data about the global internet, rather than simply within a single address.“Old hardware that is at least five years past its end-of-life sulked, because it ran out of memory,” explained James Blessing, chair of the Internet Service Providers Association, which has close to 300 members across the UK.‘The address book filled up’“The problem revolved around TCAM memory - which is like an address book - getting full,” Blessing told the Guardian. “The default settings have 512,000 entry spaces. It reached 512,000 entries last week when an internet service provider (ISP) had a problem and leaked some address space, which caused some older boxes at other ISPs to fail.”ISPs have known about this issue for a while. Cisco, which manufactures a large chunk of the hardware used by ISPs,put out a notice about the issue in May, but some ISPs have been slow to fix the problem.“There is a fix for the issue - you can simply change some values on the boxes and then restart the entire machine,” said Blessing. “Unfortunately these boxes have hundreds of customers attached to them so getting permission from them all to do that is a pain.”That has caused some ISPs to put off the reboot, which would momentarily take websites connected to the box offline, until it caused a brief issue last week.DominosBecause some of the properties that suffered issues are interlinked it created larger domino-like problem for other sites.Blessing explained that if an ad-server was hit, then ads wouldn’t show up on websites making them look broken, or if an authentication service that lets users log into other sites with a single username and password – like Facebook, for instance – then those sites would be disrupted.The issue could be described in a similar manner to the Y2K bug – something that could have caused major issues for the internet if it hadn’t been fixed, but the fix was simple and in most cases completed within plenty of time.‘The 512k bug’“In the grand scheme of things, it’s tiny,” said Blessing. “It’s a glitch, glitches happen.”“If someone at an ISP hasn’t noticed it by now, it’s too late as the default table is over 512,000, so nothing that had this problem is now connected to the internet and working,” he said.“We’ve had the glitch and nothing further will happen now concerning the 512,000 bug.”The advice from experts is that if internet users haven’t noticed any issues by now they won’t see anything happening from now on. The internet is safe for now.Facebook goes down in second major outage in two months
Berlin has voted to ban Uber on safety grounds as the app-enabled taxi service continues to run up against resistance in Germany.Officials said the Californian company, which operates in 110 cities around the world, did not do enough to protect its passengers from unlicensed drivers. A senate statement said Uber – already banned in Hamburg – also failed to provide adequate insurance for its drivers or their passengers in accidents.The Berlin ruling states: "Uber is from now on no longer allowed to use a smartphone app or similar application, or offer services via this app which are in breach of the Public Transport Act."Uber said it would appeal against the ban, saying the senate's decision was "anything but progressive", and it was "seeking to limit consumer choice for all the wrong reasons".Uber claims that it does not operate a taxi service, but merely offers a platform that mediates between drivers and customers.Uber could be fined up to €25,000 (£20,000) if it ignores the ban. A Hamburg court last month lifted the ban pending a final decision. Uber's general manager, Pierre-Dimitri Gore-Coty, told Handelsblatt newspaper on Thursday that he expected a similar decision in Berlin.The Berlin ban followsEurope-wide protests by taxi drivers in June. In its statement, the Berlin senate said the "protection of the taxi industry" was one of the factors it had taken into consideration.The Association of Berlin Taxi Drivers welcomed the decisionin a statement on its website. "As taxi drivers, we have to meet a series of rules and commitments," said its chairman, Richard Leipold. "With its decision the senate has clarified that these apply to every player on the market, even digital competitors." Leipold said he hoped other cities would follow Berlin's lead. An interim injunction against Uber has been in place in Berlin since April, after a small taxi provider took legal action against the US company.
When I delete information from my Facebook account, is it possible to make Facebook delete said information from their systems too? Likewise, if I close an account with Facebook or Google, is it possible to make them remove all of my personal data from their systems, or are they allowed to just keep the lot?RichardThis is a complicated question, because several different types of information may be involved.First, there’s private data that belongs to you, such as your email and photos. Second, there is data that belongs to you but that you have published on, say, Twitter or Facebook or a bulletin board. Third, there is commercial data, of the sort that you create when buying things online. Fourth, there is metadata that you don’t know about, which tracks your browsing habits, location, and so on.Private dataDeleting private data isn’t usually a problem, and sites like WikiHow provide illustrated guides to deletingFacebook,Google,Google+,Yahooand other accounts. These companies will actually delete your data but it may take a while, so you can log on to Facebook after a week or two and still rescue a deleted account. It depends how widely your data is distributed (it’s not all in one file), and the length of time between file purges. However, your data may never be removed from old Google and Facebook backups, especially if they’re on tape. It would cost too much.Also, you must not be using your account. Even if you log out of the Facebook or Google websites, you may still have apps on a PC, tablet or phone (Instagram, Spotify etc) that are logged on using your account details.Before closing an account, you should download backup copies of all your data, or transfer it to a different service. For example, you can download all your Gmail data to a desktop email program such as Thunderbird, or get Outlook.com to collect it, or both. If you’ve shopped on Amazon and eBay, bought insurance online, booked holidays etc, your email contains information that you may not want to lose.Note that deleting an account may involve lots of different data. With Google, for example, you may have contact and calendar information, documents in Google Drive, posts and photos in G+ and Picasa, money in a Google Wallet, YouTube comments, reviews on Google Play, blogs on Blogger, and the data and apps on your Android phone. YourGoogle Dashboardhas a list.You can delete a single service such as Gmail or G+, but Google will still have a lot of information about you. Even if you quit Gmail, Google will probably still get copies of most of your emails, because you’ll still be writing to people who are on Gmail.Google has a good FAQ:Download your data, andGoogle Takeout, while Facebook offersDownloading Your Info.Shared dataPublished data harder to remove. If you had a debate with half a dozen people, you can delete your bits, but that may destroy the conversation. What about messages where someone else has quoted something you said? You can’t make other people delete their data. This is why Facebook would rather you deactivated your profile instead of deleting it: it will leave all the old Likes, conversations and photos in place.Facebook, Google and Twitter let you delete whatever you like from your own account, but things that have been copied or quoted may survive elsewhere. It may have been harvested by search engines or the data-mining companies that hoover up whatever they can find. Otherwise, theInternet Archiveis backing up the web but not Facebook, and theSmithsonianis keeping a database of tweets.Commercial and transactional dataCommercial data can be deleted, but that may not be advisable. You can delete your Amazon account, but then you lose your purchasing history and will have a tough time trying to return anything or get a refund. If youdelete an Apple ID account, you may lose your apps, and you may not be able to play copy-protected downloads or move them to another device. I’d expect commercial transactions on iTunes, Google Play, Facebook and other services to create similar problems.And if you delete your account, you can’t expect merchants to delete their sales records etc. It’s their data, not yours.Tracking and metadataFinally, there’s the data that companies collect about the things that you do online, including visits to websites. Google, Facebook and other companies hold a lot of metadata about, for example, who your friends are and which ones you contact most often, the times of day you’re active, how many devices you use (and what they are), and the locations from which you log on. All this reveals a lot about you.Metadata may extend well beyond a particular service, especially if you use a Google, Facebook, Twitter or other account to log on to different services or leave comments on other web sites. This is why I disabled Facebook Connect and use Google products inside “private browsing” (aka “porn mode”) windows.Google does let you delete your history and pause data collection on your own account. Youaccounthistorypage has sections for Things you search for, Places you’ve been, your YouTube searches, and Things you’ve watched on YouTube. Google also has aPrivacy Policypage, which explains the kinds of information it collects, and what it does with it. Facebook covers much the same ground inWhat data is stored by Facebook?and itsData Use Policypage.Internet companies also track you by putting cookies on your PC, browser fingerprinting, “canvas fingerprinting” (using the browser’s Canvas programming interface to draw invisible images to create unique identification numbers) and so on. A typical website may have from 20 to 100 trackers including ClickTale, Disqus, DoubleClick (Google), Facebook Connect, Google Adsense. Google AdWords, Google Analytics, Google Friend Connect, Google+ 1, Microsoft Atlas, Omniture and Visual Revenue. Companies also track you via your smartphone’s apps and Wi-Fi connections.Tracking is used to create profiles to target you with advertising. That’s what pays for “free” services. As security guru Bruce Schneier has observed:“Surveillance is the business model of the internet.”Today, the problem isn’t your personal accounts, it’s the tracking data and metadata that you did not freely contribute, that was collected mostly without your knowledge, and that may well be traded between companies. This is why you should use private browsing features, Firefox rather than Chrome, add-ons like Adblock Edge and Ghostery, and VPN (virtual private network) services. SeeHow can I protect my privacy online?for more ideas, though that answer is now somewhat out of date.
Smartwatches are “a niche opportunity at best” and face an uphill struggle to interest the general public - though Apple could change that if it enters the market, a new study has found.Areportby US-based Jackdaw Research surveyed 2,200 US and UK consumers, concluding that there is limited consumer interest in “push” notifications - the main function offered by smartwatches such as the Pebble and Android Wear devices like Samsung’s Gear Live offer.The survey points to continuing problems with the wearables market, where products such as Google Glass have so far failed to ignite consumer interest, and devices such as fitness trackers showhigh rates of abandonment.Smartwatches’ key capability is to notify the wearer on their wrist of information from apps on their phone, via a Bluetooth connection. They can vibrate or display a message on the screen. Users can typically dismiss the alert with a swipe, or in some devices dictate a response via voice dictation.But Jan Dawson, chief analyst at Jackdaw, says that the appeal of smartwatches rests on how many notifications people are interested in receiving, and whether they can or want to respond to them.That, the survey found, is very limited.Carried out online and adjusted for demographic profiles, the survey found that most people only choose to get one or two groups of notifications, such as text messages and emails, on the screen of their phone when it is locked.Overall, 24% were set up with no notifications at all, 33% from just one app, 15% from two, and 28% from more than two.Seen in the broader context of the US, where the survey reckons only 50% of adults have a smartphone, that means that only 22% of the overall population use notifications from two or more apps - suggesting a limited market for smartwatches based around push notifications at the outset.Most people don’t use ‘push’ notifications on their phone screen - suggesting that smartwatches, which are based on pushing information, will struggle Photograph: /PR/Jackdaw Research“We believe that a notification-centric smartwatch experience is only likely to be attractive to people who actively use push notifications for more than two apps,” notes Dawson. “Otherwise, the main function of the watch will remain dormant for much of the day.”But because typical notifications – text messages and emails – need the user to respond, “the current crop of smartwatches, which don’t provide good response capabilities to such messages, are not a good fit for those [functions] either.”Poor battery life and response functionsHe notes that some people who don’t currently use push notifications might do so if they got a smartwatch, and points to anecdotal information that some people don’t use push notifications because they require them to get their phone out of a pocket. “However, we believe this number is small, and therefore the effect limited,” Dawson notes.Other problems include limited battery life, which is less than two days for most current models, as well as the problem of responding to notifications that appear on the smartwatch, the size and lack of attractiveness of current offerings, and display quality, says Dawson.Google showed off its Android Wear softwarefor smartwatches amid great excitement at its I/O conference in June, with attendees receiving a free smartwatch provided by LG or Samsung. New models are expected from Motorola within weeks, and Taiwan’s HTC is widely rumoured to be preparing to enter the fray.Beyond Samsung, there are a number of other smartwatch makers, including US-based Pebble, launched by a$10m Kickstarter campaignin 2012.NPD data says that Samsung and Pebble presently dominate the market, with 78% and 18% of sales respectively in the US between October 2013 and May 2014.However Dawson cautions that hardware vendors should cut back on their investment in the space: “Market growth and the overall revenue opportunity remain poor,” he says.He suggests would-be new entrants should be cautious about Android Wear, which offers limited chances to tailor its appearance or function, and so risks any hardware running it becoming a commodity: “We would advise most would-be vendors to stay out of the market,” he says, while saying that those who continue should aim to be cross-platform, working with Android and Apple’s iOS.Time for Apple?But if Apple decides to enter the wearables field, as has been widely rumoured though not confirmed, this could transform the situation, the report says. Unconfirmed reports have suggested thatApple is partnering with Swatch, ormight introduce an “iTime”.Dawson says: “Two major things could catalyse demand in this market: a player overcoming the significant technological challenges associated with the current smartwatch model, or a player which breaks the model and reinvents the category. Apple seems the likeliest company to do either of these things, and we believe that its entry – likely in late 2014 or early 2015 – will catalyse the market and drive much more rapid growth.”He thinks that Apple will do “something completely different” - perhaps with a device lacking a screen, or in multiple forms to be worn on different parts of the body.But he adds that “if Apple is able to create significant innovation in its product, most of the benefits may accrue to Apple itself, with a minimal halo effect [benefitting other vendors] on other vendors.”Dawson warns that Apple’s arrival, if it happens, “may be a double-edged sword for existing vendors, at best” because it could dominate the market for iPhones, which make up 40% of smartphones in use in the US.One possible use for a wearable device is for mobile payments, where people pay in a store using their mobile phone via systems such as NFC - which Apple has been rumoured to be investigating. But that too is a limited market: only 9% of adults said in the survey that they “use it all the time”, while 64% said they had never used it, and 10% had tried it once.“Any smartwatch that incorporates mobile payments cannot simply continue to plough the same furrow as previous systems have,” the report notes, but must have far greater ease of use. It also has to contend with the lack of compatible systems in stores - “one of the biggest barriers to adoption today” - which creates a chicken-and-egg problem.The survey also found that 80% of the population has never tried a fitness tracker such as the Fitbit, even though they have been available for more than five years.The main users are in the 18-24 age group, but they have a high abandonment rate, with only 20% of respondents having tried one - of whom 45% (or 9% of the overall population) had given up using them.Dawson points out that smartwatches can incorporate fitness tracking - but on the evidence that fitness trackers are being abandoned by consumers, that isn’t sufficient cause to drive sales given that trackers typically cost far less than $100, while smartwatches are pricier. Smartwatches can, though, incorporate many functions.Android Wear: the good, the bad and the fixable with apps
In the business centre at the vast Gamescom exhibition in Cologne, Microsoft has its usual great green edifice – a rabbit warren of meeting rooms and break-out areas, with monitors showing endlessly rolling game trailers. It is an environment of concentrated tension from which the marketing messages are to be controlled and carefully distributed. It is a fort of Xbox. You are not getting anything they don’t want to give. That’s the way the modern industry works.Rise of the Tomb Raider is a classic example. At its press conference on Tuesday, Microsoft announced that the next Lara Croft game will be an Xbox exclusive when it arrives at Christmas 2015. But what does that mean? Is it timed? Will it arrive on other platforms at a later date? When?Raiding the messageAs it happens, my appointment to speak to Microsoft’s corporate vice president coincides exactly with Eurogamer speaking to the head of Xbox, Phil Spencer, in the room next door. We both want the same thing – confirmation on Tomb Raider.“We have said very clearly that Tomb Raider will be coming holiday 2015 exclusively to Xbox,” says Harrison with a wry, deliberate smile. “We’re very pleased with the partnership we have with Square Enix and Crystal Dynamics to bring that title to Xbox. Obviously our job is to make sure our console has the biggest games available on it - we want to make sure we bring value to our players whether they’re Xbox One owners today or if they become owners in the future - that’s why we’re also doing bundle offers this year with Sunset Overdrive, Call of Duty and Fifa. It’s all part of making the console more attractive. The Tomb Raider relationship is part of that.”The emphasis on the “holiday 2015” makes it obvious this is a timed deal, but he won’t say anymore. Meanwhile, next door, Eurogamer’s Wesley Yin Poolepushes Spencer into saying, “Yes, the deal has a duration. I didn’t buy it. I don’t own the franchise.”They don’t want to give us this information. They don’t want to because the whole point of the deal is doubt and ambiguity. For Tomb Raider fans wavering over what console to buy, the suggestion that the series will only continue on Xbox One – or that Xbox will be the place to get the games, say, a good year before other machines – may be enough to encourage their commitment toward Microsoft’s platform. But if Spencer or Harrison show their cards too early and put a shelf-life on the deal, fans are able to factor that in; they can be rational.I ask Harrison if chasing third-party exclusives is a dangerous venture – it obviously secures attractive content, but it also creates frustration and even anger in the wider games community. He sits back. “Well as I’ve always said, one of the greatest things about our industry is the passion of our fans - that’s what makes us get out of bed every morning, trying to build the best games we can – that doesn’t change.”This isn’t going to go anywhere.So we talk about the need for original titles in the new console era. Destiny is exciting but it has set a scary precedent: a team of many hundreds, a budget in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Is that really sustainable?“This is a conversation I’ve been having for 25 years,” he says. “Can the industry support this incredible increase in development costs? I remember when development budgets were in the hundreds of thousands, and when the average became more than a million there was a lot of wailing and gnashing of teeth that this was an unsustainable trend.“The reality is, everyone’s a gamer now, the worldwide industry is growing, not just driven by consoles but by mobile devices. Some analysts are talking about $70-80bn in annual sales over the next two years. Games are almost ubiquitous and that allows us to make big bold ambitious bets on the future of entertainment. Quantum Break is an example of that. We’re working with a talented developer, but we are investing significant funds to make sure we can create something new and special - not just in the game but the TV narrative that intertwines with it. We hope it will create a new form of interactive entertainment that will set a benchmark for the future. We have lots of other things in development that’s we’re yet to announce – we’ll do that when the time is right …”The numbers gameAs for the battle with PlayStation 4, Sony has been providing sales numbers throughout the last year, Microsoft... not so much. Xbox One is coming to 28 new territories this autumn – it’s important to understand that it isn’t as widely available on a global level as PlayStation 4. But when are we going to get the next official announcement on sales beyond the five million revealed in July?“We’re a public company so we have to be thoughtful about the time and place for making announcements on sales figures,” says Harrison. “But lets take a slightly wider view of this - we are a tiny fraction into this generation. 95 percent of it is ahead of us. Some analysts are predicting that this is going to be the biggest console generation ever, so we are confident that the new value we have, with the lower price, the games, the features, the ability to stream live TV to any device in your house … these are killer features. We remain very confident.”I’m panicking a little. I can’t get past this. I’m not asking the right questions, or not asking them in the right way. And this is in no way a judgement on Harrison. These interviews are pressurised and purposefully synthetic – you have 15 minutes on a noisy show floor, and there are journalists lining up outside. Later, I spoke briefly to the head of a major studio with a Triple A title at the show - he told me he had 27 interviews to do the following day. 27.And behind that will have been weeks of media training. This is what they teach you: go in to every interview with the three points you want to make – make them whatever the question. Don’t change the script. Make the interviewer feel comfortable, pretend to remember them, use their first name throughout. It is about control. These aren’t really interviews, they are marketing opportunities. Remember that time Quentin Tarantinoexploded at Krishnan Guru-Murthyduring a promotional chat around Django Unchained? The Channel 4 news presenter was baiting him into a debate about the effects of film violence, and the director refused to take part. “I’m here to promote my movie,” he said. “This is an advert for my movie, make no mistake.”I ask Harrison about this last year for Xbox, the PR troubles, the high-profile U-turns. Has this been personally difficult? “We’ve learned a lot, but our commitment is unwavering,” he says. “We have to make sure we deliver the best console with the best games and the best online service. Those are the simple steps we have to take. But let’s not forget that Xbox One is off to the fastest start of any device we’ve introduced, out-pacing 360 in the same time frame - the whole industry is growing, which is exciting and positive.”The ever-present PR person tells me my time is up. Outside the room, the bustle continues. It is like this on every stand, in every meeting room. The industry charges on.Rise of the Tomb Raider to be an Xbox exclusive
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHumin address book app is built on founder's contacts &gt;&gt; BusinessweekHumin analyzes contact data to try to give users more relevant information. "The goal is to remember someone the way you do," Jain says. The app combines contacts from multiple sources into a list that's searchable by details such as mutual friends or where and when you met. Besides annotating your contacts so you don't have to, the app reorders them based on details such as who's in town."It's changed how I make calls," says Shakil Khan, head of special projects at Spotify. "I don't have some Adam or Aaron at the top of the list who I haven't seen in years." Troy Carter, who's amassed more than 10,000 contacts while managing celebrities such as Lady Gaga, says Humin "solves a personal pain point for me" by eliding contacts he doesn't use. Carter and Khan say they chose to invest because they were impressed with Jain.Goes live in the iOS App Store today, 14 August.512KDay: How the internet BROKE (Next time, big biz, listen to your network admin) &gt;&gt; The RegisterTrevor Pott:Yesterday, 12 August, 2014, the internet hit an arbitrary limit ofmore than 512K routes. This 512K route limit is something we haveknown about for some time.The fix for Cisco devices – and possibly others –is fairly straightforward. Internet service providers and businesses around the world chose not to address this issue in advance, as a resultcausing major outagesaround the world.As part of the outage, punters experienced patchy – or even no – internet connectivity and lost access to all sorts of cloud-based services.Gree turns to native games to save company &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaIn 2012, the companyannounced that it would focus on browser-based gaming using HTML5. That era is essentially over. Gree said in today's earnings report that it decided to initiate an internal restructuring that will take the 700 employees currently working on browser games and have them join the team focusing on full native games. The company will now have 1,000 employees dedicated to full native games, over half of its 1,894 staff.How SwiftKey built the world's smartest keyboard and soared to the top of the app economy &gt;&gt; TechRepublic[Co-founder Jon] Reynolds started working on the problem at home and mentioned it to his friend Ben Medlock, who he had met at Cambridge University and who, as luck would have it, was not only intrigued but also had a background in artificial intelligence and natural language processing, making him an ideal co-founder and CTO for the company.Medlock said the key breakthrough they had, right at the start, was the realisation that building a better keyboard was not about how to lay out the keys or how to arrange the characters. It was about how to capture the way people use language.Their first instinct had actually been to dump the Qwerty keyboard and to come up with something radical and optimised for touchscreen devices. They quickly realised this was the wrong approach."We very quickly realised that people have Qwerty wired into their brains and that layout is almost as familiar to them as speaking. It really is that fundamental an element of people's communications lives," he said.Instead, they focused on the problem of how to capture the way we use language and how to build that into the software that sits behind the keyboard and makes predictions.This meant approaching the problem from two different directions. The first thing Medlock needed was a huge source of information about how people use language, so he used the European Grid - a huge massive parallel computing network built to analyse data from the Large Hadron Collider data - to extract all the publicly available texts off the internet in different languages. This formed the basis of the background model.The mobile OS paradigm &gt;&gt; Learning by ShippingSteve Sinofsky (formerly at Microsoft, where he oversaw Windows 8):During the transition from mini to PC, the low price and low performance created a price/performance gap that the minis thought they would exploit. Yet the scale volume, architectural openness, and rapid improvement in multi-vendor tools (and more) contributed to a rapid acceleration that could not compare.During the transition from character-based to GUI-based PCs many focused on the expense of extra peripherals such as graphics cards and mice, requirement for more memory and MIPs, not to mention the performance implications of the new interface in terms of training and productivity. Yet, Moore's law, far more robust peripheral support (printers and drivers), and ability to draw on multi-app scenarios (clipboard and more) transformed computing in ways character-based could not.The same could be said about the transition to internetworking with browsers. The point is that the ancillary benefits of these architectural transitions are often overlooked while the dialog primarily focuses on the immediate and visible changes in the platform and experience…The transition to the mobile OS platforms is following this same pattern. For all the debates about touch versus keyboard, screen-size, vertical integration, or full-screen apps, there are fundamental shifts in the underlying implementation of the operating system that are here to stay and have transformed computing.Samsung Z permanently axed – report &gt;&gt; Mobile World LiveSamsung has apparently dropped the Tizen-powered Z smartphone from its portfolio, following the shelving of its anticipated debut in Russia. According to Tizen Experts, the South Korean company is now focusing its efforts using the platform on two entry-level devices for emerging markets.The news is hardly surprising: with continued delays, the device begins to look less competitive in the face of continued upgrades to devices powered by Android – including Samsung's own products.But the challenges faced by Samsung will not fundamentally be different in emerging markets to more developed regions.Five police investigated after Delhi launches WhatsApp anti-bribery campaign &gt;&gt; BBC NewsFive policemen in India are being investigated for alleged corruption after officials received complaints on a newly-launched helpline number.Since its launch on 6 August, the helpline has received more than 3,700 WhatsApp messages and 622 calls.Officials said they had received two video and three audio messages and were investigating the reported incidents.Motorola makes a comeback &gt;&gt; PCWorldSold 8.6m smartphones in 2q 14 compared to 6.5m in 1Q14, according to ABI Research:thanks to the Moto G, the LTE version of that phone and the Moto E, Motorola's sales have turned a corner. The company apparently hit on a winning formula, offering phones at lower prices but with features good enough to please many consumers."As the market for flagship smartphones has softened and a lot of people are looking at buying devices without a contract, Motorola's Moto E and G seem to have really captured the moment," [Ben] Wood [of CCS Insight] said.The strategy to pair decent specs with a low price isn't the only reason for Motorola's comeback. Avoiding the cluttered interface found on many other Android products also helped, according to Roberta Cozza, research director at Gartner. And while the US remains an important market for Motorola, traction in India and a return to Europe have also lifted its sales.Motorola consistently made operating losses while owned by Google. Question is, can Lenovo (soon to take it over) grow it to breakeven?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
After a confident Microsoft press conference, in which the Redmond giant made the most of its platform exclusives while claiming to be “the best place to play this Christmas”, Sony had to hit Gamescom with something special. It did. Kind of. The company’s own press event was filled with interesting revelations – and its usual Gamescom haunt, the Radisson hotel over the road from the Koelnmesse exhibition centre, has been packed with demo events and roundtable interviews.Among the most significant new announcements of the Tuesday press briefing was the news that Rayman creator Michel Ancel is working on a PlayStation 4 exclusive named Wild. The open-world game is set in a primitive, fantasy environment that Ancel claimed may be “as big as Europe”, and appears to focus on mechanics of survival and hunting. Ancel stated that the game let users play as any living animal, though how far that ability goes remains unknown. Certainly, hogs, humans and wolves seem abundant in the early gameplay trailer.Sony also unveiled a new title from UK outfit Ninja Theory, which has previously crafted action brawlers such as Heavenly Sword, Enslaved and DmC. The studio’s next creation, Hellblade, was revealed via a fleeting launch trailer, which alluded to a melee combat-based game set in a barren landscape. The teaser video appeared not to demonstrate gameplay footage, and sported a visual style curiously close to 2007’s Heavenly Sword. There was, however, no word on Hellblade’s status as an official sequel, or PS4 exclusive.Other new games debuting at Gamescom are horror adventure P.T. by 7780s Studio [UPDATE: laterrevealed to bea Silent Hill sequel from Hideo Kojima and film director Guillermo del Toro), Ruffian’s squad-based combat title Hollowpoint, apparent twin-stick shooter Alienation from Finnish outfit Housemarque, and Q Games’ distinct revolutionary-themed indie release The Tomorrow Children. Here they all are:Sony also welcomed Dean Hall of Bohemia Interactive to the stage during its press event to announce that a reworked version of survival horror PC game DayZ is in development for PlayStation 4. Initially a PC exclusive built from a celebrated ARMA 2 mod, the open-world multiplayer zombie survival adventure promises new features and tweaks to better suit the Sony console, with Hall stating his team “didn’t just want to port the game”.DayZ is in fact still in-development for PC, but the Steam Early Access version has been well received shifting over two million downloads. But as with Hellblade, it is not clear yet if DayZ will limit its console ambitions to the PlayStation 4. One key theme of Gamescom so far has been the ambiguous platform exclusive...Vita hit Tearaway joins the titles getting a PS4 remake, with many new control functions that, as with the original, strive to toy with the fourth wall. As such, the DualShock’s touch pad, light bar and motion sensitivity will all help players better connect with Tearaway’s papercraft world.Similarly, Until Dawn was intended as a PS3 title but is now undergoing a major reworking to support PS4. Developer Supermassive Games was claimed to be rewriting the game’s story, code and controls for Sony’s new platform.The Sony press evening concluded with development legend and Metal Gear series creator Hideo Kojima addressing the audience in his debut appearance at the show. He introduced previously unrevealed features of his coming stealth game Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain. And it was controversial stuff.For many years the tech thriller series has featured cardboard boxes, in which protagonist Snake hides from enemies. Well, these handy containers can now be decorated with various images. The brooding antihero can, for example, hide inside a box illustrated with an enemy soldier, or even a swimwear-sporting women, so as to distract guards and make stealth kills.The crowd at Gamescom reacted to the reveal with cheers of delight, and the mechanics certainly continue a tradition of surrealism and sexuality in the Metal Gear series. But in an era of too few female protagonists, the use of bikini shots may well attract its own crowd of critics.The Sony press briefing also confirmed that Destiny, Shadow of Mordor and Farcry 4 will all include PlayStation 4 exclusive content. Microsoft had earlier the same day made quite the impact in its own press conference with news that multi-platform stalwart Tomb Raider was to become an Xbox One exclusive with Rise of the Tomb Raider. This is to be a battle of many fronts, though, and both of these veteran console manufacturers know how to put on a seductive show. The best place to play this Christmas is, in reality, still to be decided.Gamescom 2014: the five big questionsRise of the Tomb Raider to be an Xbox exclusive
It's Thursday.
This week on Tech Weekly with Aleks Krotoski we hear from Guardian digital journalist Fred McConnell on his recent trip to the YouTube creators-and-fans conference,Summer in The City, which took place in London recently.Fred talks to YouTube star Tyler Oakley about the unique community of fans around the platform and why he feels it has the power to educate and entertain.Aleks is joined by the tech team, Charles Arthur, Alex Hern and Keith Stuart to discuss the rise of the Chromebook in US classrooms, new Gartner research that says the hype around the 'Internet of Things ' has never been higher, and we celebrate 10 years of the Guardian games blog.
Musician Neil Young’s new venture PonoMusic raised $6.2m on crowdfunding website Kickstarter earlier in 2014. Now it’s turning to the online crowd again, this time offering stakes in the company.PonoMusic, whose online store selling high-resolution music downloads and a device to play them on will launch later this year, hopes toraise at least $2.5m on the Crowdfunder site.A minimum investment of $5,000 will secure a small stake in the company, which is valuing itself at $50m.The new campaign was officially launched today, although it was launched quietly at the start of August. More than $1.4m has already been pledged, with the campaign due to end on 1 September.“We are already seeing that this is a growing trend, where companies who successfully run Kickstarter campaigns then want to give those backers a chance to invest through an equity crowdfunding campaign,” Crowdfunder chief executive Chance Barnett told The Guardian.“This opens up a much bigger pool of capital for the company and also allows the people that are most passionate about the company – backers – the opportunity to invest.”Barnett suggested that equity crowdfunding will help PonoMusic avoid the criticism faced by fellow Kickstartee Oculus VR, when it announced that it was beingbought by Facebookearlier this year.“Oculus sold to Facebook for $2bn after raising millions via Kickstarter. Those who backed Oculus never got the opportunity to invest, and there was a significant backlash when it was sold,” said Barnett. “Pono isn’t making that mistake with the music community.”Young launched PonoMusic’s Kickstarter campaign in Marchin a keynote speech at the SXSW conference in Austin. The companyhit its $800,000 goal within hours, and by the time the campaign closed in April, it was thethird most successful Kickstarter ever.More than 15,000 people pledged enough to pre-order the PonoPlayer device, with the first units due to ship in the final quarter of 2014 – by which time the company’s downloads store will also have launched in the UK, US and Canada.Young co-founded PonoMusic, but in Julyhe also became its chief executive, replacing previous CEO John Hamm.“PonoMusic has been a mission of mine for many, many years, and I’m more passionate than ever about the prospects for its success,” said Young at the time. “I want to use my time and abilities to bring the fullness of music, as the artists created it, to as many music fans as possible.”Crowdfunder’s Bennett said that while equity crowdfunding is often a logical follow-up to Kickstarter-style crowdfunding, it’s not necessarily squeezing out traditional investors.“In fact, it is often times lead investors and VCs who bring their deals to Crowdfunder to have a trusted partner who brings additional relationships, marketing, brand building, and ultimately new investors and funding alongside them,” he said.“Once there is a notable VC attached to a deal that’s on Crowdfunder, we see that they are many more times more likely to become fully funded on our platform. Knowing who else is in on the deal, and getting to invest alongside other investors who have a track record of success is one of the most significant drivers of attention, engagement, and investment on Crowdfunder.”•Neil Young to sell $399 PonoPlayer through Kickstarter
Spotify has added a new way for musicians to make money from its streaming music service, through a partnership with US company BandPage.The pair have teamed upto enable artists to sell “VIP experiences” to fans from their Spotify profile pages, including access to exclusive concerts, meet’n’greets, Skype conversationsand limited-edition merchandise.Country artist Miranda Lambert, pop singer Ariana Grande and dance star Porter Robinson are among the first musicians to take advantage of the new feature, which will sit alongside existing ticket and merchandise sales on their profile pages.The experiences are similar to those offered by musicians as part of crowdfunding campaigns on sites like Kickstarter, although in this case, they’re being sold rather than offered as rewards for pledges.Spotify is not the first streaming music service to work with BandPage in this way. In September 2013, it announceda similar partnership with US service Rhapsody. More than 500,000 musicians have profiles on BandPage already.For the Spotify launch, fans can pre-order Grande’s new album for $9.98 and get access to an online stream of her concert debuting its songs; pay $39.99 to meet Robinson during his upcoming tour and get a mask prop from a recent video; or buy Lambert’s $25 t-shirt and beer-cooler bundle.Other examples include US band Tea Leaf Green charging fans $200 to collaborate on one of their own songs with its drummer and producer, and The Stone Foxes charging $30 for fans to watch soundchecks and meet them on their next tour.“Offering direct-to-fan experiences represents a massive opportunity for musicians,” BandPage chief executive J Sider told The Guardian, citing a report from research firm Nielsen suggesting that this areacould be worth up to $2.6bn a year to artists.“At BandPage, we’ve seen bands increase their net revenue by as much as 25% by adding experiences like VIP backstage passes, online concerts, custom recordings and more. And fans absolutely love the opportunity to connect with their favourite artists in this way.”Spotify’s director of artist services Mark Williamson told The Guardian that the new experiences feature will be live in nine countries today – the US, UK, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Iceland – with more to follow.BandPage offers will now be shown within Spotify.The BandPage partnership helps Spotify out of a hole: its previous partner for selling merchandise through artist profiles, Topspin, wasbought by rival streaming service Beats Musicearlier this year – with Beats subsequently bought by Apple.Spotify also hopes the new feature, together with the existing ticketing section on artist profiles, will help to win over artists who have criticised the company – and streaming music in general – for the amount musicians make from plays of their songs.In some cases, this is a big challenge. Radiohead’s Thom Yorke – with his infamous“last desperate fart of a dying corpse” interview– andDavid Byrnehave been Spotify’s most prominent critics.This week alone, Sean Kinney from rock band Alice in Chainsdescribed streaming payouts as “a fucking ripoff”while Swedish indie label Blue Music Groupremoved its catalogue from Spotify citing “pitiful rates”.“Whilst our core focus will always be on generating royalty income when fans enjoy your music, the opportunity that 40 million users represents for other aspects of an artist’s bottom line is huge,” Williamson told The Guardian.“Being able to directly help artists to fill seats at shows, get shirts onto fans’ backs and connect with their audiences sets Spotify apart in terms of what we can offer artists.”For now, fans will only see the BandPage experiences if they visit musicians’ Spotify profiles: they will not be automatically shown when listening to that artist, or when using the service’s “Discover” section that recommends music to listen to.Is that a missed opportunity? “Artist Pages on Spotify are highly trafficked and the perfect area for merchandise as the fan has already shown an interest in the artist. It’s a chance to explore more than just their music,” said Williamson.“Having said that, we’re keen to explore other areas of Spotify where the discovery and display of merchandise might fit but we want to balance that with ensuring that our users can get to music first and foremost.”Spotify now has tickets, merchandise and fan experiences, but there’s one more obvious thing missing: crowdfunding.For now, there is no way for artists to promote their fundraising campaigns on sites likeKickstarter, PledgeMusic,Patreonand Indiegogo to people discovering their music on Spotify – or, indeed, any streaming music service.YouTube is preparing to introduce crowdfunding featuresfor creators using its platform soon. Should Spotify be looking to follow suit, or at least strike BandPage-style partnerships with the crowdfunding firms listed above?“Crowdfunding is a really interesting development in the music industry,” said Williamson. “However, for the time being we want to focus on the commercial areas that are easily available to the majority of artists and that are most attractive to fans.”•Spotify: five challenges looming for streaming music services
Samsung has announced a new Galaxy Alpha smartphone with a metal body, signalling that it has recognised consumer disgruntlement with flimsy plastic phone parts.Galaxy Alpha, which runs on Android software, replaces the characteristic chromed plastic seen on previous high-end Samsung smartphones with a metal frame with chamfered edges, reminiscent of the iPhone andmetal band Vapor smartphone casesfrom Element Case.“The Galaxy Alpha was built and designed based on the specific desires of the consumer market,” said JK Shin, Samsung’s CEO and head of IT &amp; mobile communication.It is likely to compete directly with Apple’s iPhone.The Galaxy Alpha joins the Galaxy S5, which first released in April at the top end of Samsung’s line. It has a smaller 4.7in HD screen with lower resolution compared to the S5, but is thinner, at 6.7mm thick compared to 8.1mm, and at 115g is lighter than the 145g Galaxy S5.The majority of the rest of the device is the same as the S5 on the inside, complete with fingerprint scanner and selfie camera, although the battery capacity is a third smaller.The main feature difference is the metal edging, which joins to a plastic removable back.The metal frame joins to a removable plastic back. Photograph: Samsung‘A metal band around the outside is not enough’The move comes after Samsung steadfastly stuck to plastic materials for its smartphones and tablets for years - even as the competition from Apple and HTC moved to premium metal materials - saying that its plastic construction was more durable and flexible to consumer needs.“The biggest problem is that Samsung keeps launching devices that are not as premium in terms of materials compared to its competitors,” said Francisco Jeronimo, European mobile devices research director for IDC, who has seen the Alpha. “If you want to charge $600 for a smartphone you cannot provide plastic covers – a metal band around the outside is not enough.”“How can you charge a premium price for premium devices when competitors are providing much better materials making devices that look and feel more premium?” Jeronimo asked.Apple is expected to launch a new iPhone that is likely to be larger than the current iPhone 5S, with a 4.7in screen compared to just 4in, but will still be built using premium metal materials.Jeronimo described the Alpha as a step forward for Samsung on design, but that it has nothing to set it apart from the competition.“Going head-to-head with Apple and its iPhone 6 in September will be a tough sell,” explained Jeronimo. “As consumers start going to the store and putting one device against another, they will notice the difference in material if Apple sticks to the design scheme of the current iPhone.”The Galaxy Alpha is will to be available in September. Samsung did not release pricing, but it is expected to go on sale for around $600 to $700 in the US, or around £400 to £500 in the UK, or cheaper through a mobile phone contract.Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic
A man suspected of child sex abuse has been caught halfway around the world after 14 years on the run from authorities, thanks to facial recognition technology.Neil Stammer, 48, of New Mexico, was caught in Nepal hiding under the alias Kevin Hodges, after his photo from 1999 was recirculated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on a reissued wanted poster in January.Stammer had been arrested in 1999 on multiple charges including child sex abuse and kidnapping, but skipped bail.In May 2000 New Mexico issued an arrest warrant filing a federal fugitive charge, and one month later passing the case to the FBI.“In addition to the current fugitives, I had a stack of old cases,” FBI special agent Russ Wilsonsaid in a statement. “Stammer’s stood out.”‘He never thought he would be discovered’The US Diplomatic Security Service (DSS), the agency responsible for controlling US passports and embassies, subsequently scanned the photo as part of a test of its new facial recognition software designed to uncover passport fraud.The DSS matched Stammer’s photo to a passport under the name Kevin Hodges, which was being used for regular extensions to a tourist visa at the US Embassy in Nepal.“He was very comfortable in Nepal,” said Wilson. “My impression was that he never thought he would be discovered.”Stammer, who spoke a dozen languages, was an internationally known juggler with a magic shop in New Mexico, and had been living in Nepal teaching English and other languages.The FBI worked with the Nepalese government to locate and arrest Stammer.Multiple attempts have been made to set up facial recognition databases in the past,both in the USand the UK, causing rows overprivacy and ethics.Proponents of facial recognition databases cite the ability to catch both criminals and terrorists through CCTV cameras and image databases, as Stammer was.But opponents claim the added power for law enforcement does not outweigh privacy concerns for the general public.“Unlike other biometric identifiers such as iris scans and fingerprints, facial recognition is designed to operate at a distance, without the knowledge or consent of the person being identified,” US senator Al Franken wrote in an open letter contesting facial recognition technology reaching devices like Google Glass smartglasses.“Individuals cannot reasonably prevent themselves from being identified by cameras that could be anywhere – on a lamp post, attached to an unmanned aerial vehicle or, now, integrated into the eyewear of a stranger.”Stammer’s arrest after 14 years marks one of the first success stories to be directly powered by the new technology.•Facial recognition technology violates privacy laws, says Germany
Amazon has confirmed it is to enter the mobile payments market with a new local payments product that is likely to severely undercut competitors including Square, PayPal and iZettle.Amazon Local Register, which is at present available only in the US, lets retailers take credit card payments using an iOS or Android device, or Amazon’s own Fire range of mobile devices, for a fee of 1.75% per swipe.The fee is a percentage point lower than that charged by Sweden’s iZettle and Square, which was started by Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey. Another rival, PayPal, already undercuts those services by 0.5%.The lower fee is an “introductory offer” which will end on 1 January 2016, but even the standard rate of 2.5% is still one of the lowest on the market. The move hints at another land grab by the firm, which is well known for deploying aggressive price-cuts to build market share.“From clothing stores to contractors, food trucks to accountants, businesses and organisations using Amazon Local Register will enjoy industry-leading low rates, trusted and secure payment processing, and access to award-winning customer support,” said Matt Swann, vice president of Amazon Local Commerce.As well as undercutting competitors on fees, Amazon is offering businesses that sign up for the service a refund on the $10 cost of the card reader itself by refunding the first $10 worth of fees paid. The company is also offering retailers a $380 bundle that includes its Kindle Fire tablet, which can be used as a point of sale device.Paradoxically, the introduction of chip and pin payments in Europe may have slowed the adoption of services such as Square and Amazon Local Register, which only use the magnetic stripe on the card to read the payment data.Stripe readers are significantly cheaper to build than chip and pin readers, and don’t require the same security standards.Although Amazon hasn’t announced any further plans beyond card readers, already commentators are examining the prospect of it using its vast database of credit-card data to simplify the buying process in the physical world, as well as the online one.I mean, Amazon&#39;s already got all your payment info. You could just say &quot;Hey, charge it to [name]&quot; and it could do it.&mdash; Nicole Lee (@nicole)August 13, 20141-click in real life. The horror.&mdash; Nicole Lee (@nicole)August 13, 2014Square, the San Francisco-based firm which largely launched the concept of mobile credit card payments in 2010,announced in August 2014that it had acquired Caviar, a food delivery startup.“Caviar’s curated, seamless delivery experience is exactly the kind of service we want to provide buyers and sellers,” said Dorsey. “By making delivery such a fast, friendly, and easy process, Caviar gives time back to restaurants so they can focus on what they do best – cooking great food for their customers.”Amazon planning credit card reader to compete with PayPal – report
Electronic Arts has officially announced Shadow Realms, the new game series from BioWare, the creator of the hugely successful Mass Effect and Dragon Age titles.The new PC-only title is an online multiplayer action RPG, in which a malevolent force known as the Shadow Legion breaks out of its own dimension and invades modern Earth, bringing with it an army of assorted monsters. Judging by the brief demo shown at Gamescom on Wednesday, andthe teaser videosreleased over the last week, the planet’s only protectors are a group of teenagers who suddenly discover they have special powers.The game will comprise of dynamic co-op missions where four players take part as human collaborators, fighting against another player who controls the Shadowlord. It’s a form of asymmetrical multiplayer that is growing in popularity: alien hunting game Evolve and fantasy battler Fable: Legends use a similar system.Taking to the stage during the Electronic Arts press conference on the first morning of Gamescom, BioWare Austin’s general manager Jeff Hickman said that the game’s dynamic structure is a return to the feel of old pencil and paper role-playing adventures where a game master would control the flow of the action, reacting to player activities. Here, the story guiding the four-v-one fights will alter as the action progresses.“We want to bring back some of the creativity of a human game master who authors an ever-changing adventure right before you eyes,” said Hickman. “The Shadowlord controls every aspect of the game, possessing, entrapping and destroying. A continuously updated story, embedded in the online adventure, along with an ever-changing world, will ensure that no two trips will play out the same way.”In the background an over-arching story of humans versus the interdimensional Shadow Legion will play out in an episodic form, with new plot sequences released on a regular basis.The game is due out late next year, but BioWare is runninga closed betastarting in September.Gamescom 2014: the five big questionsKeith Stuart is attending GamesCom on a press trip organised by Electronic Arts, in which transport and accomodation costs have been met by the publisher.For information on the Guardian’s policy covering paid-for trips, please see theeditorial codeorthis article on transparency and trust.
Candy Crush Saga publisher King’s share price has beentaking a thumping since it announced its financial resultslast night.The company reported revenues of $593.6m and a net profit of $165.4m for the second quarter of 2014, which sounds healthy enough: most mobile games companies would be more than happy with those numbers.But those revenues were actually down on the first quarter’s $606.7m – the first time King has recorded such a fall since before Candy Crush mania took off in early 2013.Its gross bookings – a measure used by social games companies for how much people are spending in their games – were also down, from $641.1m in the first quarter of this year to $611.1m in the second quarter.Here’s the phrase – fromKing’s official results announcement– that summarises why Wall Street has been spooked enough to knock off close to a quarter of the value of the company, whichwent public earlier in the year:“The decreases in both gross bookings and revenue from first quarter 2014 to second quarter 2014 were primarily due to lower gross bookings from Candy Crush Saga, which were only partially offset by increased gross bookings and revenue from Farm Heroes Saga and Bubble Witch 2 Saga following its launch on web and mobile in June 2014.”Players are spending less money in King’s powerhouse puzzle game, and the newer Saga titles that have joined it on Apple and Google’s app stores aren’t yet making up for that decline. But will that change in the coming months? The worst nightmare for King is the recent history of one of its key rivals: Zynga.I’ve been comparing the two companies’ financial results, and there’s a real risk for King that this summer could be its equivalent of Zynga’s summer of 2012: a peak in revenues and players, followed by a steady decline.Could players fall out of love with “Saga” games as they did with “Ville” games two years ago? Here’s some of the data behind that comparison, with apologies for the tiny text labels – they’re not a barrier to understanding the trends. In each graph, King’s financials are the blue line, and Zynga’s the red.What the numbers showFirst, quarterly revenues for the two companies from the earliest point they were published in their respective IPO prospectuses: going back to the first quarter of 2010 for Zynga, and the first quarter of 2012 for King:King’s revenues rose fast, but could be set to fall. Source: King/Zynga/The GuardianKing’s revenues seem to have peaked in the third quarter of 2013, at the height of the Candy Crush craze. Zynga’s peaked in the first quarter of 2012, and the couple of quarters after each peak look strikingly similar on the graph.How about bookings: that measure of how much people are actually spending on virtual items within each company’s games?Another peak of spending for King and Zynga. Source: King/Zynga/The GuardianTurning my attention to player numbers, I chose to compare monthly unique users (MUUs in industry parlance) rather than monthly active users (MAUs), in an effort to understand how their overall number of players has risen and fallen – without players being counted twice if they play several games:Only one quarter of MUU decline so far for King, but it’s a worry for investors. Source: King/Zynga/The GuardianIt’s also worth looking at the number of monthly unique payers (MUPs) – the number of people who’ve actually spent money within King and Zynga’s games, as opposed to simply playing them for free:King’s declining money-spenders isn’t just a 2014 phenomenon. Source: King/Zynga/The GuardianKing’s high-point for monthly unique payers was actually last summer: the third quarter of 2013. Its MUPs have now fallen for three consecutive quarters, even if it’s only in the second quarter of this year that the company’s revenues declined.What does this comparison suggest?Here’s my theory: when Zynga’s business peaked in the summer of 2012 and then started to decline, one of the main causes was Ville-ennui.People who’d been addicted to games like FarmVille and CityVille were tiring of the format: seeing new Ville games and deciding not to go down that long, clicky road again. The brand itself became a bit of a millstone, and Zynga wasn’t able to win those players back with newer games.The big risk for King in 2014 is that “Saga” is the new “Ville”. Are more players who’ve sweet-swapped their way several hundred levels into Candy Crush Saga taking a look at new Saga games, with their familiar three-star level maps, and opting out?It’s pure speculation: the financial data is supporting material for this hypothesis, but it certainly doesn’t prove it yet.I do wonder, though, whether it’s a risk for any mobile game that becomes a craze – people may disappear down its digital rabbit hole for months, but when they resurface, the prospect of doing it again may not appeal.And it’s at this point that a company like Zynga or King needs to come up with new ideas and brands that don’t feel like that same old rabbit hole.Why might this theory be bunkum?First, because there are some key differences between the two companies. One reason for Zynga’s decline was that its big success came on the web, on Facebook, just before the world and its aunt went mad for mobile games.Zynga had some successes –Zynga Poker for example– but overall it struggled to adapt to a rapid shift in social gaming from web to mobile. Some of its high-profile moves to adapt –buying the developer of the Draw Something game just as that craze peaked– flopped dramatically.King’s rise, on the other hand, was fuelled by exactly that shift from web to mobile: its revenues and audience took off like a rocket in the first quarter of 2013 as Candy Crush mania took hold on smartphones and tablets.King had been around for years before that making web and Facebook games, but if it’s about to enter a tough period now, it’s not because of a platform transition.A second difference between the two companies is their profitability. Since early 2012, Zynga has usually posted quarterly losses of tens of millions of dollars. By contrast, here are King’s quarterly profits since the start of 2013: $52.7m, $125.9m, $229.8m, $159.2m, $127.2m, $165.4m.That should have helped the company build up a war chest for the next reason it might not be about to enter a Zynga-style decline: it can plough money into developing new non-Saga games, and it can scout about for acquisitions of companies that might bring it new hits.The first signs of the latter came this week as part of King’s latest financial results: it’s buying a Singapore-based developed called Nonstop Games in a deal that could be worth up to $100m if certain targets are hit. The studio will be working on “new games outside of its traditional casual genre” to launch in 2015.King’s stonking Candy Crush profits, together with its recent IPO, could be a base to snap up promising-looking developers and games as they emerge. Note Zynga’s recent upturn in some of the graphs above: partly fuelled byits acquisition of Clumsy Ninja developer NaturalMotion earlier this year.Acquisitionscouldalso address one of the biggest criticisms levelled at its Saga series: that it’s just rejigged versions of older games from other publishers like Bejeweled (Candy Crush Saga), Puzzle Bobble (Bubble Witch Saga) and Peggle (Papa Pear Saga).It’s also worth noting that King is getting ready to release Candy Crush Soda Saga, which is an official sequel to the company’s biggest hit. The new game has beensoft-launched in a few countries, with a global launch expected soon. Whether it can escape Saga-ennui is another question, though.King isn’t guaranteed to be the next Zynga in terms of business decline, in other words. But its latest financial results are a stark reminder to its management and investors alike that it needs to learn the lessons from the FarmVille firm’s fall since its peak in the summer of 2012.•Why is Candy Crush Saga so popular?
The two-wheeled Jumping Sumo toy robot has more than a little spring in its step.This smartphone-controlled drone, the ground-based sibling to theParrot Minidrones Rolling Spider,has a spring-loaded tail, and connects not via Bluetooth but by Wi-Fi, creating its own Wi-Fi network to which you connect your smartphone or tablet.Unveiled at CES in Las Vegas in January, the Jumping Sumo has a wide-angle camera mounted in its nose that streams live video to the tablet, allowing remote control of the little robot when out of view, although actually doing so is really quite tricky.Otherwise, controlling the Sumo is pretty straightforward. The app has with one virtual joystick for forwards and backwards, with tilt for fine turning, and another for rotating it like a tank and performing tricks. Rolling at up to two metres-per-second, the wheels can be extended or contracted for increased stability at high speed or manoeuvrability at low speed – or just for squeezing through tight gaps.The Jumping Sumo will bound up to 80cm into the air, easily enough to mount a sofa. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHit the jump button and bot will hunker down on its tail before bouncing up 80cm into the air, landing on its big flexible shock-absorbing wheels. It can also skip forward at a lower height, which makes climbing large stairs and other obstacles quite fun.The Sumo has a few other little tricks up its sleeve with spin jumps, swerves and others all performed like a mini acrobat. This has the effect of making the driver look extremely skilled, despite all that’s required is the tapping of a button.Parrot’s “road plan” feature also allows you to map out a choreographed series of manoeuvres before hitting a button and seeing the Sumo take off on its own – not quite autonomous driving, but a novelty worth exploring.The smartphone app controls movement, sounds and a selection of tricks. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt sometimes dropped off the Wi-Fi connection in the office, possibly to do with the number of networks available causing interference. Switching Wi-Fi channels and frequencies using the app made it much more reliable.A single 90-minute charge will last for about 20 minutes, while the camera in the nose could capture low-resolution photos of a cat, dog or anything else at ground level.The bot will also record video, but only if a flash drive is awkwardly inserted in the top via the microUSB port. It’s a disappointing oversight on Parrot’s part; the original and much-largerAR Dronereleased in 2010 could record video straight to the smartphone from its on-board camera.The small spring-loaded tail is retracted as it hunkers down ready to fly into the air. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianVerdictThe Jumping Sumo is a fun little toy, but at £140 it needs to do a little more than a remote control car. The camera in the nose adds fun, as do its fancy tricks.Not many other toys can jump quite like this robot, while remote control via Wi-Fi and a tablet mean the Sumo could be used to scout out inaccessible areas, if you’re handy with the controls. Ramming it into things is immensely good fun, but given the choice most big kids would choose to spend less and get to play with something that flies - like theRolling Spider.•Parrot Minidrones Rolling Spider review: a bundle of flying bug fun in eight-minute bursts
Sony has now sold 10m PlayStation 4 consoles, the company announced on Tuesday.Speaking on stage during a press briefing in Cologne, on the eve of the Gamescom video game conference, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe CEO Jim Ryan added that the number refers to units sold to individual end users, rather than stock provided to stores.While it is far to early to declare a winner in the “console war” between the PS4 and Xbox One, the most recent figures regarding Microsoft’s competitor (gathered in July this year) put its global sales at around half that amount.Regardless of competing figures, 10m sales is a significant success for Sony. Launched last November, the PS4 reached the 5m sales mark within four months. It took the company a year to shift 3m units of its PS2 machine, the most successful games console of all time.“This is a big milestone for Sony,” said Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV. “Not only has it broken the 10m barrier in a short period of time, it has done it amid competition from Xbox, mobile games and online hits like Minecraft. It also flies in the face of cynics who said consoles would struggle, and has smashed even Sony’s own lofty expectations for the machine.”Speaking immediately after the conclusion of the Sony Gamescom press conference, Dring added that the figure is not just good news for Sony. “It is huge for the core games industry in general – when combined with Xbox One’s sales numbers, at least 15m-plus next-gen consoles have sold in Western markets since Christmas.”PS4 outsold the Xbox One at a rate of three-to-one in the financial quarter ending June 30th 2014. However, September will see Microsoft’s games platform launch in an additional 26 countries, including many across Europe and other affluent territories, such as the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Eight of those regions were originally slated to get the Xbox One on its initial release, demonstrating that Microsoft’s console has had something of a troubled start. However, the extra territories may help bolster the console’s sales, perhaps closing the gap on Sony.As well as trumpeting the success of the PS4, Sony also used its Gamescom conference to announce several new features coming to the console in the next year. The most significant is SharePlay, which will allow game owners to share new titles with friends who do not own the same title – they will be able to take over the gameplay remotely or join in with co-operative modes.Introduced as part of the system software update 2.0, SharePlay symbolises Sony’s continuing focus on social integration. The service will be joined by the long-awaited YouTube compatibility, which will let PS4 owners upload gameplay footage directly to the popular video service. This is an important feature at a time in which “Let’s Play” videos are an increasingly powerful force in the business.The exact date that update 2.0 will arrive is yet to be confirmed. A release window has been loosely set, however, for PS Now, a service that lets players stream games across the web, using the Gaikai technology acquired by Sony in July 2012. PS Now will launch in 2015 in Europe, after a beta testing period in the UK.Before then, on 14 November, Sony’s PlayStation TV platform will become available for €100. A Sterling price is yet to be set for the device, a microconsole that offers access to numerous Vita titles and streamed games. Already out in Japan where it is known as PS Vita TV, the gadget uses the PlayStation 3 variant of the DualShock controller, and plugs straight into a television.Sony is attacking the games market on several fronts, and with 10m sales of its flagship console, it will leave Cologne in a confident mood.Sony’s PlayStation plan: capture lost Wii owners with PS3 updatesPlayStation 4 vs Xbox One: the console war that turned into a love storyPlaystation TV: Sony wants to be the ‘Netflix for games’
Oops, did I miss yesterday?
A burst of 9 links for you, as picked by the Technology teamA window into China's low-speed electric vehicle revolution &gt;&gt; AutoblogCharlie Paglee:The cheapest low-speed EVs sell for $2,000 while a top-of-the-line vehicle can sell for $12,000. Luxury models include power steering, power brakes, heating and air conditioning. Keep in mind that a cheap new gasoline automobile sells for only $5,000 in China. Low-speed EVs in China are usually based on a welded steel frame with a stamped steel body on top. These vehicles combine automobile design practices from the 1930's with modern manufacturing processes to produce the cheapest electric vehicles in the world. Bodies are stamped using low-cost, low-volume stamping dies and then cut using three-dimensional laser cutting robots.An entire stamped steel body for an electric vehicle can now be tooled up for less than $1 million, which is incredibly cheap and unheard of in the automobile industry outside China.Top speed 38mph, range 60 to 100 miles. (Via Naofumi Kagami.)iOS drops to 67% enterprise share, Android grows to 32% &gt;&gt; TNWBreaking down the numbers further, Android smartphone activations saw the largest increase (4 percentage points) quarter-over-quarter and came in at 30% of total device activations. iOS smartphone activations remained consistent quarter-over-quarter at 51% of total activations, while iOS tablet activations saw a slight decrease, coming in at 16% of total activations.Report from Good Technology. It doesn't see BlackBerry activations. The figures aren't cumulative, but for the past (second) quarter.Windows Phone took a 1% share.OnePlus asks women to participate in degrading contest to get a smartphone &gt;&gt; The VergeJacob Kastrenakes:OnePlus is calling it the "Ladies First" contest, and it's basically as awful as it sounds. To say nothing of the fact that the prize is merely the opportunity to buy a phone at full price, the entire conceit is that the male fans of OnePlus are honoring women by voting on them. "In true gentlemen fashion and because chivalry is not dead, we are giving the lovely ladies of OnePlus a chance to skip the invite line," OnePlus staffer Jerry writes. Jerry introduces the contest by writing that "OnePlus wants to give a shout out to the few but beautiful female fans in our community."May 2010: Halloween XII: The Reckoning &gt;&gt; Jake HambyThis dates from May 2010. Hamby previously worked for Danger - the phone company that was bought by Microsoft, where he had a terrible experience. Having left it (and joined Google's Android team), he looked back:it's in the mobile space where Microsoft has most completely fallen down. One thing I learned about myself from the whole Kin ordeal was that I truly have a great deal of identification with the stuff that I'm working on. If I don't think there's a purpose and a meaning behind the code I'm writing, then I become very upset. Now a company like Google would tend to think that being passionate about making the best possible product is probably a good trait to have in a software engineer, but it's a genuine disadvantage at a company like Microsoft, where all is politics, and the middle management is utterly adrift.Let me just say that I think that Steve Ballmer is a clown and a buffoon, and he has no idea just how utterly pointless the whole "Windows Phone 7" exercise is. Good luck with that, dude, but I don't see it having any more of a chance than Kin did (i.e. slim to none). The rest of the mobile industry has already routed around your flavor of brain damage, and I hate to break it to you, but I'm pretty sure that your remaining handset and carrier partners are pretty much just humoring you at this point.His remarks about astroturfing are eye-opening too.For Samsung, more pessimism &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogBy selling its smartphones for far more than its rivals, Samsung was left with a glut of smartphones on its shelves at the end of the second quarter — causing the company to take a big earnings hit in its earnings report, which showed net profits dropping 20% from the same period a year earlier."They've got to offer more and charge less on low-end smartphones, which is exactly what the Chinese are doing, and if they don't, the Chinese are going to keep taking share away from them," [former Samsung employee and Bernstein Research analyst Mark] Newman said in an interview.He calculates that the company's smartphone margins — which Samsung doesn't disclose — likely peaked at about 25% in the first quarter of 2013, shortly after the release of the Galaxy Note 2 smartphone-tablet hybrid.Since then, Newman estimates, smartphone margins have fallen to about 19%, and are on track to drop to 15% next year.But Newman says Samsung remains a formidable player, particularly if it chooses to take its Chinese rivals head on."Samsung has got so much firepower, and such a cost and scale advantage against the Chinese companies — who are tiny in comparison — that if they become aggressive again, they can cause a lot of problems for them," Newman argues. "A lot of them won't be able to survive if Samsung wants to turn the screws."Sony gives up on selling e-readers &gt;&gt; BBC NewsSony has given up selling its line of Reader devices for e-books after failing to find a big enough market."We do not have plans to develop a successor Reader model at this time," the Japanese firm told the BBC.The PRS-T3 was the last version made and will exist as long as supplies remain in Europe.PCs and e-readers discontinued, smartphones making losses, a TV division that it's hiving off into its own company… Playstation 4 apart, Sony isn't making much of a fist of things at present.The invisible elephant in the room &gt;&gt; dave_bryant:The dirty little secret I haven't seen anyone else raise—in fairness, possibly because it isn't well-known outside publishing circles—is that a good part of a physical book's cost is not in the printing and binding. Most people, I suspect, would be greatly and unpleasantly surprised by how much of a book's cost (not its price, I should add) is fixed, regardless of final format.Why? Because it's the labor, not the ink and paper, that makes up that fixed cost. The writer, editor, proofreader, and typesetter—at least—put in the same number of hours on a book, regardless of whether it's a hardback, a paperback, or an e-book. They still need to get paid, and they sure as hell are not going to accept less money just because people don't value a digital product as much as they do a physical one. I certainly won't put up with it.There are differences, of course. The incremental cost of a digital copy is, practically speaking, near zero once a publisher's electronic distribution is set up, and that is the basis of the argument that e-books should be cheaper. Moreover, the labor costs of the print house are gone along with the physical costs.All well and good, but just because a book is easier to get doesn't mean it will sell better. A publisher (even a self-publisher) still has to estimate how many copies he or she thinks people will buy, and base the cover price on that estimate.Amazon's "lower the ebook price from $14.99 to $9.99, you sell 74% more ebooks" argument conveniently overlooks that if those extra ebook buyers are drawn from would-be $14.99 paperback buyers, the total revenue falls by 30%, even while ebook revenue rises by 16%.72 hours with Android &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionEx-Microsoft staffer Hal Berenson has abandoned his Windows Phone (for reasons he describeshere) and bought his first Android, an LG G3 and Gear Watch:to start with, Android is Windows.  I mean, I joked back in the early days that Android was Windows 3.1.  Ok, its more like Windows XP.  In all ways, good and bad.  The UI with frequently used apps on the "desktop" and then there is "All Programs"? Check.  The OEM model leading to a broad variety of hardware?  Check.  The UI that is customized by every hardware vendor and every device is laden with crapware?  Check.  The unbelievable breadth of applications coming out of the ecosystem?  Check.  The complete randomness of app quality and UI consistency coming out of the ecosystem?  Check.  The OS vendor leaving what its competitors have cleanly integrated into the platform to third-parties, resulting in more powerful but poorer quality solutions?  Check.As an example of that last point take Windows Phone 8.1's Quiet Hours and Inner Circle features.  I've been using it for months and it works perfectly.  Now, try to do the same thing on Android 4.4.2 (KitKat).  It has a Quiet Mode, but no ability to schedule when that should be turned on or off or a provision for designated family and friends to break through it.  Getting alarms during quiet mode requires that you know to go into the settings in the Clock app and enable alarms breaking through.  Not very functional or user-friendly.He's definitely happy to be out of the "app gap", though.Can Facebook Messenger spy on me to the degree many sites are claiming? &gt;&gt; Ask DifferentComparing the permissions that Facebook Messenger takes to itself on Android, and how that works (or doesn't) on iOS. Basically, on iOS it doesn't get anything without the user's direct permission.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, add it below or tell us about it on Twitter.
Britain's highest valued games company has hit severe turbulence after reporting lower-than-expected second-quarter revenue and profits.Shares in King Digital lost close to a quarter of their value on Tuesday after the video games maker reported declining popularity for its phenomenally successful Candy Crush Saga.Reporting after stock markets closed, the Anglo-Swedish company said gross bookings for the quarter – a measure of how much users pay for virtual items in its games – fell to $611.1m (£363.5m) from $641m in the previous quarter.The 5% fall came largely from a drop in revenues from Candy Crush, the hit that accounts for about 60% of its gross revenues. Last year the company reported 97 million people were playing Candy Crush every day.On a conference call with investors, King chief executive officer Riccardo Zacconi said the fall was due to a "step down in monetisation across our network" including its other hits Farm Heroes Saga and Bubble Witch.Candy Crush's bookings peaked in the third quarter of 2013 and the rate of decline picked up at the end of the last quarter, he said. He added that the company expected the slowdown to continue.Investors sold the stock in after-hours trading and King's shares initially slumped close to 24%. King's stock has had a rocky ride since the company went public in March at $22.50 a share, valuing the firm at $6bn. Before the latest results they were trading at $18.20.The company reported nearly $1.9bn in revenue in 2013, compared with just $164m in 2012, driven almost entirely by the players buying virtual goods in Candy Crush.Zacconi said the company had "a strong and expanding portfolio of games", and had "demonstrated our ability to produce high quality games". The company cut its 2014 outlook and declared a $150m special dividend.The most highly valued British company to emerge from the new technology boom, King was valued at $7bn when it began trading on the New York stock exchange in March but ran in to trouble from the start,dropping by 16%.Traders on the open market tore into King's valuation minutes after Zacconi and fellow directors rang the opening bell. Shares which had originally been priced at $22.50 ended the day at $19, and continued to dip in after-hours trading.Analysts had compared the 11-year-old company to US games developer Zynga, maker of FarmVille and Words With Friends, whose shares are currently worth less than a third of their 2011 float price of $10.Candy Crush has dominated the smartphone games charts since launching on mobile in November 2012, and helped raise revenues to $1.9bn last year for King, whose other games include Pet Rescue Saga and Papa Pear Saga.But the confectionery-themed game, in which players must make lines of sweets disappear from a grid by lining up three or more of the same colour, is no longer a top 10 download, despite still being the second-highest grossing game on iPhone in the US.Zacconi and chairman Melvyn Morris, a former director of Derby FC, first worked together at the Midlands-based matchmaking site uDate, which they sold for $150m to Interactive Corporation in 2002.Zacconi entered the digital business during the dotcom boom and ran the German unit of Swedish web portal Spray, which failed to make it to the stock market before the bubble burst. He launched King with colleagues from Spray, and persuaded some of uDate's backers, including Morris and Toby Rowland, to join the venture.King has been planningto open a second London studio this summer, taking over the Covent Garden office currently occupied by Facebook. The new studio is based in a brick warehouse at 42 Earlham Street in Covent Garden, home to Facebook's British staff and its European boss Nicola Mendelsohn since 2012.
Shares in the video games maker King Digital lost close to a quarter of their value on Tuesday after it reported declining popularity for its phenomenally successful Candy Crush Saga.Reporting after the stock markets closed, the company said gross bookings for the quarter – a measure that tracks how much users pay for virtual items and other goodies on its games – fell to $611.1m from $641m in the previous quarter.The 5% fall was driven largely by a drop in revenues from Candy Crush, the mega hit that accounts for some 60% of its gross revenues.On a conference call with investors, King chief executive officer Riccardo Zacconi said the fall was due to a “step down in monetization across our network” including its other hits Farm Heroes Saga and Bubble Witch.Candy Crush’s bookings peaked in the third quarter of 2013 and the rate of decline picked up at the end of the last quarter, he said. He said the company expected the slowdown to continue.Investors sold the stock in after-hours trading and King’s shares initially slumped close to 24%. King’s shares have had a rocky ride since the company went public in March at $22.50 a share, valuing the firm at $6bn. Before the latest results they were trading at $18.20.Last year the company reported some 97 million people were playing Candy Crush every day. The company reported nearly $1.9bn in revenue in 2013, compared with just $164m in 2012, driven almost entirely by the players buying virtual goods in Candy Crush.Zacconi said the company had “a strong and expanding portfolio of games” and had “demonstrated our ability to produce high quality games”. The company cut its 2014 outlook and declared a $150m special dividend.
According to Twitter’s own figures, there are significantly more robots on the social media service than there are people in Australia: as many as8.5% of the firm’s active users are either algorithmsor people using apps to aggregate tweets automatically without any human intervention.Many bots are doing little more than pumping out spam day-in, day-out; but it’s important not to be prejudiced against silicon-based life. Here are eight robot Twitter accounts that are at least as entertaining as your average human user.Everyword(@everyword)twitter&mdash; everyword (@everyword)December 13, 2013The original and best. Created by Adam Parrish in 2007, the bot does one thing and one thing only: tweet a word from the English language every half hour, in alphabetical order. After seven years, Everyword completed its task in June 2014, and promptly started right back at A again.Two Headlines(@TwoHeadlines)Google to buy Syria in $3.2 billion deal&mdash; Two Headlines (@TwoHeadlines)January 21, 2014Created by bot auteurDarius Kazemi, Two Headlines works by taking headlines from Google News, and swapping out the key noun with a different trending topic. The best tweets read like reports from a world “where there is no discernible difference between corporations, nations, sports teams, brands, and celebrities”, Kazemi says. “It is generating jokes about the future: a very specific future dictated by what a Google algorithm believes is important about humans and our affairs.”Pentametron(@pentametron)my vision won&#39;t become reality&mdash; Danny (@dannytatted)August 12, 2014These makeup transformations killing me&mdash; Dreadheads (@_ShePrettySmart)August 12, 2014Pentametron doesn’t write tweets itself; instead, the bot looks for rhyming pairs of tweets written in iambic pentameter, and retweets them both back to back. Reading it is like discovering a lost play from Shakespeare’s highly-strung-teen-on-the-internet phase, and when random chance results in pairs that not only rhyme but also make sense when read together, it’s beautiful.oliva taters(@oliviataters)i am the most mature out of everyone in my imaginary circle of friends.&mdash; olivia taters (@oliviataters)June 22, 2014Olivia Taters is an imaginary teenger who lives on the internet. Created by Rob Dubbin, she’s convincing enough that real teens actually converse with her – and because she replies to messages, those conversations can go on for a long time, without ever really making sense. Her tweets are built from real things being said on Twitter, which allows her to be strangely topical too: just this morning, she joined with much of her generation in mourning the death ofRobin Williams.Robot J McCarthy(@redscarebot)Quit Stalin RT@mattlester2013:@RyanMaleckiman I&#39;m basically a communist!! :/&mdash; Robot J. McCarthy (@RedScareBot)August 12, 2014Red Scare Bot deserves a place on this list for persistence alone. Since 2009, it has been butting in to any conversation where someone uses the words “socialist” or “communist”, to accuse them of … well, nothing, really. But even if the novelty fades, fast, and you’re eventually forced to block the damn thing just so that you can have conversations about politics in peace, it deserves some credit for having racked up 50,000 inane interventions so far.Museum Bot(@museumbot)Keyhttp://t.co/4uXLOOhCXEpic.twitter.com/zPn4VskCUV&mdash; Museum Bot (@MuseumBot)June 18, 2014Another Kazemi bot, Museum Bot was created as a riposte to accounts that tweet poorly sourced images to millions of followers, often with inaccurate captions and no credit given to the original photographer. Museum Bot hooks into the catalogue of New York’s Met Museum, and randomly picks items to tweet. One minute, that’s a terracotta pig; the next, a Japanese Edo woodcut.Stealth Mountain(@stealthmountain)@AlexisFanshierI think you mean &quot;sneak peek&quot;&mdash; Stealth Mountain (@StealthMountain)January 14, 2014Sadly defunct since January 2014, Stealth Mountain’s sole mission was to warn people that they had misspelled the phrase “sneak peek” – assuming, that is, that they didn’t actually mean to refer to a quiet hillock when they wrote “sneak peak”.Horse ebooks(@Horse_ebooks)How to Teach a Horse to Sit, Give a Kiss and Give a Hug&mdash; Horse ebooks (@Horse_ebooks)February 6, 2011Horse eBooks began as a spam account. Tweeting from a computer in Ukraine, the account would send nonsensical snippets taken from a vast corpus of books, occasionally interspersed with links to a shady page where one could buy the ebooks in question. It became a viral hit, with 200,000 people following its strange, broken poetry. But in 2013, a pair of advertising creatives revealed that they had been behind the account for at least two years. Since at least September 2011, they had been pretending to make serendipitous beauty. The world hasn’t been quite the same since.• This article was amended on 13 August 2014. An earlier version said that 23m of Twitter’s users are bots. This has been corrected.
The next game in the successful Skylanders franchise will be released simultaneously on October 5 for PS3, Xbox 360 and the Wii – as well as Android, Amazon and iPad tablets, it has been announced.In a gaming first, the tablet version isn’t a cut down one either – the full version of Skylanders: Trap Team will be hitting consoles and tablets simultaneously.The Skylanders franchise is a series of platform games beginning with Skylanders: Spyro’s Adventure, a reboot of 1998’s Spyro the Dragon. Players control a variety of characters, unlocked by placing real world action figures on an interface called the “Portal of Power”. The collectable nature of the game, which has expanded to include more than 100 figures, earned Activision more than $500m in 2011/12.The tablet version of Skylanders: Trap Team will be available as a free download on the app stores, but will only work for limited demo play without the physical starter pack, a $74.99 set that includes two Skylander figures, two traps, a special portal and a physical game pad.Once the starter pack is bought, though, the tablet version is functionally the same game as the console versions, with an iPad Air capable of running at similar visual fidelity to a Playstation 3.Activision’s announcement is the first example of full equality between tablets and consoles, but just the latest in a growing trend of tablets and smartphones begin treated as viable targets for high-end game development, as well as casual gaming.In April 2014, Deus Ex: The Fall, a mobile-first spin-off of the Deus Ex franchise, was ported back to the PC where it was released to mediocre reviews.
A company that promoted a premium-rate “voice changer” phone service via children’s apps has been fined £60,000 by the regulator Phonepay for “very serious” breaches of the code covering high-priced calls.Some of the calls made by children went on for more than 90 minutes on the service, which charged £1 per minute including VAT. One parent who complained to Phonepay had been charged £150. In total, more than 41,000 calls were made to the service between March and May 2013.In itsruling, Phonepay said that the calls should have been terminated after three minutes, when they would have racked up charges of £3 – the maximum that premium-rate calls “aimed at or attractive to children” can charge under its rules.The offending calls, to a service run by French company Acetelecom, were made when adverts appeared in children’s apps on iPhones with phrases such as “Voice Changer - show your dark side” and “Click here to transform your voice”. If a child touched the ad, it would immediately display a dialog box to call the 090 premium-rate number. If a child then pressed “call”, it would connect to the service.That breached Phonepayplus’s regulations because there was no warning before the call about the cost of making it. In some cases, the children using the phones tapped the advert rapidly more than once, starting two calls, of which one continued in the background.“My daughter tapped it by accident which then immediately phoned the premium rate 090 number,” complained one parent. “There was no ‘are you sure you want to call this number’ failsafe, which meant she has run up a £15 charge on my bill. I think it is ridiculous that this sort of ad is allowed on a children’s app.”Justine Roberts, chief executive of Mumsnet, said: “We’ve seen loads of concern on Mumsnet about in-app advertising which can mean that it’s easy for children to run up huge bills in a few eager clicks. Embedding premium rate telephone numbers into children’s apps just seems like another way of exploiting them. Ultimately parents are responsible, of course, and need to teach children to be on their guard, but they could do with a bit of help.”Apart from turning off network connectivity, there is no setting to block outgoing phone calls made by apps on smartphones. Calls to premium-rate numbers can be blocked at the user’s request by networks.Joanne Prowse, acting chief executive of PhonepayPlus, said that Acetelecom had treated children and their parents unfairly by its promotion and failure to cap spending. “Practices which mislead consumers, especially vulnerable consumers, and result in bill shock cause serious harm to those affected and to the wider reputation of the premium rate sector. PhonepayPlus will not tolerate them.”The service was offered by Acetelecom. In its response to Phonepayplus it contended that the service was not intended to be used by children. It told Phonepay that the service wasn’t specifically designed for children, that teenagers and adults might enjoy the service, that other services used similar promotions and that the tone of the recorded voice played to callers wasn’t targeted at children.It also contended that there was not enough room in the advert’s restricted space to include required warnings about the cost of calls.Data supplied by the company showed that almost half of its adverts appeared in games apps, including Dino Day, Baby Flash Cards, Toddler Flashcards and Talking Ben the Dog. But it said that it only bought space with an advertising network, rather than specifying ads on kids’ apps. The PhonePayPlus tribunal said there was “ambiguity” in Acetelecom’s submission on this point.Acetelecom has since created a free app with in-app purchases which carries out the same voice-changing functions. The company did not respond to requests for comment.•It’s time more parents started paying for children’s apps
It’s an unusual case of life imitating art – or more accurately, sport imitating video games.As reported on Monday, the long-running simulation Football Manager will soon be employed by clubs all over the world to help them scout for new players. That’s actual real-life players. Scouted from a game.Developer Sports Interactive has signed a deal with sports performance analyst Prozone to supply data for a new online application, Prozone Recruiter. The service will allow clubs to search an international database of players, with each entry providing detailed performance, contract and biographical stats. It’s apparently designed to allow managers at all levels of the professional game to assess potential buys, not only in terms of talent but also their ability to play in different leagues and team set-ups.“Prozone Recruiter has been built to supplement the intuition of scouts and coaches by delivering detailed performance information on over 80,000 players worldwide,” says Prozone’s CEO, Thomas Schmider. “The Sports Interactive database is a highly accurate and valuable resource that will further enhance the recruitment services that we provide”The big question of course, is how browsing a computer game can compete with having experienced staff sniffing out new talent? And the answer is, well, this is no ordinary computer game.The football simulation of championsOriginally named Championship Manager and first launched in 1992, the Football Manager series provides a painstakingly detailed simulation of club management. Every aspect of the manager’s role from scouting new players, to training, tactics and even providing emotional support to players, is part of the experience. 20m copies have been sold so far on PC, Mac, and smartphones, and most of the ardent fans are football obsessives who demand accuracy. Just as flight sim fanatics want the virtual Cessna 172 to flyexactlylike the real Cessna 172, FM managers want their version of Yeovil Town to look and play like Yeovil Town. But better, obviously.To ensure authenticity, Sports Interactive has spent the last 22 years building its own network of “scouts”, dedicated Football Manager fans who attend real-life matches and training sessions, and then file detailed reports on players so that the game’s database is authentic. Some scouts watch a single team, others a whole league, and all remain in regular contact with the development studio while swapping tips and experiences on the company’s buzzing forums.“We have a huge network of 1,300 scouts in 51 countries around the world,” said Sports Interactive director, Miles Jacobson. “We used to look for fanzine writers, but now they tend to be bloggers. They’re extremely knowledgeable and objective; they’re frank about the positives and the shortcomings of the teams they’re covering. Because of this, they tend to get the respect of the clubs themselves, both the coaches and the scouts, so they’re often able to find out more information that way.”Ecuador has got talentOne major benefit of Football Manager is that it provides easy access to lower league football in less romantic or harder to access corners of the football world – places where not every club can afford to send their own staff or develop local contacts. “It’s going to make it easier for managers to find players from further afield,” said Jacobson. “Think about the Ecuadorian players who no one knew about at the World Cup. I’d hope that match commentators were looking at our data, because we had them all covered.”Indeed, it has long been rumoured that professional clubs have used the Football Manager titles to check out possible new signings. The game provides data on 300,000 players, each represented by a table of stats from striking and heading to positional sense and aggression. It’s a sizable resource. Indeed, in 2008, Everton signed an official deal to use the Football Manager database to search for players and staff. Last year, Manchester United legend Ole Gunnar Solskjaer credited the game with helping him to prepare for life as a manager. Joey Barton has mentioned that he’s using the game, alongside taking his coaching badges, to prepare for a career as a manager.There are plenty of other committed FM fans in the sport. Players like Yohan Cabaye, Antoine Griezmann and Gael Clichy are all known to dabble – many of them give informal tips to the Sports Interactive team, both on promising youth players and slightly awry stats. In fact, the FM interface is so familiar to professionals that Prozone Recruiter has partially designed its Recruiter tool around it. “It’s very similar to Football Manager,” says Jacobson. “Managers can search for specific positions, for key stats, and the information is based on both historical data from Prozone and the data that we provide.”Of course, discovering fresh talent has always been part of the professional game. However, in the modern football industry, where well-known players attract ludicrously inflated transfer fees even as fairly formative talents, being able to look further afield and track down bargains is about more than bolstering a side’s back four; it’s about making money. “Scouting is an integral part of a lot of club’s business model today,” says Jacobson. “Udinese, for example, built itself up from a tiny club in the Italian second tier by signing players like Alexis Sánchez for e250,000 and then selling them for e32m to Barcelona.”It could be that modern managers are now at a sort of disadvantage if they don’t take Football Manager seriously. Journalist Lee Hall used to edit the Official Football Manager magazine and now writes for the Professional Footballers Association Magazine, for which he recently dug up a story about Alex McLeish. “When he was manager of Rangers, he was tipped off by his son, a keen FM fan, about a young kid he’d spotted playing for Barcelona B. Alex’s son said he should sign the player, but McLeish ignored the advice, saying he’d never hear of him. The player was Lionel Messi.”In an era of pervasive digital technology, where social media applications, games and news sources are beginning to merge imperceptibly, it’s perhaps only natural that the machinery of football digitises too. The next step is probably a speed-scouting phone app for harassed managers on transfer deadline day. Prozone Recruiter meets Tinder, anyone?Football Manager 2015 is due out on PC and Mac in October.
The next Lara Croft adventure will only be available on Xbox consoles, Microsoft announced today.At a press conference ahead of the Gamescom video game event in Cologne, Crystal Dynamics studio head Darrell Gallagher took to the stage to confirm that Rise of the Tomb Raider, follow-up to last year’s critically acclaimed reboot of the long-running action adventure series, will be “exclusive to Xbox”. It is not yet clear whether this means Xbox One alone, or Xbox 360, too.The competition between Sony and Microsoft to control the current console generation is hotting up. PlayStation 4 is slightly ahead with seven million units sold, compared to a reported five million for Xbox One. The two gaming giants are currently competing to secure the best platform exclusives, but usually unless developed by in-house studios, these are merely timed offers, with one console getting key titles or content a few months before the other.It seems at this point that this is not a timed exclusive – Rise of the Tomb Raider is unlikely to appear on PS4 or PC – at least not for the foreseeable future. The news has prompted a fierce reaction from fans, many of whom have already pre-ordered the game on other platforms. Writingvia the Crystal Dynamics Tumblr, Gallagher has sought to reassure the Tomb Raider community:“Our friends at Microsoft have always seen huge potential in Tomb Raider and have believed in our vision since our first unveil with them on their stage at E3 2011. We know they will get behind this game more than any support we have had from them in the past – we believe this will be a step to really forging the Tomb Raider brand as one of the biggest in gaming, with the help, belief and backing of a major partner like Microsoft.“This doesn’t mean that we’re walking away from our fans who only play on PlayStation or on PC. Those are great systems, with great partners, and amazing communities. We have Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris coming to those platforms this December, and Tomb Raider: The Definitive Edition is available on PS4.”However, there is still some slight ambiguity about whether the deal is for Winter 2015 only. Official Xbox spokesperson Larry Hyrb has simply tweeted:Just announced… Rise of the Tomb Raider, coming holiday 2015, exclusively on Xbox.&mdash; Larry Hryb (@majornelson)August 12, 2014Published by Square Enix, Rise of the Tomb Raider is a considerable coup for Microsoft – even as a timed exclusive. Last year’s Tomb Raider title has now sold around seven million copies and the series is one of the most recognisable brands in the gaming world.Rise of the Tomb Raider is due out in the Winter of 2015.
You should see my partner, the A-List pop star. They’re gorgeous. I show them off to my 40m+ social media fans regularly.Yeah, that’s a lot of fans. I’m the most popular celebrity in the world right now, in fact. A top model (catwalks and magazines alike) who can swan into restaurants from New York to Paris at a moment’s notice and still grab the best table.I’m so famous, nobody seems to mind if I leave the house rocking a Dreadful Shorts / Awful Shirt / Embarrassing Mullet look. In fact, that makes me even more popular.My BFF Kim Kardashian agrees. We’re great mates: sometimes she lets me model her new swimwear collection, or wander around her houses when she’s away. Probably off naked-motorbiking with Kanye again.Yes, yes, okay. Not real. For “40m+ social media fans” read “a few thousand Twitter followers, many of whom are bots”. For “New York to Paris” read “Bishop’s Stortford to Harlow, except on a Saturday”. And for “Dreadful Shorts” read… Well, actually that part is true.Also true: I’m quite good at tapping on circles on a touchscreen when I’m told to. Which, happily, has turned out to be the key to achieving global fame and fortune inKim Kardashian: Hollywood– her official mobile game.Kim Kardashian stars in her own game. She’ll even let you pop round to her gaff.By many standards, it’s Not A Good Game. The central gameplay mechanic involves tapping circles, then waiting a bit for your character to regain their energy, so you can tap on some more circles.These skills – “tapping” and “waiting” – are all you’ll need for hot dates and high-profile photo-shoots and fashion shows alike. Although this being a freemium game, there’s always the option of switching “waiting” for “paying” if you’re impatient.It’s less a game in the traditional sense, and more an interactive story, except the interactivity is quite basic, and the story isn’t much cop either: rigidly linear, with basic characters and only a few sharp one-liners to raise a smile.The Hollywood-and-beyond of this game is a pretty dead-eyed place, too. Everyone you meet is either a potential love interest or a possible career-booster, bar the obligatory nemesis who pops up every so often to bait you.Parties are a tedious chore, while sponsorships are pretty tiresome too: can you remember the key messaging about that motor oil you agreed to plug to the nearest reporter? Do you care?This may be what celebrity-land is really like – mobile game as gritty social realism documentary – but it’s not enormously fun. And yet… Kim Kardashian’s Hollywood is a.) hugely popular, b.) very lucrative and c.) very much enjoyed by its players.It currently has a four-star rating on Android’s Google Play store from more than 245,000 reviews, and a perfect five-star rating on Apple’s US App Store from nearly 200,000 reviews (not to mention five stars in the UK store from more than 36,000 ratings).Also… I’ve been playing the game since it came out in June, and I’m still playing it.All that pretend fame and fortune has come through playing, not paying, so I’ve put in the hours tapping (and waiting) too. Even though I’m not quite sure why. When I went away for a week’s holiday in a cottage without Wi-Fi or 3G reception, I missed it.As the weeks have gone by, the Kim Kardashian game’s quirks have cheered me up rather than made me grimace.There’s the way pigeons cough up money if you tap them – try this in Trafalgar Square and report back on the results, please. The way every date begins with your partner verbally demolishing your outfit:A simple hello would be nice, to be honest.There’s the way being BFFs with Kim Kardashian doesn’t extend to constructive criticism of her fashion flair:“Sorry, your bum looks big in th... No, wait.”The way a hoodie and pink shoes got me 1,875,000 new social media fans:Hoodies: this year’s hot trend.The way you travel around Los Angeles on the bus, despite the fact that the one time I did this in the real world, during the E3 games conference one year, any American I told about it looked at me with 70% horror and 30% pity:Bagsy the back seat!There’s the way my character Henman fist-pumps when successfully finishing a date (not a euphemism), and the way he looks just like me, except with a better tan, less-British teeth and the ability to suddenly sprout lustrous golden locks like Kid Rock dipped head-first in a bath of Timotei and lemon juice:The guy out of Hanson is ageing well...On a more serious note, there’s the way you can choose to be gay or straight: a feature introduced without fuss, but which makes Kim Kardashian’s Hollywood more progressive than the way most (not all, thankfully) traditional games address sexuality, if they do at all.I suspect a lot of people will write Kim Kardashian’s Hollywood off as a vacuous game about a vacuous person, using a cynical business model that preys on stupid players who wouldn’t know a “proper game” if it snogged them on the pillion.What’s more interesting, though, is that a lot more people appear to be playing the game and really enjoying it. I don’t think they’re stupid: it’s just that what they look for in a game is different.In 2014, Kim Kardashian’s Hollywood is a “proper game” as much as the latest Grand Theft Auto, Call of Duty or Mario Kart; or The Last of Us, Journey or Fez; or Monument Valley, Super Hexagon or Hearthstone, or…Well, you get the picture. Nowadays, any definition of “proper gaming” is meaningless, while the notion that any particular group of gamers gets to set that definition is ridiculous.Gaming is a huge, broad church now, and the people swapping sweets or Hollywood fashion tips down the front are blissfully unaware of the angry men in camouflage gear muttering at the back. There’s room for both groups, more so than ever on smartphones and tablets.(Not to mention the big mass of us in the middle, who would rather chat enthusiastically about the games we love, wherever they come from, than complain about the ones we don’t.)Is Kim Kardashian: Hollywood a good game? If you hate that sort of thing, no, it’s the sort of thing you hate. Although it might be interesting to spend a week or two dipping in and out of it, to understand why.The game’s massive audience does encourage questions about the messages it’s sending out, especially to younger players - I’ve had several friends fretting about what their daughters are learning from it, for example.Progressive messages about sexuality? A step in the right direction. Promotion of a rampantly-consumerist culture where popularity comes from buying expensive outfits, meals and mansions? Less so (although the average teenage girl is quite capable of skewering this aspect better than any adult, I suspect).Glorifying pigeon-slapping for profit? Needs work.Kim Kardashian: Hollywood could benefit from a sharper script and more willingness – or freedom, which may be the issue given the game’s official status – to poke at the culture it’s representing.Developer Glu also has plenty of work to do to keep players interested in the long term, through updates to the game. I suspect right now is the time the keenest, earliest players may be feeling they’ve seen everything it currently has to offer, and could drop away if Glu isn’t careful.(I’m also hoping they’ll send their development team on an away-day to a remote cottage in Dorset for a brainstorming session about “Insistence On Always-On Connectivity In Social Games” too.)Still, even if the thought of anything Kardashian-related brings you out in hives, Kim Kardashian: Hollywood is a surprisingly-moreish snapshot of one way games – yes, proper games! – are evolving in 2014.The game isn’t popular because the people playing it are stupid. It’s popular because they like it. Who knows, you may even like it too.•Kim Kardashian probably won’t make $85m from her mobile game
The Minidrone Rolling Spider is the latest smartphone-controlled drone from French Bluetooth specialists Parrot - and is probably the most fun it is possible to have with £90 of indoor flying toy.A tiny 55g quadrocopter, the Rolling Spider connects to an iPhone or Android (Windows Phone coming October) allowing pilots to perform barrel rolls, backflips while flying.Two angry-looking LED eyes indicate whether the drone is ready to fly, while sensors on its belly help it keep airborne. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe tiny drone is a smaller version of Parrot’s much larger (and heavier)AR Drone, which, at about £300, was one of the first commercially available toy drones in 2010. At £90 or less the Spider is still expensive for a toy, but very cheap for a drone.It will take off and hover on the spot with a touch of a button, and maintain its height and balance even when pushed against. Large, flexible wheels mean it can roll along the floor or ceiling - and won’t damage anything it crashes into it.The small drone buzzes around like a large insect and is sensitive to gusts of wind – strictly a fair weather or indoor toy – but is perfectly sized to whizz around the indoor halls of even the smallest flat.Double tap the screen to perform a trick. Photograph: ParrotControlling the drone at up to 20m away is straightforward using a smartphone, with three choices of control scheme. The joystick is certainly the easiest, but tilt controls are also available. Double tap the virtual pad to initiate a mid-air backflip or barrel roll.Crash into something and the rotors cut out instantly, which means the drone will drop out of the sky like a dead bird. Thankfully it is quite robust and the large flexible wheels are great at absorbing fairly hard impacts.One single 90-minute battery charge only lasts for eight minutes, but additional batteries can be bought.The smartphone control app has three different control schemes, with tilt and joystick options, but the low battery alert is something you’ll see quite often with only eight minutes flying time. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/the GuardianThe drone includes a camera underneath, but it’s mainly part of the sensor system combined with an ultrasound sensor, a gyroscope, accelerometer and pressure sensor for measuring altitude. It will produce low-resolution photos, but they are shot straight down - so no shots through the neighbours’ windows.VerdictAt £90, the Rolling Spider is certainly a toy for the very biggest children (or some extremely luckyactualchildren), but it is extremely good fun and will entertain the family without causing too much damage. All round, a chance to experiment with a drone without breaking the bank.•Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes – toying with older fans
Facebook’s policy to force users to install a separate Messenger app on their smartphoneshasn’t been popular. However, there is a quick trick on an iPhone to stop Facebook installing Messenger and continue chatting using the normal Facebook app.Not all Facebook users are being forced to use the Messenger app, as the change is rolling out gradually. Eventually every mobile Facebook user will face the decision of whether or not to install the separate app.All iPhone users have to do avoid this unpopular decision is to hit the install Messenger button when prompted by the standard Facebook app, but switch to the App Store while the Messenger app is being installed and stop the installation or delete the app.Re-opening the standard Facebook app should have chat available in Messages, as before Facebook’s attempts to try to force Messenger on users.The trick should work for now, but Facebook could easily update its apps for better detection of Messenger and remove the little work around.Jailbreak or resort to Facebook in the browserThose on an iPhone that decide to jailbreak have other options with at least one free hack available that forces the Facebook app to ignore the separate Messenger app to allow chatting on the social network through the main Facebook app.Jailbreakingis a process that allows users to override certain security protocols on an iPhone to allow installation of applications from stores outside of Apple’s App Store, like the Cydia store, but is not an option for most users.Another alternative for those trying to escape the clutches of Facebook Messenger is to use theFacebook mobile website, which allows users to chat as well as access most of the other features of the Facebook app but from within a mobile browser on an iPhone or Android.Placing a bookmark for the Facebook mobile site on the smartphone’s home screen makes it behave similarly to an app – lacking some features and push notifications of messages – but also helpsavoid battery drain issuessome users experience with the dedicated Facebook app.If you have another trick or tip to avoid being forced to use Facebook Messenger, short of just ceasing use of Facebook, share it below.Have you installed Facebook Messenger on your smartphone?
The “internet of things” (IoT) is the most over-hyped technology in development today, according to tech analysts Gartner.The firm puts the technology, which promises a world in which every electronic device has a sim card and its own presence on the net, at five to 10 years from actual productivity. Right now, it says, the concept is instead it is at the “peak of inflated expectations”.Gartner highlights a lack of standardisation in the area, as well as the changing nature of the technology itself, as part of the reason why widespread adoption is further than its promotors think.“Standardisation (data standards, wireless protocols, technologies) is still a challenge to more-rapid adoption of the IoT,” writes Gartner’s Hung LeHong.“A wide number of consortiums, standards bodies, associations and government/region policies around the globe are tackling the standards issues. Ironically, with so many entities each working on their own interests, we expect the lack of standards to remain a problem over the next three to five years.”Gartner’s ‘hype cycle’. Photograph: GartnerThe assessment is part of Gartner’s annual “hype cycle”, which classifies emergent technologies in one of five categories based on how high expectations for them are.Initially, a new technology enters the public’s awareness with low expectations, which slowly rise as the potential becomes clear. Quantum computing, holographic displays and human augmentation are all at that period of the cycle, although the firm puts all three of them at well over 10 years from general use.Eventually, expectations hit a peak, where the technology is predicted to solve almost every problem known to humanity. As well as the internet of things, autonomous vehicles, consumer 3D printing and wearable computing are all innovations that Gartner thinks are over-hyped at the moment.Then comes what Gartner calls the “trough of disillusionment”: the period when the realisation hits on that the technology is never going to perform as well as its proponents hoped. Examples include gamification, augmented reality, and near-field communication.Importantly, however, the tech doesn’t disappear from use, and continues to be refined throughout the trough of disillusionment. As the innovation finds its niche, it enters the “slope of enlightenment”, where the public realises the actual potential of the product, as with enterprise 3D printing and gesture control.Finally, the new technology hits the “plateau of productivity”. It has become good enough to carry out its functions, and the period of hype is far enough in the past that people are willing to give it a second chance. For Gartner, speech recognition has hit that plateau, and is now ready for real world use.“Speech recognition has gained the momentum it needs to move more rapidly toward mainstream adoption as vendors recognize its value in enriching touch and in-air gesture interaction,” says Adib Carl Ghubril, who estimates that the market for the technology could still increase twofold to fivefold.
People often talk about the effect that video games have on families. Often the talk is very negative. The cliche is of teenagers locked away in their bedrooms – anti-social, uncommunicative – separated from the family unit. But sometimes it isn’t like that; sometimes video games are the method of communication that can bring families closer together. It is something I have found as a keen gamer and father, and it is doubly true when the parents are game makers themselves.Increasingly, as developers grow older and have kids, they’re passing on skills and working together with their children on formative projects. This can be as much about parenting and love as it is about making something fun to play. Earlier this year Sam Smith, the 12-year-old son of Jonathan Smith, a producer on the Lego series of action adventure games, released his first game Space Pants, a project he worked on with his dad for several months. Jonathan has spoken movingly about how Sam found the school environment unbearable; so the decision was made to educate him at home. And to Jonathan this meant teaching him how to make games. Sam is a great game designer.A family businessBased in Noosa, Australia, game developers Jason and Nicole Stark have gradually indoctrinated their daughters into the design process. Right now, the team is working on the slick sci-fi platformer Ninja Pizza Girl. Currently inthe final stages of a Kickstarter funding campaign(which has just passed its target), the game follows a young delivery girl, Gemma, who must fight her way through a distopian metropolis. The duo were clearly influenced by games like Mirror’s Edge and Sonic the Hedgehog, but the lead character is from closer to home.“At the beginning we envisioned the game as a cute funny platformer based on our eldest daughter’s experiences as a pizza delivery girl,” says Nicole. “ She was learning kung fu at the time, and my husband jokingly called her our ninja pizza girl.”But the game took on darker tones when the couple started talking to their daughters about the experience of being teenagers – especially their second child, Raven. “She has Aspergers, although she wasn’t diagnosed until she was fourteen,” says Nicole. “She’s a great kid, and a very talented artist with a great work ethic. In fact she’s responsible for all the 2D art in our games. She’s also kinda naive, fairly oblivious to social cues, and just a little bit... different. When she was younger, she had trouble controlling her temper, and the kids soon learned that if they poked her for long enough, she’d overreact and be the one to get into trouble. It became a kind of sport for them.”Raven learned to control her reactions, but the situation came to a cruelly ironic head on her school’s official No Bullying day. “A few girls cornered her in a locker room and beat her up,” says Nicole. “The school suspended her, because it was their policy to punish everyone involved in violence. That was kind of a last straw for me. Especially considering it happened on a supposed day of action and awareness about bullying in schools.”From robots to teenagersSo the tone of the game changed. Nicole and Jason, who have both been in the industry for years working for companies like Warner Bros and Microsoft, started bringing in their daughters’ experiences. “Jason originally wanted the enemies to be robots,” explains Nicole. “He thought it would be cute. The player could ‘kill’ them without it being gory or disturbing. Raven was dead set against that. She kept vetoing his suggestions, and eventually he asked her – who is a teenage girl most scared of? ‘Other teenagers,’ she said. It all grew from there.”In Ninja Pizza Girl, then, the lead character races through the city landscape, avoiding enemies who call her names, attempt to trip her, then take photos and videos when she’s been abused. The game has become a study of bullying and intimidation - and yet vitally, it’s still a fast-paced and involving platformer, in which stylish, well-timed moves are rewarded.Ninja Pizza Girl meets Lara CroftThe game is already picking up industry attention. Rhianna Pratchett, the lead writer on the recent Tomb Raider reboot and an experienced video game narrative designer, heard about the title and emailed the family, offering her assistance.“I was immediately attracted to the game and the themes it’s conveying,” she explains. “You rarely see issues of self-awareness, bullying and self-esteem covered in games, outside of the serious/educational games space. It was also doing it in an innovative and fun way that I felt was really appealing.“I loved the fact that there was a mum, dad and daughter team at the heart of it, who created the game as a reaction to their daughters’ experiences with both bullying and pizza delivery. I found it really inspiring. And as someone who was also bullied as a kid, it basically made my heart go all squishy and I reached out to see if I could be any help.”Pratchett has since guided the team in their presentation of the story, writing pages of notes for them. “Rhianna has been so amazingly lovely,” says Nicole. “I’m a huge fan of her work and I’m absolutely blown away by her support.”Alongside Kickstarter, Ninja Pizza Girl has now entered the Steam Greenlight process, which means the PC version will appear on the massively successful games distribution service if it accrues enough votes. The family is already planning iOS and Xbox One versions too.Games, bullies and familiesI hope it is a success, not just for them, but for what their story says about games and families. “If we hadn’t been making this game I’m not sure we would have understood the depth that bullying had affected our eldest daughters,” says Nicole. “We’ve learned to listen to our children, and to ask the right questions.”I don’t have daughters, but my eight-year-old son is autistic. He finds school difficult – he seems to be doing okay, but he’s a long way behind his classmates in terms of language and, I suppose, maturity. Like Raven, he is kind of naive – and what she discovered about school is something I fear: that the scariest thing in his life will be other kids, the ones who are supposed to be his peers, his friends. I won’t be there to protect him at school, or help him understand why people are cruel.“I was quite nervous about putting Ninja Pizza Girl ‘out there’,” says Nicole. “I think the only way to succeed as an indie developer is to open and honest and genuine. But that puts you in a very vulnerable place and the internet can be very hostile. I thought that I should be prepared for nasty comments and general horribleness.“What I wasn’t prepared for was the love and support we received. So many people have written to us, to share their experiences with bullying and to thank us for starting a conversation about something that was so important to them. I hope that’s what we’ve done. This is an industry that desperately needs to have a conversation about bullying and inclusiveness, and judging by the support we’ve received, there’s a lot of people ready to have it.”So yes, keep an eye on this anti-bullying game. I hope projects like this help families to talk, and maybe even inspire them to share and create in the same way. I have a plan to buy my own son a laptop and fill it with beginner programming languages likeScratch, as well as basic creative packages likeGame Maker. Maybe we can make games together. Maybe that will be a way we can talk about what’s happening to him at school.As our children grow up, the strands of shared experience start to loosen and thin. But everything can be turned around; you’ve just got to stay together. Whatever you think about games – they can be a way back in.Ninja Pizza Girl byDisparity Gamesis due out on PC, iOS, Wii U and Xbox One. A playable PC demo isavailable at Indie DB.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChina smartphone maker Xiaomi apologizes for unauthorized data access &gt;&gt; Yahoo NewsXiaomi Inc said it had upgraded its operating system to ensure users knew it was collecting data from their address books after a report by a computer security firm said the Chinese budget smartphone maker was taking personal data without permission.And the in-depth examination of MIUI begins.Beware of US-based tech support scams &gt;&gt; Malwarebytes UnpackedMost people associate tech support scams (AKA the fake Microsoft support call) with technicians sitting in a crowded and buzzing boiler room somewhere offshore.Indeed all of the tech support scams we have tracked so far were with companies located either in Mumbai, Kolkata or elsewhere in India. But last month, we stumbled upon fake warning pages urging users to call a number for 'emergency tech support'.When we rang the number, we were surprised to hear that the technician sounded American. It turned out that their company was based in 'the sunshine state' of Florida, USA.The FTC walloped a number of Indian companies doing this, so the American ones shouldn't expect to last long.For the love of open mapping data &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSteve Coast, as OpenStreetMap hits its tenth year:There were other people who were trying to do open mapping, but they maybe two mistakes. One is they concentrated on the shiny stuff: the editor and the website and so on. I focused on making the backend work. That wasn't quite as much fun to work on. The other projects also wanted to limit you in some ways. They'd say you can map whatever you want, but it has to be in England, or it has to be footpaths. What we did was say: hey, it's open source for everything. That made it relevant to everyone.Time to renew: why I stayed with Windows Phone &gt;&gt; CITEworldSimon Bisson, two years into his contract, got a Lumia 930:It's not just the ability to dip in and out of work that's happening elsewhere. It's also the ability to use my Lumia to start new work in the mobile version of OneNote, or to use its camera to quickly capture information that can be used elsewhere.With OneNote notebooks in the cloud at the heart of how I work, it turns out that one of the most useful tools on Windows Phone is Office Lens, a quick way of taking photographs of slides and other presentation materials and dropping them into OneNote. Office Lens will reformat slides automatically, cropping out background and handling perspective adjustments -- as well as supporting OneNote's cloud-based optical character recognition.Office Lens has become a key part of my workflow, as I use it to deliver images from presentations straight into an open notebook on a PC or tablet, so I can have them ready for annotations as I take notes in a meeting.Ransomware race (part 2): personal media the next frontier? &gt;&gt; F-Secure Weblog : News from the LabIt seems malware authors have recently taken a liking to the network-attached storage (NAS) devices manufactured by Synology Inc. First they were hit by Bitcoin mining malware in the beginning of this year and now by file encrypting ransomware similar to CryptoLocker. NAS devices are used by home and business users alike to easily store and share files over a network. Many, like ones manufactured by Synology, also feature remote access. In this case, it would seem hackers were able to abuse the remote access feature, possibly by exploiting a vulnerability in older versions of the Synology DSM -operating system, to gain access to the devices. Once they had access, they proceeded to install a ransomware they have dubbed "SynoLocker".And here'spart 1 of the ransomware race.Will Google or Apple disrupt Intel? &gt;&gt; EE TimesGoogle may undermine Intel's x86 in servers with its work with IBM on theOpenPower Consortium, Ditzel said, and he makes a good case. The search company could probably save a lot of money and maybe even gain some performance/watt advantages if it could come up with a custom Power design for its data centers.We know from seeing job reqs that Google has been hiring circuit designers and other kinds of chip engineers. Google's head of data center server technology leads the OpenPower group and has shown custom Power board designs.I'm skeptical because I know Google tries everything and has the cash to do it. Nevertheless, Ditzel helped me see it also has the motive to make something real here that could deprive Intel of many hundreds of thousands of Xeon sales a year.If Google gets something working, it might motivate Amazon, Facebook, and other big data center companies to follow. These folks represent 20% of the server business -- the hungry 20%.Apple could put one of its next-generation A-series SoCs in a MacBook Air in the not-too-distant future, Ditzel said. Once it got the SoC up and running on its full Mac OS, it could easily spread use of the chip to other Mac notebooks and eventually desktops.That's not a game changer for Intel, but it's another loss of x86 sockets and part of a scenario of death by a thousand cuts.Also expected: a 64-bit ARM-based CPU from NVidia.Why does Windows think that my wireless keyboard is a toaster? &gt;&gt; Super UserBecause it connects to your oven-fridge?YouTube for education &gt;&gt; JanaYouTube is a popular resource for education and learning among smartphone users in emerging markets, according to the results of a Jana survey on May 14. Among the 1,748 people surveyed in India, Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam, Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa, Mexico, and Brazil, YouTube is the app most frequently chosen for education and learning. The survey also highlighted unique market conditions in each country, where apps designed to compliment school curricula and university courses were popular among respondentsBitcoin momentum grows in emerging markets &gt;&gt; ForbesMin-Si Wang:Companies—mostly startups—are building exchanges, trading and payment platforms, wallets, and storage and remittance services. There are now around 65,000 bitcoin transactions a day currently, and 13m bitcoins are in circulation globally. (That converts to about $8bn at a recent USD/BTC exchange rate of $589/BTC). But bitcoin's ability to scale further hinges on consumer confidence and the development of services that allow users to securely store and transact in bitcoins.To be sure, consumers are increasingly familiar with many of the concepts behind bitcoin in emerging markets like parts of Africa, where alternative cashless payment solutions like M-Pesa's mobile money are already popular. A recent survey by mobile payment company Jana found that over half of respondents from Asia and Africa expressed confidence in investing in bitcoin. Consumer confidence is especially high in Kenya, home of M-Pesa, and 74% of Kenyan respondents said they would feel comfortable investing in digital currency.Momentum doesn't necessarily translate into use, and while bitcoin doesn't have inflation (often an emerging economy problem) it does have value swings. Still, this could be the space to watch.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Broadcast over the web, with tens of thousands of concurrent users on the Twitch channel alone, Activision has revealed the multiplayer mode forCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare.The latest title in the mega-selling military shooter series is set in a distopian near-future where a private military contractor has turned against the US and started a war against its old employer. Developed by San Francisco-based Sledgehammer Studios, the game has already drawn intrigue through its casting of Kevin Spacey as the lead antagonist. But on Monday night, the focus shifted away from the campaign to the online battlefields.The entire event is available to watch right here:But here are the key revelations.Exo suits = Titanfall plus QuakeAs the early trailers have hinted, Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare will feature exo-skeletons that enhance the physical capabilities of the soldiers and provide a key component of the multiplayer mode. These suits provide a range of super-fast evasion moves, such as dodges and slides, but they also add a boosted double-jump providing quick access to rooftops.The result is a game with more verticality, but also – in theory – more variety to one-on-one encounters where it won’t just be the player with the fastest firing weapon who’ll win out. An exo expert may be able to boost into the air, then jet down onto his enemy for a Mario-style crush kill.The exo suit also offers a range of six extra abilities to select from. There are riot shield and cloaking options as well as a stim pack that boosts health and “overclock” which adds speed. All rely on a rechargeable battery limiting their use.Naturally, everyone’s comparing this to the pilots in Titanfall, but Sledgehammer claims that it was thinking of exos three ears ago. “And then within one year Oblivion came out, Elysium came out and Edge of Tomorrow came out, and all of a sudden Exo was in every holiday movie,” studio co-founder Michael Condreytold Eurogamer. “I was like, wow. So, coincidence for certain because we came up with it on our own, but then all of a sudden boom, it’s like mass pop culture, the exo is everywhere.”Airdrops are more variedCare packages that float into the warzone offering cool enhancements have been part of the call of Duty experience for years, but Advanced Warfare mixes things up a bit. Arriving at the close of each bout, the new supply drops are rewards for in-game achievments and come in three flavours: Weapon Loot modifies your guns, Character Gear gives you custom clothing items, and Reinforcements give you one-time use of various perks and scorestreaks.There are also three levels of supply drop rarity – Enlisted, Professional, and Elite – giving the whole thing a familiar trading card vibe. Wait, trading cards? *cough* Microstransactions *cough*.Virtual lobby fashion shows and firing rangesTaking a hint from GTA Online, Advanced Warfare allows players to cycle through visual representations of all the other player avatars in the lobby. you can see all their customised gear, but also the weapons and exo extras they’re using, providing a valuable heads-up on the sort of fight that’s going to follow.Furthermore, between matches, players can test all their new perks and weapons via an easily accessible firing range – instead of having to try them out in a match. It’s a nice little extra that sort of reminds me of Fifa’s shooting practise sequences that pop in during loading times. But with guns.Customisation, customisation, customisationAdvanced Warfare takes the Pick 10 system from Black Ops 2, but ups it to Pick 13, meaning players can choose 13 perks, weapons, attachments and scorestreaks to bring into a match.On top of that, many of these elements are adaptable, with various tweakable parameters. Sledgehammer reckons there are 350 weapons variants including the new directed energy class; and scorestreaks now have add-on modules, so you can convert a gun turrent into a giant portable cannon. Players can even combine stronger exo armour with giant guns to allow ridiculous heavy weapon dual weilding. Just don’t expect to run anywhere.Ooh, there are now also co-op scorestreaks: if someone on your team earns a Warbird aircraft, you can slip in as a rear-gunner, aping the more complex vehicle dynamics in Battlefield.Activision has invented a new way to encourage pre-ordersSay what you like about Activision, this company knows how to tempt gamers into handing over their cash. On Monday, the publisher announced the Day Zero Edition, which allows customers who pre-order any of the special editions of Advanced Warfare to access the game a day early on 3 November. Those early birds will also get special weapons and custiom exo skeletons, as well as double XP for 24 hours.It’s a cunning offering, aimed at trigger happy fans who want to level up as far as possible before all their peers. Believe me, this is so going to catch on.Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare is due out on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 4 November.Call of Duty Advanced Warfare – the future of CoDCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a non-gamer’s guide
Chromebook sales will hit 5.2m units this year, according to research company Gartner, as American schools in particular begin adopting them for their simple functionality and remote administration.Though the figure is small in the context of the overall PC market – which rival research firm IDC reckons will exceed 316m worldwide for 2014 – it illustrates the way in which traditional views of “computing” tasks are being carved up into separate ones that can be carried out better by dedicated devices, says Horace Dediu, who runs the independent Asymco consultancy.“What is happening is that the monolithic PC is getting carved up into jobs that other objects can do better,” Dediu told the Guardian. “What used to be “computing” is now a set of individual tasks and a task may be better done by a product/service combo rather than trying to force a PC to do it.”Chromebooks run a stripped-down form of Linux tuned by Google and hook into Google’s cloud services, with minimal local storage; in effect they offer a browser-based operating system around its Chrome browser.In the US education market, they have begun to rival Apple’s iPad for educational sales, because they have comparable prices and come with built-in physical keyboards and have strong remote administration functionality. Educators have been split on the benefits of the rival devices - while Windows and Apple PCs have lost sales to both.According to Gartner, there were 2.9m Chromebooks sold in total during 2013, of which 82%, or 2.4m, were sold in north America, and the education sector took 85% overall.It also forecasts a near-tripling of sales by 2017, to 14.4m units - compared with an overall PC market that IDC forecasts will remain roughly static at 320m units worldwide.Isabelle Durand, Gartner’s principal PC analyst, says that the number of Chromebooks on offer is growing rapidly as PC companies seek expanding niches amid stagnation. “Now that the PC market is no longer growing strongly, vendors are searching for new business opportunities,” she said. “They launched Chromebooks to revive interest in sub-$300 portable PCs once the netbook bubble had burst.”But she suggested that they will expand beyond the education sector, to work such as banking, financial services, estate agents and hotel receptionists. “So far, businesses have looked at Chromebooks, but not bought many,” said Ms Durand. “By adopting Chromebooks and cloud computing, businesses can benefit; they can shift their focus from managing devices to managing something much more important — their data.”Samsung led the space, selling 1.7m units in 2013 for a 58% lead, said Gartner. But since then Acer, which had a 21.4% share in 2013, has begun to challenge it for the lead, followed by HP, which had a 6.8% share, and Lenovo, which had 6.7%.But Dediu says that the research companies’ focus on raw numbers obscures the change that is occurring in the computing market. “This is a classic example of how segmentation by job to be done rather than by form factor leads to understanding,” he said. “I would argue that Chromebooks are going to gain a large share of browser-only interaction where user input is important (hence school and work). [Apple’s] iPad will gain a large share of app usage with some shopping and media consumption thrown in. Android tablets will be used to watch video including YouTube and lots of pirated content plus some games and light browsing. Phones will be used for communication and apps. Traditional PCs will still be used for productivity applications. These are the categories that matter, not the shape of the box. The measurements we need are the size of these jobs.“Unfortunately, that is a lot harder than trying to measure how many and what type of boxes are shipped.”•HP Chromebook 11 review: surprisingly good for the price
The Advertising Standards Authority has upheld a complaint against Electronic Arts for its advertising ofDungeon Keeper, the Android and iOS-based remake of a glorious old PC game that turned traditional adventure gaming on its head by putting you in charge of protecting rather than plundering. Promo material entreated players to download the game “free”, a claim the ASA found to be misleading given the frequent micro-transactions needed to play it. Dungeon Keeper’s mobile release was one of the more odious examples of “freemium” games, which demand the payment of real money to do practically anything. Nobody should expect to play carefully crafted games without giving something back to their developers, but titles like Boom Beach and Hearthstone prove you can make successful games without holding players to ransom.
An “iPhone 6”, suspected to be a knock-off Chinese clone, has set pulses racing as Apple fans count down the last month until new phones are released.The pictures of the device, supposedly in its final retail packaging,surfaced on the tech blog TechRadar on Monday morning. They show a phone similar to the iPhone 5S, albeit larger with more rounded edges and a few subtle design differences. The box itself is nearly identical to that of the 5S, while a picture of the phone being turned on shows the familiar Apple logo on a boot screen.But a number of tell-tale signs highlight the pictures as probable fakes.Most notably, the screenshot on the front of the case is of a device running iOS 7, due to be superseded by iOS 8 on the new devices released in the autumn. Missing from the front is the Health app, a default application on every iOS device anda major publicity target for Apple.Similarly, the build quality of the phone itself appears not to be up to typical apple standards. The plastic strips breaking up the metal band around the side appear to have grown compared to the iPhone 5S, as has the visible separation between the glass and the screen – something Apple has been working to reduce over the years.There are a number of discrepancies between the box art and the phone itself, with the box displaying a gold “iPhone 6” despite carrying a silver model.To top it all off, the supposed source of the phone – “an Apple beta tester” – doesn’t match at all with how the company has previously distributed beta devices. In previous years, beta testers haven’t received their phones in retail packaging, and have instead been handed devices in cases designed to obscure the fact that they are an iPhone at all. It would a be a major change for a company with such a dedication to secrecy to lift such practices.So where is the phone from? The pictures seem too imperfect to simply be a photoshop, and a few images – particularly the moire effect on the screen itself – would be hard indeed to fake.Instead, it seems likely that the device is a knock-off iPhone 6 of the sort already produced and sold in Asian markets. Clone iPhones are big business, and the devices don’t just ape the physical look and feel of the phone, but even attempt to clone the UI as much as possible. In 2011, an American tourist in China even discovereda clone Apple Store, apparently staffed with employees who didn’t know they were not working for Apple.In an effort to beat the competition, the knock-off vendors keep up to date with the rumour mill just as much as the biggest Apple fans, and begin production of their own versions well in advance of the launch. That might be how this device matches the rumoured screen size and hardware design so closely.Despite Apple’s commitment to secrecy, the size of the initial shipment of iPhones is now so high, and the supply chain so large, that the firm struggles to prevent leaks to the same degree that it managed to in 2010, when the first generation iPad was introduced to an audience who had no clue what the device would look like.The new iPhone is likely to include at least one larger model, with a screen measuring 4.7 inches, and maybe a second 5.5 inch device on top of that. Those screens could be made out of either sapphire or a sapphire blend, to make them more scratch-proof than any previous model.iPhone 6 screen looks like sapphire, says expert who spoke to Apple
