Fifa 12 has been playable for the last few days of the Gamescom exhibition, but one element attendees won't get to appreciate yet is the online modes. On EA's business stand, producer David Rutter was showing off some of the new facets, and the interesting structure of the multiplayer game.Initially, players will be able to select between ranked online matches, in which points are earned, and online friendlies, where you can just have a kickabout with friends. For the ranked system, the game will operate 10 leagues. All players will begin in league 10, but gain points for every win or draw – there are 10 games in a season and you'll need 12 points for automatic promotion from league 10, but the points requirement steadily rises as you rise through the divisions. Each season, you'll also get to compete in cup competitions; with the highest three leagues going into the "Continental Cup" with slightly less glamorous events for lower leagues. And all match-making takes place within your current division – you won't be paired against a Manchester City if you're more of a Stockport County.Interestingly, if you quit in rage during a match, you'll get no points, but the match will still be logged as one of your 10, so do it too often and you can expect to be sloping around at the bottom of the league, rueing your impatience and explosive temper. Oh and the in-game commentary knows where you are in the league and will make context-appropriate remarks, perhaps pointing out one side's proximity to the relegation zone, or that it's an important match for the other because they're vying for the top spot. A small feature, but it adds to that whole Fifa = real-life allure.The "Online Friendlies" mode works similarly, but there's no worldwide ranked component. However, you are able to play a "Rivals" match, which lets you gamble any XP you've collected on the outcome. Fifa 12 players can also track the online performances of their friends, checking out recent results and viewing league positions.This all integrates with theEA Sports Football Club, which provides a social gaming equivalent to Need For Speed's autolog, allowing fans to post their best results, share game experiences, issue challenges and generally stay up to speed with their friends, rivals and with live football, including specific challenges that will allow you to replay actual matches within the game, attempting to meet certain criteria. Let's take the first week of the Premier League, for example. Could you have played as Swansea and kept the score against Manchester City at 0-0 in the second half, even after the introduction of Agüero? That's the sort of thing the Challenge mode will ask – and get you to play out.Rutter also mentioned that during offline player vs CPU matches, you're able to access a series of sliders that affect AI elements such as shooting and passing accuracy and player speed. For exhibition matches, it just gives you a little bit more control over the experience.•Fifa 12 is released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 30 September
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAutonomy loses its autonomy &gt;&gt; Rory Cellan-Jones at BBC NewsRory CJ: "...while there's a promise that Autonomy will be run as a separate business, with Mike Lynch still in charge, this still looks like a sad day for British technology - and for Cambridge in particular."HP's WebOS conundrum: Sell the IP or try licensing? &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Those options could range from a sale to licensing. What to do with WebOS is just one issue facing HP as it attempts to reinvent itself. Here's a look at the options."HP: 'We are not walking away from webOS;' exclusive details from inside &gt;&gt; This is my next..."An insider has given us details from an all-hands meeting HP just held with employees in the webOS Global Business Unit in light of today's announcement that HP will no longer make webOS devices. In the meeting, webOS GBU VP Stephen DeWitt made it clear that HP intends to continue to work on webOS and likely intends to license it. DeWitt was adamant, saying several times "We are not walking away from webOS." He detailed a plan to try to determine what the platform's future will look like within the next two weeks, although he admitted that "Clearly, we don't have all the answers today.""What Will Be Left When HP Spins Out Its PC Business &gt;&gt; Silicon Alley Insider Chart of the DayQuite a lot. Though of course this shows revenue, not profit. The profit graph would be more interesting.@TeaMp0isoN_ gets his A level Computing Science gradeAll you need to know about many Anonymous members in a single tweet: age, attitude, achievement.12 handy tips for Windows 7&gt;&gt; MicrosoftHandy tips indeed.Beware of Juice-Jacking &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityFree phone charging? Think again. "Brian Markus, president of Aires Security, said he and fellow researchers Joseph Mlodzianowski and Robert Rowley built the charging kiosk to educate attendees about the potential perils of juicing up at random power stations. Markus explains the motivation behind the experiment:"'We'd been talking about how dangerous these charging stations could be. Most smartphones are configured to just connect and dump off data,' Markus said. 'Anyone who had an inclination to could put a system inside of one of these kiosks that when someone connects their phone can suck down all of the photos and data, or write malware to the device.'"China Mobile has been meeting secretly with Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; Fortune TechIntriguing: "At a news conference following release of its first-half earnings, China Mobile (CHL) revealed Thursday that it has met several times with Steve Jobs to talk about Apple (AAPL) making an iPhone that would support its proprietary 3G standard, Reuters reports"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationJet Set Willy IIGamers of a certain age, get thee to the App Store now. Spectrum classic Jet Set Willy II has followed its predecessor onto iPhone and iPad. Previously released within the official ZX Spectrum emulator, it's now available as a standalone title.iPhone / iPadRiot WatchThis is one of the first data-driven apps we've seen (on mobile, anyway) to plot incidents from the recent UK riots onto maps of the country. Riot Watch claims it is "especially useful if you are looking to buy or rent in a potentially volatile conurbation, or if you simply want to stay aware of trouble spots for your safety and that of those around you". Paranoid types will get this and the recent Death App, and never leave the house again...AndroidDead Space for BlackBerry PlayBookMeaty gaming thrills have been lacking on the BlackBerry PlayBook, but EA is doing its best to help with a port of impressive iOS action title Dead Space.BlackBerry PlayBookPeter Dickson's Pocket AnnouncerX Factor voiceover man Peter Dickson has just launched his own Android app, which enables fans to make him bombastically shout thousands of words in whatever order they like. Dickson himself recorded the audio for the app, which involves arranging the words into sentences. An iPhone version is already available.AndroidWe're InMicrosoft has launched its We're In social app for Windows Phone 7, which lets users invite friends to share their location temporarily. The company says it's ideal for planning roadtrips and meeting up in crowded places, among other uses.Windows PhoneBillboard On TourUS music industry magazine Billboard has launched its own live music app, powered by Mobile Roadie. The app lets people find out where bands are playing, create favourites lists and share gig dates with friends.iPhone / AndroidPearson eText for SchoolsPearson's eText technology is used in a number of schools for electronic books. Now there's an iPad app for that too, enabling teachers and students to access their books on the tablet.iPadVenntunesiPhone music app Venntunes helps people to compare their music collections by bumping their phones together, with iTunes buying buttons and social sharing also in the mix.iPhoneMen's Health Trainer LiteThe US version of Men's Health magazine has a new Android training app, which provides seven-day workout and diet plans. The upsell is to a premium version with more plans, 600 video demos and community features.AndroidThe ChelsChelsea FC-themed podcast The Chels now has its own Android app, courtesy of Bappz. It sees actor Phil Daniels and co-host Ceri Levy talking all things Chelsea, with new and archive podcasts, extra content and news pulled in from The Guardian and the BBC.AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
It's Friday! Buying or playing any interesting games this weekend?
The young, it seems, need do little more than flick a Bieberesque fringe or pout vampirically to attract the undying devotion of their peers.But if you're 50-something and out to impress your contemporaries, you'll need to set your sights rather higher. To win their approval, you may find yourself compelled to revolutionise the flow of information across the planet, put sex firmly and loudly at the heart of the city, take on Rupert Murdoch, become one of your generation's most respected songwriters, or embrace ceramics and cross-dressing. That, at any rate, is what the latest August survey would have us believe.Members of thehigh50.comclub – "an online community with cutting edge editorial for people who believe life really begins at 50" – have pronounced Tim Berners-Lee, father of the world wide web, the most inspirational person in their 50s. Close behind are Hugh Grant, Kim Cattrall, Nick Cave and Grayson Perry. Also in the top 10 are the designer and film-maker Tom Ford, the actors Colin Firth and Tilda Swinton, the journalist Tina Brown and the designer Cath Kidston.A longlist of the 50 most inspirational people in their 50s was compiled by a panel of journalists and then handed to the website's readers for a vote. After 1,363 responses had been received, the top 10 was announced. Falling just short were Hugh Laurie, Ricky Gervais, Nigella Lawson, Annie Lennox, Imran Khan and Jeanette Winterson.Tim Willis, the editor of high50.com, said getting on the longlist was far from easy. "Being 50 isn't about resting on your laurels, in our eyes. It's about moving forward, trying something new, adding to your talents and knowledge base."
Foursquare's latest partner is British music startup Songkick, whose database of music gigs will now be integrated into check-ins made using the social location service's mobile apps. Songkick is one of three new content partners for Foursquare, with the other two being ESPN for sports and MovieTickets.com for films.According to Songkick chief executive Ian Hogarth, the deals will provide important additional context for people's activity on Foursquare. "When you check in to live music venues on Foursquare, it'll now display the bands playing there – the why along with the where," he says.Until now, Foursquare-using music fans have been restricted to checking in to places rather than events. For example, friends may see they're at the Shepherds Bush Empire, but not that they're watching the Black Crowes unless they specify that in a comment.Is having this context added automatically important? It may be for the music, film and sports industries, since it may enable Foursquare to provide them with more useful data about what gigs, movies and matches its users are watching, and provide scope for artists, studios and teams to reward people for checking in to specific events.The Songkick deal is particularly interesting, since social location is currently firmly on the music industry's radar. In the US, MTV has just launched its MTV Live &amp; Local app, which encourages fans to check in to gigs via Foursquare. There have been marketing campaigns using the rival Facebook Places service for Cheryl Cole and James Blunt, and there are even social location apps focused purely on music: Finnish service Flowd and US startup Superglued.The growth of Songkick's own service, which alerts music fans to upcoming gigs based on their music collections and their friends' activities, has been fuelled by its partnerships with other companies. Foursquare is just the latest to tap in to its live listings: other partners include SoundCloud, Topspin, Mobile Roadie, Yahoo UK and PRS for Music.The site claims to be the second largest live music website in the world behind only Live Nation/Ticketmaster, and its iPhone app generated more than 100,000 downloads in two weeks after its rlease in June 2011.In May, Hogarthtold the Guardianthat Songkick was firmly focused on discovery "because it's still the biggest problem for live music, and most people still miss out on concerts because they just didn't know about them". The partnership with Foursquare is just the latest manifestation of the company's ambition.
The cliche of mobile augmented reality is someone walking down the street squinting at the real world through their smartphone screen. Mainly because that's the kind of mobile AR that a lot of companies have been focusing on, and also because it taps into the sci-fi geekfantasies of a lot of technology writers. Yes, guilty as charged.However, the last month has seen a burst of activity around a related AR field – well, something that sits between augmented reality and image recognition if I'm honest – that focuses less on the world around you, and more on printed materials: newspapers, magazines, posters and/or packaging.Example one:Blippar. The startup launched its app this week armed with a high-profile Cadbury chocolate promotion. People with its free app installed on their iPhone or Android handsets can point them at a range of chocolate bars to trigger a 30-second mini-game called Qwak Smack. It involves cartoon ducks seeming to stream out of the bar and on to the player's screen.Example two:Zappar. Also available as an iPhone or Android app, its launch focus is on console games, and specifically on the way they're sold in real-world stores. Unveiled at the Gamescom conference in Cologne, it enables people to point their phones at games' promotional materials to make characters and other 3D objects appear as if in mid-air.Example three:Layar. Actually, Layar is one of the veterans of mobile augmented reality, specialising in the world-around-you strain of AR described at the start of this post. In early August, though, it unveiled an extension to its technology called Layar Vision, focused on bringing AR to traditional printed media.Point your phone at a newspaper ad or poster and get audio, video, 3D objects and other data. It won't be added to Layar's iPhone and Android apps until later this year, but developers can start working with its SDK now. Blippar is also pitching its technology as having the potential to bring this kind of interactivity to newspapers.These three companies join existing AR companyMetaio, which has shown demos of its Junaio AR technology being used to bring motion and interactivity to print adverts. The overall trend is clear: augmented reality used for printed media close to the user, not just for buildings and environments further away.The executive quotes from the announcements of these services conform to the AR industry's standard tone of revolutionary zeal. "Image-recognition enabled augmented reality is far from a gimmick and will fundamentally change how consumers interact with their favourite real-world brands," says the Blippar chief executive, Ambarish Mitra.Meanwhile, Zappar's managing director, Caspar Thykier, claims his company's technology "will be a major shift in how people look at retail POS, creating a new entertainment channel from any image we place in the real world," says Zappar's managing director Caspar Thykier. The brands and media owners that these companies are pitching to have varying degrees of enthusiasm and/or scepticism about these kinds of claims, but many are prepared to at least explore the potential, as Cadbury's launch-partner status for Blippar shows.One hurdle for startups such as these – and also a reason they are keen to strike partnerships with brands and media firms – is the need to get their apps on to lots of people's phones, while teaching those people how to use them, and also how to recognise print or packaging that can be interacted with. The lack of standards means that any such campaigns must drive people to download a specific app: you can't snap a Dairy Milk bar with Blippar's app and expect an AR treat.Some of the hurdles around this technology makes it tempting to scoff at it. What companies such as Blippar, Zappar, Layar and Metaio (which clearly didn't get the memo about company nomenclature) are betting on is that two or three years' down the line, the behaviour of pointing a phone at a publication, poster or piece of packaging will be much more widespread.That said, what these companies are also betting on is that they won't be squeezed out of this market by bigger fish. Google has already signified its image-recognition intentions with the release of its Google Goggles app, while eBay has established itself in the related-but-narrower field of barcode-scanning with its purchase of startup RedLaser – an area that Amazon is also active in. Apple, as ever, has the potential to disrupt the AR startups if (or probably when) it makes this technology part of its iOS software.For now, expect more bullish quotes from the startups, more brands and media owners experimenting with the technology to gauge its potential, and – hopefully – some firm pointers to emerge on how it can provide benefits to mobile users beyond simply being a whizzy new way to market to them.
I have a three-year-old Panasonic plasma TV – great picture, great sound, no need to upgrade it yet. However, I would like to use it to watch movies and catchup TV available on the net, and maybe do some web surfing. How do I best achieve this without having to go down the Apple TV route? I already have an LG PVR attached, but that limits me to YouTube and Picasa, and has a horrible alphanumeric entry system. I understand there are PCs that I can attach to the back of the TV and connect with HDMI, and that use wireless keyboards or new-generation mice like the Loop.Matt CoomberIf you want to connect a PC to a flatscreen TV, then almost any current machine with an HDMI port and Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium will do the job. HDMI carries both video and audio signals, so it avoids having to use separate audio cables, as you do with DVI. Windows 7 includes the Media Center software that was originally designed for use in home entertainment PCs running Windows XP Media Center Edition, and it works well with a remote control. Windows Media Center has PVR (personal video recorder) features and now "Internet TV" (ie you can get movies from Zune, Netflix etc, if they are available in your country), so it might possibly replace your standalone PVR. You can certainly use it with aLoopand the Kylo made-for-TV web browser.Windows XP Media Center PCs died in the marketplace because they were much too expensive for the home TV market, and there were alternatives such as streaming audio and video to the TV set from an existing PC. That's still a cheaper option, using devices such as theBoxee Box. One day, Google TV products such as theLogitech Revuemight also be a more attractive option.However, the PC-centric approach returned with the arrival of "net-tops" such as the Asus EEE PC Box, MSI Wind Box and Acer Revo. These were, roughly, netbooks without screens, so they were very small, relatively cheap, and reasonably quiet. You may be thinking of the EEE PC Box because this can be clipped to the back of a flatscreen TV set. The new more-stylish version of the Acer Revo, the RL100, can be stacked flat or used as a very skinny tower: it's just 300mm high and 25mm thick, and that includes a DVD or Blu-ray drive. Its main rival is probably theZotac Zbox.Specification issues are much the same as with netbooks, as discussed last week (Wanted: a netbook for business trips). In general, I'd go for a dual core CPU, and if you plan to play movies, some sort of graphics processor. The standard over the past couple of years has been the Nvidia ION, which is capable of playing full HD (1080p) video. The drawback is that a (literally) hot graphics chip can rev up the cooling fan, increasing the noise level.The latest version of theAcer Revo 100has a 1.3GHz dual-core AMD Athlon II Neo K325 processor, ION graphics chip, up to 4GB of memory, a large hard drive (500GB, 640GB or 750GB), a DVD or Blu-ray drive, multi-format memory card slot, USB, Ethernet, S/PDIF and HDMI ports, Wi-Fi, and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. It often includes a built-in digital TV tuner. A slot in the tower case holds a somewhat odd remote wireless gesture-capable touchpad that doubles as a keyboard. However, the RL100 will also work with a vast array of Windows mice and keyboards, and with XP/Vista/Windows 7/Media Center MCE remote controls.Acer also provides Clear.fi software that, according to its blurb: "automatically connects all of your household digital devices, including your smartphone, mobile internet device, notebook, all-in-one PC, HD media player, etc" – it should detect any DLNA-certified device. Clear.fi lets you share media content, play it to other devices, and upload it to popular social networks, though you can use your preferred Windows programs instead.Since it is, obviously, a PC, you can run standard Windows software, browse the web, play videos in Flash and other formats, and all the usual stuff. You could also use it to run the free, open source XBMC networked media-player/home theatre software. (XBMC has no connection with Microsoft, it just happened to start life on the original Intel-powered Xbox games console.)While the AMD K325 seems to be (according to the benchmarks) a bit quicker than a comparable Intel Atom, it's not a speed demon, and it isn't going to compete with a Core i3/i5/i7 – as fitted to theASRock Core 100HT-BDhome theatre PC – for general purpose computing or gaming. Depending on local prices, you might be able to build a better Shuttle or "barebones" media computer for a similar price. You could also use a Windows laptop, and most of these now have HDMI as standard plus either DVD or Blu-ray drives. However, the Revo RL100 does the job in a plug-in-and-go format that's quite close to the size of a slimline DVD or Blu-ray player, and will sit happily under your flatscreen TV set without looking like a computer.
[Update]: We have added lots of fresh detail to our preview. Come back and read it again!In very few games will you be confronted by a mid-level boss who has an angry midget strapped to his shield. It just doesn't often happen, I don't know why. Yet, here it is, halfway through the Borderlands 2 demo at Gamescom. The midget is squealing with fury. It turns out, these two characters don't get on.There is an irony at the heart of Borderlands 2 that will no doubt strike a chord with other developers of slightly off-beat games. As Gearbox's Steve Gibson explains at the start of the Gamescom demo: "When we were here with the originalBorderlandsin 2009, we were pleading with the press – please show gamers that there are other things beside sequels; there are fresh things happening. We were quite successful with that ... And so we made a sequel."But Gibson is quick to clarify. "We weren't talking about people getting to return to the same worlds and genres; our real problem with sequels, and what was happening in our industry, was what we like to call content dumps. This is when a team designs a game and then a year later, they throw in a bunch of new levels, put a '2' on the box and ask for money. We felt that for a true sequel you have to dig in and do something much more ambitious, you have to treat it like a new game."Hence, when it ships in 2012, Borderlands 2 will have been the product of a three-year development period. Gibson says they've re-thought every element of the game, including the AI, vehicle, weapons and quest systems – "it's all been entirely gutted and majorly changed," he assures us.Set five years after the events of the first title, and still on the wretchedly inhospitable planet of Pandora, Borderlands 2 revolves around a new dictator Handsome Jack. After some kind of armed confrontation he has dumped you out in the Arctic tundra. Immediately, there is a rampaging pack of ape-like beasts named bullymongs to deal with. Yes, bullymongs. You couldn't make it up... because Gearbox has already made it up for you.Once again, players pick up XP for shooting enemies, giving them access to weapons, parts and items from a variety of fictitious manufacturers. Gibson shows off a handy disposable assault rifle; once the mag is empty you can just chuck the thing at a bad guy, stunning him in the process. The planet's roving bandits make their own weapons nowadays too, fashioning them out of any old scrap and parts they can find. These monstrous Heath Robinson-esque contraptions often have wildly exaggerated features, such as enormous ammo clips, so they're worth trying out.But the enemies can be just as resourceful. Improved AI means they'll look for higher ground to gain an advantage in any fire fight, and they'll flank you – apparently it's going to be important to figure out how they work together. Shooting the nearest guy isn't always the smartest option.Everyone is more resourceful this time round. Bullymongs will even pick up great handfuls of ice to chuck in your general direction. Gearbox says it wants the player to feel like they're an intruder in a living world, so in Borderlands 2, every one is doing something: bandit factions are fighting each other, Hyperion troopers are fighting bandits... it can all work to the player's advantage.In the mission we see, 'A Dam Fine Rescue', the player must release Roland, one of the lead characters from the first title, who has got himself incarcerated in a bandit camp, a mass of corrugated iron shacks that seems to have taken most of its town planning cues from Mad Max 2. This level is an insane romp through screaming psychos, smart marauders and Hyperion troops stamping about in militarised mech loaders. Apparently quests will now feel more connected and natural – as do the environments. From a high point in the camp, we can look out over the sprawling town and the landscape beyond. It's all seamlessly explorable, apparently.Elsewhere, co-op has been re-jigged to allow players to drop more easily into each other's games. Car handling has been improved (adding power slides!), and there are new group vehicles, allowing four players to jump into a jeep together. Gearbox wouldn't talk about competitive multiplayer, but it seems the team is preparing a huge character customisation element.The visuals, though, are what you remember, just sharper and more expansive. The game still has its cell-shaded sheen; a stylistic redress to the world's obsession with military realism. And it has a baddie, the Nomad Torturer, who has a midget strapped to his shield. Just in case you forgot. Because, I certainly can't.•PS3, Xbox 360, PC; released 2012
It's impossible to overstate the popularity of first-person shooters, with the likes of Call of Duty and Halo generating rare crossover moments in which the wider population grudgingly and fleetingly acknowledges that games nowadays are at the core of popular culture. But that poses a problem for first-person shooter developers: how do they compete against such giant franchises (and their marketing budgets), and how do they differentiate their games from everything else out there? Codemasters reckons it has come up with a new take on the FPS with Bodycount, conceived by some of the team that made 2006's Black.If you're of the opinion modern first-person shooters, with their cut-scenes, stealth and driving sequences, tortuous plots and TV-style cliffhangers at the end of each mission have become too overblown for their own good, then you should love Bodycount. It – deliberately – has next to no plot: you're an unnamed "Asset" working for The Network, which sends mercenaries like yourself to sort out trouble spots around the world. In the course of going about your no-nonsense business, you come across an equally shadowy outfit called The Target. As you explore their underground bunkers, discovering more about them, the conflict between the two organisations – and countless dodgy local militias in the middle – ramps up.Essentially, this non-plot is a device to put three things at the centre of stage, as described by developer Codemasters Guildford: "Guns, bullets, world." Yes, Bodycount is just about running about, shooting enemies and blowing things up – the pure essence of the FPS. It helps that it packs perhaps the most sophisticated environmental destruction engine ever seen in a game – something you'll need to employ, as it's at the more unforgiving end of the scale in terms of difficulty.Mind that coverA number of elements instantly stand out when you play Bodycount, chief is the cover system. Since more or less everything in the world (unless it's made of virtual concrete) is destructible, you're likely to find that whatever you ducked behind in order to find shelter is soon reduced to a pile of matchsticks. So, instead of the familiar snapping to whatever surface you're cowering behind, you have to position yourself manually behind something, then pull the left trigger, which anchors you to the floor, with the left stick allowing you to lean. A half-pull of the left trigger raises your gun-sight, but still lets you strafe around. This sounds a bit odd, but after a period of initial confusion, works a treat.All about the firepowerBodycount has been compared to Bulletstorm, which admittedly had a similarly carefree "If it moves, shoot it" attitude, but its weaponry differs markedly from Bulletstorm's. Rather than being completely over-the-top gear which can play havoc with gravity, Bodycount's weaponry stays relatively true to life. You can carry two weapons – we were particularly fond of the shotgun and several of the many assault rifles, the more powerful of which can only fire in short bursts (and some of which are better at shredding the environment than flesh). Grenades are on the right bumper, but have been given a twist: if you double-tap, they will be primed to explode on first impact. The left bumper spews out three mines just in front of you: dead handy when you've got a tank-character pursuing you relentlessly.Film/comic-influenced visualsBodycount also looks very distinctive: Codemasters Guildford explained that, since it's an arcade-style shooter, it could explore influences such as comic-books rather than going for realism. So out go the greys and browns, and in come environments such as vibrantly colourful African shanty towns, and neon-lit Asian markets. The Target bunkers are great: pure Tron-style interiors with cool blues, blacks, silvers and reds. Not that there's much time to pause for sight-seeing – the Target operatives in particular take some putting down.And neither they nor any of the more prosaic militia enemies will sit there and act as bullet-sponges: the AI is noticeably more clever than the norm, with each class of enemy behaving differently. That's the essence of Bodycount: mere running and gunning isn't enough. You have to take a tactical approach, and because of the destruction, you're more or less constantly on the move. You are also rewarded for stylishness: there's an in-game currency called Intel, which manifests itself as blobs emitted from dead enemies. Headshots and kills from behind generate more valuable, differently coloured Intel, and kill-streaks ramp its value up further. You can cash it in on four special abilities, triggered by the D-Pad: a period of invulnerability, explosive bullets, a radar showing the enemy and an air-strike. We found the temporary invulnerability particularly useful in tight spots. At the end of mission, the Intel you've collected is totted up into a grade.OnlineBodycount has a two-player co-op mode, which resembles Gears of Wars' Horde, as it sends waves of increasingly fearsome enemies at you and your mate. Although this uses levels from the single-player game, they've received a bespoke makeover to account for the fact that, after a few waves, more or less all cover has been destroyed: Codemasters asserts that "Tactical pathfinding" is a key element of that particular mode. And there are 12-player Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch modes.What do we reckon?On paper, Bodycount may sound almost unassuming – it appears to take a hair-shirt approach, eschewing extraneous bells and whistles. But in practice, you soon find that it's completely in your face. It won't let you relax for a minute, and it provides large amounts of deeply satisfyingly shooting and destruction, as well as testing your strategic ability. It has a sort of purity to it, once evident in games such as Doom and Quake, that has somehow been diluted in most modern first-person shooters. But most of all, it's just great, thoroughly uncomplicated, good fun.• Bodycount goes on sale on Xbox 360 and PS3 on 2 September.
Fifa Street, to me, was always more of a marketing concept than a genuine game series. Hey, the kids love football and they love urban culture – let's jam the two together, add a licensed soundtrack and jive all the way to the bank. And that's kind of what EA did for a couple of iterations.When Fifa Street appeared back in 2005, it was part of EA's ill-judged BIG label, in which development teams were expected to bring street chic to the sports genre. By the end of the series, Fifa Street had become a bizarre fantasy of millionaire footballers repeating mystical tricks on fairyland parking lot pitches. It had become totally divorced from reality. It was an interactive Nike advert.But, as announced at EA's GamesCom press conference, Fifa Street is back. And it could well be the surprise success story of this year's event.In some ways, the foundations remain unchanged. This is a stylised simulation of urban football, in which the emphasis is placed on attacker vs defender face-offs and cool tricks. Players can take part in anything from 1 vs 1 to 6 vs 6 matches, as well as Futsal, Fifa's official five-a-side competition. There are also novelty modes like Last Man Standing (if you score, one of your players leaves the pitch, the first team with no players wins), while participants can create custom matches in which they modify the size of the goals, or get points for pulling off skill moves.Ah yes, skill moves are the basis of the experience. The basic controls are typical Fifa – there's a short pass, a shoot button, a lobbed pass and a "manual pass" – a tactical attacking punt that replaces the traditional through-ball (considered too incisive for the small court game). But on top of this, players with the ball can press the left trigger to stop the team member with the ball; now, the left analogue stick can be used to move the ball around in a series of close-quarters flicks and feints.Defenders always face attackers, so you have these little one-on-one moments – the guy with the ball is playing with it, waiting for the defender to commit; the defender has to stand his ground and see which way the ball will go. Now, the guy with the ball can hit right trigger, point the analogue stick in the desired direction and make a break for it. Time it right and point toward the defender and you perform a satisfying nutmeg.But there is also an array of more than 50 skill moves, accessible via the right stick. Faves such as the flip flap, rainbow flick and heel chop are all accessible, providing an armoury of possible offensive options. In a sense pitch encounters become like very fast RPG turn-based battles, each player routing through their collection of special moves. To add further depth, the left shoulder tab provides access to a series of modifying flair moves, that add extra bite to passing and shooting attempts. The right tab makes the player kick the ball up into the air, opening up a series of keep-uppy manouveres.It sounds fiddly and inconsequential, but it's really good fun. Matches become very close and very considered battles of special move prowess as attackers probe and push for gaps, and defenders seek to anticipate passing moves. There's a nice staccato pace, the ball flows easily between players until a tackling showdown presents itself – then it's all ball tricks, taps and shimmys. It should feel over-structured and fussy, but every confrontation is a satisfying battle.Part of the reason it works – a very large part, I suspect – is that the DNA of the main Fifa series runs through the title. Development has been at EA Vancouver, using the Fifa 12 engine. The animation, then, is lovely; it's detailed, and the intricate moves look smooth and detailed.The project is also headed up by Gary Paterson, one of the team responsible for Fifa's renaissance. His demo of the game is enthusiastic and knowledgeable. He is quick to recognise the weaknesses of previous Fifa Street titles. "Fifa Street 3 was a fantasy game," he explains as he shows me the game. "We feel that street football in itself is very exciting, very stylish, it's got crazy moves – there's no need to exaggerate that. This is authentic street football. It's all about beating the defender, humiliating the defender. In our research we saw cases where street footballers would have an open goal, but they wouldn't score, they'd wait for the defender to get back, then they'd beat the defender and score. It's all about that one vs one."Paterson also reckons the game catches the differing cultures of street football around the world. Fifa Street features 35 environments, taking in everything from playgrounds to underpasses, from London courts to Shanghai rooftops. In the Dutch game, the emphasis is on the numeg – or panna – the fleet-footed humiliation of your opponent; in the UK sections, there's much more wall play and it's more physical (though out-and-out fouls are tough to commit here). The ball physics differ depending on the surface, so grass is more sympathetic than concrete. And the rules change too: if you opt for Futsal, there are no walls to rebound the ball off of – instead, you get kick ins and corners.This being Fifa, there are licensed teams – somehow, players from all the major European leagues, as well as the MLS, are present, though Paterson won't say how, and to what extent. There is also a suite of online and "connected" features, similar to Fifa's online modes and EA Sports Football Club options, though the details will come later.So yes, Fifa Street. After a couple of matches I was beginning to glimpse the complexities of the control system, the way stepovers, slights and nutmegs can combine with shielding moves to create very tense, very satisfying little encounters. I guess the question is whether there's a market for it now.Apparently, Futsal is the fastest growing indoor sport in the world, but with the main Fifa title so dominant, Fifa Street will need to perform a few impressive marketing moves to prove that it has a place in the EA Sports line-up. Yet already, it's a really fascinating prospect, guided by an experienced development team.
A burst of 9 apps for your considerationDoctor Who – The Mazes of TimeBBC Worldwide has launched its first Android app: a port of existing iOS game Doctor Who – The Mazes of Time. It's using the freemium model too: the initial set of levels is free, with others sold in packs via in-game purchase.AndroidSkype WiFiSkype's latest iPhone app isn't a full Voice over IP client. Instead, it enables users to connect to more than one million Wi-Fi hotspots, paying using their Skype Credit accounts.iPhoneThe Lovers' GuideYes, that Lovers' Guide. Body in Balance has launched an Android app for the popular sex manual, which offers video footage while charging £1 per position via SMS. BlackBerry, iPhone and Windows Phone versions are apparently on the way too, which should make for some fun in the Apple approval process.AndroidBob Marley Save The ChildrenBob Marley is the face of a new app campaign for Save The Children, built around his song High Tide or Low Tide. Users can listen to the song, watch the video, and find out more about Save The Children's current campaign in east Africa.iPhoneInjini: Childhood Development Game SuiteiPad app Injini has a premium price point – £34.99 – but it's the work of a team of parents, teachers and child development experts, with a focus on children with cognitive, language and fine motor delays. The content includes mini-games, puzzles and picture tracing, designed to help children with autism, cerebral palsy, Down syndrome and other developmental delays.iPadAmnesia Ibiza 2011Clubbing brand Amnesia has launched an all-new iPhone app for this summer's Ibiza season. Well, better late than never, eh? The app includes club listings, a photo gallery, videos and a streaming radio station, as well as linking in with Amnesia's official Twitter profile.iPhoneSports Illustrated Big TicketSports magazine Sports Illustrated has a new Android app, offering photos from all manner of sporting events from around the world.AndroidBeowulfParamount Digital Entertainment has released its latest "enhanced movie app" for Windows Phone, offering blockbuster Beowulf for streaming, with social features and extra content around it.Windows PhonePlayr2UK firm Playr2 helps people compare prices on console, handheld and PC games. Its new app for iPhone and Android takes the service mobile, complete with barcode scanning features.iPhone / AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple, Qualcomm, others eye InterDigital &gt;&gt; Reuters"Apple Inc, Nokia and Qualcomm Inc are among several technology companies pondering bids for InterDigital Inc, sources familiar with the situation said."Google is not out of the picture, either, according to these sources.Apple's Mobile Ad Head Andy Miller Departs for Highland Capital &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Sources said Miller -- who sold Quattro Wireless, the mobile advertising company he co-founded in 2006, to Apple in early 2010 for $275 million -- will become a general partner at Highland Capital, the Boston-based venture firm that had funded Quattro."FYI: Steve Jobs' 'spaceship' is NOT bigger than the Pentagon &gt;&gt; Fortune TechVery slightly smaller, at least in terms of circumscribing circles (or circumscribed circles).Valuing patents: Doing the maths &gt;&gt; The EconomistPatents in the mobile industry go for a basement price of around $500,000 each. Rising somewhat when you get to the Nortel ones bought by Apple, Microsoft, RIM et al.Introducing the team building Windows 8 &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsSteve Sinofsky, head of the Windows division, explains how you size your Windows team: "When folks do the math and come up with the number of developers on the team, we usually hear one of two reactions: "wow, that is a lot, and there is no way that can work," or "wow, you build a product for a billion people with a pretty small number folks." It is to our benefit to have the smallest number of people on the team possible, but it is to your benefit to have the largest number of people adding all the things that folks might want. So, we find a place in the middle. We want the team to be manageable and able to produce high quality, full-featured code."Though he doesn't say how many that actually is in practice.Can Tudou Break China IPO Bed Spell? &gt;&gt; Chinese Investor"Each and every Chinese IPO failed investors in 2011 so far. This doesn't mean Tudou (NASDAQ:TUDO) will fail as well, but it raises a red flag."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday, it's 7.30am, it's Chatterbox, back in action!
What is it about New York? Seriously. Why does every developer suddenly want to destroy it? We've had Crysis 2, Modern Warfare 3, Resistance: Burning Skies... Somehow, actually in ways I don't even want to consider in a video game preview, it has become a touchstone of apocalyptic dread.And it is there again in Steel Battalion: Heavy Armor, the third title in Capcom's cult series of mech shooters. This time round, the action kicks off after a massive collapse in civilisation. Some kind of bizarre silicon-eating microbe has destroyed every computer on Earth and a global war has kicked off. America has been invaded and now, piloting a weird steam punk mech, you are part of the fight back operation.The Gamescom demo begins in the waters off the tip of Manhattan. In a sequence resembling the Normandy beach landings, the US forces are attempting to land beneath Battery park, as hostile forces litter the bay with machine gun fire. You are in a bipedal mech named The Creeping Death. You are Winfield Powers; you have a gunner either side of you and a navigator at the rear of the craft. It's your job to clamber on to dry land and reclaim the city.Fans of the series may remember that the original title came with a hugely complex dual-joystick controller, absolutely crammed with buttons and designed to resemble the fictitious controls of a mechanised walker. For Heavy Armor, the complex inputs are given over to Kinect compatibility. You can swipe with your left or right hand to see and communicate with the relevant AI gunner, or stand up, to get your character to open the hatch and look out at the battlefield. If you pull back with your right hand you crank the start lever; shift your left hand and you switch gears from high to low. High is faster, but your craft shakes much more, making accurate aiming troublesome. Go for low and you're a sitting target to the gigantic tank-like war machines pointing out at your forces.It's also possible to perform a pull down movement to access a control panel which gives you night sights, access to the ventilation system (which clears your tank of smoke if you're damaged) or a self-destruct button. If you stand up to open the hatch and squeeze outside, you can mime holding a pair of binoculars to get a magnified view of your surroundings. As search lights comb the skies and smoke billows across the expanse of land, your soldiers and vehicles rush upward toward the financial district. In the distance is a tower your tank must destroy.Capcom has billed this game as "war: inside and out". In other words, you're fighting the enemy, but you're also couped up in a mechanical mech stomper with three other men. At the start of each mission, you can select crew members who exhibit the skills you think you'll need. But the thing is, they all have their own personalities. During the demo Capcom shows us at GamesCom, we have a particularly jittery left gunner. He's there to control the machine guns, spotting and taking out enemy troops as the player navigates up the headland and controls the main cannon. But after a few close calls with incoming missiles, our man starts to panic and tries to clamber out of the hatch.He's not going anywhere. Via Kinect, you can reach up and drag him back into the craft. You can even punch him to bring him to his senses. Part of your battle, it seems, is keeping hold of your staff. Apparently, you can let him go, but then you'll ahve to take charge of those left-side guns. And then what's to stop the right-hand guy from panicking, too?So this is a mech game, with lots of rather eccentric and iconoclastic control mechanisms. The interior of the tank looks like a sort of Victorian diving craft, all dials and switches. but this is a shooter at heart and it knows that the FPS is the place to gather successful interface ideas these days. Hence, you can drag down the periscope to give you a sniper-s view of the field. Meanwhile, the destructive, but limited cannon is like a shotgun. Red icons at the base of the screen let you select between different ammo types: anti-tank or explosive. And to let you know your next major targets, you have an onboard camera system that slides out into your viewing position and focuses in on mini-bosses and objectives.Apparently, throughout the game, you progress down through North America, liberating states as you go (at one point we see an American flag, and it has just eight stars – you have a lot of work to do).Developed by From Software, that veteran of slightly offbeat and utterly uncompromising titles like Demon's Souls, Steel Battalion: Heavy Armor is an absolutely fascinating oddity. Mech games haven't really been popular in the West since the days of the MechWarrior series, and it is difficult to conceive of a less on-message Kinect experience. But the series has a solid fanbase – and beyond that are no doubt many gamers who like the idea of plodding across America in a massive steel beast, with temperamental cohorts at your side, with enemies to turn to cannon fodder mush, with Kinect controls that let you ram down a periscope or jam a pair of metallic legs into gear.10-15 years ago, this kind of esoteric Japapanese treat was much more common on Western release schedules. Now, sitting in a demo room and watching as the crew of a metal machine argue, as complex controls and weird systems combine to obfuscate a dense and crowded battlefield, it is deliciously anachronistic. I just don't know what Capcom Europe expects from this title, but I am delighted it is here.Steel Battalion: Heavy Armor is due out on Xbox 360 next year.
Although the PS3 and PSP price drops dominated news coverage of Sony's Gamescom press conference last night, there were a number of other little revelations and announcements. In case you haven't kept up, here are the basics.Resistance: Burning SkiesAn entirely new addition to the alien invasion FPS series, designed from the foundations up as a Vita exclusive. Burning Skies acts as a prequel to the original Resistance title, following fireman Tom Riley who wakes up in some kind of nightmarish Chimera processing plant (on Ellis Island, no less, drawing interesting parallels between immigration and invasion), escapes and becomes a folk hero of the burgeoning human fightback. Armed with a fire axe, we see him batter his way through Chimeran troops, including old skool hybrids as well as new monsters.The game looks to make great use of Vita's controls: the dual sticks allow a standard console FPS movement interface, while the left shoulder button does an iron ight zoom in, as we'd expect. However, secondary weapons like grenade launchers are controlled via a virtual button on the screen, and you can even jump over cover using Sixaxis controls, by jerking your console forward. The frag grenade system is nice too – you can tap the screen to just lob one quickly, or hold to aim and cook the grenade.The action flows along the rooftops of a wrecked New York, with Chimeran craft flying overhead. No mention of multiplayer modes, but they're surely in there. It's being developed byNihilisticunder the watchful gaze of original series developer Insomniac. Looks like an earnest attempt to create a genuine handheld FPS, which looks and feels like its console and PC big brothers.Escape PlanAnother Vita title, this time from new developerFun Bits. Escape Plan is a monochrome puzzle-platformer that sort of combines the visual style of Limbo with the light-hearted gameplay of a Ratchet and Clank or Jak and Daxter. The player controls two black blob-like characters named Lil and Laarg, who must escape from a series of trap-filled chambers. There are lots of giant turning cogs, falling blades and moving platforms, as well as plenty of squidgy death animations. The front and rear touch pads are used to inflate or deflate the characters so they can rise above certain obstacles. It looks like you need to combine the abilities of the characters, which hints that there will be co-op functionality, but Sony didn't say so at the event.inFamous 2: Festival of Blood'Undead Nightmares, but with Vampires,' is pretty much the recipe for this standalone PSN title, set to be released in October. New Marais is suddenly awash with vampires and series hero Cole McGrath has been bitten and infected; he now has one night to discover the lead vampire and destroy him. It is, as you could probably have guessed, a darker, horror-themed take on the open-world action adventure series, promising several hours of gameplay as well as new enemies. In the future, will every game have some sort of undead or fantastical DLC spin-off? Heavy Rain with werewolves?DanceStar PartyAnother fun music game from the team behind SingStar – it was shown at E3, but I missed it entirely that time round. As you'd expect, players perform along to pop videos, getting marks on the accuracy of their moves. The game can stream a feed of your performance onto the web, and the disc comes with 40 original music videos – naturally, more will be available via download. So yes, sort of SingStar's take on Dance Central. Oh and there's a fitness mode – in case you weren't getting fit enough by simply standing up and waving your arms about to Duck Sauce.Other quick stuffAmong the other revelations were Vita versions of Assassin's Creed and Fifa coming in 2012, and Move Fitness, launching later this year, with boxing, shooting hoops, cutting stuff in half with swords and jump squats. It shows the calories you're burning as you go along, which is handy if you only want to exercise for long enough to burn off that Mars bar.There is also move functionality coming to Little Big Planet 2: Special Edition and the Killzone series. Oh and the budget-minded 24-inch 3D TV that Sony announced at E3 is coming to Europe – it'll set you back 499 Euros (£435) and comes with two sets of 3D glasses. If you missed the announcement in June, the set also boasts Simulview technology, which transmits a different version of the game screen to each player – so you can play split-screen multiplayer, but with both participants able to see a full display. I still don't think I've mastered how to explain that properly. It's cool though.
The Chinese video sharing website Tudou saw its shares fall on its Wall Street debut as it became the first company to go public since last week's market turmoil.Shares in Tudou, dubbed the Chinese YouTube, opened at $24 each on the Nasdaq stock exchange, down 12% on their $29 asking price. The company was down 8.3% at 1pm in New York, or 6pm UK time.The disappointing debut comes as investor appetite for new public listings in general wanes in tumultuous trading conditions. But it also comes after investors raised concerns about accounting measures at recently US-listed Chinese firms.Tudou, which is based in Shanghai, raised $174m (£105m) after pricing its shares on Tuesday evening. The company was valued at $2.8bn after its Nasdaq debut.However, Tudou's bigger rival, the Chinese video website Youku, was one of the top gainers on Wall Street on Wednesday as its stock rose 12%.Shares in Youku, which went public in December 2010, swapped hands at almost $27 apiece in early afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.Tudou has doubled its number of registered users in the past two years, to 90 million at the end of June. However, the six-year-old company's losses have widened. Its net loss in the three months to 31 March was $52m on revenues of $12.1m.Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank Securities and Oppenheimer &amp; Co were the underwriters on the Tudou IPO.
The government's £530m drive to get super-fast broadband to the UK's rural communities will fail unless more is done to encourage the biggest providers to reach the most remote customers, industry insiders have warned.Jeremy Hunt announced funding for Northern Ireland, Scotland and the English county councils this week to bring broadband to every home and business in the country. But a pioneering council-run project which has used £90m of public subsidy to build a network in South Yorkshire is already running into difficulties.Five councils will have built a fibre-optic super-fast broadband network reaching 80% of premises across the Sheffield, Barnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham areas by the end of the year, but none of the best-known internet service providers – BT, TalkTalk and BSkyB – have so far signed up.Without them, demand from consumers looks likely to be so low that the consortium, Digital Region, may be forced to abandon the aim of selling to householders and focus its attention on businesses and the public sector."The local projects are failing. Take-up is very low because of poor marketing and the limited choice of internet service providers," claimed Piers Daniell, an entrepreneur whose company, Fluidata, connects some 40 of the smaller internet service providers (ISPs) into BT's network."The bigger ISPs are key to driving uptake in the regions because they have the brands people are familiar with, they have big marketing budgets and additional services like television and phone calls."Linking into a small regional network means renting optical fibre to connect that region to an ISP's own servers, and many of them are based in London. It also requires money spent matching up computer systems so that the process of adding new customers can be automated.Most internet service providers are not prepared to make the extra investment, even in an area like South Yorkshire, which has 40,000 businesses and 500,000 home users.ISPs prefer to buy their broadband capacity from BT and at most one or two other networks, said Daniell, which meant many of the dozens of rural networks being funded by government subsidy could be ignored, unless they are built by BT.If the government's money is well spent, remote villages in regions such as Cumbria and the Scottish Highlands, where it is currently hard to load a simple web page, should be able to download or stream high-quality movies by 2015.But Digital Region has also run into difficulties with BT. The consortium runs its fibre to street cabinets, but relies on BT's copper wire to get the signal from the cabinets to individual premises. Telecoms watchdog Ofcom has been asked to intervene over the price BT charges to connect new customers – Digital Region is charged £127 per customer, while connecting a BT customer costs £75.David Carr, chief executive of Digital Region, said: "We support the government's apparent desire to introduce competition into the super-fast broadband market, but we question how committed it is to creating the regulatory conditions in which that competition can flourish. In this respect, we're hoping that the price reduction recommended by Ofcom will bring pricing more in line with what BT charges itself internally."Carr said council-run networks had considered clubbing together to form a single access point for ISPs which want to reach rural customers. Fluidata is hoping to offer this service on a commercial basis, and to advise councils as they build."Local authorities need more support in building networks that can be sold," said Daniell. "It's easier if we have got communication with the people building these networks while they are building them, rather than trying to fix them afterwards."
Oops a daisy. Sorry everyone, I'm out in Cologne at the Gamescom festival! To make up for it, anyone got any requests/questions for titles showing out here?
A 25-year-old man from York accused of attempting to hack into Facebook has been released on conditional bail.Glenn Mangham, of Cornlands Road in York, appeared at Westminster magistrates court on Wednesday morning charged with five counts under the Computer Misuse Act 1990 of attempting to "penetrate Facebook's security".The alleged hack is not believed to be connected to the spate of recent attacks on websites by the computer hacking groups Anonymous and LulzSec.Between 17 April and 9 May he is accused of downloading a computer program "to secure unauthorised access" to Facebook; of attempting to hack into Facebook's "Mailman" server; of using PHP script to secure access to another Facebook server, dubbed "Phabricator"; of sharing a PHP script intended to hack into that Facebook server; and of securing "repeated" access to another Facebook server.It is not known what data Mangham is accused of accessing. The information commissioner's office, which investigates potential data breaches of this kind, said that Facebook had not reported any incident over this period.Mangham, dressed in a black suit, white shirt and grey tie, was ordered not to access the internet as part of strict bail conditions before a committal hearing on 28 September. He was arrested by the Met police at his home in York on 2 June.Evans told Mangham's parents that these are "serious allegations". He added: "These conditions are to minimise the risk of him going on the internet."Later in court he said: "The court feels it will be safer if there was no access to the internet which will reduce the temptation for your son to go on to Facebook."A spokeswoman for Facebook said: "While no user data was compromised, we have been working with Scotland Yard and the FBI as we take any attempt to hack our internal systems extremely seriously."
Shipments of desktop, laptop and netbook computers in Western Europe fell almost 20% in the past year as customers and retailers opted for tablets such as the iPad, according to figures released on Wednesday.Research company Gartner said the second quarter figures, which showed personal computer shipments in Western Europe fall to 12.7m units, amounted to a "structural change" in the market.Laptops and netbooks continue to be hit hardest by the loss of consumer appetite, with netbook shipments falling 53% on the same period last year. Desktop PC shipments declined 15.4% year on year."This quarter's results highlights the ongoing weakness of consumer demand, and could indicate a structural change in the market that threatens to continue in the near future," said Meike Escherich, principal analyst at Gartner."Given the hype around media tablets such as the iPad, retailers were very conservative in placing orders for PCs. Instead, many of them wanted to secure space for media tablets."Apple was the only top-five PC retailer to boost shipments in western Europe in the past 12 months. However, the Steve Jobs-fronted company remains the smallest PC maker in the continent by market share.Struggling PC giant Acer saw a 44.6% decline in PC shipments year on year, according to Gartner. The Taiwanese manufacturer is struggling toreinvent itselfas a tablet and smartphone company.Isabelle Durand, principal analyst at Gartner, said: "Acer's decline of nearly 50% in the second quarter pulled down the market further than expected."PC shipments in the UK fell 15% year-on-year compared with the second quarter of 2010. "PCs are not attracting consumers' disposable income, particularly in light of alternative devices," Durand said."Most consumers continue to hold back spending on PCs by extending life cycles on existing PCs and purchasing other devices. While remaining an important device to consumers, there are few compelling technological reasons to drive PC replacements."Worldwide shipments of tablet computers are set to top 150m in 2015, according to forecasts by the New York-based ABI Research.The research firmsaid on Tuesdaythat tablet shipments would become "mass market" this year, reaching 50m sales worldwide. According to ABI Research, Apple's iPad accounted for 75% of all tablets shipped around the world in the second quarter of 2011, with 20% sold by manufacturers running Google's Android software.
Electronic Arts put on a slick show at its Gamescom press conference on Tuesday, steaming through its current portfolio, but adding little to its E3 roster. Here's a quick runthrough of the four key revelations.Fifa Street is backYes, EA is reanimating its urban football sim in early 2012. The focus remains on nifty footwork and tricks, with small teams facing each other on various street surfaces. There will be 35 locations from all over the world, and apparently matches in each stadium will reflect the urban footie style of the relevant country. We can expect a huge range of skill moves, and a large roster of superstar players. The game is also compatible with the EA Sports Football Club social connectivity service. It's being developed by the Fifa team at EA Vancouver, headed up by Gary Paterson, one of the key figures in the renaissance of the Fifa sim series.Battlefield 3 co-op mode looks like funWe've heard a lot about the campaign and multiplayer modes so far, so EA DICE used Gamescom to show-off the two-player co-op mode, which features a range of full Campaign-style battlefields, inlcuding air, ground vehicle and close assault missions. On stage, the publisher shows off one level which involves a series of tense shoot-outs through what looks like a Middle Eastern city environment. The players are able to spot enemies for each other and work tactically with contrasting weapons to get through. The demo ran on PS3 and provided a convincing showcase for the console versions. However,the amazing trailer for the 64-player PC "Caspian Border" multiplayer levelis an absolute blast, featuring jets dogfighting overhead as choppers strafe the ground with machine gun fire and tanks rumble across the rolling grasslands. Pulverising stuff.Star Wars: The Old Republic – beta tests and Operations detailedBioware used the press conference to discuss its 8-16 player "Operations", group-based P vs E missions, which work like raids in World of Warcraft. The developers shows off one example that revolves around a Sith raid on the Eternity Vault galactic prison, in which an ancient and highly destructive evil is about to be released. Assassins, bounty hunters and marauders must work together to blast through several waves of enemy troops. Looks quite exciting. There will be beta-testing weekends beginning later this month and running through the autumn. With no news of a launch date and with Ray Muzyca promising months of beta playing, it looks like those November release date whispers were unfounded.Secret World release date announcedNorwegian MMO publisherFuncomhas been working on its massively-multiplayer conspiracy drama,Secret World, for several years, but at the event, EA announced that the game will be launched via the company's EA Partners programme in April 2012, on PC. Set in a near-future in which all the world's major conspiracy theories are true, the player must choose to represent one of three secret societies – the Illuminati, the Dragon or the Templars – to see off some kind of alien of demonic invasion. There are no classes and no character levels – instead, an organic skills system, featuring more than 500 abilities, allows players to build the avatars they want. Beta registration will begin on 26 August.
British mobile games publisher Future Games of London has doubled its iOS revenues by switching its Hungry Shark games from paid titles to a freemium pricing model.The first game in the series was released in April 2010, but it's Hungry Shark Part 3 that has benefited from the change. Released in February 2011 with a $0.99 price point (£0.59 in the UK, rising to £0.69 when Apple recalibrated its pricing tiers), the game switched to free at the end of July."By switching business model on Part 3 during Shark Week, we've traded 1,000 downloads a day at $1 for 250,000 daily active users [DAUs] that we can monetise through in-app purchases of optional upgrades," says managing director Ian Harper in a statement."The success of the Freemium model leads us to believe that we will be moving away from paid apps completely."FGOL has revealed more stats about the performance of its games, claiming that its month-on-month iOS revenue has increased by 200%, with an average transaction value of $3.26 from in-app purchases of items including Mega Shark, Blood Bath and Treasure Map.The Hungry Shark series has now passed 18.5 million total downloads, with FGOL as a whole attracting 5.5 monthly active users across all of its games."Our revenue is also now correlated with DAU not daily downloads, which is great as DAU falls off much slower after a sales spike," says Harper. "We've also been able to give the whole game away for free and reach an audience 100 times larger, who we can also promote other products to."The news came as mobile analytics firm Flurry released its latest analysis of freemium games on iOS and Android, this time focusing on what kind of virtual items players are spending their money on.The research – based on data from more than 57 million in-app transactions in games using Flurry's analytics tools – shows that 68% of IAP in freemium games are for "consumable" items, which deplete over time as players use them. Much of this is accounted for by virtual currency, to be spent in-game.Meanwhile, Flurry says 30% of virtual items bought in iOS and Android games are "durable" – players keep them permanently to derive some benefit for the gameplay – while 2% are pure personalisation, with a decorative effect but no effect on the gameplay itself.Flurry's research divides freemium IAP spending by category"The ratio between consumable and durable should vary depending on how critical these items are to the core gameplay experience," advises Flurry's general manager of games Jeferson Valadares in ablog post."For example, a city-building game could lean more toward durables (e.g., buildings), since user progression is measured by creating a larger city, which is made up of individual buildings.  In contrast, a farming game could lean more towards consumables (e.g., seeds and fertilizer), where the game is about growing, harvesting and selling crops in order to earn grind currency."Flurry provides no specific advice for games about sharks, but it is safe to assume that Future Games of London is finding a workable balance within its games that, for now at least, is paying off for the company.
The Chinese video sharing website Tudou plans to raise $174m (£105m) at a valuation of $3.2bn when it becomes the latest internet company to make its Wall Street debut on Wednesday.Tudou, dubbed the Chinese YouTube, offered 6m shares priced at $29 each as it prepared to float on New York's Nasdaq stock exchange.The floatation marks a tentative reopening of the IPO market after financial markets plummeted last week. According todata from Bloomberg, 13 flotations were postponed last week as many newly-public tech companies, including LinkedIn and Yandex, fared worst in the market volatility.Similar to YouTube, Tudou shows user-generated videos as well as licensed and in-house content. Tudou's bigger rival, Youko, raised $203m when it floated on the New York Stock Exchange in December.Shares in Youko rocketed more than 100% on its debut, to $42.70 apiece, but have since fallen back to $23.92. Similarly, the Chinese social networking site Renren has seen its stock fall 6.5% since going public in May.Stephanie Chang, an analyst at US-based IPO research firm Renaissance Capital, said: "Its competitor was successful on the first day but the environment has become more hostile, especially for Chinese companies, but [also] for all IPOs recently. It's a very positive sign the deal was completed."Tudou, which is based in Shanghai, has doubled its number of registered users in the past two years, to 90 million at the end of June. However, the six-year-old company's losses have widened. Its net loss in the three months to 31 March was $52m on revenues of $12.1m.Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank Securities and Oppenheimer &amp; Co were the underwriters on the Tudou IPO.
I've lost track of the number of people who've asked me to comment onDavid Cameron's insane plan to cripple Britain's internet in times of civil unrestby blocking Twitter and other services. In case you're wondering where I come down on it, well, let's say that it's not just a bad plan, it's also an ineffective one.It's only been a week, after all, since Cameron's government concluded that the Digital Economy Act's web censorship plan wouldn't be implemented because downloaders would have no trouble getting around the blocks it would throw up. If people who want to download movies can evade Britain's censorwall, then so can people who want to organise riots. Duh.But for me, the use of BlackBerrys in organising riots (if "organise" is the correct verb here) is just a sideshow. Though as a Canadian, I'm fascinated to see that our national technology success story, the businesslike BlackBerry, has now enduringly entered pop culture's lexicon as the tool of choice for disaffected and violent youth.The real story for me is about surveillance, and not the mere use of CCTV footage to apprehend rioters after the fact. It's about the total failure of CCTV to deter people from committing crimes in the first place.After all, that's how we were sold on CCTV – not mere forensics after the fact, but deterrence. And although study after study has concluded that CCTVs don't deter most crime (a famous San Francisco study showed that, at best, street crime shifted a few metres down the pavement when the CCTV went up), we've been told for years that we must all submit to being photographed all the time because it would keep the people around us from beating us, robbing us, burning our buildings and burglarising our homes.A year before the Vancouver Winter Olympics, a reporter from a one of the local papers called me to ask whether I thought an aggressive plan to use CCTVs in the Gastown neighbourhood would help pacify the notorious high-crime heroin district. I said that the deterrence theory of CCTV relied on the idea that the deterred were making smart choices about their futures and would avoid crime if the consequences might catch up with them.Then I recounted my last trip through Gastown, where the pavements were thronged with groaning and unconscious emaciated addicts, filthy and covered in weeping sores, and asked if those people could be reasonably characterised as "making smart choices about their future." I explained how my hire car had been broken into by a thief who'd left four perfect fingerprints on the passenger window, not caring whether the crime was associated with her or his biometrics forever.Funnily enough, I was in Vancouver during the riots, which took place quite close to my home in London. I went through Gastown, which is utterly transformed into a pleasant shopping and university district. Simon Fraser University very carefully and cleverly slotted a new campus into the middle of Gastown, and hired only local people to work in it.It was the very model of giving people a chance and a stake in their neighbourhood. And while there are still some sad and disfigured junkies here and there, you'd never know that Gastown was recently notorious as the most drug-blighted neighbourhood in the city that is the major port of ingress for heroin into the Americas.I won't pretend to understand the forces that led my neighbours to take to the street and smash and burn and hurt each other. I don't think I know what "pure and simple criminality" is – presumably, it's some imperceptible pollen that drifts through society and alights on people, which is awfully convenient for government because "pure and simple" criminality has no cause and therefore no one to blame and nothing that can be done to prevent it.But I do understand one thing: the deterrence theory of surveillance had no nexus with the motivations of the rioters. The theory of street crime as a rational act is bankrupt. Evidence-led CCTV deployment shows us where CCTVdoeswork, and that's in situations where crimes are planned, not pulled off in the heat of the moment.Parking garages, banks and jewelry stores, yes. And CCTVs make perfect sense as part of burglar alarms that switch on when the glass breaks (or buffer continuously, but only save the few seconds before a break-in). But the idea that we can all be made to behave if only we are watched closely enough all the time is bunkum. We behave ourselves because of our social contract, the collection of written and unwritten rules that bind us together by instilling us with internal surveillance in the form of conscience and aspiration. CCTVs everywhere are an invitation to walk away from the contract and our duty to one another, to become the lawlessness the CCTV is meant to prevent.After the London riots, one thing is certain: anyone promoting CCTVs for deterrence is most likely selling something, probably CCTVs.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple may invest $1 billion in Sharp LCD plant: MF Global &gt;&gt; Reuters"Apple Inc may invest $1 billion in Sharp Corp's Kameyama factory to secure the supply of screens for iPhones and iPads, MF Global FXA Securities wrote in a sales note on Wednesday, sending shares in the Japanese consumer electronics maker up more than 2 percent."Apple predicted to 'strike back' at Google with its own patent purchase &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"In a note to investors on Tuesday, Jeffries &amp; Co. analyst Peter Misek concluded that Apple is likely to "strike back" by acquiring patents from rivals such as Nokia or Research in Motion as a response to Google's purchase of Motorola Mobility. He also mentioned InterDigital, which has been widely viewed as a potential target for acquisition by Apple and other major players in the smartphone industry."Facebook: Google+ has no users &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"At an event last week, Facebook director of game partnerships Sean Ryan had some choice words for his new competitor. "Google has emulated aspects of our system, which is what they have the right to do," he said. "We just need to be better." He's referring to the way the companies make money from casual online games like Farmville and Words With Friends. Players pay for play time or virtual goods within the games, and the social networks take a cut of the sales. Currently, Facebook reportedly takes 30% from game developers, whereas Google takes just 5%."Google's Motorola Mobility acquisition will make it more like Apple &gt;&gt; Slate Magazine"In other words--and I never thought I'd say this--Steve Ballmer was right. Android isn't free. In fact, it's not even cheap. As Daring Fireball's John Gruber points out, the $12.5 billion that Google is spending for Motorola amounts to almost two years' worth of the search company's profits. No company--not even Google--can throw around that kind of cash without envisioning a direct return on its investment"Ouchpad: Best Buy Sitting on a Pile of HP Tablets &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"According to one source who's seen internal HP reports, Best Buy has taken delivery of 270,000 TouchPads and has so far managed to sell only 25,000, or less than 10 percent of the units in its inventory."Welcome to Building Windows 8 &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsMicrosoft is finally ready to talk about Windows 8. Here's the new official blog.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 16 apps for your considerationFourFourTwo Football Stats ZoneFourFourTwo magazine has teamed up with Opta for an iPhone app that will delight stattos everywhere. It analyses every Premier League match, allowing players and teams to be compared across a range of metrics. The app is free with stats from last season, but an in-app purchase of £2.49 unlocks the current season.iPhoneDomino's Pizza for iPadUK pizza chain Domino's has launched an official iPad app which can be used to order takeaway, paying via PayPal (or credit cards/cash on collection). The app shows all the current offers, with a Build Your Own feature and ability to track deliveries to the door.iPadDK Quick CookCooking book-apps is an increasingly popular category on iPad, with Dorling Kindersley the latest publisher to throw its saucepan into the ring. Its Quick Cook app has more than 500 recipes – each of which can be cooked in less than 45 minutes.iPadGoogle CatalogsGoogle's new iPad app is only available in the US for now. The free app brings together digital versions of catalogues from various retailers, including Macy's, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue and Urban Outfitters. Users can zoom in on product photos, find nearby stores stocking them, and share details with friends via email. An Android tablet version is apparently on the way.iPadThere's a Wocket in My Pocket!The latest Dr. Seuss app is available for iOS and Android at launch, offering a mixture of voice narration, background audio and simple animation.iPhone / iPad / AndroidLive Life SafeUK charity The Suzy Lamplugh Trust has launched an iPhone app that aims to educate the public about personal safety, with a focus on adults, young adults and parents.iPhoneTalking Cube Dog – 3D ToyThe latest company looking for a piece of the talking animals market on iPhone is Podotree, with its Talking Cube Dog app. Users construct a virtual dog from more than 130 parts, then interact with them via speech and touch. There are also augmented reality features to take photos of the dog superimposed on the real world. Looks fun for kids.iPhoneCoffee CellarKnow your Americano from your Java? Coffee Cellar claims to be a lifestyle iPhone app "for the budding coffee connoisseur", and it's been produced with loving attention to detail. Users can create their own virtual coffee cellar, store photos and tasting notes, and share details via email and Twitter.iPhoneDavid BaldacciAuthor David Baldacci has an official iPhone and iPad app, courtesy of publisher Hachette Book Group. The app offers previews and extracts from all his novels, as well as extra content about the locations featured in the books, and photos and videos from Baldacci himself.iPhoneNew York PostThe New York Post has made its Android debut, with the newspaper releasing an app offering stories, photos and social features, with no subscription in sight. Not yet, anyway.AndroidI See JesusThose newspaper stories where people see Jesus' face on a piece of toast or potato? There's an app for that. I See Jesus helps users make fake Son-Of-God-On-Perishable-Goods photos easily.iPhoneLongman Dictionary of EnglishPearson Education has released its latest Android dictionary app, offering 230,000 words, as well as 77,000 audio pronunciations and 86,000 recorded example sentences.AndroidLocalmindAlready launched for iPhone, location-based Q&amp;A service Localmind is now available for Android too. It taps into Foursquare, Gowalla and Facebook Places to help users pose questions to people checked in to real-world locations.AndroidGrow Your Garden HDiPad app Grow Your Garden HD is the work of a team at University of California, Berkeley, and aims to teach kids addition and subtraction through the medium of pouring virtual water on flowers.iPadCarry Me HomeCarry Me Home claims to be "the ultimate party game", based on the existing card game of the same name. It suggests real-world mini-games involving drinking, gambling, dancing and more, with forfeits rolled in.iPhoneSTV NewsScottish broadcaster STV has launched an Android news app to complement its existing iPhone version, offering news and weather for Scotland.AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Join Aleks Krotoski and Juliette Garside for a packed edition of Tech Weekly. This week, the politics of social media: what role should the UK government have in regulating our access to services such as  Facebook, BlackBerry Messenger and Twitter? Author Jeff Jarvis weighs in on the debate and finds that there is currently a demonisation of technology.Also, search giant Google has moved into the mobile manufacturing business: blogger Stasis Bielinis broke the news of Monday's Motorola Mobility deal – worth $12.5bn – back in June. We find out what's in it for Google, and how the mobile ecosystem will settle after this bombshell.The UK government has announced the next phase in it's high-speed broadband plans – corporate partner BT has pledged to bid for some of the £530m in grants to connect out-of-reach rural communities to fast connectivity. We hear from Bill Murphy, MD for Next Generation Access at BT about the details of its plans, and where it intends to invest.Finally, what's in store for the long-standing Fifa brand of games? Keith Stuart speaks with Andrew Wilson, senior VP of worldwide development at EA Sports about its plans for cross-platform entertainment.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Sony has announced that it is cutting the price of its PlayStation 3 console from £250 to £199, effective immediately. The consumer electronics giant is also set to launch a new cheaper version of its PSP handheld console, with a price point of €99. An official pounds sterling figure is yet to be confirmed.The PS3 was launched in 2006 and has now shipped more than 50m units, with sales rising considerably since the launch of a cheaper slimline machine in 2009. It is thought that larger retailers will cut the price even further, with supermarkets likely to go as low as £180.The new price was revealed during Sony's press conference at the GamesCom event in Cologne, in which the company also made several game announcements – including Resistance: Burning Skies, a new version of the hit PS3 shooter designed specifically for PlayStation Vita and DanceStar Party, a dancing version of the company's hit karaoke series, Singstar.The new, cheaper PSP, which removes the Wi-Fi functionality from the six-year-old handheld, surprised many in the audience. Following the announcement of the PlayStation Vita console at E3 this year, it was assumed that Sony would be retiring the older technology. Instead, the company is re-packaging the PSP as an entry level machine, bulking out its software catalogue with a range of reduced-price classic titles.Speaking about the price cuts, Andrew House, president and CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe said: "Our strategy is to provide the best quality entertainment experience at accessible prices. With PSP at €99, Vita starting at €249 and PlayStation 3 at €249, we feel confident gamers can enjoy the incredible games available on PlayStation whatever level of investment suits their budget."However, some industry insiders have question the logic of fielding two handheld specialist games devices into a market that's being pressured by the rise of smartphones and tablet gaming. It's possible, the two will cannibalise each other's markets, or that the cheaper handheld will draw complaints about the price point of the more expensive machine."The problem is, while the new PSP price point makes that console very attractive, as a side effect it puts an unflattering light on the price point of the Vita," said Rob Crossley of industry news source,Develop. "I think the price of PSP now puts pressure on Sony to also reduce the price of Vita from £229 to ensure that it's attractive."The timing of the PlayStation 3 price cut has also driven debate. "Sony is dropping the price point at a time when there's been no considerable pressure from retail to do so," said Crossley. "That's a big change from PS3's previous price drop."Of course, away from retail pressure, there's another reason why a console manufacturer may cut the price of its current generation technology: an imminent hardware announcement. Sony has assured gamers that PS3 will have a 10-year lifespan, and it's likely PlayStation 4 is a few years away yet. But with the Tokyo Game Show taking place next month, and the games industry in an accelerated period of evolution thanks to the rise of social and mobile games, anything is possible.
For several years now, Google has been following a vow made by former CEO Eric Schmidt: mobile first. New CEO Larry Page is taking that dictum to a new level byannouncing a deal to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5bn.The implications of this deal depend entirely on how Google plans to use Motorola. If, as some claim, the deal is more about obtaining Motorola's mobile patent portfolio than anything else, we can expect escalating patent warfare between technology giants and limited innovation beyond that. If, however, Google intends to operate the business it is acquiring, we may see some broad and sweeping changes in the technology industry.If the deal is chiefly about obtaining Motorola's mobile patent portfolio, then Google would likely spin off the hardware end of the company and keep the software and patents. The patents would be vital weapons in its competition with Apple and Microsoft, as the two companies are using patent claims to try to slow the remarkable growth of Google's Android operating system, which has become themost widely used smartphone platform.But assuming Google intends to operate the business it is purchasing – and also assuming, as seems probable, regulatory approval of the deal – the landscape for Google, and the technology industry more broadly, will change. Some of the implications are clear already.Perhaps Google wants to be more like Apple, owning an entire ecosystem around Android. For all its success, Android has suffered from "feature balkanisation", as phone manufacturers and carriers have turned the open source system to their own aims.Motorola knows how to make good hardware (though it's been outdone in that regard by Samsung and HTC in the Android market), and one can imagine some excellent devices – once Google controls the outcome, as it did with its initialNexus Onephone (made by HTC) andNexus S(Samsung).Such devices should include tablets, which have been a notably dry area so far for Google and its Android 3"Honeycomb"operating system. To date, Android tablets, including Motorola's Xoom, have made very few inroads in an arena heavily dominated by Apple. That may change with an Amazon tablet this fall, but Google needs to create its own to showcase what is possible.In the near term, it is difficult to imagine any competitor fully matching Apple's ability to marry hardware and software with elegance and ease of use. Where Google could beat Apple, however, is by being less controlling of users than Apple has become: one reason many people (including me) have chosen Android is a preference to make more of our own decisions about how we want our devices to work.To the extent that Google uses Motorola to develop and launch superb devices, it will be competing directly with its partners. The company claims that the deal will not affect its relations with other Android handset makers, but that strikes me as fantasy. A cascade of happy talk inamusingly similar, supportive statements from Samsung, HTC, etcon Monday can't disguise the reality that they should be weighing their options with renewed urgency. I don't see why they should trust Google, at this point.So, who should be happy about this deal? Microsoft, among others. The Google-Motorola deal gives the Windows mobile platform a renewed lease on life. Microsoft could now position itself as the only major operating system that is platform-agnostic. That neutrality is somewhat suspect given Microsoft'srecent alliance with Nokia, which includes a major investment and all kinds of special treatment, but it will be in Microsoft's interest to be as neutral as possible in dealings with its mobile partners.Another, less obvious dimension of this deal is that it may help Google makeenormous strides in the television marketplace. Google has been trying, with limited success, to push Android into living rooms via Google TV. Given that Motorola makes set-top boxes, Google TV could become part of this market. But the other cable and satellite companies will have a lot to say about this – and they already consider Google a scary competitor, not a partner.The most widely discussed element of the deal – the patents – highlights one of the technology industry's worst problems. AsChicago Public Radio's This American Life recently reported, America's patent system is highly dysfunctional. The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) routinely issues patents for "obvious non-inventions", many of which have already been invented. This enables patent "trolls" to extort settlements from companies allegedly violating those patents; this is, in effect, a tax on technology and a severe impediment to actual innovation. Meanwhile, several federal district courts – notably one in Texas – have become havens for the the patent trolls, further tilting the scales in favour of plaintiffs. And Congress, as usual, has refused to do its job. Among other acts of malfeasance, Congress has refused to give the USPTO the funding it needs to do the job properly, in part by appropriating the fees the agency collects from applicants in order to fund other programmes. A patent "reform" bill now under consideration and all too likely to become law would, by any reasonable analysis, make matters even worse.To the extent that the Google-Motorola deal is defensive, a buying of weaponry in the ever-escalating patent warfare, it can hardly be called productive. But I hope it's about much more than that, namely Google's intention to push harder in the mobile arena to open it up to more competition.
Shuffler.fmis the latest music website to set its sights on iPad-owning music fans, unveiling a revamped version on Tuesday, while submitting a native app to Apple for approval.The site was born in 2010 from the ashes of social music service Twones. The new site turned music blogs into streaming radio stations, playing the songs embedded in their posts. Today's revamp sees the site styling itself as an "audio magazine", although with the same core functionality.New features include the ability to play a radio station from an individual blog, browse the most popular songs and artists on Shuffler.fm's aggregated chart, search for individual artists, and create a personal channel with favourite tracks and updates from specific blogs.Visit the site on an iPad, and despite a warning message at the top of the screen about a missing Flash plugin being missing, it's perfectly usable. Tap on a specific channel – Indie for example – and music starts playing, complete with the relevant post from whatever blog is buzzing about that track.Its aggregation and curation features put Shuffler.fm into similar territory to Hype Machine and RCRD LBL, albeit using different technology. Both launched native iPhone apps this year, and Shuffler.fm is following them on to the App Store.Its iPad app has been submitted to Apple, and judging by the preview version that we've been playing with, does a good job of simplifying the website's interface for tablet usage, throwing in YouTube videos alongside the blog posts.Tablets certainly have potential as music discovery devices: Shuffler.fm will join apps such as Aweditorium, Discovr Music, Hitlantis and Hunter on iPad, which all offer varying degrees of song or artist recommendations.
Google has "taken reasonable steps" to improve its privacy policies since its Street View mapping cars unlawfully captured data last year, the information commissioner said on Tuesday.The internet giantvowed to improve how it handles users' data in November, after the Information Commissioner's Office ruled it committed a "significant breach" of the data protection act when its mapping cars toured UK towns and cities.Britain's data protection watchdog said Google had improved its practices, but urged the company to make improvements in some key areas."I'm satisfied that Google has made good progress in improving its privacy procedures following the undertaking they signed with me last year," said Christopher Graham, the information commissioner. "All of the commitments they gave us have been progressed and the company has also accepted the findings of our audit report where we've asked them to go even further."The ICO's Google audit is not a rubber stamp for the company's data protection policies. The company needs to ensure its work in this area continues to evolve alongside new products and technologies. Google will not be filed and forgotten by the ICO."Google attracted criticism fromauthorities around the worldafter it admitted to collecting the so-called payload data from unsecured Wi-Fi networks via its Street View mapping cars.The company said it has improved the data protection training for all staff, including product engineers, and built in stringent privacy controls for all new products.But the ICO urged Google to improve how it explains to users how their data will be managed on its range of products, including Gmail, search and Street View.The watchdog said Google should make sure all its products have a "privacy design document", not just its new services. The ICO carried out the audit at Google's London headquarters on 19 and 20 July, where it reviewed "relevant documentation" and interviewed key staff.In a post on Google's European public policy blog on Tuesday, Alma Whitten, the company's director of privacy, said it had "significantly enhanced" core training for engineers over the past year.Whitten added: "The report verifies the improvements we've made to our internal privacy structures, training programmes and internal reviews, and identifies some scope for continued work. We welcome their feedback on our progress, and we look forward to working with them to ensure we continue to develop products that reflect strong privacy standards and practices."We have worked hard on these new privacy controls, which are designed to improve our internal practices without getting in the way of the innovation that has powered Google since its inception. We know there is no perfect solution, so we will continue to improve our current processes and develop new ones so that privacy awareness grows and evolves alongside Google."
Millions of Britons living in rural areas are set to benefit from faster internet speeds after the government allocated £362m to improve broadband connections in England and Scotland.The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said on Tuesday that the fund would ensure that 90% of hard-to-reach communities with "painfully slow" internet speeds could have access to superfast broadband by 2015.Remote villages in areas of regions such as Cumbria and the Scottish Highlands where it is currently hard to load a simple web page, should be able to download or stream high-quality movies within four years.English counties will get £294m and Scotland £68.8m to bring high-speed internet to areas not catered for by the private sector. The allocations come out of the £530m "digital Britain" fund commitment by the chancellor, George Osborne, earlier this year."I am absolutely determined that the UK will have the best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015 – one that we all benefit from," Hunt said. "Fast broadband is absolutely vital to our economic growth, to delivering public services effectively, and to conducting our everyday lives."But some areas of the UK are missing out, with many rural and hard-to-reach communities suffering painfully slow internet connections or no coverage at all. We are not prepared to let some parts of our country get left behind in the digital age."English councils and private enterprises will be put in charge of delivering the broadband rollout, with delivery plans and match-funding expected to be drawn up to set timetables. The Scottish government will determine how to allocate the money in Scotland.Hunt added: "The government is investing £530m of public money to help bring broadband to every home and business in the UK. We are doing our part – it is now up to local authorities and the Scottish government to do their bit, to get on board and work with us to secure the social and economic future of their communities.""I urge all those suffering the frustration of slow internet connections to make it clear to your local elected representatives that you expect them to do what is needed to access this investment and to deliver broadband to your community."Wales and Northern Ireland have already been allocated their share of the fund for the broadband rollout.Wales was last month allocated £56.9m, with the Welsh government expected to match the fund to complete the rural broadband upgrade plan.Northern Ireland is to get £4.4m as part of the programme. The Northern Ireland Executive will decide how to spend the money.Funding allocated by county in EnglandBedfordshire (Bedford, Central Bedfordshire, Luton): £1,060,000Berkshire (Bracknell Forest, Reading, Slough, West Berkshire, Windsor and Maidenhead, Wokingham): £1,430,000Buckinghamshire (Buckinghamshire, Milton Keynes): £2,100,000Cambridgeshire (Cambridgeshire, Peterborough): £6,750,000Cheshire (Cheshire East, Cheshire West and Chester, Halton, Warrington): £3,240,000Cumbria (Cumbria): £17,130,000Derbyshire (Derbyshire, Derby): £7,390,000Devon and Somerset (Devon, Plymouth, Torbay, Somerset, North Somerset): £31,320,000Dorset (Dorset, Bournemouth, Poole): £9,440,000Durham (County Durham, Gateshead): £7,790,000East Sussex (East Sussex, Brighton and Hove): £10,640,000Essex (Essex, Southend-on-Sea, Thurrock): £6,460,000Gloucestershire (Gloucestershire): £8,070,000Greater Manchester (Bolton, Bury, Manchester, Oldham, Rochdale, Salford, Stockport, Tameside, Trafford, Wigan):  £990,000Hampshire and the Isle of Wight (Hampshire, Isle of Wight, Portsmouth, Southampton): £8,420,000Herefordshire (County of Herefordshire): £6,350,000Hertfordshire (Hertfordshire): £1,110,000Humber (City Of Kingston upon Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, North East Lincolnshire, North Lincolnshire):  £8,540,000 (subject to revision)Kent (Kent, Medway): £9,870,000Lancashire (Lancashire, Blackburn with Darwen, Blackpool): £10,830,000Leicestershire and Rutland (Leicestershire, Leicester, Rutland): £3,880,000Lincolnshire (Lincolnshire): £14,310,000Merseyside (Knowsley, Liverpool, St Helens, Sefton, Wirral): £5,460,000Norfolk (Norfolk): £15,440,000Northamptonshire (Northamptonshire): £4,080,000Northumberland (Northumberland): £7,030,000North Yorkshire (North Yorkshire, York): £17,840,000Nottinghamshire (Nottinghamshire, Nottingham): £4,250,000Oxfordshire (Oxfordshire): £3,860,000Shropshire (Shropshire, Telford and Wrekin): £8,210,000Staffordshire (Staffordshire, Stoke-on-Trent): £7,440,000Suffolk (Suffolk): £11,680,000Surrey (Surrey): £1,310,000Tees Valley (Darlington, Hartlepool, Middlesbrough, Redcar and Cleveland, Stockton-on-Tees): £770,000Tyne and Wear (Newcastle upon Tyne, North Tyneside, South Tyneside, Sunderland): £3,420,000Warwickshire (Warwickshire, Coventry, Solihull): £4,070,000West of England (Bath and North East Somerset, City of Bristol, South Gloucestershire): £1,430,000West Midlands (Birmingham, Dudley, Sandwell, Walsall, Wolverhampton): £630,000West Sussex (West Sussex): £6,260,000West Yorkshire (Bradford, Calderdale, Kirklees, Leeds, Wakefield): £6,340,000Wiltshire (Wiltshire, Swindon): £4,900,000Worcestershire (Worcestershire): £3,350,000
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team$2.5 billion Google-Motorola break-up fee reflects sellers' concern and buyer's desperation &gt;&gt; Foss Patents"As opposed to being protected, for which MMI's patents appear to be too weak, those other Android device makers are going to become second-class citizens. Google has set its priority. I said before: don't overestimate the patent part of the deal. This is about Google maximizing its control over Android for the reasons and with the effects I roughly described herein, and on which I'll comment in greater detail going forward."Balls &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball"That's not to say it wasn't a bold, brash move, or even to say it wasn't the right move for Google and for Android as a platform. But that's all relative to the position Google was in -- and that position was a weak one, and to pretend otherwise is to deny the obvious. And don't forget that it leaves Google in a tenuous situation with the two leading Android handset makers, Samsung and HTC. I think Apple and Microsoft probably feel pretty good, competitively, about having forced Google into spending $12.5 billion for Motorola -- a handset maker with rapidly declining sales, no recent profits, and misguided management."With Motorola, Google TV just got a huge shot in the arm &gt;&gt; Online Video News"According to Infonetics, Motorola Mobility was the leader in set-top box revenues last year, and was also tops in hybrid IP/QAM set-top boxes -- that is, the boxes used by operators like Verizon that combine broadcast TV and over-the-top applications. By leveraging Motorola's position with carriers, Google can better solidify its bid to expand Google TV and Android into the living room."Google Deal Said to Have $2.5 Billion Reverse Breakup Fee &gt;&gt; Businessweek"Google Inc. agreed to pay Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. $2.5 billion if it fails to close the purchase of the mobile-phone maker, said a person with knowledge of the situation, a fee more than six times the typical amount."Exclusive: Guess who else wanted to buy Motorola? &gt;&gt; Giga OM"Our sources say that Motorola was in acquisition talks with several parties, including Microsoft for quite some time. Microsoft was interested in acquiring Motorola's patent portfolio that would have allowed it to torpedo Android even further. The possibility of that deal brought Google to the negotiation table, resulting in the blockbuster sale."Microsoft declares victory over Linux, names Apple and Google main rivals &gt;&gt; ZDNetReading between the lines of Microsoft's redactions: Linux is no longer a desktop threat; Apple and Google are "mainly" its desktop rivals; mobile matters; online battle is now inside the browser; and security is in, innovation is out. Worth reading in full.Welcome to Building Windows 8 &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsMicrosoft is finally ready to talk about Windows 8. Here's the new official blog.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A super quiet day today, with only four apps for your consideration (two of which aren't available in the UK). We're hoping for more activity tomorrow.Virtual Voice &amp; Electric EarsThis Android app is designed for deaf and mute people, with the aim of helping them communicate using text-to-speech and speech synthesis technology built into Android. The app is free to download and use, with its developer promising that there'll be no adverts either.AndroidCarcassonneBoard game Carcassonne has plenty of loyal fans, and it already has a version for iOS. Now Exozet Games and AMA have launched it for Android and BlackBerry too, complete with the River II official expansion content.Android / BlackBerryAmazon StudentAmazon has released a new iPhone app (in the US only) aimed at students as they go back to school. It's essentially a new client for the Amazon store, complete with barcode scanning to get textbooks as cheaply as possible.iPhoneCBeebies On The GoThere's an app for CBeebies? But wait, British parents. It's not for you – not yet at least. The new CBeebies app is being released in a limited number of countries as a pilot: Australia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and South Korea.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Google's Larry Page will no doubt wish the mood music for his first major announcement as chief executive was more uplifting.Instead, the conference call followingGoogle's blockbuster acquisition of Motorola Mobilitysaw analysts line up to ask whether its largest takeover was also its most defensive.But Page is a genius mathematician, and spending $12.5bn (£7.6bn) – in cash, no less – on more than 17,000 mobile patents (7,000 more than Nokia) must have been an appealing transaction.The deal comes just 11 days after David Drummond, Google's legal supremo, complained publicly about Apple, Microsoft and other rivals waging a "hostile, organised campaign" against its Android software.On Monday's conference call, Drummond was tentatively upbeat. "This is a transaction that will require regulatory approval, certainly in the US and in Europe and other countries, and we're quite confident that it will be approved," he said. "We believe it is a pro-competitive transaction. Android has clearly added competition, innovation and user choice, and we think protecting that ecosystem is pro-competitive, almost by definition."As a future investment, Motorola Mobility's treasure chest of intellectual property make for better bargaining chips. But, as resident patents expertFlorian Müller points out, they failed to deter the ongoing legal actions brought by Apple and Microsoft.More cynical still is the suggestion Google will simply keep the patents and sell off its newly acquired smartphone manufacturing business. For all its talk of mobile being the future, Google (like Facebook) has shown little interest in making smartphones.Horace Dediu, the former Nokia manager,notesthat if Google really did want in on the hardware world then it would have bought Taiwanese giant HTC, a firm favourite of the Android brand.And what of rival manufacturers? According to the press material, theywelcomethe move. According to Andy Rubin, Google's "Mr Android", execs at the big five phone makers showed "enthusiastic support" for the takeover when telephoned with the news on Sunday. But then again, all of them would be hard pushed to say any different.Nokia shares were up 12% on early trading in New York; BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion jumped 4%; Microsoft rose 1.3% and Apple was up 1.8%. Google was down about 1%.
Sports Interactive has announced details ofFootball Manager 2012, the latest instalment in the developer's long-running footie management simulation. Designed to give in-depth control over almost any professional club in the world and featuring a database of hundreds of thousands of real-life players, the series has so far sold over seven million copies.Due out this winter, FM 2012 will apparently boast over 800 new features. Key alterations include a revamped transfer and contract system, including better implementation of amateur and youth contracts, and the arrival of loyalty bonuses (you won't need to pay many ofthosein the Premiership)."We're constantly watching the whole of the football world, and dealing with people inside football, to find out out what's changing," says Sports Interactive MD, Miles Jacobson. "One thing people may notice from the screenshots is that the signing on fee isn't there anymore – it's been replaced by a loyalty bonus. It's fortuitous this has happened just as the news broke that Febregas was going to be paying back Arsenal some of his signing on fee for the next few years, because they paid him a loyalty bonus upfront. The featureset for this game was nailed down in December, but sometimes we go along at the pace of the real-life sport. Life sometimes imitates art!Indeed, several high-profile clubs now use Football Manager and its vast database of players as a means of discovering new talent. Sports Interactive employs a huge network of its own scouts around the world who watch and rate players in their local leagues. This information is then passed into the game. In 2008, Everton signed a deal to use the Football Manager database for scouting players and staff."It's interesting how involved we've become in football, and how much the football world accepts us," says Jacobson. "Certainly among the younger people involved in the sport, they grew up playing Football Manager, and now they're going into positions of power in clubs; its influence is only going to become more prevalent."Scouting of opponents has also been tweaked to provide squad analysis and tactics information, allowing users to be better prepared before kick-off. "We've used real-life scout reports to re-think our in-game reports," says Jacobson. "We've had that planned for two years, but we wanted to ensure we had the resources to do it properly. That gave us the time to speak to the people who actually do the 'next opposition' reports for managers and clubs, and look at the technologies they use to see where goals are score from,  which have only just come about in the last couple of seasons."Intriguingly, there's also a new 'tone' system for talking to your squad members, allowing you to comment on their performances in six different voice tones from icy cool to Fergie-style hair dryer treatment.There are plenty of graphical updates, too. The 3D match viewer, which shows your players in action, has new animations, a new crowd system, improved weather system and more stadiums.The interface has also been updated to allow those with hi-res monitors to open multiple windows at the same time. Players are able to open up to nine boxes, allowing for a completely customisable experience, great for obsessive multi-taskers.So, the big question in terms of realism: we know that its possible to simply set up a simulation of a season in FM and let the computer run through the whole year, playing out every match and finishing with a table prediction. Has the team at Sports Interactive run such a simulation of the Premiership 2011/12 season? "Not officially as we're still waiting for the final transfers to come in," says Jacobson. "However, I ran one at home for fun, based on the squads as they were a couple of weeks ago. In that one, the top four, in descending order were: Manchester United, Manchester City, Chelsea and Arsenal."You heard it here first...Football Manager 2012 will be released on PC this winter.
Interpublic Group, the US marketing services giant that owns ad agency networks including Lowe and McCann-Erickson, has sold half of its stake in Facebook for $133m (£81m).IPG was a relatively early Facebook investor, buying"less than one-half of 1%"in the social networking website in 2006 as part of a wider strategic partnership.The sale price of half of the stake, which is believed to have been 0.4%, values Facebook at about $65bn.When IPG acquired the stake it said the deal included working with Facebook on pilot marketing programmes including "sponsorships, consumer research and content creation on behalf of its clients".Michael Roth, the chief executive and chairman of IPG, said the "ubiquity" of Facebook has now reduced the strategic value of the investment, while admitting the value of the stake has skyrocketed."Interpublic formed a strategic relationship with Facebook in 2006 that allowed us to fast track the growth of our social media offerings on behalf of clients," added Roth."Facebook has since become a part of daily life for hundreds of millions of people around the world. Its ubiquity has meant the strategic value of our initial investment has moderated, while the financial value of that stake appreciated significantly."Roth said an "attractive opportunity" to sell some of the stake had presented itself and it "made sense" to do so.IPG did not reveal the number of shares it is selling but said that the sell-off would see a pre-tax gain of about $132m.In June, investment fund GSV Capital Corp bought 225,000 shares in Facebook at an average price of $29.28 each, valuing the social networking site at about $70bn.
Where are first-person shooters going? Will they always be glorified interactive Michael Bay movies, or can we expect deeper experiences as visuals improve, AI deepens and designers become more confident with creating functioning open world environments?Last week,we ran a previewof Ubisoft's promising sequel, Far Cry 3, which follows Jason Brody, a man of mystery who finds himself deserted on an island teeming with modern-day pirates. As with the other titles in the series it's an open-world shooter, providing players with multiple routes through the lush tropical setting.But what implications does this design approach have on the game content, and as shooters become more realistic, how will gameplay change? To find out, we spoke with the creative director on the series, Jason VandenBerghe, who has some interesting ideas on how games will need to adapt in the coming years ...So in Far Cry 3, the hero washes up on an island and finds a bunch of thugs with AK-47s. Who are these people and why are they killing people and dumping them in the sea?Ha! We're not talking too much about the narrative right now. But this time, you're playing a guy named Jason Brody – we wanted to create a modern hero, someone who's grown up in this age of technology, someone who's connected to the world we're in right now – a native of the 21st century – and you'll learn more about that as you go. You see he's got a camera with him and that implies certain things. But when he picks up the AK-47, it's not the first time he's handled a rifle, and not the first time he's killed. You're going to get more detail about who he is.So you're using the island as it's often employed in literature, as a place of self discovery?When I come on and work with a brand I really want to understand what makes it tick. What's the emotion we're going for? And to me, Far Cry is all about a fantasy I call Man Alone. It's Robinson Crusoe, it's Castaway, it's any environment where I'm cut off from civilisation and I have to rely on myself to survive. When I'm confronted by the darkness – whether that's monsters, bad guys or solitude – I've got to overcome that by learning more about who I am. That is a powerful human myth and it's one of the reasons the original Far Cry hit so hard. I want to make sure that's what we're delivering in Far Cry 3.The rather insane pirate leader you come across, Vaas, is interesting. You don't tend to meet actual individuals in shooters these days – it's all rapidly respawning archetypes …You've nailed it. I think game designers have gotten into a bad habit of starting and ending with archetypes in their writing – it's a mistake. When we started Far Cry 3, we thought, fuck archetypes, we want to talk about realistic people. So we sat down and brainstormed all these different characters; we didn't think about context, we just said we'll talk about how we'll use them later. We built them around two or three sentences that we really fell in love with, then we cast actors. And then, what we didn't do is say "here's your character, do your line like that". We told the actors "we cast you because we really liked your performance, we think you're really talented – now what would YOU do in this situation?" We just asked them to dump their darkness on the floor.Actors love that.Yeah! We said, show us your inner insanity – then you getthat, you get Vaas. That only happens if you trust your actors – if you have a development team that's willing to take a risk, to let the actor guide you, to let the mo-cap director make on the spot decisions that are going to affect game design … I think the results speak for themselves.That sounds like a pretty standard approach for many directors in the movie industry. Is it really not happening in game cinematics?The reason why we don't see that in games very often is because we've become very accustomed to using actors as a crank that we turn to produce drama. That's okay if what you're looking for is straight melodrama, if you're not looking for a real performance – but we need more than that. We want to achieve this sense of … This character is not an archetype. He's bad but he's human – that's what we're looking for and it's very hard to get to. It requires a creative discipline, you have to make sure you're not feeding opinions to the actor.And on the subject of believable characters, developers often make the mistake of thinking that good AI is all about technology, about making them crouch behind cover at the right times. But there's more to it surely?Yeah, it's bullshit. What we want in our AI is believable human combatants – we want to believe that they're people with guns who are trying to kill me. At the end of the E3 demo, when the player is taking off in the helicopter, there's a guy running in from around a corner, and if he does that right – and it's systemic so it doesn't always play out the right way – but the guy will have this "oh shit!" moment, he'll be completely startled. We have a lot of stuff where guys make mistakes. AI enemies that make human errors are much more interesting to play against. We've been investing heavily in that kind of thinking. And once we have those differences in behaviour we can modify those for different types of people. And then, suddenly, instead of AI classes, instead of having archetypes, it's more like, well here are the guys who aren't trained very well, these guys are trainedprettywell and these are the guys who are really deadly – and the player canseeit, you can see it in the way they move.In Far Cry 2, you have to take a certain amount of responsibility for the local population, you have to be heroic. Is this the case in Far Cry 3?That's actually an essential part of the Man Alone concept. I think the reason the Robinson Crusoe fantasy works is that Crusoe is a nice guy – if he was a crazy homicidal maniac who decided he just wanted to hide the bodies, well that's interesting, but that's not a heroic fantasy. With our guy, he's going to have opportunities to be heroic and that's what you're there to do – you have to decide, am I this hero? And what are the consequences of those actions? But we're not also going to be saying, do you want to be evil? That's not where we're going with Far Cry 3.What do you think about this idea of single-player and multi-player experiences merging into one? It seams to be becoming a favourite theme, especially after the cult success of Demon's Souls and the whole "Autolog" concept…It's fascinating to me. You can see a point in the future where it all blurs together and we're no longer selecting between the two on the front end menu. If you're looking into the future and seeing that, you're not alone – there are a lot of teams working on that. It's a neat thing, it's cool. In some ways, I'm reminded of the days when we no longer had to worry about installing games on to a PC – those levels of technical constraint. I just want to play the fucking game! This split, this dichotomy is like the appendix left over from that era. I think it'll resolve itself in the future. That says nothing about Far Cry 3 though!Do you share ideas with the Assassin's Creed team?Yeah, in fact, the creative director on Far Cry 3 was the game director on Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and the lead designer on AC2, he's a fantastic talent, I'm blessed to be working him. He's bringing in a lot of the tricks of the trade, but he's not trying to 'Assassin-ify' Far Cry! We also have Jeffrey Yohalem, the writer from Brotherhood who is fantastic. That's one of the great things about working in Montreal – you have access to all this world-class talent.And you also have a strong philosophy of game design at Ubisoft …Yeah, Ubisoft is a world leader in terms of its understanding of the science and art of game design – and how to blend those two together. The tools we have … I've worked at EA and Activision, and the understanding of what makes good games here is 10 times greater here. It's still really difficult to get them built – great understanding doesn't necessarily guarantee you're going to get it right, but it certainly helps.It seems as though the system at Ubisoft isn't about dictating to teams how they should make games, it's about getting the teams to ask questions about the title they're creating, and about what they want to achieve …That's absolutely right. I draw it back to the fact that this is a French company. The French have a comprehensive reverence for the artistic process and the need to create a safe space for designers to work in. They respect and like designers – there's a willingness to create tools to help rather than saying what you should do is THIS. I think it makes it unique as a company. And you'll find that culture throughout Ubisoft. It would be cool, a few years down the line, to be able to write a book about it. It's a neat environment. Unique in the industry.Are there any games inspiring you at the moment?It's tough to pick. One of the great things about the games industry is that we constantly learn and absorb from each other, we're having this constant conversation, it's really healthy. Specifically for Far Cry, the conversation we're having is around performance capture – what's happening with LA Noire, at Modern Warfare, the way we are able to put believable human beings in games right now – it think we're finally past the uncanny valley, we've crossed it!Well some games have, maybe ...A few are still stumbling around. We've got at least one rope over! If we can get another rope across, we can build a bridge, then we can get everyone over to the other side.This is the most elaborate metaphor I've heard in an interview for quite some time.Ha! So we're standing on the other side saying okay, what do we do now? Now, that we can capture a human performance by a real actor, now we can put a believable human face in the game, what do we do with that? How do we integrate that with games? We all remember the disaster of trying to create interactive movies – we don't want to repeat those mistakes, we want to ensure that gameplay is king. When we say interactive narrative we need the emphasis to be on interactive. That's the bleeding edge. Also, with Far Cry, via our open world and our streaming technology, we're continually asking, well, how do you make a world where the player can go anywhere? That's an intense conversation and it's been happening for a long period of time.Another thing that's fascinating to me is how involved this industry is with linear shooters. Man, they're really dedicated to it – it's very strange to me.It's a safe recipe, I suppose, people look at Black Ops and think ooh, 20m units, I'll have a piece of that.I guess it seems safe to people, but if you look at the number offailedlinear shooters, it doesn't seem very safe to me. I think it's safe to ship another Modern Warfare, and shipping a Battlefield is a good idea, but how many others are you going to play? Clearly, it's a big market, but that is one style of play, and I don't find that to be particularly game-like – they don't feel like games to me. The reason I'm so excited to be working on Far Cry is that it's agame, it's really a game. It's not pretending to be something else, it's not trying to take you on an action movie adventure – we're creating a game that has a compelling narrative inside of it. It feels like we're doing the thing that other media can't do instead of trying to interpret the success of movies in an interactive way.It does seem that a real fear has developed in the industry about letting players explore and ultimately get lost in an environment ...The sales are smaller, aren't they? Oh wait… Except for Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Redemption ..., and, oh wait a minute, actually there's agiganticmarket for players to do that! I think we're fooling ourselves. I'll put it this way – it's more frightening to game developers to try to imagine a game where the player is driving the experience. Because what if they fail? What if they don't like it? If we give them that responsibility they might fuck it up, and that means they might not like your game.While corridor-based first-person shooters don't give playersanyresponsibility?Exactly. If I can create a storyboard of a game, and I put that storyboard in front of a focus test, and they say "dude, that sounds awesome!" then I'm pretty confident I've got something good. But if you can't storyboard it, you just have to trust it – and trust doesn't go together very well with millions of dollars of investment.I'm hoping though, that this is something that can be resolved over the next few years. I'm hoping that the corridor shooter is just a trend and that open world will win ...My honest opinion, and I'm no prophet, is that the corridor shooter represents a period of time – we were fascinated with it for a decade, because we were focused on technology, on pure rendering speed. Now we're at the point where it's going to keep looking better, but notthat muchbetter. We're almost at the point where games are starting to look like this world. Soon we're no longer going to be able to say "hey this game looks better than the last one" and have people buy it. Now we're having to explore the gameplay feel. Wearealways going to have those linear experiences – people enjoy a rollercoaster, it's fun. But what we're also seeing now is the re-emergence of the other half of the market – which I like to call video games.So within that, isn't there a growing importance to treat human characters differently? In an era of full performance capture, and increasingly "realistic" AI, do developers have to start giving us a sense of moral culpability within the game world? Should every person we shoot with that world matter?It's already happening. As we begin to put believable human characters in a game, the instant human response is, now I feel weird about shooting him: I didn't when he was a cartoon, but now that he's a real guy, I have an emotion when I put a gun to his head ...Last year, there was an interesting conversation among the academics on Gamasutra, about the difference between player morality and player ethics in gaming. It was pointed out that if you're measuring player responses, if you're providing consequences for the choices that they make, if you're saying to them "hey do you want to be good or evil?" – players will never in that situation, play their true value. They will play the morality that they want the world to believe they have.So we have to learn how to provide ethical choices for players and to do that we have to not measure their consequences - it has to be just between you and the game. It's incredibly hard to do - it's risky, it's mature and it requires a level of emotional sophistication. It's something we hope to do in Far Cry 3. We'll see. But what we're talking about here is the next decade. The next decade of development is going to be about, what are the consequences of controlling real people in these situations? The typical brazen approach to humanity and characterisation won't work, just as it doesn't in film, because they're real people. We can still go ahead and create games that don't work that way, but they'll have to have a different look…Also, at the moment, with games that do offer a certain amount of moral choice, the player is often thinking "okay, which is the right choice here?" which will I be rewarded for?Exactly – they're gaming it. If you provide a consequence, they're always going to play thegame. The only times in games I've made an actual moral decision were in situations where there were no consequences to my action. If I'm on a mission and there are civilians around, and if I can shoot those civilians and I'm not being measured, you know what? I never do. I never shoot them. That's who I am. I'm not saying that's good or bad, I'm saying I'm referencing my own inner ethics in the game - it's teaching me who I am as a person. That's fucking cool. We have potential here ...• Far Cry 3 is due out in spring 2012 on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
And so we're back again at the brink of extinction. The last vestiges of humanity are scattered across the planet Sera, while the depleted COG forces lick their wounds upon ageing aircraft carriers bound for nowhere. The monstrous Lambent, dormant for months, are stirring again; the Locust are coming. This is it, this is the end.Several similar shooters – Killzone, Halo, Resistance – have predicted the demise of mankind at the hands of space monsters, but none have quite matched Gears for its apocalyptic fury, its sense of relentless, bloody grandeur. Gears of War 3 doesn't take long to settle into familiar rhythms. After a brief prelude recalling the events that lead to the first game in the series (super solider Marcus Fenix disobeys orders to rescue his father, fails, and gets kicked into military jail), we're aboard the CNV Sovereign a Raven's Nest class ship, with Fenix, Dom and Jace, just as the Lambent awaken.[Possible spoilers]From monstrous plant-like tentacles that have erupted across the planet surface burst scuttling creatures named polyps, that run about like face-huggers. Your first job as Fenix is to clamber through the bowels of the boat, rendezvousing with colleagues, before heading out onto the deck to save the craft from the onslaught. But then a call comes in – a chopper is on its way and it must be protected. On board is Prescott, the chairman of COG who disappeared after the sinking of Jacinto city in Gears 2. And he has unexpected news about Fenix's scientist father…"It's always been a father/son story – that's where the original idea came from," explains executive producer Rod Fergusson. "So we wanted to provide some closure, we wanted to explain what is going on with Marcus and his dad and the queen – all the questions we raised in Gears 1 and 2. People thought we were becoming the Lost of video games – we kept asking questions but not providing the answers. So we wanted to answer a few of those … but not all of them. You don't want to lose the sense of mystery."The return of Prescott is an interesting development. Hated by the solders for his perceived abandonment, he swaggers aboard the CNV Sovereign shouting orders and making demands. Fergusson won't say much, but he hints at a fascinating story arc for the leader, and plenty of conflict with Fenix. "Gears has always been a little anti-government," he explains. "The COG are seen as 'the man'; Prescott represents the evil side of that order. There will be some interesting revelations. After Gears 2, we wanted Hoffman to have authority, but he represents the good side – Prescott is the bad side. Marcus has always been an anti-hero – he's anti-establishment, he's the anti-Prescott."[Possible spoilers end]Making space for these personal narratives is something that Epic has gradually warmed to. "Initially we weren't very confident in our story-telling," says Fergusson. "We'd just come out of Unreal Tournament and a lot of arena-based titles that weren't based around stories. When we got to Gears it was a new type of game on a new platform with a new team, so when we started out we were really focused on pace and capturing a sort of summer blockbuster feel; we shied away from emotional moments."In Gears 1 we originally intended for Marcus to have a younger sister who died. We had this moment where Marcus goes back to visit his father's old house and hears her giggle echoing through the building – and it kind of spooks him. But we chickened out, we weren't confident that we could pull it off and were afraid of it being laughable."When Gears 2 came along, we were more confident and wanted to take greater risks – that's why we had Maria's death scene. We wanted to get more drama going, and with Gears 3, we wanted to take that further. That's why we've brought in author Karen Traviss, who's doing a great job with the novels – she had such a deep understanding of our characters because she's been writing from inside their heads for so long. She brought more depth and emotion into the story."The aircraft carrier sequence ends with an attack on the CNV Sovereign by a gigantic leviathan, which hauls its hideous torso onboard, flailing at the human survivors with vast tentacles. To combat it, Marcus and Dom break into a storage depot and jump into two silverbacks – bulky mechs equipped with gatling guns, grenade launchers and heavy armour (though all that the front – the back is hugely vulnerable). Stamping onto deck you can hit a button to kick obstacles out of the way or boot incoming Lambent monsters into the next star system. From here, it's a familiar boss battle – Fenix must move in and shoot the gargantuan sea creature in its eyes to dislodge it; but after dealing with a wave of Lambent underlings, the beast returns, this time with the weak spot in its jagged mouth. Fortunately, Cole arrives just in time, piloting a chopper and promising to blow the leviathan apart, with the help of a container full of exploding Tickers . Though pretty conventional, this is a hell of an encounter for the first few minutes of the game and an exhilarating statement of intent.For the third chapter of the act, we rewind an hour and find out how Cole got there. Rather than hiding out on a ship, he's been searching the islands of Sera for Stranded, small groups of human survivors. The search takes him to his home town, Hanover, a demolished city of mock Renaissance architecture, and makeshift corrugated iron strongholds – a typically arresting Gears environment. Were the human colonists of Sera inspired by the real city of Hanover? "Actually no," says Fergusson. "There are no ties between Earth and Sera and there's no indication if Earth even exists in that universe. We started out with the idea of a coastal village that we wanted to be really foggy and creepy, but ultimately it became a bigger place and home to the Cougar thrashball team."This battered environment continues the Gears concept of 'destroyed beauty'. With the attention to scenic detail combined with heavy use of highly tinted lighting, I ask if movie directors such as Ridley Scott and Stanely Kubrick have been influential. "We've looked to a lot of European and Eastern European architecture for inspiration," says art director Chris Perna. "It's not quite photo real and is stylised, yet still has the feel of a real believable place. To achieve our look we do a lot of stylistic tweaks through lighting and post process. Your Scott and Kubrick references are not that far off. We light a lot of our environments like movie sets so the lighting comes off as a bit unnatural, but provides a dramatic look or 'wow' factor that you might see in a Scott film, for example."Interestingly, though, amid all the catastrophic destruction, and throughout the decimation of the human race, you'll never hear characters talk about numbers of dead. "We made a conscious decision – and we passed this on to Karen when she was writing the books – never use numbers," says Fergusson. "Any time you ever see anyone quantify anything in the Gears world, they'll say a certain percentage died. We didn't want to get in to that whole area of how many people are there in the world, how many are there left? We didn't want people trying to do the math!"Cole, Baird, Sam and Carmine first head out to a shopping mall to look for food – and once again, it's a conveyor belt of pulverising set-piece battles against rampaging lambent hordes, including mutating Drudge creatures. These can transmogrify in a number of ways, either elongating their arms into missile-firing cannons, or extending their torsos, becoming flame-spitting viper-like monstrosities (for extra fun, the snake-head wrenches loose if the body is destroyed, continuing its attack).Throughout the act, we're also battling hulking Gunkers, infected Locust Boomers that can throw globs of explosive imulsion goo and use their blade-like mutated arms to swipe at close range targets. Diving behind cover is pretty useless against the imulsion balls so it's all about staying mobile and moving in fast to get a clear shot. Meanwhile, Lambent stalks burst out of the ground, spraying polyps over the battle arena.Inside the mall, the team locate a supermarket that will be familiar to those who've been reading about or participating in the multiplayer beta test: it's the location of the Checkout map. This is a ruined food store, littered with collapsed shelving units and mangled trolleys. Cole hops into a loader mech and grabs the last crate of food supplies, which must now be navigate through a backlot swarming with Lambent. After meeting up with a well-armed survivor group (and wandering through their battered home base in a scene highly reminiscent of Kyle Reese's trek through the desolate post-apocalyptic shanty town in Terminator), he sets off on a journey to his own past, to the arena he once played in as a thrashball superstar.As for the game's famed multiplayer and co-op components, Fergusson is pleased with how they've been evolved this time round – including the addition of the thrilling Horde mode, in which the players become the alien beats attempting to wipe out a human stronghold – the exact opposite of the highly successful Horde mode. Apparently, the recent beta attracted 1.3 million players, who engaged in over 20 million matches. The exercise – Epic's first beta testing endeavour with Gears – has proved very useful. "Everyone said all the weapons were over-powered," jokes Fergusson. "We tweaked some ranges, we tweaked some damage values… In terms of physical alterations, two of the maps – Thrashball and Trenches - had a problem with spawn-camping, so we changed the maps to have escape corridors. Now, if you spawn and get backed up, you can sneak out the side. Oh and we changed the number of points it took to win King of the Hill because the matches were taking too long…"Fergusson is also amusingly dismissive of other co-op modes in the shooter genre. "We feel that we sort of own the co-op space. Adding Beast mode and taking the campaign and making it four-player, adding more depth to the Horde mode – that was us reinforcing that ownership. With Beast mode we were thinking, well, what can we create that none of our competitors can copy? Most of them are human-on-human – they don't offer any way to BE the monster." He also chances a sly dig at Modern Warfare 3, specifically its new Survival mode, essentially a version of Horde, in which two players must survive against wave after wave of incoming enemy soldiers. "You read about the stuff they're doing," he says. "Like, 'oh now we have exploding dogs'. Well, okay, you're trying to make a Ticker, but you don't have aliens so you have to put grenades on animals!"You do wonder where Epic will go after Gears. The series has come to define the team and its approach to game design – part cinematic opus, part post-apocalyptic tragedy, part Nietzschean fantasy. It's doubtful they will leave this universe entirely after the third title. Fergusson for one genuinely still revels in its mythos. While chatting about the deathmatch mode, which puts five-man teams into comparatively small maps and gets them to fight until one side runs out of re-spawns, he says something rather telling:  "in other games, you can sit back in support, but in Gears there's only five of you, so you have to be aggressive, you have to attack – there's a constant notion of pressure, you can't sit back. Penny Arcade had this cartoon where someone said playing Gears of War online is like role-playing being a Man. We liked that…"•Gears of War 3 is released on 20 Septermber for Xbox 360
Google is to acquire Motorola Mobility, the US mobile company's smartphone business, in a $12.5bn (£7.6bn) cash deal.The takeover will boost the rise of Google's Android software in the nascent smartphone market. The $40-a-share deal – which is Google's biggest acquisition to date – is a 63% premium on Motorola Mobility's closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday.Larry Page, Google chief executive, said: "Motorola Mobility's total commitment to Android has created a natural fit for our two companies. Together, we will create amazing user experiences that supercharge the entire Android ecosystem for the benefit of consumers, partners and developers. I look forward to welcoming Motorolans to our family of Googlers."Sanjay Jha, chief executive of Motorola Mobility, added: "This transaction offers significant value for Motorola Mobility's stockholders and provides compelling new opportunities for our employees, customers, and partners around the world."We have shared a productive partnership with Google to advance the Android platform, and now through this combination we will be able to do even more to innovate and deliver outstanding mobility solutions across our mobile devices and home businesses."The deal represents Google's biggest challenge yet to Apple, which has led the way in the smartphone and tablet markets with the iPhone and iPad.Other manufacturers, including Samsung and HTC, will be free to release phones using Google's Android software. Google will run Motorola Mobility as a separate business.The takeover also pits Google, which has traditionally avoided involvement in hardware, against the manufacturing giant Nokia. The move comes just six months after the Finnish phone maker signed a strategic deal with Microsoft in an effort to rebuild its ailing fortunes.Motorola was one of the first mobile makers to partner with Google and release phones based on its Android operating system.Motorola spun off Mobility as a separate business in January this year. The manufacturing division primarily produces smartphones, such as the Motorola Droid and the Defy, but also makes tablet computers and digital set-top boxes.Analysts have long predicted that half of the world's smartphones will be using Android software by the end of 2012, as manufacturers have rushed to adopt Google's operating system rather than develop their own.The deal is subject to US regulatory approval, which could prove a larger hurdle than usual given that Google's Android division is already being probed by anti-trust investigators. The companies said they expect the takeover to be completed in late 2011 or early 2012.Andy Rubin, senior vice president of mobile at Google, said: "We expect that this combination will enable us to break new ground for the Android ecosystem."However, our vision for Android is unchanged and Google remains firmly committed to Android as an open platform and a vibrant open source community. We will continue to work with all of our valued Android partners to develop and distribute innovative Android-powered devices."In ablogpost announcing the acquisition, Page said the deal would allow Google to "better protect" Android from "anti-competitive threats" over patents from Microsoft, Apple and other companies.The highly competitive smartphone market has escalated into abitterly fought patents warbetween the major manufacturers and software giants. Microsoft and Apple are suing Motorola and Google over a string of alleged patent infringements relating to Android.Monday's deal means that Google now owns Motorola Mobility's swathe of patents – thought to total about 17,000 – and strengthen its position in the market. However, those patents failed to deter the ongoing lawsuits from Microsoft and Apple.Page said: "In 2008, Motorola bet big on Android as the sole operating system across all of its smartphone devices. It was a smart bet and we're thrilled at the success they've achieved so far. We believe that their mobile business is on an upward trajectory and poised for explosive growth."Motorola Mobility shares soared 60% to $39.20 – just below Google's offer price – in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange.• This article was amended on 16 August 2011 because the original said Motorola was the first mobile maker to partner with Google.
The Anonymous online hacker collective broke into a website belonging to San Francisco's public transport body on Sunday after the authority threatened to thwart an anti-police protest by throttling the city's mobile phone networks.The hackers said the attack was in retaliation for an attempt by the Bay Area Rapid Transit (Bart) group to stifle demonstrations about thefatal shooting of a man by policelast month.Anonymous published contact details of more than 2,000 Bay Area residents, apparently stolen from the site, which wasinaccessibleon Monday morning.The incident is the latest standoff in a freedom of speech battle between authorities and online activists. A separate hacker group last week defaced the official website of Research in Motion, the BlackBerry maker, after the company said it would co-operate with the police investigation into the English riots.In a message posted on the hacked Bart site on Sunday, Anonymous wrote: "We are Anonymous, we are your citizens, we are the people, we do not tolerate oppression from any government agency. Bart has proved multiple times that they have no problem exploiting and abusing the people."A Bart spokesmantold local mediathe FBI and department for homeland security were investigating the attack. He added: "We're going to take steps to make sure our customers are safe. The interruption of mobile phone service was done Thursday to prevent what could have been a dangerous situation. It's one of the tactics we have at our disposal. We may use it; we may not. And I'm not sure we would necessarily let anyone know in advance either way."Anonymous bills itself as "fighters for internet freedom". The amorphous group shot to notoriety in December 2010 for attacks on global firms, including Visa and PayPal, after those companies severed ties with the founder of WikiLeaks, Julian Assange.More recently the collective has expressed support for the Arab uprisings and called on western communities to rebel against authorities.On Sunday, Anonymous said it sympathised with the riots and looting across parts of England last week. It described the demonstrations as "a product of decades of neglect inflicted on your country by various governments".
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 13 AugustPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (93)Xbox 360 (6)PS3 (1)202 (5)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (26)Xbox 360 (25)DS (21)PS3 (17)143 (3)Cars 2(3+)DS (35)Wii (31)Xbox 360 (20)PS3 (15)44 (2)Dirt 3(12+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (49)PC (0)125 (6)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (23)PSP (9)DS (9)466 (8)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (37)DS (28)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (15)247 (4)Just Dance 2: Extra Songs(3+)Wii (100)48 (10)Call Of Juarez: The Cartel(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)49 (11)The Sims 3(12+)PC (41)DS (22)Xbox 360 (13)Wii (11)3810 (9)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)1311 (7)Harry Potter: The Deathly Hallows Part 2(12+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (23)DS (23)PS3 (22)512 (19)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (30)PC (21)1413 (–)The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time 3D(12+)3DS (100)414 (13)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (44)3215 (–)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (33)PC (7)3116 (17)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)3717 (–)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)9318 (–)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12: The Masters(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (40)Wii (14)1119 (12)Portal 2(12+)PS3 (36)Xbox 360 (35)PC (30)1420 (14)Dungeon Siege III(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (21)PC (15)9UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
A burst of 16 apps for your considerationRugby KicksWith the rugby World Cup almost upon us, UK studio Distinctive Developments is hoping for glory with its freemium Rugby Kicks game for iPhone. It focuses on penalty kicks, with a career mode built around them, and in-app purchases used to speed up the progression.iPhoneDK The Human Body AppDorling Kindersley has released its latest iPad book-app, based on the original Human Body book. For a tenner, you get more than 270 zoomable images, 12 body system sections, 99 story pages, videos and a fully rotatable virtual body to examine.iPadGigs and ToursUK ticketing website Gigsandtours has just launched its iPhone app, which finds gigs near your current location while also enabling you to search its database. What's most interesting, though, is the way the app directs you to the Gigsandtours mobile site to buy tickets. Isn't that the kind of feature Amazon was just forced to remove from its Kindle app?iPhoneMcAfee WaveSecureiPhone owners aren't being assaulted by viruses (for now), so what need for a McAfee security app that costs £13.99? It's mainly about backing up contacts, photos and videos to McAfee's servers (yes, the "cloud" word is mentioned), as well as locating your device on a map if it's lost or stolen.iPhoneTinychat fbTinychat is an innovative social app for video-chatting to up to 12 Facebook friends at once, stealing a march on Facebook's official app, which only supports text-chat for now.iPhoneMirror FootballThe Daily and Sunday Mirror's specialist football site Mirror Football has relaunched its iPhone app for the new season, with personalisation for the user's favourite club, live match info and a host of scores, results, fixtures and tables.iPhoneRomplr: RemixOn iPhone, Romplr has been one of the more high-profile remix apps. Now it's on Android, with tracks from Lady Gaga, Kanye West, Rihanna and other artists available to mix, with social features including global high-score tables.AndroidGhost Map – Haunted EssexCall us juvenile, but we already can't help referring to this as "The only WOOOOO is Essex". This Android app promises a database of ghost stories and haunted locations across Essex, with plans to update it with new content regularly.AndroidmusiXmatch – Lyrics + PlayerMusiXmatch's first iPhone app is part music player and part lyrics search engine. It scans your music library, then matches songs with lyrics stored on the company's database, before showing the lyrics when you play songs.iPhoneFlick Tennis: College Wars HDiPad game Flick Tennis is a finger-controlled tennis game backed by a virtual comic book telling the story of the prodigal hero: an interesting blend of action and RPG-style character development.iPadTuneTug – Social DJTuneTug is for anyone holding a house party who's happy to give up control of the playlist to their guests. It involves creating a playlist, then getting attendees to vote songs up or down (something that can be done on an iPhone or another mobile device).iPhoneNathan Ellington – The DukeFootballer Nathan Ellington – currently plying his trade at Ipswich Town – has just launched his own iPhone app. Expect photos, video highlights, tweets and competitions, as well as a Q&amp;A feature for fans to ask questions and receive video answers in reply.iPhoneLümWe don't know very much about Lüm, other than that it's a "location based digital story telling application" that's in private beta, and which is the work of Collective Bias. It sounds intriguing though.AndroidTwinPlayTwinPlay is an iOS music app that claims to allow two people to listen to two songs or playlists on the same iPhone or iPad, taking one earphone each.iPhone / iPadDr. Moku's Katakana MnemonicsLearning the Katakana element of the Japanese writing system? Wukomi's latest Dr. Moku app for iPhone and iPad looks like a slick edutainment app to help you trace and learn the various characters.iPhone / iPadBadgerBadger is the latest photo-sharing social app for iPhone, revolving around virtual badges – photo streams around specific places or subjects.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHands-on with Edgeworld and other Google+ games &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Google passes the test so far. It can essentially duplicate Facebook's platform for games and bring over a lot of games that already exist elsewhere. The next test is to see how many games it can get and how the performance works when the games scale to millions of players. Facebook may not be that worried about Google for now, but it definitely has to watch its back because its platform is not so hard to clone."Apple hikes 2H11 iPhone orders to over 56 million units &gt;&gt; Digitimes"Apple has upward adjusted the total order volume for iPhones, consisting of iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4 CDMA and iPhone 5, for the second half of 2011 by 12-13%, from 50 million units originally estimated at the end of the second quarter of 2011 to more than 56 million units. iPhone 5 will account for 25.5-26 million units, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers."'London Riots Facial Recognition' Vigilantes Abandon Their Project &gt;&gt; ForbesSo-called digilantes ditch their mission ... because the tech wasn't good enough. I'd wager that's got as much to do with the balaclavas as the tech.Does Cinemax's iPad app violate Apple's no-porn policy? &gt;&gt; Online Video News"...Those movies include titles like The Hills Have Thighs and Bikini Jones and the Temple of Eros."Facebook Software Service Buddy Media Raises $54 Million &gt;&gt; Peter KafkaBuddy Media, the Facebook advertising affiliate, now worth about $500m, according to its latest funding round.Steve, Please Buy Us A Carrier! &gt;&gt; Monday Note"The idea came up during a "what if" conversation with my wife Brigitte, while walking along University Avenue in Palo Alto. What should Apple do with its almost beyond comprehension $76B in cash? The COO of the Gassée family is creative and practical, an abstract painter turned "lumber VAR"-she builds or rebuilds houses in Palo Alto. She's not enthralled by technology and takes a utilitarian view of computers, phones, navigation systems, tablets...an attitude that provides a useful counterpoint to my sometimes overly-enthusiastic embrace of anything that computes."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's the first Monday after the start of the Premiership footie season. What is everyone up to?
If you have a smartphone, it seems you can always get a coffee. Photograph: AlamyForgive Jonathan Stark if he seems a bit caffeinated. In a unique crowd-sharing experiment, this new father from Rhode Island in the US has persuaded more than 1,000 strangers to contribute to the balance of his Starbucks card.The idea behindStark's cardis simple: if you don't have the money to buy a coffee, but you do have a smartphone, you can download his Starbucks card barcode and make a purchase. Once in a while, Stark hopes you'll give something back – and so far more than 1,000 strangers have ploughed over $11,000 (£6,760) back into the pot."Get a coffee, give a coffee" started with Stark, a mobile app consultant, playing around with the Starbucks app. "I thought it hilarious that I managed to buy a coffee with a picture," he says. "I went to my blog, put $20 on the card, uploaded the barcode image, and told everyone that the next person at Starbucks would get a free coffee."A surprising number of people took him up on the offer – and after a while he noticed the balance had gone up. "That freaked me out as I thought someone had hacked my account," Stark remembers. "It turned that one of the guys who'd read my original post had discovered that you could anonymously put money on anyone's card as long as you had the number. That's when the lightbulb went on. I set up the website, theTwitter feedand in the last week it has gone from 100 followers to over 13,000. It's overwhelming."Starbucks is working with him to find the best way to use his card benefits, which allow him a free drink after every 15 purchases. "Initially I thought the free coffee would be added to the card but that's not the case," he explains. "They send you a postcard. At one point I had over 1,000 coffees owed so the plan is to wait until it dies down a bit, take a month of transactions, work out what the money equivalent is – it could be $10,000 or more – and give it to charity."
Culture secretary Jeremy Hunt will fire the starting gun on the race to turn Britain's internet "not spots" into hot spots this week by allocating a £530m fund for broadband-starved communities. Cornish fishing villages, Welsh valleys and Cumbrian farmsteads will all have access to high-speed internet within four years if telecoms companies add their money to the state pot and consumers show interest.Hunt is expected to announce how the money, diverted from the BBC to create a digital Britain, will be shared among 40 areas including English councils, Scotland and Northern Ireland. A further £300m has been promised after 2015.The government wants all 25m UK homes to have access to a minimum speed of 2Mbps (megabits per second), which would mean that reading web pages, making Skype phone calls or watching TV catch-up services, such as the BBC's iPlayer, will all be possible from the most remote cottage. If all goes to plan, 90% of homes will be able to get even faster speeds of over 24Mbps, enough for several computers to download video simultaneously on a single line.The BT Group has already promised to spend its own money getting superfast, fibre-optic broadband to two thirds of households by 2015, without government help. This will cover the towns and cities, where BT can quickly recoup its £2.5bn investment. Getting broadband to those villages and valleys will be less economical, however, with lines having to stretch longer distances to reach fewer people. So will the two tranches of public subsidy, totalling £830m, be enough to reach the final third?Where BT wins council contracts backed by the government, it is offering to match the money and it expects councils to as well, by securing other subsidies, so that just under £2.5bn should be available for the final third. The BT executive responsible for leading 19,000 engineers in building what will be the UK's largest fibre network is Olivia Garfield, chief executive of its Openreach division, which rents out BT's network to other internet providers such as BSkyB and TalkTalk. She believes universal broadband access can be achieved, but only if a mix of technologies and every available resource is used, from telegraph poles to mobile phone masts and Virgin Media's cable network – which unlike BT's infrastructure is currently off-limits to rival companies."It's whether you believe that the most important thing is to roll out fibre at speed in the UK to help recover from economic recession," says Garfield.The problem is that even in neighbourhoods where BT does not have to dig up the road to lay fibre, because it already has ducts carrying its copper wires, many of those ducts are blocked or broken. If those ducts happen to serve one of the 12m homes where Virgin Media has cables, Garfield says BT will not lay its own fibre. This means many homes will have only one choice of high-speed internet supplier, which in turn threatens higher bills.Allaying fears that Hunt's announcement will not go far enough, some regions are ensuring that government subsidy will not have to cover every rural area in the UK. Cornwall has already raised £132m to reach up to 90% of homes by 2014. BT is building the network and providing £79m of the funding, the rest is coming from Europe. Northern Ireland is well on its way, also with BT. Some smaller areas, such as the Angus Glens, have attempted to go it alone (see box).But there are dangers for those who decide to build without BT. Hull is one of the few areas in the UK where the phone network has always been owned by the council, not BT, and broadband penetration there is lower than the national average.For an internet service provider such as TalkTalk or BSkyB to link in to the local network requires an outlay for equipment and software, and a separate negotiation over price. Many prefer the simplicity of dealing with one network nationally, which means BT.Of the government's £530m pot, around £150m has already been committed to Wales and a number of English counties including Wiltshire, Norfolk, North Yorkshire and Cumbria. A further 40 areas, as well as Northern Ireland and Scotland, are likely to hear this week how much they will be allocated.BT is not guaranteed to win all the new contracts. Fujitsu, the Japanese electronics firm, has offered to reach 5m homes in three to five years, if it beats BT to secure around £500m in government subsidy. Both BT and Fujitsu will be hoping that councils club together to appoint one main contractor, allowing for economies of scale. Declaring his interest earlier this year,Fujitsu managing director of network solutions Andy Stevenson said: "We don't want to end up with 40 fragmented networks so it makes sense for regions to come together." However, fibre cannot reach everywhere. Tim Watkins, head of sales for western Europe at Chinese telecoms firm Huawei, which would like to supply equipment for the network, says the final 10% will be reached by a combination of satellite and mobile phone masts. "If you want to deliver high-speed broadband services to rural areas with six farmers, it's never going to be achieved with just fibre."But carriers will have to take a mature approach and agree to share equipment in remote locations. Broadband expert Ian Watt at Enders Analysis believes the government funds will only get broadband to three-quarters of homes. "It's more likely that high-speed broadband will be available to the centre of the village, for example to a school, library or post office. We don't see the subsidy being enough to get it to everyone."Garfield doesn't claim to know what will trigger demand, but believes it will come. "There is evidence that once you have access to it, the minute you've seen the new world, you would never go back. So, I don't believe there is a lack of desire, but it is a premium product, it&nbsp;will never be the de facto normal product," she says. Speed can be addictive. It is also of the essence if the government's dream of creating Europe's first extensive fibre network by 2015 is to become a reality.Case study: going it aloneNestling at the foot of the Cairngorm mountains on the east coast of Scotland, the inhabitants of the Angus Glens tend to make their living from hill farming and gamekeeping. But some commute to Dundee, where hi-tech industries, like biotechnology and computer games, are among the biggest employers. With 2,400 properties across a 500 mile area, and the more remote telephone exchanges serving fewer than 100 lines, there is little likelihood of BT or another major carrier building a fibre broadband network.When lecturer Geoff Hobson moved to the area in 2007, he concluded that if the Glens wanted a fibre network, they would have to install it themselves. The Angus Broadband Co-operative was created to raise money and provide a community ownership model. The need for better broadband infrastructure is acute. A survey last year showed that 9% of properties had no internet connection at all, while 5% had only a dial-up service. Three quarters had fixed-line broadband but of those 67% reported speeds lower than 2Mbps, the minimum needed to allow quality home working. Meanwhile, a third of local homes are used for some form of business activity.Hobson says: "If you try watching a programme online it can just give up, particularly when it's busy in the evening." With two school age children, the family's need for bandwidth will only increase.A nearby hill farmer, whose wife is disabled, has to shop online, and her husband needs the internet to fill in government forms. But they have only dial-up access, which means no phone calls while they are using the web.Another neighbour, a games developer who works from home, has to shuttle to and from the office with CD-Roms because he cannot send material online."We decided to going for a fibre network because it would be future-proof. We got some funding and drew up a plan for how to lay the cables: £9.5m is the lowest quote so far. We weren't expecting such a large figure," says Hobson. The Co-operative has approached BT about sharing its ducts, which would bring down the cost. "They appear very helpful when you have meetings and run out to be very unhelpful when they send a written response."Hobson is waiting to hear whether his area will be included in an east of Scotland bid for government subsidy.
Steve Jobs may once have said "It's more fun to be a pirate than to join the navy", but Apple's status as an outsider is long gone. Last week, Jobs's company completed its long journey from underdog to top dog when it briefly overtook oil giant Exxon Mobil to become the largest company in the world by market capitalisation.As the price of oil tumbles amid fears of a new recession in western economies, Apple appears immune. Sales of iPads and iPhones are unstoppable. Silicon is now bigger than oil, at least when it comes in an Apple casing.For several hours on Tuesday, Apple surpassed Exxon as the most highly valued company, at one point by as much as $7bn (£4.3bn). The US oil company had reasserted itself by the end of the day, closing at a capitalisation around $1.5bn higher, but on Friday morning they traded places again, with Apple peaking at a value of $351bn, and Exxon bottoming at $350bn.We have been here before with technology stocks. Riding high on the supremacy of its Windows operating system, Microsoft overtook General Electric in 2002. Before that, Cisco, the network infrastructure manufacturer, had topped the league. What is startling about Apple's valuation is that its $65bn revenues, predicted to rise to $108bn this financial year, are less than a quarter of Exxon's projected sales of over $470bn."How is it that a company that much smaller could be that much more valuable relative to revenues?" asks Andy Serwer, managing editor ofFortunemagazine, who keeps a close watch on the world's largest companies. "The answer is growth. Apple is growing like a rocket."Back in 1997, when Jobs returned to the firm he had co-founded and then been ousted from, Apple was near bankruptcy. It languished in 273rd position in Fortune's 500 largest US companies listing, which ranks by revenues rather than capitalisation. And it was worth just $2bn, beaten into submission by Microsoft's operating system and the Dell and Hewlett Packard PCs that ran it.Things hardly improved overnight. But then the first iMacs arrived, in rainbow colours and bubble casings that combined the computer's processing unit and screen in one sleek package. In 2001 the first iPods appeared. By 2006, the year before the original iPhone, Apple was valued at $60bn. Four years and a mobile phone revolution later, in May 2010, the company's market capitalisation had overtaken that of Microsoft. Now there is just Exxon left to beat.Market watchers believe the two companies will jockey for position for a while. Exxon's valuation will follow the oil price, which was at $100 a barrel in the spring, and is now around $85. In January, Exxon was worth $27bn more than it is now. Apple is up $40bn over the same period. "Exxon is a prisoner of oil prices," says Serwer. "If its revenues go up a lot it means the price of oil went up. It is not selling that many more barrels. Apple is coming up with new products, and people are buying them like crazy."Can Apple continue to grow at such a breakneck pace? The fifth iteration of the iPhone is expected in the autumn, and rumours are spreading that it will be accompanied by a cheaper model for emerging markets. Apple watchers have nicknamed it the "iCloud iPhone", suggesting it will save on manufacturing costs by using "cloud computing" (remote storage accessible via the internet) rather than large internal memory chips to store information. Apple is saying nothing on the subject.A device that could be almost entirely subsidised by mobile networks and supplied free or cheaply to customers might help Apple grow in big new markets like China. With 62% of its revenues coming from outside the US in the last quarter, there is room for more internationally.The company set new records at its third quarter results in July. Sales increased 82% year on year, and profit was up 125%. The iPad tablet computer is gaining traction, selling 9.25m in the quarter, up 183% on the same period in 2010. Sales of the iPhone were up 142%.Jobs's speciality is taking emerging technology and popularising it. Apple dominates because it has reinvented the music industry, the mobile phone, and the computer several times over. Other digital music players were on sale before the iPod, but nobody bought them. Apple provided pretty kit that worked well, with a legal, user-friendly iTunes website to supply the music.Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi cites FaceTime, the internet-based videophone feature on iPhones, as a good example of the company's genius for reinvention. "How long have we had video calling in Europe? It's been years and nobody has ever used it. Why is everyone with an iPhone interested suddenly in FaceTime? Because it's easy to use and they don't have to worry about cost [other than the standing cost of the internet connection]."She says the brand is now so trusted, and holds such cachet, that consumers will fork out for technology they don't really understand, confident that it will somehow improve life. "It's about the brand, and you want it because it's cool and it's the latest thing, even if you might not be quite sure what you do with it. You figure out what you're going to do with an iPad once you've bought it."Technology is a more exciting product than oil, but is it really more valuable? Forrester analyst JP Gownder thinks its importance will only grow. "Oil is a fundamental part of the economy and will be for a long time, but personal technology manages so many aspects of our lives. For those who can afford it, it is absolutely critical in a world where our work and personal lives are indistinguishable, where we are always on and always connected."Apple will not always be the dominant tech company. No one knows what will happen if Jobs's health problems force him to step away from the firm altogether, and rivals are growing fast.Sales of mobile phones which run on Google's Android operating system have overtaken the iPhone and now Nokia. Incorporated 1998, floated in 2004 with a $23bn market capitalisation, Google is now valued at $179bn.And IBM, the ultimate 1980s technology brand, is making a comeback. In the last five years its share price has gone from $80 to near $180 as its management tour the world winning contracts to build IT systems for the post offices, government agencies and utility companies of the biggest emerging markets. It is now the world's fifth most valuable company, just behind Microsoft.Milanese says Amazon, the world's dominant home entertainment retailer, may catch everyone by surprise by doing for films and TV shows what it did for books with Kindle. "Rumours have it they are thinking about a tablet. If they find the right vehicle to push all that content, they have a very good opportunity to reach the markets where people have money."Others will emerge to seize Apple's booty, but, for now, its ship looks unsinkable.
'Speechless. Tears. Read this," said a tweet in my Twitterstream. "This" turned out to be a website calledDear Photograph. It invites people to post pictures that incorporate photographs from their past taken in the locations featured in the original picture, much as people hold postcards of the Eiffel Tower so that the card obscures the actual view of the tower. It's a remarkably simple but powerful idea, and it does indeed evoke some of the responses mentioned in the tweet that brought me to the site. Here's a photograph of a smiling child. Behind her is a stocky man in a baseball cap, with his arms resting on hers. "Dear Photograph," the caption reads, "Dad is gone… but the strength of his arms will always be around us." It's signed&nbsp;"Holly".Here's another. It shows a couple seated on a bench in a wood. One has an arm around the other. The caption reads: "I fell in love with a woman. I'm not ready to let go… but she is."A third picture shows a crumpled snapshot of a woman, dressed in a 1940s outfit, walking along a street. "Dear Photograph," it reads, "If I could turn the corner in 1942 and walk right into my mother, I'd ask her, 'May I walk beside you one more time?' Love, Your Daughter."Another shows two kids dressed in clown outfits.  "We were inseparable for 26 years," says the caption, "till cancer came her way. Can you please give me my sister back?"Not all of the photographs are about loss of a loved one. There's a picture of a young girl with a hula-hoop. "I wish I could still hula-hoop like I used to," says the caption.Dear Photograph is a remarkable demonstration of the power of ordinary, humdrum photographs to evoke memories. Anyone who has ever found a shoebox of old prints in an attic will know this. They yield up images of ourselves when we were young, slender and innocent, of our parents with unlined, carefree expressions and unfurrowed, untroubled brows, of holidays once enjoyed, places once visited. Photographs freeze moments in time, reminding us of who we were – and, by implication, of  who we have&nbsp;become.But Dear Photograph is also a stark&nbsp;reminder of how threatened this power of photography has become. There is, for one thing, the brusque, matter-of-fact, upfront Terms and Conditions of the site. "When you submit your materials," it reads, "you grant dearphotograph.com a non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free licence to use the work to be used, copied, sub-licenced, adapted,&nbsp;transmitted, distributed, published, displayed or otherwise under our discretion in any and all media". Or, to adapt the famous broken English internet meme,"all your memories are belong to us".There's nothing new in this, of course. It also applies to the billions of photographs that have been posted to Facebook, under Terms and Conditions stipulating that "you grant us a non-exclusive, transferable, sub-licensable, royalty-free, worldwide licence to use any IP content that you post on or in connection with Facebook (IP Licence). This IP Licence ends when you delete your IP content or your account unless your content has been shared with others, and they have not deleted it."The other sobering thought triggered by Dear Photograph is that the site is only possible because of the relative permanence of analogue&nbsp;photography. The images on the site are, of course, digital, but they&nbsp;could only have been created using old photographic prints. All of which means that it will be very difficult to do something like this in 30 years' time.The reason is that while digital technology has generally been very good for photography as a mass medium, it has also made the resulting imagery much more fragile and impermanent. Of the billions of photographs taken every year, the vast majority exist only as digital files on camera memory cards or on the hard drives of PCs and servers in the internet "cloud". In theory – given the right back-up regimes and long-term organisational arrangements – this means that they could, theoretically, endure for a long time. In practice, given the vulnerability of storage technology (all hard disks fail, eventually), the pace at which computing kit becomes obsolete and storage formats change, and the fact that most people's Facebook accounts die with them, the likelihood is that most of those billions of photographs will not long survive those who took&nbsp;them.That's why Magnum photographer Martin Parr concluded his terrific piece last year onhow to take better holiday photographswith a simple piece of advice: print your pictures. "We are in danger," he wrote, "of having a whole generation that has no family albums, because people just leave them on their computer, and then suddenly they will be deleted." He's&nbsp;right.
