Self-portraits have always reflected self-esteem. It was true in the Renaissance. It was true forRembrandt, whose late works, which include many self-portraits,go on displayin the National Gallery on Thursday. And it is true for us now.The current obsession with selfies –with makeup or without– reflects a surge in self-confidence that is both admirable and dangerous.A bid for immortalityIn the early Renaissance, the social status of the artist underwent a sea change. Artists and scientists – for there was scarcely a distinction, in those days – formed the vanguard of a burgeoning spirit of inquiry, which laid the foundations for the modern age.It is no surprise, then, that from the early Renaissance onward, artists began to make a bid for immortality. The first commissioned biographies of artists started to appear. Artists began to sign their work for the first time.But the most telling sign, by far, of this growing self-possession was the new practice of self-portraiture – and when we think of self-portraiture, we naturally think of Rembrandt.A lifetime obsessionRembrandt leaves behind 80 renderings of his own image, between paintings, drawings and etchings. His preoccupation with self-portraiture was not a passing fancy of youth, nor was it an old man’s obsession: it spans his entire career.The National Gallery exhibition treats us to some poignant examples from his later years; in the first room, for example, we encounter four self-portraits from the last decade of his life.Rembrandt’s Self Portrait at the Age of 63Photograph: The GuardianThe sheer number of surviving self-portraits attests to a marked self-confidence on his part, and a desire to be immortalised. Rembrandt wanted us to remember him, because he mattered.And when we take a selfie, we are making the same statement. We are saying: Look at me. I matter. I deserve to be depicted, too.Why, then, does Stephen Frywishthat the iPhone didn’t have a camera – specifically, so that the arrival of the selfie might have been avoided?Rembrandt’s honestyThe master gives us a clue. Rembrandt’s self-portraits change, as he closely monitors the traces of time. The later self-portraits are particularly striking.Facing bankruptcy, having endured the deaths of many of those most dear to him, Rembrandt stood before the mirror and painted himself. His self-portraits show him, not as he wished he might have been, but as he was: ageing, thickening, alone in the gathering gloom.He wanted us to remember him – as an artist, certainly, but also as a man: bereaved, lonely perhaps, but undeniably proud.This is why Simon Schama calls him an“everyman”: in his face, so carefully detailed, we see “countless other personae”. We look at him, as he looks at us, and we feel that we understand him.Our honesty?What about our selfies? Do we, too, want to be seen as we really are?Do we want to meticulously chart the lateral progress of our crow’s feet, the widening of our hips? The sagging of our skin?We are not so clear-eyed. We worry about our “good side”. We fret about looking fat.We rush to de-tag those Facebook photos that have caught our lazy eye, or our crooked tooth; we try to erase our most personal imperfections. Being photogenic is more important than looking like ourselves.Rembrandt got certain aspects of his physiognomy slightly wrong, between self-portraits – his eyes are larger in some depictions than in others, his face longer or shorter – but he always paid close attention to his asymmetric features.In fact, the particular precision with which he renders the furrows on his brow, and the droop of his eyelids, is one of the markers that enable art historians to evaluate the authenticity of a putative Rembrandt.He was meticulous in detailing his own physical flaws.When we hold our iPhone aloft to take a selfie – always from above, never from below – we are not so scrupulous.Self-confidence - or self-indulgence?Rembrandt was painstaking, certainly; but maybe he wasn’t all that honest, after all. Maybe he was sentimentalising the image of himself.Rather than being driven by an internal, proto-Romantic compulsion to explore his own soul via his self-image, maybe he was meeting a demand for “portraits of the artist, by the artist”.Or maybe he was just interested in the careful representation of the human form – for which explorations he was, of course, his own most patient and obliging sitter. We will probably never be sure.One thing is clear, though: his images required care, thought, skill. They took time. They were the product of a long and careful look, and another, and another; they did not issue from one throwaway glance.And that is what we learn from Rembrandt. With Snapchat, the self-portrait becomes disposable. We click, we send, and as the recenthacking scandalreveals, we do not wish to look again.We want to be the centre of attention, that is – but never for too long. Unlike Rembrandt’s self-portraits, our selfies don’t bear scrutiny.From self-possession to self-absorptionSelf-confidence is indispensable. It is the cornerstone of the human rights movement: it is the necessary precursor to that raising of long-silent voices that is the pride of our modern age.It is important to say, in the face of an indifferent society: “We matter”.But the more we gaze at our own faces, or at the screens of our iPhones, the less we see of the world around us.We are tempted to have experiences for the purpose of photographing them, and apply a filter to them, because the last thing we want is for our lives to look ordinary. But when we stand before a Rembrandt self-portrait, we realise that being ordinary – being human – is where the real interest lies.Even in his later years, Rembrandt kept exploring, challenging himself, pushing the boundaries of his skill. When it comes to the composition of figures, or the representation of light, or the explorations of texture, Rembrandt “never resorted to ready-made solutions”, as the art historian Ernst Van de Weteringputs it.One can only imagine what Rembrandt would have thought of Instagram’s one-size-fits-all filters.Selfies are not self-portraitsSelf-confidence is not a problem. And self-portraits aren’t a problem. It’s when the self-portrait becomes a selfie – trivial, banal, and ultimately disposable – that we should tread carefully.The selfie threatens to distract us from what we should be doing, and what Rembrandt did: looking at ourselves closely, honestly, but compassionately.Rembrandt teaches us to take care. He teaches us to create self-portraits, rather than taking selfies. He teaches us to look again.
Apple is widely expected to unveil at least two new iPads this evening, but will also have a few other surprises lined up.The chief executive, Tim Cook, will take the stage at 6pm UK time in the Town Hall auditorium at Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, California to unveil the company’s new tablets and computers for the next year.iPad Air 2 and iPad mini 3Appleleaked the names and detailsof two new iPads on Wednesday night, mistakenly releasing an updated iOS 8 user guide through iTunes.The leak confirmed that the iPad Air 2 and the iPad mini 3 will be unveiled today. Both iPads will have Apple’s Touch ID fingerprint sensor, which sits under the home button and allows users to use a fingerprint to unlock the tablets and authorise purchases with an Apple ID in the App Store and iTunes.The tablets will also be more powerful, likely come with larger storage capacities, and have a new burst-mode camera feature. The remainder of the devices is pretty much unchanged from the iPad Air and iPad mini with retina display, released this time last year.There have been rumours of a larger iPad, with a screen greater than 12in, although this now seems unlikely, given Apple’s leak.iOS 8.1, Apple Pay and YosemiteBesides new iPads, Apple will release iOS 8.1 – an update to its iOS software for the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. There will also be more details of the roll-out of its mobile payment solution, Apple Pay, which the new iPads are expected to support for purchase of goods and services online.The latest version of Apple’s Mac computer software OS X 10.10 Yosemite, which wasfirst unveiled at the company’s World Wide Developer Conferencein June.New iMacNew Mac computers are likely to launch alongside Yosemite. A new iMac desktop computer has long been rumoured, including a 27in high resolution retina display, which is better than HD.Apple’s MacBook Pro line of laptops already have retina displays, which are used to increase sharpness of the display, maintaining the size of icons, text and images, but increasing their pixel density instead of making everything on screen smaller, and providing greater “screen real estate”.‘It’s been way too long’Apple’s tag line on itsevent invitation, “it’s been way too long”, suggests that Apple could update some of its older products.Another computer that could see an update is the Mac mini, which was last enhanced in 2012. The smaller, lower-cost computer is designed to be used with an existing screen, keyboard and mouse, unlike the iMac.The Mac mini also has a server version, which is used by small businesses and universities for smaller computer clusters, which has not been updated at all since 2012.Apple TV and iPod touchThe company’s small media streaming set top box, the Apple TV, also hasn’t been updated in a few years and it is possible that Apple will update it. Based on the same software and hardware as Apple’s iPod touch, iPad and iPhone, the Apple TV has long expected to get access to the App Store for apps and games, as well as more on-demand video streaming services from TV broadcasters, such as the BBC.Whether Apple will unveil an updated Apple TV at tonight’s event is unknown, although the American cable TV channel HBO announced yesterday that customers would be able to purchase a subscription to HBO for streaming across the internet without needing a cable TV provider. HBO could be one of Apple’s launch partners for an updated Apple TV.Another of Apple’s older devices, the iPod touch, could also be updated. Although it was overhauled in 2013, it still uses the same processor as the iPhone 4 from 2011. Apple traditionally updates the iPod touch when the iPhone changes significantly. The larger 4.7in screen size of the iPhone 6, could indicate the iPod touch will be updated with a larger screen.Whatever Apple unveils, the Guardian tech team will bring you the news live from the event from 5.30pm.•Apple upstages its own launch as details of new iPad appear online
Bethesda; PC/PS3/PS4 (version tested)/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: 18Shinji Mikami is universally acknowledged as one of the games industry’s true luminaries. He effectively invented the enduring survival horror subgenre with 1996’s Resident Evil, but he also sowed the seeds of what purists see as its downfall, by moving 2004’s Resident Evil 4 (the last game in the series on which he worked, and a game that truly deserves the epithet “seminal”) in a more action-oriented direction. The good news for those who like their gore-laden adventures untainted by the merest hint of compromise is that he has now gone right back to his roots.The Evil Within is pure, unadulterated, first-principles survival horror, with an equal emphasis on both the survival and horror parts. If you crave fast twitch gaming, you’ll be disappointed: The Evil Within is all about making the most of limited resources, nailing headshots and working out the correct tactics to take down the mini-bosses and the major bosses (both of which are plentiful and satisfyingly bizarre) as well as assorted groups of mutants.The enemies will be pretty familiar to Resident Evil fans, despite the game’s more supernatural focus, and as the action progresses, they increasingly resemble what Frankenstein may have come up with if he’d had access to modern medical technology. As a measure of how determined Evil Within is to conform to survival horror principles, the only way you can be sure that most mutants won’t get up after you knock them down is by burning them – and in your base state, you can carry a grand total of four matches.Mikami has clearly been liberated by not having to worry about the Resident Evil universe, with all its characters, conflicts and interlocked timelines. The Evil Within’s storyline is madness incarnate, containing all manner of alternate realities (falling is a recurring theme, as is temporary suspension of gravity in cut-scenes, and corridors routinely reconfiguring themselves, leading to unexpected places).The story of mad doctor Ruvik, the eminence grise behind an outbreak of ghostly murder in Krimson City, unfolds as the game progresses, and the further in you get, the more Hellraiser-like the general vibe becomes. The Evil Within makes no attempt at the sort of general plausibility that is the current vogue on the horror film scene, but ratchets up the weirdness and reality-warping to deeply chilling effect. As with its gameplay, it takes an old-school approach to scaring you.At first, it places stealth to the fore – you can sneak up behind mutants and execute them with a single stab to the top of the head. Which is just as well, since you start with only character Sebastian Castellanos’ police-issue revolver, and ammo is virtually non-existent. You do find things like axes but, while they will dispatch mutants with a single blow, they disintegrate after a single use. If you are spotted, you need to nail those headshots. Soon, though, you get some great weapons – the mega-powerful shotgun is every bit as fulfilling as the one in the Resident Evil games – but the stand-out is the crossbow, which lets you craft various types of bolts which freeze, deliver an electric shock or temporarily blind enemies (allowing a stealth take-down), or operate as sticky bombs.Each type of crossbow bolt can be crafted from parts scavenged from traps that you defuse. Traps loom large in The Evil Within – you need to use them with precision to take down certain bosses, and there’s one recurring boss called Boxman (who has a safe for a head, and a penchant for ripping that head off so that he can respawn into another safe and continue pursuing you) who lays traps that can be turned against him.Luckily, The Evil Within’s inventory system is vastly less fiddly than that of Resident Evil. The upgrade system is great, too: Castellanos collects green gunk, which is its currency, and can upgrade a vast array of abilities, weapon attributes and, handily, ammo capacity. Upgrading is enacted by strapping yourself into a sort of torture chair, in the game’s hub area which, naturally, is a mental asylum.20 hours of terrorThe Evil within offers a pretty meaty gameplay experience of about 20 hours, depending on how well you play, even though it eschews modern niceties such as multiplayer or co-op modes. Even on the laughably named Casual difficulty setting, it’s dead challenging, so cranking up the difficulty does add replay value.The brain-melting storyline, you suspect, was at least in part conceived as a means of allowing the gameplay to jump-cut around multiple locations – including a creepy manor house straight out of Resident Evil central casting and that old Japanese developers’ staple, a city turned inside-out by an earthquake. Some of the chapters bring puzzle-solving (generally a means of getting to inaccessible areas) to the fore, others offer a succession of boss-encounters, a few put you at the heart of chase sequences and you do sometimes encounter Resident Evil 4-style waves of mutants. The Evil Within ebbs and flows nicely, and some of the later chapters in particular, are thoroughly epic.So, is The Evil Within a proper, back-to-core-values Resident Evil for the 21st century? In a word, yes. It couldn’t even resist the temptation to put “Evil” in its name. It more or less is Resident Evil, with its unathletic, slow-moving protagonist, devastating shotgun, crates to smash, near-monochrome visuals, reel-to-reel tape recorders, squelchy mutant bosses and so on. You even see the odd typewriter, but disappointingly, you can’t interact with them.Mikami’s latest work is not enormously 21st-century, though: the graphics are serviceable rather than beautiful, and it has a designed-in level of clunkiness that forces you to play in a certain way. It does, however, take the opportunity to ditch some of Resident Evil’s more annoying traits – you don’t turn like a tank anymore.The upshot is that The Evil Within will give survival horror purists a rare contemporary pleasure fix. But be warned: if you prize smooth, silky action above all else, it will drive you insane.
It's Thursday.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVirtual pilots fly drones in Star-Wars-style race &gt;&gt; YouTubeStar Wars! In a forest! This is great.Japan adopts "right to be forgotten" &gt;&gt; EPICA Japanese court has ordered Google to delete about half of the search result for a man linked to a crime he didn't commit. Judge Nobuyuki Seki of the Tokyo District Court said that the search results "infringe personal rights," and had harmed the plaintiff. A recent poll also found that 61% of Americans favour the EU Court of Justice decision regarding the right to be forgotten. And Canada is now debating the establishment of a similar legal right.Onlyhalfthe search results?Browser makers spell out anti-POODLE plans &gt;&gt; ComputerworldGregg Keizer:The top three browser makers announced yesterday how they will deal with the design flaw in SSL 3.0 after researchers revealed that their "POODLE" attack method can steal encrypted information and pilfer browser session cookies.Microsoft, Google and Mozilla all told users of their browsers -- Internet Explorer, Chrome and Firefox, respectively -- how they will handle the SSL 3.0 flaw, which cyber criminals could exploit using "man-in-the-middle" attacks to make off with session cookies. Those stolen cookies would let the hackers impersonate their victims, automatically logging into sites to, for example, make online purchases, read email or lift files from cloud storage services.Mozilla was the most definite in its plans.Pity none of them was "change the name of the vulnerability from 'Poodle' to 'Deathblaster' because it would make people take notice".The Diminished iPad &gt;&gt; stratecheryBen Thompson:Obvious though larger iPhones may have seemed to many of us, Apple still deserves praise for pushing ahead with the iPhone Plus in particular. Anyone who thinks this won't have an impact on iPad sales is surely kidding themselves. And make no mistake: that's bad for Apple in the short term. Sure, the iPhone Plus has much better margins – both in percentage and absolute terms – than the iPad mini especially, but one iPhone Plus per customer is still much less money for Apple than that same customer buying both an iPhone and an iPad.2 Apple though, just as they did with the iPod and Mac previously, has proved itself willing to cannibalize itself.To be sure, Apple is certainly not too worried: the downside of a bigger phone is reduced convenience and portability, opening up room for a device that is even more portable and always with you – the Apple Watch. And, just as the iPhone was much more profitable than the iPod it replaced, the Watch will almost certainly be much more profitable than an iPad.The iPad, he argues, has become part of the "squeezed middle" between phones and desktop/laptop PCs; but also Apple has failed to enable business models on the App Store that would enable developers to thrive through iPad apps.Samsung Galaxy Note 4 review: a superior device gives a glimpse of computing's future &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFarhad Manjoo:the Note 4 has a stylus, which Apple fans have long argued was proof of its inferiority. They're wrong; despite Steve Jobs's objections, the stylus is a handy tool for manipulating such a big phone, and after using the Note, I often found myself missing it when I went back to the iPhone.With the Note, Samsung is aiming for something transformative, a device that is more than just a big phone: The Note 4 feels like an ambitious effort to reach for the future of computing, in which our phones are more useful and powerful than PCs, and in which we barely bother with any other kinds of computers.Android web traffic distribution: LG exhibits largest share increase since June &gt;&gt; ChitikaWhile owners of Samsung devices continue to drive the majority share of North American Android Web traffic, LG posted the largest usage share gains among any Android brand between June and September 2014.ComScore data for August 2014 shows Samsung having 50m out of 90m Android smartphones in the US, so the 57% share in this graph looks consistent. The Amazon figure - at 6.9%, up slightly year-on-year - means the figures include tablets too.The future of the culture wars is here, and it's Gamergate &gt;&gt; DeadspinKyle Wagner:In many ways, Gamergate is an almost perfect closed-bottle ecosystem of bad internet tics and shoddy debating tactics. Bringing together the grievances of video game fans, self-appointed specialists in journalism ethics, and dedicated misogynists, it's captured an especially broad phylum of trolls and built the sort of structure you'd expect to see if, say, you'd asked the old Fires of Heaven message boards to swing a Senate seat. It's a fascinating glimpse of the future of grievance politics as they will be carried out by people who grew up online.You can ignore the Gamergate-related stuff, but it's that last sentence which makes this piece worth reading.Why Hailo, a taxi app with $100m in funding, failed in the US &gt;&gt; FortuneErin Griffith:According to former Hailo employees, the company struggled because what worked in London didn't translate to New York. London cab drivers are highly trained and equipped with smartphones. There, cabs are a luxury product. Meanwhile, New York's grid system–far more regimented than London's cowpaths—makes it easy for new drivers to learn the streets and take the job with very little training. It's also not standard for yellow cab drivers to have smartphones as part of their job. Many New York drivers were suspicious of a service like Hailo, former employees say. Besides, it's not difficult for New York drivers to find new fares, leaving Hailo's value proposition thin.Further, when e-hailing was approved by New York, the city's pilot program was delayed because of an appeal from the black car lobby. Uber's response to legal issues has been to continue operating, as it did when it met resistance in Germany.Hailo also faced technical issues in New York. Because the city works with payment processors that use outdated technology, Hailo found it difficult to integrate its services with them, according to one former Hailo employee.How many ecosystems? &gt;&gt; Benedict Evans…a large proportion of the apps that matter are fundamentally local. To say that Citibank in the USA, Tesco in the UK or Carrefour in France will pull their iOS apps because it's the 'minority ecosystem' is actually to say that they'll abandon the best half or best third of their users because there are lots of Android users in Indonesia. Equally, the hot new startup in India or Indonesia may well go Android first, and not care how many iPhones there are in San Francisco. The size of the broader global ecosystem is not necessarily that relevant if the target market is local and the local market is large enough to sustain development by itself. So some of these will go global (or try to) but many may not need to.This in turn means that the question of what platforms are sub-scale or minority is different in different places and so you will get different levels of support for these platforms in different places:• In very big markets such as the USA (over 200m smartphones) China (at least 400m already) and India (perhaps 100m) you can build big businesses without worrying much what's used in other places.• Small, low income markets may be dominated by Android but also not be able to sustain local developers, and so float on the global services alone.• In markets like Spain one can clearly see signs that Android has 'won' and that local brands are slow to support iOS.• In some middle income markets, iOS may have a small relative share but (due to income inequality) a wildly disproportionate share of the most valuable customers.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple managed to scoop its own product launch on Wednesday, publishing details of its latest iPads a day ahead of its latest (usually) tightly controlled media event.Pictures and details about the new iPad Air and iPad mini showed up after Apple updated its iOS 8iPad user guideonline. Apple is usually fiercely secretive about its new products, keeping them under wraps until the day of its media launch.The screenshots confirm what many analysts had expected. The new tablets, “iPad Air 2″ and “iPad mini 3”, are nearly identical to their predecessors but will now have Touch ID sensors in the home button. The improved camera will allow people to take rapid fire “burst” shots – a feature available in later model iPhones.The leak coincided withGoogle’s unveilingof its latest top-end smartphone and tablet, the 6in Nexus 6 and the 8.9in Nexus 9, along with the next version of Android 5.0 – called “Lollipop”.If it was accidental, it will be the second PR blunder Apple has made over a product launch this year. Last month Apple downloaded free copies of U2’s new album Songs of Innocence on to its customers’ iTunes accounts. Lead singerBono apologisedfor the stunt during a question and answer session on Facebook on Wednesday. “Oops, I’m sorry about that,” said Bono. “I had this beautiful idea and we kind of got carried away with ourselves.”Apple will unveil full details of the devices tomorrow as well as new Mac hardware and the OS X Yosemite operating system at an event in Cupertino, California. The event will be far lower-key than the recent iPhone and watch launch but is still vital for Apple. Sales of iPads dropped off dramatically in the first half of 2014.
I read with interest about Ada Lovelace Day (This woman’s work, G2, 14 October), as I too was a programmer at Elliot Brothers from 1951-53. I wrote the first in-house program for its prototype computer “Nicholas”, as well as the “initial orders” that instructed Nicholas how to read and assemble the punched tape holes which were to be fed to it. I left Elliot Brothers to marry and live in Cornwall. It was another 10 years before the first computer made an appearance. After bringing up my children I was informed by the government training department that anyone over 35 was past it as far as computers were concerned and I should concentrate on shorthand and typing. Eventually the advent of the PC remedied this. Now in my old age, I have no regrets for not making a fortune as did Dina St Johnston and Dame Stephanie Shirley. My riches are my memories of Cornwall, its beautiful coast and its Celtic culture. These too can change the world.Brighid SimpkinCambridge
Google has unveiled its latest top-end smartphone and tablet, the 6in Nexus 6 and the 8.9in Nexus 9, along with the next version of Android 5.0 - which will be called “Lollipop”.Lollipop replaces KitKat (Android 4.4), released in October 2013, and promises to increase battery life, add multiple user accounts and security features, and give developers more control over notifications. The new software will launch first on the new Google Nexus devices, before coming as an update to older Nexus smartphones and tablets.Other Android smartphone manufacturers may release updates to their existing smartphones at a later date. At present 24.5% of Android devices accessing Google Play run KitKat,according to Google’s data.The new Android 5 Lollipop, previously known as ‘L’.Photograph: GoogleThe Nexus series has been used by Google for the past five years to show off the newest version of Android without the customisations made by manufacturers such as Samsung, LG and HTC.Big splashMotorola becomes the latest manufacturer of Google’s Nexus smartphones with the 6in Nexus 6 phabletPhotograph: GoogleThe Nexus 6 – codenamed Shamu, after the Seaworld killer whale – is the largest Nexus-branded smartphone to date, with a 6in quad HD screen putting it firmly in phablet territory. The previous Nexus 5 smartphone had a 5in 1080p screen.Google appears to be pushing sales of the device through multiple carriers, after making minimal efforts in previous years; although Nexus phones had a high specification and low cost, they were difficult to obtain because Google did not want to cut into sales of rival Android handsets. With the Nexus 6, it may make a greater effort to capture sales.Made for Google by Motorola, it has the latest 2.7GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 processor (also used in the Samsung Galaxy Note 4) and a 13-megapixel camera with optical image stabilisation to reduce camera shake and to minimise blurring in low-light conditions.Motorola replaces LG, which made the Nexus-branded phones for the last two years. It adds a “fast charging” feature that provides up to six hours of use from only 15 minutes charging.Its design closely resembles Motorola’s 5.2in Moto X with a metal frame but a larger screen and Nexus-branded soft-touch plastic back.Square NexusHTC’s Nexus 9 tablet has a 8.9in square screen, bucking the trend for widescreen Android tablets and smartphones.Photograph: GoogleThe Nexus 9, made by Taiwan’s HTC, is Google’s 8.9in replacement tablet for the 7in Nexus 7, which saw two models in two years made by Asus, a Taiwanese rival to HTC. The Nexus 9 has a 4:3 screen ratio, which is more square than the traditional 16:9 widescreen used by most other Android tablets and smartphones, but the same as Apple’s iPad. That ratio suits web browsing but leaves black bars at the top and bottom of widescreen videos.The 8.9in screen has a better than full HD 2K resolution and is the first Android tablet to have a 64-bit processor using Nvidia’s new Tegra K1 dual-core processor.“The Nexus 9 is a great example of what can be achieved when two companies, united in their passion for innovative technology, come together to create a product with the user experience at the very centre of the design process,” said HTC’s chief executive Peter Chou.The Nexus 9 has an eight-megapixel camera and a soft-touch plastic back and metal sides, available in black, white and beige.Previous Nexus smartphones and tablets have offered a premium high-end device but at a more affordable price with the Nexus 5 smartphone costing £300 and the Nexus 7 tablet £200 – at least £200 cheaper than the majority of the high-end competition, though almost identical to Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablet, which launched at the same time in 2012.The Nexus 6 and 9 will be available in the UK in November. The Nexus 6 costs £499 ($649) with 32GB of storage and the Nexus 9 £319 ($399).Google TV Mark 3Google’s entered the gaming console war with the new Nexus Player based on Android TV, which has an optional wireless joypad.Photograph: GoogleGoogle also unveiled a new Nexus Player, made by Asus, which is the reincarnation of Google’s smart TV platform, now called Android TV.It is a set-top box with media streaming capabilities, performing a similar service as Google’s Chromecast media streaming stick, but also doubles as a gaming device with wireless joypad and compatibility with Android games, similar to the ill-fated Android console Ouya.The Nexus Player costs $99 in the US while the optional joypad costs a further $40. UK pricing and availability was not announced.•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship Android smartphone experience for less than £300
The winners of a youth-focused digital enterprise award have been announced at Buckingham Palace today, alongside the Duke of York.Upshot Entertainment, a production company committed to supporting young filmmakers and storytellers; low-cost cookery app Digimeal; and social equality crowdsourcing appWhat Leads Towere named as the winners of the iDEA (Digital Enterprise Award) pilot scheme established by the Duke and the Nominet Trust, which waslaunchedin March of this year.The scheme will now be rolled out nationally, and hopes to help 1 million young people develop digital and enterprise skills and establish 500 digital business startups and 50 successful digital business by 14-25-year-olds within five years.Speaking at the palace, Prince Andrew told of how the scheme had been a great success, and joked to the Guardian that iDEA was the “palace’s startup of a startup”.Presenting the winners with their awards he said: “Today is about recognising the culmination of brave people who took up the challenge. There are huge potential opportunities for some of the things we have heard about today.”The scheme consists of industry-endorsed Digital Open Badges which can be awarded to young people displaying digital skills and a further competition element, piloted here.The competition consists of three stages: Discovery, Beta and Live. Teams will submit their business ideas during the first stage, and 100 top teams produce a prototype of their idea during the second stage. The third stage allows 20 teams to produce a product for £2,500. Of these, three winners will be awarded £15,000 to develop the business through a Microsoft-supported scheme.Along the way, participants will receive their open badges for showing different skills.Digimeal, one of today’s winners, was created by sisters Sumita Jindal, 19, and Risha Jindal, 17, who hope it will solve the problem of woeful student cooking.“You put three ingredients into the app, and the app will give you a recipe in return”, said Risha, who doesn’t cook herself, unlike her sisters. “It’s about making cooking easier, but also wasting less food.”Now Digimeal has been announced as a winner, they hope to move forward with their developer Dogfish.Other ambassadors of the scheme included: Michael Acton Smith who created Moshi Monsters; Kathyrn Parsons (founder of Decoded digital school); Nick D’Aloisio (Summly creator); and popstar George the Poet.The Nominet Trust has invested more than £21m in more than 700 ventures since its inception in 2008, providing business support as well as financial investment.
Security is back in the news. Both Snapchat and Dropbox have had to deny that their own systems were hacked - but have seen thousands of photos and videos distributed (in the case of Snapchat) and millions of logins made available (in the case of Dropbox- except that they didn’t come from Dropbox).In both cases, the blame has been laid at the feet of third-party websites. Snapsaved has been highlighted as the source of the Snapchat pictures (and the motives of those behind the site still are not clear); Dropbox says that the logins werestolen from “unrelated services”, and then used for login attempts.That’s why it’s dangerous to give your login credentials for a key site to another one; security is a “weakest link” system, and so your credentials are only as safe as the weakest site you offer them to. It’s also why it is a bad idea to use the same password in different sites. It is in fact possible to createunique yet memorable site-specific passwords- all you need is a mnemonic system.When did the web get so hostile? In truth, it’s always been risky, but the shift in the past decade from a world where the (Windows) desktop ruled to a world where mobile is just as big, if not bigger, has meant that web services have come under more intense attacks by hackers: if you get access to a web service then potentially you get everything. Hacking desktop computers is still big business; but it’s not where the action is.Because mobile isn’t an operating systems monoculture as the desktop was, stealing logins is now the simplest avenue for many hackers. And how do you do that? Through phishing, or fake third-party services, or hacking legitimate ones.Twitter and Facebook both faced the theft of logins through third-party services (authorised or not) during their early, fast-growth stages. Like a number of sites, they implementedOAuth: sites or apps wanting to access their APIs (so you could post or read your tweets or Facebook posts through them) first receive a “token” to access the API. If the service or site misbehaves, the token can be revoked; crucially, the site or service can’t see (or thus store) the user’s login details.Cleansing insecurityAfter Snapchat’s problems, there may be a wider cleansing of the very insecure practice of letting third-party sites have logins. Maciej Ceglowski, who runs the paid-for Pinboard bookmarking service (of which Guardian Tech is a user)announcedthat he would soon start blocking sites that allowed users to log into their Pinboard accounts directly. He citedPackratius, “which angers me especially by asking users to provide their Pinboard password in order to duplicate a native Pinboard feature”.He also cited IFTT - which overnight shifted to the third-party authentication system. Clearly, all it takes for a site that cares about its users to change is the threat of a shutdown. And so the web is a little more secure.That won’t be the end of it, though. Dropboxalready implementsa token-based system; that doesn’t mean it could prevent people using the same logins on sites which were then hacked.But Chris Eng, vice president of security research at Veracode, suggests that Snapchat doesn’t deserve much sympathy. In fact, he says, in the face ofrepeated security faultsit has done the minimum, each time, that would keep it just ahead of each flaw.“For a long time you could ‘brute force’ their Find Friends API, which meant you could cycle through all phone numbers and figure out which Snapchat users those corresponded to. Someone released a proof of concept list of 5 million users to demonstrate the flaw,” Eng says.“They then reduced the number of Find Friends calls you could make, but they didn’t prevent you from creating an unlimited number of accounts, so the attack still worked. Then they said they were enforcing one account per phone number, but they messed up the verification process. Later they added a CAPTCHA to prevent automated account creation, but a grad student broke that within a day.”Eng argues that “they only did the bare minimum at each step, and they clearly didn’t consult with experts on the design and implementation of each fix. They also used the same encryption key for everything, which could be easily extracted from the mobile app.”Posture of emphemeralityWhat then could Snapchat actually do to prevent third-party sites hacking the app and offering people the chance to store the pictures that are meant, in theory, to be deleted within a sender-determined number of seconds?Eng responds: “Content ‘expiration’ is largely marketing hype. If you send an image to someone else, via Snapchat or another service promising ephemeral content, you should always assume the recipient can make a copy of it. That may be done by installing a third-party app, taking a screenshot, or even using another camera to take a photo. Even if you are using the official app, you have no idea what the person on the other end is doing. The best Snapchat could do in this case is to more aggressively police impostor apps.”He suggests that Snapchat should have pursued (and still should pursue) the third-party apps that have enabled the capture of Snapchat photos more aggressively; as he points out, until its blogpost this week, Snapchat didn’t even tell people to avoid those services.What’s the solution? A token-based authentication system would allow Snapchat to block misbehaving third-party apps. But that it wouldn’t stop a site such as Snapsaved.com from being hacked for its pictures; nor would it prevent the creation of a malicious site that stores pictures in order to sell or trade them without the owner’s consent. Revoking such a site’s token wouldn’t get the pictures back.“[A token system] wouldn’t completely prevent third-party apps from masquerading as the official app, but right now they’re not even requiring impostor apps to jump through that hoop,” says Eng, who adds that “My point about their security posture in the past is not to say that their posture is the reason for this latest hack, but rather to point out that they generally don’t seem to place a lot of importance on security/privacy.”Web considered hostileEng’s general point for Snapchat - that it has been too trusting of apps and login attempts - is applicable more broadly. We’ve all been doing it. New services spring up and ask for an email and for us to create a password; many feel too exhausted to create yet one more. (See above: you can, and should.)With the number of hacking reports and vulnerabilities rising all the time, it’s time to understand we’ve moved from a place where we can trust the web implicitly, to one where we should only trust very limited pieces, and some of the mechanisms that let us link those together. It’s been a long time - if ever - since any of Twitter, Facebook, Dropbox, Google or Apple were directly hacked in a way that gave hackers free rein to their internal systems, but each has seen intrusions of varying severity via login-based attacks. It’s the login, not the service itself, that’s weak.It’s unfortunate that as it gets easier to access the web and associated services on our devices, and as more people have access to those internet-capable devices, we should trust the web less. But it seems to be an inevitable side-effect: websites should be considered hostile, unless you have evidence otherwise.Snapchat leaked pics came from Snapsaved, says researcher
A new bug in the security software that underpins the web has been found by security researchers from Google.The vulnerability nicknamed “Poodle” is a hole in the design of the third version of the secure sockets layer (SSL), a technology which encrypts data sent between users and servers. Researchers say the flaw allows attackers to decrypt and steal the data.The bug only affects the SSL 3.0 software, which was first published in 1996, but was quickly replaced by the more secure transport layer security (TLS) in 1999.‘Nearly all browsers support SSL 3.0’Despite being nearly 18 years old, SSL 3.0’s use is widespread, although updated sites with the newer security software versions are immune, unlike the Heartbleed bug that affected two-thirds of the internet in April.“Most importantly, nearly all browsers support SSL 3.0 and, in order to work around bugs in HTTPS servers, browsers will retry failed connections with older protocol versions, including SSL 3.0,” said Bodo Möller a member of Google’s security teamin a blog post. “Because a network attacker can cause connection failures, they can trigger the use of SSL 3.0 and then exploit this issue.”Hackers can steal information using the Poodle bug in a relatively simple manner, but it is a “man-in-the-middle attack” that requires the hacker to tap into the connection between users and servers. It means most will be safe while browsing at home, but could be vulnerable while browsing the internet using public Wi-Fi hotspots.There is no evidence that the bug has yet been used to access consumer information, but it could theoretically be used to intercept a log in to a web-based service and access someone’s account.‘This should be an academic curiosity’Poodle is the latest in a long string of bugs found in crucial components of the internet, first brought into the spotlight by theHeartbleed bug in April, thenShellshock in September. It is similar to a few other more obscure vulnerabilities, but is more practical to implement in an attack.Websites using SSL 3.0 will need to be updated to prevent exploitation of the bug. Most already use stronger, more modern security standards, but removing SSL 3.0 will render some older browsers and software including Internet Explorer 6 and Windows XP incompatible.Newer browsers, including later versions of Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox and Apple’s Safari will continue to work without SSL 3.0.“This should be an academic curiosity because SSLv3 was deprecated very nearly 15 years ago,”said Adam Langley, one of the Google security team that discovered the bug. “However, the internet is vast and full of bugs.”“The vastness means that a non-trivial number of SSLv3 servers still exist and workarounds for the bugs mean that an attacker can convince a browser to use SSLv3 even when both the browser and server support a more recent version. Thus, this attack is widely applicable,” he said.“Heartbleed and Shellshock allowed hacks against servers (meaning websites and such),”explained Robert Grahamowner offensive security firm Errata Security. “Poodle allows hacking clients (your web browser and such). If Hearbleed/Shellshock merited a 10, then this attack is only around a 5.”“What the hacker will likely try to do is hack your session cookies. That means they won’t get your password for your account, but they will be able to log in as you into your account,” Graham said.Internet firms have been quick to act.CloudFlare, which hosts and protects thousands of websites, message service Slack, search engine DuckDuckGo, Fitbit,Twitterand many others have already disabled support for SSL 3.0.•What is the Shellshock bug? Is it worse than Heartbleed?
The feminist pop culture critic Anita Sarkeesian has been forced to cancel a talk at Utah State University, after a threat of a “Montreal Massacre-style attack”.Sarkeesian, who is best known for her YouTube series “Tropes v Women in Video Games”, assessing various anti-feminist trends in gaming, was scheduled to talk at the university on Wednesday, when the unsigned email was sent.The author of the email threatened that if the talk was not cancelled, they would carry out an attack in the style of the 1989 Montreal massacre, when Marc Lépine murdered 14 women, claiming he was “fighting feminism”.“I have at my disposal a semi-automatic rifle, multiple pistols, and a collection of pipe bombs,” the letter said. “This will be the deadliest school shooting in American history and I’m giving you a chance to stop it.”“You have 24 hours to cancel Sarkeesian’s talk … Anita Sarkeesian is everything wrong with the feminist woman, and she is going to die screaming like the craven little whore that she is if you let her come to USU. I will write my manifesto in her spilled blood, and you will all bear witness to what feminist lies and poison have done to the men of America.”Initially, Sarkeesian stated her intention to hold the talk despite the threat, but was forced to back down after discovering that it was impossible to prevent guns being taken to the event.“Forced to cancel my talk at USU after receiving death threats because police wouldn’t take steps to prevent concealed firearms at the event,”shetweeted. “Requested pat downs or metal detectors after mass shooting threat but because of Utah’s open carry laws police wouldn’t do firearm searches.”The school confirmed Sarkeesian’s explanationin a statement. “During the discussion, Sarkeesian asked if weapons will be permitted at the speaking venue. Sarkeesian was informed that, in accordance with the State of Utah law regarding the carrying of firearms, if a person has a valid concealed firearm permit and is carrying a weapon, they are permitted to have it at the venue.”Sarkeesian was the subject of a hate campaign before she began the Tropes v Women in Video Games series. Afundraiser on Kickstartertwo years ago led to vandalism of her Wikipedia page, a DDoS attack on her website, and the creation of a game called “Beat Up Anita Sarkessian”.As well as persistent low-level harassment for the past two years, the attacks stepped up a notch in August 2014 when Sarkeesian was identified as one of the key targets of “#gamergate”. Ostensibly a campaign against corruption in journalism but in practice a grassroots attack on feminist critics in gaming, Gamergate has led to at least three prominent women in gaming having to take action over threats of violence.Zoe Quinn, an indie developer and one of the women targeted,has said that“discussing ethics and fairness is antithetical to a campaign originated in and motivated by a fair bit of misogyny and harassment”.The state of Utah will issue a concealed carry permit to any applicant who is at least 21 years old, mentally competent, and hasn’t been convicted of a felony or crimes involving violence, alcohol, narcotics or “moral turpitude.” The permit costs $46 and lasts for five years.Gamergate’s vicious right-wing swell means there can be no neutral stance
Activision; Wii/Wii U/Xbox 360/PS3/PS4/Xbox One/tablet; £55 (starter pack); Pegi rating: 7+As most families with children of a certain age know by now, Skylanders is a video game that uses toy figures to unlock on-screen characters and automatically save progress. It is a controversial concept, relying on the fanatical enthusiasm of children for fresh content and collectibles, and gating elements of the experience that require new toys.And with this year’s iteration, the publisher wastes no time in underlining its business model. As with 2013’s iteration Swap Force, Trap Team requires a new “portal of power” (the near-field communications dais that the toy figures are placed on) – so that means players will need to discard their existing peripheral (or trade it in for the new game at a few savvy retailers) and buy the complete starter pack.Why the extra expense? Well, the device powers Trap Team’s new novelty of being able to capture and then play as enemies. A plastic trap key is placed in a slot in the portal to capture the villains once they have been defeated. A different toy trap piece is required for each of the corresponding elements, and once trapped, villains can be used as player characters by placing their related trap back in the portal.This sounds messy and confusing but actually works very well. It changes the game more than expected as players can switch between Skylander and villain at the press of a button to suit the current challenge. A speaker in the new portal is used to voice the villains in the trap who interject at various moments in the game with encouragement or criticism.It’s a coherent experience, convincing to young players and amusing for older participants. With 40 or so trappable villains the sheer volume of voice work and design on display here is impressive, and suggests at least that Activision has a commitment not to scrimp on development costs.Character buildingTrap Team’s hero characters this year are the Trap Masters. Each figure is larger than a normal Skylander, although not quite as big as 2012’s Giants. They each carry a large “Traptanium” weapon that glows when they are near trappable villains.These characters are more effective at defeating villains and can destroy “Traptanium Crystals” to gain access to extra areas in each level.Trap Masters are also required to enter Element zones this year, which further incentivises players to buy at least one in each element. Previously, these zones were accessible by any character old or new. Locking them away for only the most expensive new characters will frustrate some players, and confirm parents’ suspicions of the money making ambitions of the series.Good will is stretched to breaking point by the inclusion of, as yet, unconfirmed new Element zones in the game that appear as question marks. While this is essentially no different to locking away the other zones for certain Trap Masters, it is a more obvious ploy to get children to buy additional toys to unlock content already on the disc.Along with the usual bunch of returning and new characters this year are a set of miniature figures. These Minis are about half the size of the normal toys and work as fully upgradable characters in the game – each with endearing names to match their stature.Extending the worldAs for the game itself, the main campaign is well delivered and offers a suitable venue to enjoy Skylanders old and new. It sticks to the now familiar action-platforming experience of the previous games, but lacks both the split-screen and online play offered by Disney Infinity.Still, it outstrips competitors by some way in terms of compatibility. Players can use any of their existing collection of characters in the new game, giving new life and extending value to purchases made many years ago.On PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, characters look fresh, intricately detailed and delightful. Other platforms too benefit from enhancements to the game’s engine as well as gameplay features like jumping and shooting at the same time.Extending the value proposition further, Trap Team continues to support the Wii this year even though Nintendo’s ageing machine has been dropped by Disney Infinity and the Lego video games. At least parents are spared from having to buy a new console. Also, the Wii version of Trap Team comes with a downloadable Wii U version providing a free upgrade path when families are ready.The downside is that this year’s game is lacking the popular “player versus player” battle mode, in favour of a Chaos attack and arena battle offering. It does however bring back the tile based sub-game Skystones as Skystones Smash – which adds a mathematical twist to one of the most popular aspects of Skylanders Giants.With all this additional in-game content, the most ambitious aspect of Trap Team is easily missed: the tablet version. This brings the full console game to high end tablet devices with a starter pack that provides a Bluetooth portal and controller.This not only frees up the big screen in the sitting room but enables children to move more easily between playing with the toys on the carpet and playing the video game. It supports two players and touch controls, and can be played on the go with two digital-only “Instant” characters.Although there have been Skylanders apps in the past, this full step onto tablets is significant for the franchise and could potentially eclipse the console game given the younger demographic. Interestingly, the app also lets you buy the game piecemeal in three £10.49 in-app purchases that breaks the series’ previous insistence on players buying a toy to access a character.Beyond all this, the toys are the real star of the show. Unlike the commercial and overly familiar characters in Disney Infinity, the new Skylanders feel fresh and handcrafted. This leads not only to more variety but also to characters that buck the usual buff/slender binary for male/female heroes. In this light, Torch the female blacksmith and Head Rush the operatic female Trap Master will appeal to parents as well as youngsters.Skylanders Trap Team won’t be the cheapest video game for families this year, but with the Starter Pack and some old figures, this compelling action adventure offers good value.
It's Wednesday.
Samsung’s Galaxy Note 4 is all the phablet anyone could ever need, and while it might be a stretch to operate with one hand, it does promise to be a device to do everything you could ever need - at least on a mobile device.After stretching the screen from 5.3in in its first Galaxy Note phablet, then up to 5.5in and then 5.7in, Samsung decided to stick with the 5.7in size and instead concentrated on build quality and software for the fourth and latest Note, hoping, as ever, to keep up with competition from LG and Apple.You’ll still need at least two handsSpot the difference: Galaxy Note 4 on the right, Note 3 on the left, or is it?Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSide-by-side it’s a game of spot the difference between theNote 3and the Note 4. The biggest change is that, like theGalaxy Alpha, the Note 4 has Samsung’s new metal frame, which swaps the cheaper looking plastic for hard metallic edges.The back is the same plastic, fake leather as the Note 3 which still feels cheap, especially compared to the cat-ear-like back of the the Alpha.It feels solid and the best made of Samsung’s smartphones to date - a big improvement over the Note 3 and theGalaxy S5.The big screen makes the phone difficult to hold and use in one hand; the plastic, fake leather back and hard edges provide a reassuring grip, but even with Samsung’s one-handed mode it isn’t a satisfying experience. It isn’t impossible and can be done in a pinch on the tube, train or bus.The metal edges mirror the new Galaxy Alpha as Samsung’s new design language - a significant upgrade from the plastic shells.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe quad-HD screen is crisp, bright and has wide viewing angles, which makes viewing videos, photos and browsing websites a more satisfying experience than on a smaller 5in smartphone, much more akin to a tablet.The very high pixel density on the large screen of 515 pixel per inch allows smaller text to be read, but may require a magnifying glass to see it. For comparison, the5.5in Apple iPhone 6 Plushas a 401ppi and the Note 3 has 386ppi – the difference is visible on the tiny scale, but the merits of such a high resolution are debatable. The stylus, which slides out from the bottom of the phone, makes manipulating text on a tiny scale possible, but whether people are likely to want to do that is unknown.The Note 4 is 8.5mm thick and weighs 176g, which is 4g heavier and 1.4mm thicker than the iPhone 6 Plus and 27g heavier but 0.4mm thinner thanLG’s 5.5in G3, neither of which have a stylus. It is also 8g heavier and 0.2mm thicker than the Note 3.SpecificationsScreen:5.7in quad HD Super AMOLEDProcessor:2.7 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 805RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:32GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 128GB cardsOperating system:Android 4.4.4 with Samsung TouchWizCamera:16-megapixel rear camera, 3.7-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, IR and GPSDimensions:153.5 x 78.6 x 8.5mmWeight:176gPowerful but lasts two daysThe screen is crisp with great viewing angles.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Note 4 has the most powerful Qualcomm processor to date with a top-of-the-line 2.7GHz Snapdragon 805 with 3GB of RAM. That makes the phablet fly, with no lag even with two different program side-by-side on-screen and many more running in the background.The phablet will be able to handle pretty much anything. Most of that power goes to waste most of the time, but the new processor is also very power efficient. It lasts a solid two days on a charge even with heavy use, including push email all day, hundreds of notifications and three hours of browsing, 30 minutes of gaming and an hour of music streaming over Bluetooth.When the battery does run out, the Note 4 charges fast using the USB power adapter that came with it, charging around 50% of the battery in 30 minutes, as long as it isn’t completely flat to start with.SoftwareThe window mode shrinks apps like Chrome and the calculator into smaller windows with a drag-down from the top left-hand corner.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Note 4 has Samsung’s version of Android called TouchWiz, which includes a raft of small tweaks and changes.Compared to the Note 3, Samsung has pared back on the confusing clutter. Gone are the useless gestures and power-sapping gimmicks, instead replaced by some useful features that are off by default but can be turned on when needed.The option to increase the screen sensitivity to allow use through gloves is handy for the winter, while direct call that answers the phone when lifted to the ear is intuitive.The biggest additions are around multitasking, allowing two apps to be used on-screen at one time. Multi-window only supported about half the apps I had installed including Chrome, Evernote and Gmail, but Twitter, Google Docs and Dropbox were notable exceptions.Multi-window puts split-screen apps on the screen, two at a time. The split between the apps can be varied to make one bigger or smaller.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther windows can be windowed by dragging down from the top left-hand corner, which I managed to do several times by accident while trying to pull down the notification shade.Stylus: useful for some, ignorable for mostThe stylus slots into the bottom of the phone and stays hidden until needed.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Note 4 has Samsung’s ‘S Pen’ stylus, which slips discretely into the bottom of the phone. Most will likely use it a couple of times and then safely leave it in the slot, but scribbling on notes could be useful for some.Selecting text, managing multiple windows and interacting with spreadsheets is also considerably easier using the stylus like a mouse pointer.CameraThe 16-megapixel camera on the back has optical stabilisation to smooth out camera shake, plus a heart rate monitor directly below it that can be used to trigger selfies.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Note 4 has a similar camera to the Galaxy S5 with added optical image stabilisation, which removes hand shake from photos and helps prevent blur in low-light conditions. Video is also made a lot smoother.Images are generally sharp, with good detail and exposure. Low-light performance is also good, while Samsung’s camera app does a good job of balancing ease of use and manual adjustments.Of note is the rear camera selfie mode, which locks onto the user’s face and vibrates until it captures a selfie. The heart rate sensor positioned just below the camera on the back can be used as a shutter button for front-facing camera selfies, while the new wide selfie mode is a cross between a panorama and a selfie, making sure everyone can fit in the picture.Fingerprint scannerThe Note 4’s fingerprint scanner sits under the home button and is the biggest and most accurate on a Samsung smartphone to date.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe fingerprint scanner on the Note 4 lets users unlock the phone and log into various websites, services and apps using a swipe of the finger. It is accurate 95% of the time and is generally faster than taping in passcodes and passwords, using one of three fingers or two thumbs.Heart rate sensorA heart rate sensor on the back of the phone allows users to record their fitness using Samsung’s S Health app, along with steps and other activity-based fitness measurement. It works as advertised, but is more novelty than useful feature – heart rate monitors will only be useful when they are continually monitoring a user’s heart rate to see real changes, rather than ad hoc measurements.The removable back is plastic and made to look and feel a bit like leather, hiding a user-replaceable battery.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Note 4 costs £629 in black, bronze, pink or white, which is £10 more than the iPhone 6 Plus and £249 more than the LG G3, which costs £380.VerdictThe Note 4 is the best phablet Samsung has made yet. As very large phones go is it one of the most usable, most powerful and the stylus really can be useful in some circumstances.One-handed use is difficult, but that is the compromise of having a screen larger than 5.5in or 5.7in this case. LG’s G3 is still easier to use one handed, but has a smaller screen.Whether people should buy a phablet is another issue, but the Note 4 is the king of the Android phablet heap lasting two days on a charge and arguably the best developed phablet available at the moment.Pros:large, sharp, colourful and bright screen, very solid build, great camera, great battery life, good fingerprint scanner, neat stylusCons:too big for comfortable one-handed use, heavier than the competition, expensive, TouchWiz will annoy someOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic•Samsung Galaxy Alpha review: a direct iPhone 6 competitor•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone•LG G3 review: the most usable phablet to date•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - review•iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper•Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSecond executive of Apple supplier sold shares after trouble surfaced &gt;&gt; WSJAn executive from bankrupt Apple supplier GT Advanced Technologies who oversaw its troubled sapphire production facility set up a plan to sell part of his shareholdings after the company failed to meet Apple's technical milestones on time.Daniel Squiller, GT Advanced Technologies' chief operating officer and the point man at the Mesa, Ariz. sapphire plant it opened in partnership with Apple, sold $1.2m of stock in May and set up a plan under which he sold another $750,000 of shares over ensuing months before the company filed for bankruptcy on 6 October, according to filings.Squiller's sales came after initial signs of trouble at GT's sapphire plant.Precisely who at GTAT knew what, and when, is emerging piece by piece.Review of August's high-tech door lock &gt;&gt; Re/codeWalt Mossberg:The August app also allows you to distribute digital "keys" to family members, house guests, cleaning services, contractors or others who require entry to the home, and to control those keys. For instance, you can limit when and for how long these digital keys are active. That means no more making copies of your physical keys, and risking them being copied or never retrieved. And no more leaving keys for others under the welcome mat or a flower pot.It also has two cool, more advanced, optional features that I liked a lot in my tests. One, called Auto-Unlock, available for now only on the iPhone, detects your smartphone as you approach the door and unlocks it without requiring you to use your phone or your keys. That's great when your arms are full with, say, grocery bags.The second, called EverLock, locks the door again after 30 seconds, so you'll never again forget to lock up.Systems like this which used car remote-style controls for unlocking were around in the early 2000s - but they needed smartphones to make them properly useful. And to answer your question, the standard key system still works; this just adds a motor drive to the internal lock/unlock.Ireland to abolish controversial 'double Irish' tax arrangement &gt;&gt; The GuardianThe arrangement, which has drawn the wrath of the US Senate as well as the Republic's EU partners, helped global corporations to move most of their taxable revenue from an operating firm in Ireland to an Irish registered firm in an offshore tax haven.Bowing to pressure from international criticism, Irish finance minister Michael Noonan confirmed during his budget speech to the Dáil on Tuesday that the tax arrangement would be ended fully within four years.The fallout from this on a number of companies' profits is going to be fun to watch.My take on Google+ today &gt;&gt; ChuquiChuq von Rospach has run a bird photography group on Google+ for some years, but has seen a falloff in participation:One thing I wanted to know was whether this stagnation I've seen was a problem in this group, or more widespread. So I've spent a couple of weeks of evenings digging into communities across G+ looking for ones I thought were interesting and doing more than "post pictures and plus them" type interactions.Frankly, while those kind of groups exist, they're really rare, and the admins put a lot of work into building the interactions within the group because it's clear for them G+ doesn't make it easy for them, either. So it's not how we're running the group, it's how G+ is designed. Mostly, what I found was a lot of empty groups without anyone managing them, full of spam, wallpaper reshares and low value crap.It's incredibly hard to find groups where there's real conversation and discussion. For the record, discovery on G+ is ludicrously bad. I can't even tell it I only want to see groups in English, so there are many nights the list of "Communities you might like" were in Russian, or Korean, or Japanese, or in random languages I couldn't identify. One night G+ insisted I really wanted to see middle-aged singles dating groups, another night it was race cars, and another night my recommendation list was full of groups of nothing but groups of animated gifs of cats and dogs and other cute stuff. Kawaii! Seriously, the crap I do in the name of research…My takeaway from all of this; Google doesn't really give a damn about communities. They put them out here, and then basically ignored them. Discovery is terrible — I think those recommended lists are effectively random pulls from the database. it's amateur stuff.He wonders if photographers, who were enthusiastic adopters of Google+, have begun to withdraw from it. But if so, where have they gone now?The full disclosure future &gt;&gt; MediumAndrew Leonard:Since 2009, the inclusion of a provision in the Affordable Care Act that allows employers to offer discounts of as much 30 percent of their premium costs to employees who participate in such programs has made them even more attractive. Some 50 million Americans are now "affected by workplace wellness programs."The use of fitness trackers as part of these wellness programs has become increasingly common. But the interest of health insurance companies willing to draw a direct line connecting the data generated by trackers and cold hard cash is relatively new. Only in the last two years have some of the biggest insurers in the country started deploying programs that offer premium discounts to both companies and individuals who can prove that they are taking care of their health by quantifying their health data with an "activity device." It's still too early to know for sure how far this trend will continue, or how the dollars will add up in the end, but the potential ramifications — for our health, our health care costs, and our privacy — are enormous.Thoughts on iPad &gt;&gt; AAPL Orchard"Sammy Walrus IV", self-described "engineering and finance skeptic navigating Silicon Valley and Wall Street":Apple now has a much harder sales pitch to make for iPad. Why buy an iPad when you could have an iPhone with a screen that doesn't seem that much smaller than an iPad mini? Why buy an iPad when you can have a more powerful and just as easily transportable Macbook Air? The space between a phone and PC is smaller now than in 2010 primarily as the phone has become more powerful and larger. Tablets are getting squeezed.@ProfJeffJarvis: Waging a one-man war on tech media jargon &gt;&gt; DigidayA main target of [Rurik] Bradbury's satire is the Orwellian lengths to which major tech players go to distort language. "Google has historically talked about openness and 'don't be evil,'" Bradbury said. "These kinds of mantras are very common in tech. But Google has warped over time. The inevitable pressures of commerce have crept in and chipped away at the edges. Google's search results have become more and more ad-centric and less end-user-centric. They've dramatically reduced the obviousness of what's an ad and what's not an ad."Bradbury's semantic umbrage is not limited to big platforms like Facebook or Google. He also takes issue with "meme hustlers" who try to fill the Web with their deep thoughts so they can sell books and charge high consulting fees. He thinks the sharing economy espoused by Uber and Airbnb should actually be called "poor persons as a service."Thinkfluencing at its finest.Free Wi-Fi on city buses and buildings as Oxford gets super connected &gt;&gt; Oxford City CouncilThe City Council has secured funding from the Department of Culture, Media and Sport to deliver Wi-Fi on buses and free to enter buildings as part of the Super Connected Cities programme.The city's two main bus operators, Oxford Bus Company and Stagecoach, will have installed Wi-Fi on virtually all buses within the Oxford Smart Zone by the end of November.In addition, Super Connected Oxford will also make available a Wireless concession in the streets of the city and Wi-Fi Hotspots in free to enter public buildings by April next year. Residents and visitors to the city can expect to enjoy free Wi-Fi in all City Council community centres, libraries and museums such as The Ashmolean and Museum of Natural History.Soyuz Flight VS09: Independent inquiry board announces definitive conclusions concerning the Fregat upper stage anomaly &gt;&gt; ArianespaceThe scenario that led to an anomaly in the orbital injection of the satellites was precisely reconstructed, as follows:The orbital error resulted from an error in the thrust orientation of the main engine on the Fregat stage during its second powered phase.This orientation error was the result of the loss of inertial reference for the stage.This loss occurred when the stage's inertial system operated outside its authorized operating envelope, an excursion that was caused by the failure of two of Fregat's attitude control thrusters during the preceeding ballistic phase.This failure was due to a temporary interruption of the joint hydrazine propellant supply to these thrusters.The interruption in the flow was caused by freezing of the hydrazine.The freezing resulted from the proximity of hydrazine and cold helium feed lines, these lines being connected by the same support structure, which acted as a thermal bridge.Ambiguities in the design documents allowed the installation of this type of thermal "bridge" between the two lines. In fact, such bridges have also been seen on other Fregat stages now under production at NPO Lavochkin.The design ambiguity is the result of not taking into account the relevant thermal transfers during the thermal analyses of the stage system design.The root cause of the anomaly on flight VS09 is therefore a shortcoming in the system thermal analysis performed during stage design, and not an operator error during stage assembly.All this time, and there are still subtle design mistakes like this in mission-critical products. (Insert "it's not rocket science... yes it is" joke.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Taylor Swift has addressed unrest among British fans about her new single Out of the Woods being unavailable to buy in the UK, even though it has been released elsewhere in the world.The song has been released through Apple’s iTunes Store in some countries, but not in the UK, leading fans to vent their anger on social networks earlier in the week.In a Tumblr post,Swift confirmed that this was no accident: in fact, it’s a deliberate marketing strategy by her record label.“To all my wonderful UK fans, I realize that you are not yet able to get ‘Out Of The Woods’ due to a new strategy my record label is working on in the UK,” explained the Tumblr post.“I’ve never been one to hold my music back from any of you so I will be watching closely to see if this is ultimately a better experience for you, the fans.”Swift’s music has been held back in some ways before: her last album Red was withheld from streaming services like Spotify for seven months after its release, and her new album 1989 looks set to adopt a similar approach.It is relatively rare to see songs made available to buy on iTunes in some countries but not other major music markets like the UK. However, Swift’s Tumblr post explains a little about the strategy.“My good friend Ed Sheeran utilized the same strategy with ‘One’ in the UK and he seemed very happy with the feedback from his fans. But, ultimately, it’s down to you. Let me know.”The Sheeran song was released as an “instant grat” track on iTunes in the run-up to the release of his last album X: instant grat being the music industry term used for tracks delivered early to fans who’ve pre-ordered an album.Out of the Woods is likely to be available for at least some of Swift’s fans in the UK soon, then. But many will have turned to other means to hear the track: for example, there arealready a number of uploads of its audio to YouTube.•Tor can handle Aphex Twin – but could it deal with Taylor Swift?
Snapchat has spoken out for the first time about the hack that led to the theft of tens of thousands of private photos, dubbed ‘the Snappening’, scolding affected users for using an unsupported third-party service.The photos were stolen from SnapSaved, an unofficial site that promised to allow users to save pictures sent to them on the service. Typically, Snapchat pictures and videos disappear within seconds of being viewed, and the app itself sends users a notification if the file’s recipient takes a screenshot.“Over the past few days we’ve fielded a number of questions about our API and third-party applications after a website that offered to save Snaps indicated that their database had been breached,”Snapchat said in a statement.“We are grateful that theservice provider acknowledgedthat Snapchat was never compromised, but we wanted to use this as an opportunity to reiterate the unfortunate threats these third-party applications can pose to our community.”“Given the popularity of Snapchat and the size of our community, it’s no surprise that a cottage industry of app-makers has popped up to provide additional services to Snapchatters. Unfortunately, these applications often ask for Snapchat login credentials and use them to send or receive snaps and access account information.“When you give your login credentials to a third-party application, you’re allowing a developer, and possibly a criminal, to access your account information and send information on your behalf.”The company accepts that there is demand for the services offered by apps such as SnapSaved, but adds that “it takes time and a lot of resources to build an open and trustworthy third-party application ecosystem. That’s why we haven’t provided a public API to developers and why we prohibit access to the private API we use to provide our service.“Don’t get us wrong – we’re excited by the interest in developing for the Snapchat platform, but we’re going to take our time to get it right.”Snapsaved itself released one statement on the breach, on its Facebook page, saying that “As soon as we discovered the breach in our systems, we immediately deleted the entire website and the database associated with it. As far as we can tell, the breach has affected 500MB of images, and zero personal information from the database.”The company has since started asking for payment when journalists enquire about interviews,telling reporters“we would like to know if you could offer any monetary reward for the interview, this would be via bitcoins or the like”.Snapchat leaked pics came from Snapsaved.com, says researcher
Russian hackers suspected of ties to the Kremlin have spied on the Ukrainian government, European Union, Nato and others through a previously unknown bug in Microsoft Windows, researchers say.The cyber-threat intelligencefirm iSight Partnerssaid on Tuesday it had found a “zero-day vulnerability” – an unaddressed security breach – affecting almost all versions of the Windows operating system since the 2007 Vista. ISight notified Microsoft of the vulnerability before publishing its findings, and the software multinational said it would release an automatic update to fix it.A group of hackers iSight called the Sandworm Team reportedly exploited this and other vulnerabilities from 2009 to steal diplomatic and intelligence documents, as well as data that could be used to penetrate further systems. The team targeted dozens of computers used by Nato, the Ukrainian and EU governments, French telecom firms, Polish energy firms and a US academic body, iSight said.The hackers also targeted some of those attendingGlobSec, a national security gathering in May attended by Nato’s secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and the prime ministers of Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary. Many other entities could also have been targeted, iSight said.Although the cyber-intelligence firm could not say exactly what information the hackers had obtained in their operations, the report noted that the exploitation of a previously undiscovered vulnerability “virtually guarantees that all of those entities targeted fell victim to some degree”.Notably, the targets included many of the strongest critics of Russia’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimea peninsula and its support for rebels in eastern Ukraine this year. President Vladimir Putin and other officials have called Nato’s eastward expansion a threat to Russia’s national security, and the Kremlin has engaged in tit-for-tat sanctions with the European Union and United States in recent months.Although iSight said it did not have any direct evidence of the hackers’ affiliation, several clues pointed to the Russian government.Files used in the attacks were written in Russian, and researchers said the hackers were most likely government-backed because they engaged in cyber-espionage rather than cyber-crime. In addition, they targeted victims with email attachments purporting to be about topics of interest to Russia’s international adversaries, such as a fake list of pro-Russian “terrorists”.The zero-day vulnerability arose because Windows allows a technology known as object linking and embedding to download certain types of files from unverified sources, which can be used by hackers to remotely run codes for obtaining information. In particular, the Sandworm Team reportedly infected targets with malicious email attachments, largely PowerPoint files.One factor that helped researchers link the attacks were encoded references to Frank Herbert’s classic science-fiction series Dune found in URLs for the hackers command-and-control servers. The Dune references were so prevalent that iSight dubbed the hackers the “Sandworm Team” in reference to the huge creatures worshipped as gods on a desert planet where the series is set.ISight said the Sandworm Team’s campaign was part of a “growing drumbeat of cyber-espionage activity out of Russia”.But Andrei Soldatov, a journalist and expert on Russia’s security services, said the available information was too sparse to definitively attribute the Sandworm campaign to the Russian government or conclude that Russian cyber-espionage was on the rise. He noted that few cyber-attacks had been seen in Ukraine this year, unlike in Estonia in 2007 or Georgia in 2008, when conflicts with Russia resulted in a rash of distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks that shut local servers.“I don’t rule out the possibility of cyber-espionage operations to obtain information and data, but at the same time, in terms of causing damage, [the Russian government’s] focus has shifted from cyber attacks to the use of social networks for propaganda, mobilisation and recruiting,” Soldatov said.In the past Moscow has denied conducting cyber-attacks. But this is not the first wide-reaching cyber-espionage operation it has been suspected of in recent months. In August researchers at the Russian software security firm Kaspersky Lab discovered a hacker operation they called Epic Turla that had penetrated an intelligence agency located in the European Union as well as hundreds of other government and military targets in Europe and the Middle East this year.Although Kaspersky Lab stopped short of blaming Moscow, it said the hackers were probablysponsored by a governmentand employed techniques and tools similar to other cyber-espionage operations that western intelligence services have linked to the Russian government.
An internet router that aims to anonymise online activity had raised over $300,000 Tuesday, after less than 48 hours onthe Kickstarter fundraising site.Anonabox, a 2.4in by 1.6in router, directs internet data that connects to it by ethernet or Wi-Fi through the Tor network, software designed to allow anonymous web browsing.Toracts as a cloaking device, hiding information including the computer’s the current logged-in user name and the last-visited URL, IP address and other information disclosed through regular browsing. The service can be used to help people chat and email anonymously as well as skirt censorship.Anonabox had hoped to raise $7,500 in 30 days but raised that amount in the first six hours of thefund raiser, said its developer August Germar.“When we first started building it, I had no idea that anyone would be interested in it,” he said. “Initially we thought there would be enthusiasm from developers, journalists and librarians. But it turns out there are a lot more regular users. I think it’s not so much about privacy as about freedom of speech and freedom of information. This allows people to access information when people might try to censor them.”Anonabox is open source – meaning outside developers will be able to develop the system. Germar, a California-based IT contractor, said the extra money would mean he could make more devices and speed up production and get it to more developers.Germar aims to sell the device for $45 (£28).There have been other attempts to popularise Tor routers but they have been more expensive and less portable. Germar said the device would not be useful for people looking to download movies or stream music anonymously, as the re-routing is likely to slow transmission of large files. “This is not a toy,” he said.
Interest in Ello, the ad-free social network posited as a rival to Facebook, seems to be collapsing, according to data from Google Trends.Agraph of searches in the past 30 days on “Ello”shows that afteran early peak on 26 September, followed by a higher one on 30 September, the number of searches has now declined to a level almost as low as on 23 September, when the network was just starting to grow.Search volume for Ello through Google in the 30 days up to 14 October 2014.Photograph: GuardianEllo describes itself as “simple, beautiful and ad-free”, and aimed to attract a more disparate group of people than Facebook - from which a number of its early users fled after the giant social network began to impose a “real names” requirement on users, which was particularly upsetting to some drag artists.Ello opened to the public on 7 August with 90 users on an invite-only basis. By early October it couldclaimmore than 1 million users and to be receiving up to 100,000 invite requests per day.The site says that it will not use advertising, unlike Facebook - though that has raised the question of how it would generate enough revenues to support the cost of running the service. One suggestion made by co-founder Paul Budnitz is that users could “buy” extra features, rather like purchasing an app for a device.Interest in Ello, measured in terms of web searches, seems to have peaked at about one-tenth that of Twitter - a relatively high measure, but miniscule compared to Facebook, which garners 95% of searches relating to the three companies over the period, while Twitter gets between 4% and the remaining 5%.Comparative search volume for Ello (blue) and Twitter (red) through Google in the 30 days up to 14 October 2014.Photograph: GuardianComparative search volume through Google for Ello, Twitter and Facebook over the 30 days up to 14 October 2014.Photograph: GuardianSearches for a network’s name aren’t necessarily synonymous with its usage, but trends in searches can offer an insight into the general direction of interest in a topic or site.Ello is meant to be pretty, but not this popular
The ambition to create “real”, believable characters has been a cornerstone of literature since the 19th century. The Russian philosopher Mikhail Bakhtin praised Fyodor Dostoyevsky for his ability to give each of his protagonists their own sets of beliefs, “as if the character were not an object of authorial discourse, but rather a fully valid, autonomous carrier of his own individual word”.Fast forward a hundred years and writers such as Joseph Conrad and Virginia Woolf were even more enthralled with the idea of character autonomy.During the 1950s, the British novelist Henry Green grew increasingly frustrated with the tyranny he had over his characters, eventually writing novels composed almost entirely of dialogue. “Because if you want to create life,” said Green in a lecture for the BBC, “the one way not to go about it is by explanation.”The digital landscape of the 21st century has created opportunities for Green’s ideas to be explored from a different perspective.From virtual assistants such as Siri to conversational artificial intelligence (AI) such as Cleverbot, to games that learn from thousands of online players, the idea of characters who speak, think and feel has slid into reality.Clever conversationsLaunched in 1997, Cleverbot is a web application that imitates conversation; it is able to “learn” what to say through algorithms that call on a large database of stored responses from millions of previous exchanges.“Things you say to it today may be used in its conversations with others in future. It can then learn how to respond to those things from the next person,” explains the software’s creator, Rollo Carpenter.He explains that there is currently data for 195m conversational lines for Cleverbot to call on. “To reply using all that data is not a small computational task, especially if considering every possible way to reply contextually,” he says.“The context it knows is the past of your current conversation versus the past and ‘future’ of all of the conversations that have come before. That’s where any perceived ‘intelligence’ it might display comes from.”While the “perceived” intelligence of Cleverbot has spawnedfilmsandstage-plays, perhaps better for the spontaneous quality of their script than the psychological depth of their characters, recent developments are bringing newer breeds of AI into the fray.The recently released racing game Forza Horizon 2 is one example of how videogames are signalling the ability of AI to learn in increasingly sophisticated ways. Developed by researchers at Microsoft, the game uses Drivatar technology – a system first introduced in last year’s Forza 5 – to simulate genuine human behaviours.Other games let players race against exact recordings of previous runs, but Drivatar allows the game to repeatedly observe the driving style of each player; how they handle corners, how they overtake, and then it creates a “ghost” version for online friends to race against. Even more than this, once the AI has been “trained” it can take over and complete certain game events in place of the player, approaching races in the same way the player would.Speaking to the principle researcher of the technology, Thore Graepel, it becomes clear that the possibilities of the technology extend beyond racing. “Car racing was a good application because it is more of a low-level AI problem, which does not require symbolic reasoning or language capabilities,” he says.“In the future, I anticipate that we will see machine learning methods applied to more complex game scenarios such as in first-person shooters or role-playing and adventure games.”Avatars with memoriesReplacing racing tracks with conversations and stories might not be an arbitrary step, but the proliferation of online gaming and cloud computing are offering immense new sources of data for machines to learn behaviours.Graepel explains that Drivatars learn from supervision, in that the AI observes the behaviour of the player and attempts to imitate it. Another type of learning is through reinforcement, where a computer can explore a game and either be rewarded or punished, through algorithms, for its actions.Both this “carrot and stick” method and the imitation method are important for the future of AI, says Graepel, and the scale of learning offered by online gaming has the potential to teach AI characters increasingly sophisticated behaviours.“One can imagine equipping in-game characters with an entire cognitive architecture including short- and long-term memory, drives and desires, attention, cognition, and even emotions,” says Graepel.“They would then roam the game world, interact with other in-game characters, both of their own kind and human controlled, and slowly learn how to behave in more complex ways in accordance with their drives and desires.”For authors who’ve fantasised about their characters leading a life of their own, could the situation of AI avatars roaming a fictional world, interacting based on their own individual drives, offer greater freedom of expression? Or is it likely to result in hundreds of dead-eyed puppets walking repeatedly into the sides of houses? Don’t stories require direction?“I don’t see AI replacing human authors in the creation of existing forms of literature — novels, short stories, poetry and the like,” says artificial intelligence expert Malcolm Ryan from Macquarie University. “Rather I envision new literary forms that will be enabled by narrative AI.”One of Ryan’s students, Margaret Sarlej, recently caught public attention with her project,The Moral Storytelling System, which generates moral tales structured around characters who are able to experience up to 22 emotions. The project is a good example of the complexities required for an AI to author even simple formulaic stories, let alone psychologically intricate novels.Other developers who have experimented with creating AI-structured fiction include Emily Short and Richard Evans, who built the interactive fiction engine Versu.Digital stories built using Versu, such asBlood &amp; Laurels, put the AI characters in a position where they have to “improvise” around the choices made by the reader. In Blood and Laurels; a pulpy story of Roman intrigue, possible actions involve everything from sipping wine to trying to kiss other characters.“The point is not that a single playthrough of a Versu game would match the experience of reading a human-authored story,” notes Ryan. “Rather, it is that fact that Versu can be played multiple times and generate a variety of stories out of the same raw materials, which makes it a fundamentally different kind of work.”The computer that wrote gamesIf, as Ryan suggests, these ventures introduce a different form of storytelling, one project which pushes the idea of authorship further still is Michael Cook’s Angelina. A researcher at Goldsmiths College, Cook has over the last few years been developing an AI which can independently design its own videogames. A fuller look at how Angelina works can be foundherebut to give a basic idea, a word is given to Angelina, such as “fishing” or “alone”.The AI program will then search databases and twitter to find associations for the word. These associations in turn go towards finding multimedia assets which will make the scenery of the game. More associations are found to obtain feelings people express in relation to the words, which in turn leads Angelina to choose the soundtrack.“We’re getting better and better at building hand-made custom AI systems for characters, as we saw with Versu,” says Cook. “But what I’m seeing more of lately is us getting better at building systems which can go and find out about the world to fill in gaps in their knowledge.”Angelina has gone through multiple iterations, moving from simple 2D games to 3D environments. Its autonomy is still in its infancy, but it shows a potential direction for technology to take and raises again the ghost which haunted a great deal of literary discourse in the twentieth century, that of authorship. It may not represent the death of the author or the rise of the machines, but the way Angelina crowd-sources assets, comparable to the way Chatbot or Drivatar learn from the ‘cloud’, raises the idea of whether Cook, Angelina, or us are responsible for what it creates.For all this technological progress, in the end we may be no closer to truly “real” characters. Examining and indexing the methods AI use to learn and interact is fascinating, but something that 20th century authors like Green understood is that autonomy does not necessarily come from understanding characters; that life is perhaps best expressed through inaccessibility.Throughout his novels, Green’s characters constantly misunderstand each other. We might hear their voices but there’s the impression we don’t know the people speaking.In heressayon the subject, Dr Julia Jordan at UCL points to this impenetrability as a way for writers to make their characters resistant to the author’s control: “The ultimate authorial not-knowing is a refusal to presume one knows one’s own characters, so that they can, in flight, become entirely invisible”.For Cook, opacity plays a different role: “It is a very important topic with Angelina and has been for the past few years,” notes Cook. “The more people learn about Angelina, the less creative it appears to them. In the real world, we can’t know what someone else is thinking, which might lead us to think they’re being clever when they’re not.”Whether inaccessibility to a character’s thoughts is used to grant them an inner world or to mask an empty hole, the inability to fully, truly understand a video game character may one day be the thing that makes them the most real. They may become like the people we meet every day.Artificial intelligence will not turn into a Frankenstein’s monsterDon’t believe the science hype – we haven’t created true AI yet
Researchers at the University of New South Wales have pushed quantum computers a step closer to reality, which one former NSA technical director says calls for a rethink in how the whole security of the internet is managed.The Australian researchersclaimto have developed two new types of quantum bits, or “qubits”, that can perform operations with accuracy above 99%.Where traditional computers perform their calculations in binary – using 1s and 0s – quantum computers exploit the odd characteristics of the quantum state of particles at the atomic scale.At their heart, they put the qubits into a state of “superposition” where, like Schrödinger’s famous cat, their value isn’t definitely 1 nor 0, but both at the same time. To “solve” a calculation, the quantum state is ended, so that the qubits take a classic 1 or 0 value. Setting the quantum states and superposition up correctly should mean a quantum computer will reach the same answer as a normal one.The difference is that once the problem has been set up, a quantum computer can reach its final answer almost instantaneously because the qubits will “collapse” to the correct answer, rather than having to work through a sequence of calculations like a normal digital computer.In theory that lets them perform certain types of calculations much faster than a typical computer. So far though they’re hindered by more practical concerns like such as the accuracy issue, which has been tackled by the University of New South Wales team.“For quantum computing to become a reality we need to operate the bits with very low error rates,” said Scientia Professor Andrew Dzurak. Error correction can only do so much, and without accurate hardware, getting millions of calculations slightly off soon adds up.“Even though methods to correct errors do exist, their effectiveness is only guaranteed if the errors occur less than 1% of the time,” Dzurak continued. “Our experiments are among the first in solid-state, and the first-ever in silicon, to fulfill this requirement.”The steady progress of quantum computing is a scientific marvel, and some of the problems the technology can be used to tackle, such aspuzzling out how proteins fold, will bring positive outcomes. But there are other aspects of it which could be damaging if the world is not prepared.Quantum computers should in theory be capable of breaking public key encryption, which protects almost all private communication online. Public key systems use two “keys” – one public, and one private – which are derived from pairs of prime numbers. The strength of the encryption relies on the fact that it is far harder to work out the prime factors of such a number (like 323) than it is to generate the number by multiplying the primes together (17x19).Public-key systems use prime numbers so large that calculating the private key from the public key would take longer than the expected lifespan of the solar system.But quantum computers can effectively do the same calculations billions of times faster because they would effectively jump directly to the correct answer. “Quantum computers can be very very effective against public key,” says former NSA technical director Brian Snow. Using such a system, “you don’t have to pay much cost for recovering public key crypto keys. They just fall all to pieces.”What’s worse, it’s not possible to simply make the keys more complex to beat the quantum hackers. “Making the key size bigger does not buy you the exponential build up” that it does against traditional code breakers, Snow says. “For normal cryptography, each bit you add makes the problem twice as hard for the decryptor. Quantum computers going against public keys don’t pay that price.”With developments like UNSW’s and therecent detectionfor the first time of Majorana fermions, a type of sub-atomic particlewhich could be used to build a quantum computer, Snow warns that “within ten to twenty years from now, you could have a quantum computer at scale, large enough and healthy enough, to attack the trust mechanisms of the web.”“If such a machine exists and if it is going after people on the net, trying to get to their goodies, you have lost all the trust mechanisms the web has.”One possible solution is going back to an older form of cryptography, using an older form of code-based public key cryptography, mediated by a trusted intermediary. Snow is an adviser at one such firm,PQ Solutions.The advantage quantum computers have is greatly lessened when breaking traditional encryption. They can still break encryption millions of times faster than traditional computers, but increasing the key size has an effect.The problem is that trying to enforce any change online makes herding cats look trivial. And trying to agree on who, exactly, should hold the keys to the internet would be borderline impossible. “The web does not exist as one monolithic society with one boss that says ‘March’ and everyone does,” says Snow. But soon enough, the pressure will be on.Cambridge team makes quantum cryptography practical at lastThis article was amended on 16th October. PQ Solutions uses code-based public key cryptography, not symmetric keys, as we previously had it.
Pictures and videos distributed online from around 200,000 Snapchat accounts almost certainly came from the Snapsaved.com third-party website, says a British security researcher who has studied their metadata.But his investigation into the leak, nicknamed “The Snappening”, has raised questions about how much the owners of the site knew about the collection of data and whether they were complicit in the files’ release.The analysis has been provided exclusively to the Guardian.The photos and videos cover more than a year of the website’s use, from 3 October 2013 to 9 October 2014, and consist of over 13GB of content -far more than the 500MB that Snapsaved claimed had been accessed, in a statement on Facebook on Sunday.The security researcher, who calls himself “Riot” and has previously analysed effects of theShellshock bug, also says that the Snapsave mobile app, which some had blamed for the leak, was not involved.A file of 13GB of photos and videos belonging to users of the service, of whom about half are teenagers, was put online on Sunday. There had been rumours late last week that a huge number of Snapchat photos and videos would be put online, though Snapchat has insisted that its own servers were not hacked.Instead, a separate third-party website called snapsaved.com, which lets users log into their Snapchat account to store their Snapchat content there, appears to have been the source of all the pictures.“The majority of text in the randomly sampled images and videos we checked was in Danish, a much higher percentage than would be expected for [the app] SnapSave considering its presence on the google play market, and making a strong connection with the Danish hosted site snapsaved.com,” Riot told the Guardian “Going to the trouble of faking these would also add to the difficulty factor.”Patterns in upload traffic to Snapsaved, and the timestamps on the files in the download analysed by Riot - who says he was the first to figure out the filename obfuscation used by Snapchat to encode file creation dates - also matches closely.Distribution by time, number and type of files uploaded to Snapsaved.com, according to analysis by British security researcher Riot. The site was launched in October 2013 and saw a peak in activity soon after.Photograph: ImgurSnapchat’s attraction for its mainly teen audience is that its content is meant to be ephemeral: photos and videos are set to expire a few seconds after viewing, on a timetable set by the creator. But third-party apps have exploited flaws in its security model to make that content storable. That stored content has then been copied - and is now being distributed online.Underground hacksThe distribution of the photos has brought renewed focus on an underground group of men responsible for stealing and then publishing personal pictures of women.Their activities first came to widespread notice at the end of August when personal - and sometimes nude - photos of over 100 female celebrities, many of which seemed to have been hacked via backups on Apple’s iCloud service, were offered for sale on the 4chan forum, and then shared on Reddit.That led to the revelation that there were teams who worked on hacking iCloud and other systems where stores pictures of women could either be sold or shared to humiliate them.Of the latest breach, the researcher says that the entire database contains 88,521 still images and 9,173 videos, comprising 6.8GB and 6.1GB respectively. He also says that the dump appears to be “complete” – that is, it does not omit any pictures – because there are no obvious gaps in the timestamps for the data. By correlating the timestamps on the dumped database with upload data about Snapsaved, he says it is almost certain the content came from it.But that has raised further questions about Snapsaved.com, and the people behind it. In a statement on their Facebook page on Sunday, an unsigned statement said that they had discovered a fault with the configuration of their web server, but that “as far as we can tell, the breach has effected [sic] 500MB of images, and 0 personal information from the database.”Questionable roleHowever, Riot questions the role of the owners of snapsaved.com in the hack. He told the Guardian: “It doesn’t seem coincidental that the dataset spans almost exactly a year of collected images (and my analysis seems to be the first to detect this fact). It also doesn’t seem coincidental that the site allegedly disappeared the same day the last image in the set is dated, several days before the leak itself appeared in public.”Neither Google nor the Internet Archive has stored any content, including the main web page layout, of Snapsaved.com - apparently due to the site’s own instructions through its “robots.txt” file, which instructs search and archiving engines on how much or little of a site they can store.An anonymous posting on Pastebin, a site commonly used by hackers to make public declarations,had saidthat the content released from Snapsaved “was provided to us by the administrator of the site”. The unnamed Snapsaved.com owners denied this.None of those involved with Snapsaved.com has provided a name, and the site’s ownership has expired.•Third-party Snapchat app claims photos were hacked from server
Nintendo; Wii U; £40; Pegi rating: 16+Bayonetta 2 begins with shopping. The game’s eponymous witch is buying a few last-minute Christmas gifts, when a fight kicks off with a bunch of angels and Bayonetta’s friend Jeanne is accidentally cast into hell. So typical.Soon afterwards, Bayonetta is atop a jet fighter, then doing the splits upside-down while knocking seven shades out of the heavenly host, then jumping on to an express train while being chased by a brutish angel. After smashing that to pieces, Bayonetta then smacks up a gigantic rogue demon while flying around a skyscraper. Such a torrent of extravagant set-pieces would be a great climax for any action game. In Bayonetta 2 this is just the prologue.Japan’s Platinum Games has a well-deserved reputation as the best developer of 3D action games on the planet, and the original Bayonetta set a new standard for the third-person brawler. Five years later, Bayonetta 2 does it again, though this is an example of refinement rather than revolution. Its beating heart is the witch herself, a saucy beanpole who combines speed, grace and endless contortions with the sheer truck-stopping power of Superman. She can fling herself over a flailing sword one moment, and slide beneath a clumsy hook the second, before slamming down her giant boot with the force and precision of a sub-orbital rod.The nature of third-person beat-em-ups is often misunderstood. Bayonetta 2 is a linear game with 15 chapters (plus post-completion extras) that will take probably 15 hours to finish once. But completion is where games like Bayonetta 2 really get started. This genre is all about mastering a combat system and gradually cranking up the difficulty as you do so, learning the ins and outs of an incredibly complex move-set and the different styles inherent in its various weapons (I’ve unlocked eight, and there are more). Bayonetta 2 is not “about” finishing the story or being blown away by the set-pieces, visually astounding as the latter often are – it’s about becoming better at playing to the extent that combat becomes almost a performance.Fighting the systemThe foundations of Bayonetta’s fighting system are simple: two attack buttons, a gun button, a dodge and a jump. From these unfold layer after layer after layer of subtlety, with fractional timings, held buttons and quick wiggles of the control stick utterly changing the course of a particular combo. Going too far into the specifics risks making this seem more intimidating than it is, because the beauty of Bayonetta 2’s combat is how it flows from basic one-twos into longer and longer strings of moves without your ever having to think about it too much. It is a system that’s enormous fun to play with and, by virtue of this, is always teaching more as you play.One part of it needs special mention: witch time. Activated by dodging at the last possible moment before an attack connects, this causes time to slow to a crawl as a stylised filter appears over the action. This is your opportunity to land the big shots, find respite amid a hail of incoming attacks, and line up the next flurry of blows before heaven or hell can think twice.What’s beautiful about witch time is that (like most moves in Bayonetta 2) it fulfils multiple roles. It is a part of the rhythm for each drawn-out engagement, offering both miniscule breathers in the eye of the storm, and the opportunity to pick and choose where you’re going to fly back in. In a game built around wonderful systems, this one glues everything together.In terms of what Bayonetta is fighting, the enemy design is ever-so-slightly less impressive than in the original, but only because the universe was already so comprehensive and fully-formed. Certain changes seem unnecessary – for example, the heavenly enemies in Bayonetta had symmetrical designs, which fits the idea of “order”, but the first big one here has a giant serpentine arm on its right side. The newly introduced denizens of inferno are a much happier fit for experimentation, with their forms wavering between corruption, industrial-robotic, and prominent digital stylings. The return of a few old favourites makes this a lineup with both spectacular grotesques and a wide variety of other types that are great fun to fight against solo and in groups.There are some pretty big enemiesPhotograph: Nintendo PRIt does feel like there are fewer “normal” fights throughout Bayonetta 2’s campaign, with the breaks between set-pieces short. This is not a problem, though, because the set-pieces are great and just about live up to the original’s over-the-top craziness without repeating the same tricks. Also, there is a series of magnificent arena battles post-completion that stretch your abilities to the fullest. Added to this is a co-operative online mode which allows you to play any of 52 battles with a partner and compete for the highest score, something of a dream for aficionados of this kind of action.These details matter. Bayonetta 2’s campaign gets within touching distance of the original’s sheer imagination, but its structure is far superior – Bayonetta’s biggest problem was that it didn’t offer experienced players a way to simply enjoy the combat system outside of story mode. This means it’s extraordinarily difficult to choose between the two titles but, as luck would have it, the definitive version of Bayonetta is included in the sequel’s special edition. That particular purchase is probably the greatest action game package in history.The reason of the witchIt would be remiss to skate over Bayonetta herself, a character that has received significant criticism for allegedly pandering to a male audience. The criticism centres on the fact that Bayonetta has unrealistic proportions, and sometimes the camera lingers for a few seconds on her groin or exposed flesh – usually while she’s booting some giant monster’s face off; Bayonetta’s voice actor is also pretty smouldering.This is obviously a topic with no right or wrong take. For my part, Bayonetta is certainly sexualised, but she’s also smarter, wittier and tougher than every man in the game by a distance. Describing the character as simply sexist removes it from any context of her in-game actions: rather than spoiling the plot of Bayonetta 2, let’s consider what she does in the first game. Among other things, Bayonetta kills every angel in heaven, demolishes the archangels in increasingly elaborate battles, lays the smackdown on the (male) Lumen sages, and rides a motorbike up the side of a launching space rocket. At the end she punches God into the sun. I’m not saying this completely excuses the titillation, but I missed the bit where she does his laundry.Bayonetta 2 is another Wii U classic, another brilliant production from Platinum Games, and an exceptional debut for its first-time director Yusuke Hashimoto. It is not just that the core fighting system is so great, but that the game’s construction lets players pick and choose the parts they most enjoy, and delight in discovering new secrets as they do so.The sheer polish applied to every part of Bayonetta 2 is something every major studio should aspire to: the exceptional and wide-ranging soundtrack, the huge number of unlocks, the Nintendo easter eggs, the “making of” materials, and the unlockable characters that bring their own style. Not a single thing has been held back. In this second adventure, Bayonetta over-delivers in every regard, and it will be a long time before another fighting game threatens her crown.
Oops, I PROMISED I'd do better this week.
Languages created for TV shows can have a powerful fascination for fans: just look at Star Trek’s Klingon language for proof of that. Game of Thrones’ Dothraki language also fits into the trend.Now publisher Random House wants to help fans of the HBO drama to learn the language spoken by its fierce horse-mounted warriors, with a mobile app calledDothraki Companion.Released for iPhone and iPad, the app is the work of David J. Peterson, who was responsible for creating the language for Game of Thrones.It promises games, more than 300 vocabulary flashcards, a grammar summary, culture notes and a “conversational dialogue” to complement the publisher’s Living Language Dothraki book and audio course, whichgoes on sale in the UKlater this month.“The Dothraki Companion app will arm you with enough vocabulary and grammar to have a complete conversation in Dothraki,” promises its App Store listing, throwing in one of the more famous Dothraki phrases – “Me nem nesa” (it is known) – for good measure.The Game of Thrones Dothraki Companion app.The project is not the first app based on Game of Thrones, and the A Song of Ice and Fire series of books that it is based on. Publisher HarperCollins has already releasedA Game of Thrones: The Official Companion, while Random House hasGeorge R. R. Martin’s A World of Ice and Fire – A Game of Thrones Guide.Meanwhile, Game of Thrones has also spawned a social and mobile game,Game of Thrones Ascent, released by games firm Kongregate, while its Hodor character hasinspired a keyboard replacement appfor Android, which fulfils the pressing need for fans – those who aren’t typing in Dothraki, anyway – to replace all their words with “Hodor”.•Why gaming needs its Game of Thrones moment
The new Tesco Hudl 2 is a low-cost family-orientated tablet that gets the basics right with a decent screen, fast processor and parent-empowering software.The first Hudl was a bit of a surprise. Tesco (yes, the supermarket) designed and built aperfectly good Android tabletthat was great value for money, undercutting almost every other decent tablet available.Durable designThe soft-touch plastic back is grippy and feels durable.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Hudl 2 has maintains its predecessor’s durable design. The device is covered in a soft-touch plastic, has a solid build and little in the way of complications to go wrong.It is thinner but heavier than the original. The larger 8.3in 1080p HD screen is a big improvement with better colour saturation, wider viewing angles and is sharper, making photos, text and videos all look better.Compare the Hudl to rival tablets on the market for £100, and you’ll find many of them have lower resolution and poorer screens.Two stereo speakers are mounted in the back, which are quite loud and better than your average tablet speakers. They are discreet, and not easily blocked by hands when holding the tablet in landscape view to watch video.A microHDMI port allows the Hudl 2 to be hooked up to a TV. The cable must be purchased separately.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:8.3in 1080p HD LCDProcessor:1.83 GHz quad-core Intel Atom processorRAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 32GB cardsOperating system:Android 4.4 “KitKat”Camera:five-megapixel rear camera, 1.2-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0, GPS, micro HDMIDimensions:128 x 224 x 9mmWeight:410gPowerful enoughThe Hudl 2 will handle most games with only small amounts of stutter or lag.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Hudl 2 has an Intel Atom processor that can handle everything that anyone is likely to want to do with the tablet, including graphically intensive 3D gaming with only small hints of stutter or lag. Scrolling between homescreens there is a small amount of lag when accessing the Tesco services, but the rest of the time the experience is much like higher-priced tablets such as the £200 Google Nexus 7.The Hudl 2’s standby battery life was solid, lasting several days when simply sleeping. For web browsing and checking email it will last around a day of on and off use. It will last around four hours of playing games or around five hours of streaming video, which is about the same as the original Hudl and similar to competitors like the Nexus 7.The Hudl 2 has 16GB of built-in storage space with a microSD card slot for adding up to 32GB of extra storage for photos, movies and music. MicroSD cards are available with up to 128GB of storage; it is annoying that Tesco capped supported sizes to 32GB.Direct injection of TescoTesco apps and services take up the left-most homescreen pane.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTesco only makes very small additions to the standard Android experience, which is a good thing. A small white “T” sits in the top left corner, which takes users to the left-most homescreen pane containing Tesco apps when tapped.Direct access to Tesco’s groceries, bank, Clubcard account and Tesco Direct services are available through pre-installed apps, along with Tesco’s on-demand music and video Blinkbox service.The left-most homescreen pane can’t be removed, but the apps and services do not intrude into general use if not required.Parental controlsTesco’s getting started app offers helpful advice for first-time tablet users.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTesco’s other modifications to Android include a useful “Get started” guide, which helps first-time tablet users set up and use their new device – something sorely lacking from most tablets and smartphones.Another guide aids parents in setting up extensive parental controls to help block unsuitable content and services from their children. Individual kids accounts can be configured to block access to various sites and themes, limit screen time to certain times of the day or between set time periods, as well as block access to any app installed on the tablet.The web filters include 20 different categories such as religion, news, shopping, illegal content and 18+. Each category can be enabled or disabled, while individual websites can be whitelisted individually for fine-grain control.Child profiles allow parents to limit access, block apps and filter web browsing.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianCameras to forgetCameras on tablets are often low quality, and the Hudl 2 is no exception. The rear five-megapixel camera consistently over or under exposes photos leading to blown out or too dark shots, which also lack detail. Low light performance is equally poor.The front-facing camera is passable, and will do fine for video chats in the home. Neither camera will replace the one in a decent smartphone.PriceThe Hudl 2 costs £129, but can be bought for £65 of Tesco Clubcard vouchers.VerdictThe Hudl 2 is a great value tablet for the money - especially if you can use the Tesco Clubcard discount.It won’t replace an iPad, but it is one of the best budget tablets available for under £200. The parental controls are some of the most comprehensive and easy to use on any device, let alone a tablet, and the Hudl 2 should survive the odd knock or drop making it a great choice for children and families.Pros:low cost, great screen, good speakers, standard Android, excellent parental controls, microHDMICons:heavy, average cameras, average battery life, budget feel, only 32GB expansionOther reviews•Tesco Hudl tablet review: a surprise budget success•Argos MyTablet review: cheap, nasty and frustrating to use•Aldi Medion Lifetab review: cheap, slow - but kid-friendly
A helping of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVenezuelans turn to bitcoins to bypass socialist currency controls &gt;&gt; ReutersTech-savvy Venezuelans looking to bypass dysfunctional economic controls are turning to the bitcoin virtual currency to obtain dollars, make Internet purchases -- and launch a little subversion.Two New York-based Venezuelan brothers hope this week to start trading on the first bitcoin exchange in the socialist-run country, which already has at least several hundred bitcoin enthusiasts.Due to currency controls introduced by late president Hugo Chavez a decade ago, acquiring hard currency now means either requesting it from the state, which struggles to satisfy demand, or tapping a shadowy black market. Even small dollar transactions are out of the question for most Venezuelans.While President Nicolas Maduro makes frequent tirades against black market traders, whom he sees as part of the "economic war" on his government and the reason for inflation and shortages, he has never said anything about bitcoin. The government declined to comment on bitcoin policy.Just as in Cyprus, bitcoin is now used to route around currency controls.Here's the single biggest thing holding Google Fiber back &gt;&gt; The Washington PostLaying down high-speed fiber is expensive. Digging trenches in the ground and stringing cables along utility poles is expensive. Getting permission to do all that is expensive. But it turns out that all of that is a fraction of the cost of offering TV programming, according to the head of Google Fiber, Milo Medin. And it's a cost Google can't avoid paying.Video "is the single biggest impediment" to Google Fiber's deployment, Medin told an audience at the COMPTEL telecom conference in Dallas on Monday. "It is the single biggest piece of our cost structure."Why is Google so down on TV? Because as important as Internet access is, Americans still love their triple-play bundle. You can't sell Internet these days without also offering a TV package.Bankruptcy turns spotlight on Apple's deals with suppliers &gt;&gt; FT.comAs recently as August, GT said in an earnings call that it was confident it would meet the operational targets set by Apple and receive its final prepayment of $139m, which had been due by the end of this month.However, when the iPhone 6 was revealed last month without any mention of a sapphire screen, GT's stock tumbled.Apple insists on a much higher quality of manufacturing and materials than other consumer electronics companies.Just last week, Sir Jonathan Ive, Apple's design chief, described his extreme attention to detail in developing its gadgets and its efforts to differentiate on quality."I believe we sense when there has been care taken with a product," Sir Jonathan told attendees at a Vanity Fair event in San Francisco, "just as in the same way that we sense carelessness. Sadly most of our manufactured environment testifies to a degree of carelessness."Microsoft: over 1 million users are helping test Windows 10 &gt;&gt; NeowinMicrosoft opened up a new 'Insiders' program with the release of Windows 10 technical preview and the company has said today that over 1 million users have signed up for the program. That's quite a few folks who want to try out the latest offering from Microsoft and will help shape the upcoming OS.Seeing that likely everyone who signed up for the program also downloaded the bits, it's likely safe to say that there are over 1 million users playing with Windows 10. Yes, we know that you can access the direct links and bypass the program and there are also those toying with the Enterprise SKU too, but it is safe to say that there are at least 1 million installs of Windows 10 around the world.The New Gründergeist &gt;&gt; Google Europe Blog:Eric Schmidt, speaking in Berlin (at a time when antitrust examination of Google's power in Europe is intensifying):search is not a network that relies on connecting to other people. You don't use Google because your friends do. Put another way: Google isn't useful because it's popular; we're popular because we're useful. Of course, the more people use our search engine, the more useful we are to advertisers -- but just as users have choice when it comes to information discovery, advertisers have options when it comes to online marketing. You can use Google AND the competition. These relationships are not mutually exclusive.We hear similar network-effect arguments being made about data. Our experience is that you don't need data to compete online. When Google started, Yahoo was the biggest player in search by a long way. We used just a little bit of data to figure out how to answer queries in a far better way. Or look at social. We had the most popular social network in Brazil. It was called Orkut, and it had many millions of very active users. But in just a few years, Orkut was overtaken by Facebook, just as Facebook overtook MySpace. It's the recipe that matters the most, not the ingredients.The reality is that Google works very differently from other companies that have been called gatekeepers, and regulated as such. We aren't a ferry. We aren't a railroad. We aren't a telecommunications network or an electricity grid, with only one line going to your home, and no competitors allowed. No one is stuck using Google.Smartphones set the pace as MEA [Middle East and Africa] handset sales top 64m units in Q2 2014 &gt;&gt; IDCAnalyzing the vendor rankings by device type yields an interesting picture. In the smartphone class, Samsung remains the comfortable leader with 45% of the MEA market, but its share is down 8 points from a year ago. At the same time, Huawei's share has jumped from 2% to 10%, putting the vendor in second place, ahead of Apple (8%) and Nokia (6%).BlackBerry continues to suffer, enduring the biggest drop in smartphone market share of all vendors, from over 12% in 2013 to just under 2% this year. In the feature phone segment, Nokia is still top with 35% share, although this is down from 47% in Q2 2013. Techno, Samsung, and Qmobile (a brand from Pakistan) follow in that order, with shares of 11.5%, 10.7%, and 7.3% respectively, all of which also refect year-on-year share declines.Smartphone share of sales jumped from 27% a year before to 40% in that quarter; in some of the more developed countries they're 75-80% of all handsets sold. UAE, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Kuwait are leading the smartphone migration trend, with smartphone share in each country surpassing 75%. (That's almost as high as the UK.)Microsoft's smartwatch keyboard looks shockingly usable - The Tech ReportPhone makers are dying to sell us smartwatches, but the human-interface part of the equation remains a work in progress. Happily, Microsoft's latest research effort shows text input could be relatively painless even on tiny, wrist-mounted displays. Behold theAnalog Keyboard Project, which Microsoft is testing out on Android Wear devices.Forget all that nonsense about voice and dictation - scribbling a letter at a time on a tiny touchscreen is the future now.iPhone 6 blowout: Chinese pre-orders put at 20m plus &gt;&gt; FortunePhilip Elmer-DeWitt:A reporter who has been tracking iPhone 6 and 6 Plus reservations in China for the past week estimated onTencent QQMonday that more than 20m units were pre-ordered last weekend. His report is being picked up by DigiTimes and other Asian tech sites.If the 20m figure is accurate — a big if — it would mean that five times as many iPhone 6s were pre-ordered in three days in one country as were the first weekend in 10 countries, including the US, UK and Hong Kong.The Big If. According to the online reservation counter being used to generate the estimate, the iPhone 6 Plus is marginally ahead in the orders.AT&amp;T Pays $105m to settle phony charges on phone bills &gt;&gt; BusinessweekAT&amp;T has agreed to a $105m settlement with federal agencies and state attorneys general for allowing companies to add fraudulent charges to its customers phone bills—and taking at least a 35% cut of what they made.This process, known as cramming, hasbeen aroundin various forms since the 1990s, and carriers have sworn numerous times to put an end to it. In total, customers have spent hundreds of millions of dollars on charges they never asked for, officials said in a press conference Wednesday. The Federal Communications Commission has taken 14 enforcement actions on cramming since 2010, covering $122m in activity. The AT&amp;T case is the largest such settlement in the agency's history, according to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler.FTC websitecites charging mobile customers "without their permission for third-party services like ringtones, wallpapers, and text message subscriptions for horoscopes, flirting tips, and celebrity gossip".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Kevin SpaceyCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare (Nov 2014)As if he needed to prove his versatility, the actor and creative director of the Old Vic takes a break from Netflix’s political hit drama,House of Cards, to become the menacing villain in the nextCall of Dutyrelease. It’s 2060, terrorism and war have brought world powers to their knees and Spacey’s character – private military contractor Jonathan Irons – cooks up a plan to take over the world.Phil CollinsGrand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories (2006)Yes, Samuel L Jackson lent his voice to a character inGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas, but Phil Collins can be found in his true form entertaining the crowds inside theMiami Vice-themed world of this game.Players have to protect Collins from assassins during a concert in which the singer, who also appeared in the originalMiami Vicein the 80s, playshis song In the Air Tonight.Jenny McCarthyCommand &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 3 (2008)Known variously for her film and TV roles, playboy photoshoots and her outspoken and controversial stance against vaccination, McCarthy has also shown up in the virtual world. Donning a gun holster inCommand and Conquer, she takes on a familiar character, playing German heroine Tanya Adams – a civilian-turned-special-agent who volunteers for the Allies during the second world war.Ozzy OsbourneBrütal Legend (2009)Osbourne leaves the stage and reality shows behind, throws on a cape and steps into the role of the Guardian of Metal in what has been deemed the most “metal” of all video games. “Metal noise, blood and fire, tell me what you most desire,” says a familiar-looking long-haired guardian to the lucky players who reach his holy underground temple to stock up on weaponry.Kristen BellAssassin’s Creed (2009)Although best known as private investigator Veronica Mars in the teen neo-noir film and TV show, American actress Kristen Bell is a self-confessed video game enthusiast herself and enjoys playing an old-fashioned Nintendo 64. This is perhaps why she agreed to lend her face, body and voice to theAssassin’s Creedcharacter Lucy Stillman, a genetic memory researcher.Michael JacksonMoonwalker and Ready to Rumble Boxing Round 2 (1989/2000)Sega’s entire 1990sMoonwalkerseries is loosely based on Jackson’s feature film of the same name. Fans can enter their hero’s body as they moonwalk their way through the game, fighting off evil villains to the tunes ofThriller. Jackson appeared again in the gameReady to Rumble Boxing Round 2.Ellen Page and Willem DafoeBeyond Two Souls (2013)Dafoe previously appeared as a Bond baddie inEverything or Nothingalongside Judi Dench, Pierce Brosnan and John Cleese. Here, Dafoe and Page (left) were wired up with state of the art performance capture technology to be sure every nuance of their acting was reproduced in this psychological thriller of a game.Fred DurstFight Club (2004)The spinoff game of the cult classic feature filmFight Clubhas American Nu-metal band Limp Bizkit’s frontman as an unlockable character which can be played once you’ve beaten the game’s story mode. The film, and the Chuck Palahniuk novel it was based on, may have seen great success, but critics were not quite as keen on this game adaptation.Jonathan RossFable 3 (2010)His son was a huge fan of the firstFablegame, so naturally, when asked if he would do a character in a follow-up, Ross jumped at it. An animated and somewhat evil-looking version of Ross appears as the character Barry Hatch, which he also voices.Fable’s fantasy world is famous for its star-studded voiceover selection which include celebrities such as Zoë Wanamaker, Stephen Fry and John Cleese.Snoop DoggTrue Crime: Streets of LA (2003)Gamers who are more comfortable on the sofa than with living life on the edge can savour the feeling of being a real gangsta for a day in this virtual crime drama. Rapper Snoop Dogg appears as himself in the game which is set on the sunny but crime-ridden streets of LA, and players can unlock and take on his character by collecting ‘Dogg Bones’ or following a sneaky code.Chuck NorrisChuck Norris, Superkicks (1983)Who could be better suited to the virtual kung-fu scene than a martial arts star and action hero such as Norris, who was one of the first celebrities to star in a video game. But of course, the lo-res technology of the early 80s might not live up to today’s expectations, so if you’re looking for a Chuck Norris nostalgia trip we recommend a night ofWalker, Texas Rangerviewing instead.
The rapid deployment by governments and businesses of voiceprint technology – used to identify people from their speech – has aroused the concern of privacy groups who see it as a possible next frontline in the battle against overweening public surveillance.Asurvey by the Associated Pressof voice biometrics, the spoken equivalent of fingerprints, has found that the technology is already widely used. The AP estimated that more than 65 million voiceprints have been stored in corporate and government databases around the world.The huge scale of take-up of the technology has surprised experts in digital surveillance. “This suggests there is a major new biometric tool that is being rolled out with very little public discussion,” said Jay Stanley, an expert on technology-related privacy issues at the American Civil Liberties Union.He added that use of voiceprints by companies to counter fraud had its benefits, but that it came with costs. “Obviously fraud protection is a good thing, but it raises implications that need to be looked into.”Among those implications is the potential that anonymity in speech could be threatened. Several phone services rely on guaranteeing privacy to callers – crime hotlines run by police, counselling services, and numbers that people who have suffered domestic violence or other abuse are encouraged to call in the knowledge that their identities will not be compromised, for instance.Stanley said that if public confidence in such services were compromised, “We could lose a major avenue of anonymous speech.”Lee Tien, senior staff attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said that voice biometrics could be used to pinpoint the location of individuals. There is already discussion about placing voice sensors in public spaces, and Tien said that multiple sensors could be triangulated to identify individuals and specify their location within very small areas.“Even where the technology wasn’t designed for eavesdropping or tracking people, it could still identify them and associate them with a location,” he said.The AP survey found that a number of big financial and other companies have already taken up voice biometrics with enthusiasm. An executive for Barclays said “the general feeling is that voice biometrics will be the de facto standard in the next two or three years”.Several governments, led by Turkey where the mobile phone company Turkcell has stored voiceprints of 10 million people, have also leapt on the bandwagon.For companies, the big attraction of voiceprints is to be able to follow consumers as they move from one store or part of a store to another, and between commercial channels. Professor Joseph Turow, a privacy and surveillance expert at the University of Pennsylvania, said that as a result individual citizens were increasingly losing control over their own identities.“Companies are using data drawn from our internet and purchasing behaviour – and now our voices – and connecting it to the identities that they’ve created for us. Then they can lead us in a variety of different directions, based on their stereotype of us,” he said.Amid this fast-developing data world, there is always the risk that the technology is not as precise as suggested, leading to mistakes. “Biometrics are never 100% accurate,” said Stanley. “Are people going to be blacklisted by government institutions because their voice is mistaken for that of a fraudster?”
Why did Disney agree to pay up to $950m for YouTube multi-channel network Maker Studios earlier this year? The MCN’s chief executive Ynon Kreiz thinks it had little choice.“They had to do something to remain relevant in that space – the shortform medium – and especially with millennials,” he said, during a keynote appearance at the MIPCOM conference in Cannes.Disney is an amazing company and Bob Iger is a visionary,” he said. “They saw an opportunity to extend their business into shortform, and for us, the opportunity was to extend our business into traditional media, and leverage the global resources of the Walt Disney company.”In a bullish on-stage interview, Kreiz cited comScore statistics to show that as a combined entity, Disney and Maker Studios now has the third largest online audience in the US, behind only Google and Facebook.“Millennials today have more choice than any generation before,” he said. “They control what they watch, when, where, how and why. Gone are the days when you can dictate to the consumer what they will watch next. And millennials watch abot 50% more online videos than the average internet user.”Kreiz also suggested that many traditional media companies still make the mistake of thinking shortform video on YouTube is “like longform except shorter”, claiming instead that it’s a new and different medium in the way videos are produced, consumed, monetised, marketed and shared.“We are inventing a new medium. We are doing what has not been done before,” said Kreiz, before talking up Maker’s scale.“Every day, 10,000 to 15,000 new people want to join our network, of which we pick about 100 a day. That’s still a big number, but it’s a fraction compared to the number of people who want to join,” he said.Maker Studios, like all its rivals, is trying to make more money from advertising on YouTube, in order to pay for the production costs of its shows and channels. Kreiz denied that the ad rates on YouTube are as far behind television as is sometimes suggested.“In some cases you’d be surprised: the CPM we get is higher than television,” he said. “But this is still an early, nascent industry that probably now monetises well ahead of where it should be, when you compare it to social, for example.”Kreiz praised YouTube as “the largest cable company in the world” and pointed to a recent announcement by marketing agency group OMD that it was advising its clients to move between 10% and 25% of their TV budgets to online video. “Change is coming: we are still at an early stage, but it is coming.”Maker Studios is looking beyond YouTube, including its own Maker.tv website, and even deals with traditional broadcasters. At MIPCOM, the company is selling what Kreiz described as “branded blocks, bringing the best of the Maker network into a structured format of longform shows that we’re offering to pay-TV and free-to-air broadcasters”.The company is also selling a “Maker Box Set” to online video services, aggregating thousands of the best videos from its network of shows and channels, with Disney’s television sales team handling negotiations.Kreiz also suggested that traditional television companies can still learn a lot from the world of YouTube content. “Everybody is running after the millennials, and the millennials are running after us,” he said. “Because we have something that they want, which is great content.”•YouTube multichannel networks stake claim to the future of TV
The owners of the Snapsaved site, from which a number of photos sent over the Snapchat service wereleaked at the weekend, say that they were hacked to reveal the pictures.The statement follows a claim by an unknown person who says that the photos which leaked out on Sunday were provided by the site’s administrator.They also say that the distribution of the photos would be potentially harmful both to those pictured and to the wider internet because of its effects on personal privacy.On Sunday, thousands of photos and videos from the Snapchat service were put online, apparently taken from sites including Snapsaved.com, which had allowed people to log in using their Snapchat username and password to offer desktop-based rather than handset-based access to the site - and also the chance to store photos, which are meant to be deleted within seconds of being viewed.Snapchat blamed third-party apps, without naming Snapsaved, for the breach.In a Facebook posting, anunnamed spokesman for the Snapsaved site saysthat “I would like to inform the public that snapsaved.com was hacked” due to a mistake in the setup of its web server. “As soon as we discovered the breach in our systems, we immediately deleted the entire website and the database associated with it,” the unsigned statement continues. “As far as we can tell, the breach has effected [sic] 500MB of images, and 0 personal information from the database.”The rebuttal comes after another anonymous claim, made via a posting on the Pastebin site - commonly used by hackers to post claims and conquests - that the administrator of Snapsaved had provided one or more hackers with a way to browse the content on the site.“The content released from this site was provided to us by the administrator of the site,” thewriter claimed. “Users could freely browse all media on this website, and view as per user account.“When the site became unusable, the administrator compiled a full directory of the content and uploaded it to an un-indexed website where you could freely download it.”But Snapsaved denies that on its Facebook page: “the dictionary index the poster is referring to, was never publicly available. We had a misconfiguration in our Apache server.”An error in setting up the Apache web server software could, under certain circumstances, leave a listing of directories on the site visible to someone who attacked the site. The Pastebin poster does not specify how they were able to see the site.Snapsaved claimed on Facebook in November 2013 to have 10,000 visitors, but the Facebook page does not put a newer figure on it apart from saying that the majority of users were Swedish, Norwegian and American. It is not connected with Snapsave, an Android app which allowed people to store Snapchat photos on their phone. Snapsave is not believed to have been breached.Snapsaved.com now redirects to a Danish e-commerce site.Analysis: how to keep your digital photos safe from hackers
Super Mario 64(Nintendo 64, 1996) is commonly held to be one of the best games of all time, but it has more than its then-innovative 3D worlds to recommend it – it can also be played by the blind.“There were all these musical cues and cues in the sound design,” says Kevin Satizabal, a keen gamer who’s been blind since birth. “You could tell when you’d picked up a star, or when the player was jumping, or when you picked up coins.” When you can’t rely on visual cues, having a different audio cue for each event in the game is more than just a bonus.“Fighting games are a perfect example,” says accessibility specialist Ian Hamilton. Through learning the audio cues for each move, vision-impaired players have been able to master them. One, Brice Mellen, even beat the creator ofMortal Kombatat his own game.One genre takes this principle of great sound design to another level, reducing or removing the visual elements to create games playable only by ear. Audio games have been around for a while – Satizabal mentionsGMA Tank CommanderandShades of Doom, both of which came out more than a decade ago – but they are gaining recognition thanks to the vision-impaired community’s latest console of choice.“The idea of a blind person using a touchscreen may be a strange one at first,” says Hamilton, “but smartphone uptake was actually faster among people with impaired vision.” Thanks to Apple’s decision to include a screen reader called VoiceOver on every device since the iPhone 3GS, catering to vision-impaired players on iOS is easy. “So easy,” Hamilton adds, “that Zynga madeHanging with Friendsblind- accessible entirely by accident, just by naming their buttons correctly.”More intentionally blind-accessible games include audio games, such as the Papa Sangre series (iOS) andThe Nightjar(iOS), both from developer Somethin’ Else, which are played using simple touch controls – or, as Satizabal prefers, the gyroscope – to navigate towards sounds that represent goals and away from those made by monsters. Many exploit our fear of being blind, which makes for an intense experience but could be problematic if overplayed.“Horror has its place,” Satizabal says, “but it can be a little bit cliched. And also, visual impairment already has enough negative associations without it being brought out in the gaming world.”Richard Harlow, who lost most of his sight to an optic nerve disease five years ago, agrees, saying these games can give the impression that blindness is “incredibly scary, and that you can’t be left by yourself”.One studio taking a different tack is Incus Games, which is developing an audio-only adventure for PC and Mac. InThree Monkeys, players control a protagonist called Tobar who becomes a hero precisely because he was born blind and is thus best equipped when the world is cursed into darkness. “We wanted to create a world in which not being able to see was your biggest strength,” saysStephen Willey, producer and composer on the game.“It’s more about empowering your sense of hearing,” says Satizabal, who met Willey while both attended Birmingham Conservatoire and is now a consultant on the game. He brings expertise from his experience both with audio games and “just getting around on a daily basis as a blind person using sound” to make suggestions such as adding more background noise to the forest in which the demo takes place, to make the game feel more real.In that demo, a sprite called Yoska teaches the player how to use their hearing to hunt a bird and shoot it down with a bow and arrow and fight bandits and goblins with a sword. It sounds like something you’d expect to do in a modern big-budget RPG, which Willey says is intentional: “What we’re really aiming for is an audio game that has a kind of AAA [those with the highest development budgets and levels of promotion] feel about it.”That should appeal to vision-impaired players such as Harlow, whose experience of “real video games” before he lost his sight has led him to consider many audio games “kind of bad, and just not entertaining”. But Willey and Satizabal both hope sighted players will enjoy the game too, so that they can have a shared experience with those who are vision-impaired.“When there’s something that everyone has in common, that’s something that bridges people together,” Harlow says, “And that’s the awesome thing about video games.”Listen in: audio gamesPapa Sangre IISomethin’ Else iOSVoiced by Sean Bean, a game in which you use simple touch controls to walk and turn until you’ve escaped the world of the dead.The NightjarSomethin’ Else iOSVoiced by Benedict Cumberbatch, who leads you through a spaceship which has been plunged into darkness and occupied by mysterious – and unfriendly – life forms.Three MonkeysIncus Games PC/MacAn adventure inspired by Romany lore featuring “puzzles, open-world exploration, fighting, and hunting”. Later this month, they will launch a Kickstarter page to generate extra support.BlindSideEpicycle iOS/PC/MacA horror game in which you play an assistant professor who finds himself blind and in the midst of an apocalypse.
The larger a mass, the greater its gravitational pull. This also applies to social media bandwagons. Gamergate, the months-long online consumer revolt, fomented by anti-feminist reactionaries and loosely held together by a Twitter hashtag, certainly wants to give the impression of being a planetoid, and as a result has drawn into its orbit a whole range of protagonists. Some have petty or personal grievances, others exaggerated concerns rooted in genuine issues. Some have just smelled money, or fear.There’s an element of symbiosis in the relationship between those involved. The worst – disingenuous ideologues, agitators, power-drunk vigilantes – are able to use the diversity of participants as a fig leaf for their agenda, while those with smaller axes to grind get to harness the energy and aggression of the extremists while simultaneously disavowing them. Marching under the incredibly vague banner of “journalistic ethics” allows bona fideneo-nazisto hold hands with ticked-off customers and claim common cause.One thing they really do have in common is a desire for positive press coverage. When I wrotea blog postlast week examining the permutations of zealotry within Gamergate and the way the movement misunderstands and perverts the language of reason, it was dismissed as one of a number of “biased” articles that only told one side of the story.But even leaving aside the fact that Gamergate’s “argument” is an irreconcilable mess of trembly fingered accusations, vendettas and uncertain nods to complex problems, the fact remains that there is only one “side” to be discussed, and that is Gamergate itself. As much as it would like to nominate as its opponent a power-axis of leftist games critics, mainstream journalists, developers, activists and academics, this axis doesn’t exist.Nor do Gamergate’s critics mass beneath any banner, or rally together to punish individual targetsthe way Gamergate does. The misdemeanours alluded to are many and various because this “other side” is simply people from all walks of life, gamers and non-gamers alike, reacting (or not reacting, as the case may be) to Gamergate.Similarly, the numerous real issues that Gamergate has touched on are too ranging and discrete to be addressed satisfactorily all at once. They include the relationship between the specialist press and PR, how games should be evaluated, their effect on human behaviour, the role of the critic and more besides.These are (and have been) matters for continuous examination within and without the gaming press – but they cannot be resolved by the crude lists of demands that occasionally emerge from within the Gamergate camp.All that is left to sensibly discuss is Gamergate itself. Gamergate, with itshit-lists of politically undesirable journalists. Gamergate, with its notion of itself as “a beachhead for a push against ‘social justice warrior’ meddling in other media”. Gamergate, with its use ofmilitary-style hyperbolein planning its operations, its sad insistence that the anger and abuse it attracts somehow weighs against the anger and abuse it facilitates.What about neutrality, then, or compassionate attempts to engage? Neither approach works. Negotiation has been tried andfound to be treated as another form of provocation, while silence is regarded as hostility –“How dare they ignore us!”Far more importantly, to affect neutrality is to do profound, immeasurable disservice to the victims of Gamergate. This revolt needs to be understood in the context ofyears of attackson women in gaming, under various guises.To cede to Gamergate’s manufactured counter-narrative, which foregrounds the fractious consumer-creator relationship, is to ignore its place in this wider trend, to airbrush out the periodic mobbing of individual women by both trolls and malcontents. This past weekend, the developer Brianna Wu was forced out of her home by death threats, the third case in two months after developer Zoe Quinn and cultural critic Anita Sarkeesian.Gamergate proponents deny culpability even as some of them try to imply these women brought it on themselves; most are genuinely frustrated by these incidences, but largely because they know it hurts their image.It’s incredibly telling that, when The Escapist tried to run a“balanced” pieceacknowledging pro and anti-Gamergate reactions from male developers, it had to go to Gamergate itself for the pros, and those interviewees lost no time in revealing themselves to be gaming’s Rush Limbaughs and Richard Littlejohns, eager to provide and flesh out a mythology that rationalises hatred towards the feminist/progressive element in games. The female developers interviewed uniformly opted to remain anonymous.We can acknowledge that not everyone on the bandwagon is a men’s rights activist. But what Gamergaters have in common with MRAs is a desperately selfish desire to sideline the problem of both passive and aggressive sexism in the gaming industry, for which they and we have to accept a measure of responsibility; they want to have a debate where they get to play maligned heroesandinnocent victims.That’s the real reason why they want to spin this as an apolitical consumer movement, rather than a swelling of vicious right-wing sentiment. And there is no neutral stance to take on that – we are either with them or against them.Gamergate: the community is eating itself but there should be room for all
Mike Weatherley, the Tory MP placed in charge of tackling copyright infringement by David Cameron, has called for education about copyright to begin in the classroom.Such education should start in the early years of a child’s life, Weatherley says, and continue through to University. It should be backed up by a copyright education programme from the BBC, and a renewed effort by the government to make information about intellectual property accessible online to a wide audience.“The school curriculum needs to prepare pupils - from early years through to the end of secondary school and higher education - for the 21st century knowledge economy.” Weatherley writes. “Interaction with IP is a daily occurrence for many young people, and yet it is widely ignored within the education system.“Government and industry must have clear roles in supporting education professionals by developing and delivering online resources, toolkits and lesson plans with and for teachers so that IP finds its way into the curriculum via different subject areas,” he adds.Addressing the BBC, Weatherley says that the corporation “relies on an effective copyright regime as a major contributor to the UK creative sector and the wider economy… I understand that copyright awareness plans are currently in progress and a new BBC Copyright Aware website is in development.”Education is ranked as one of the three guiding principles of Weatherley’s suggested solutions to copyright infringement, alongside a carrot (“Industry must change their models to be attractive to consumers”) and stick (“When all else fails, enforcement”) approach. He defined education as “winning the ‘hearts and minds’ of consumers about the importance of protecting IP.”But some are concerned that an education curriculum devised with the intention of reducing copyright infringement, rather than educating about the totality of intellectual property, could present an unbalanced view of copyright.Notably, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)sponsored its own educational curriculum in 2009, leading to questions asking students to tot up the total value of all songs illegally downloaded and teaching points stating baldly that it is “illegal for anyone to copy” protected material – while failing to mention the number of ways copyrighted material can be repurposed under fair use.In the curriculum,wrote Mike Masnick at the time, “fair use doesn’t exist – at all. Reading through the main document, I find not a single mention of it. But what does exist is all sorts of bogeymen about how evil file sharing is, how it exposes your hard drive to viruses and reveals your tax return info.“While the basis of Weatherley’s proposed curriculum has not been prepared, the report suggests that a similar approach might be taken. The focus is entirely on reinforcing “the importance of respecting IP and paying a fair price for content”; fair dealing, the right to re-use copyrighted material without permission in certain circumstances, is not mentioned.Grooveshark employees are guilty of copyright infringement, judge rules
Google is testing a new search feature that allows users to video call a doctor directly from search results for illnesses or symptoms.The search results prompt users to “talk with a doctor now”, which will initiate a free video call similar to Google’s Helpouts support service but with a doctor to talk through symptoms for a remote diagnosis or advice.The trial was first spotted by the web developer Jason Houle, who lives in Springfield, Massachusetts and works for Walt Disney World, when searching for knee pain. He posteda screenshotof the trial from his smartphone onReddit.Searching for knee pain brought up the option to talk with a doctor using Chrome on Android.Photograph: Jason Houle/Imgur‘See if it’s useful to people’“Based on your search query, we think you are trying to understand a medical condition,” Google says in the advice box accompanying the ability to video call a doctor. ”Here you can find health care providers who you can visit with over video chat.”Google said that all video calls to doctors made during the trial, which is limited to California and Massachusetts, will be free to users and covered by Google. In the US most visits to doctors must be paid for, primarily by health insurance.“When you’re searching for basic health information – from conditions like insomnia or food poisoning – our goal is provide you with the most helpful information available. We’re trying this new feature to see if it’s useful to people,” a Google spokeswoman told the Guardian.Worth 10% of the economy of developed nationsThis is not the first attempt by Google to use its Helpouts video chat system, that connects users to “experts” in various fields using a modified version of Google’s Hangouts text, audio and video chat service.Google Helpouts became complaint with the US Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which governs patient data confidentiality, and offered video chats with doctors for those with health insurance from One Medical Group last year. Patients could request a consultation and video chat with a doctor within 20 minutes.The move to a trial within standard search results shows Google’s continued push towards the medical industry, which has both financial incentives and apersonal interestfrom the company’s founders.The healthcare industry is a potentially lucrative market for technology companies like Google, worth about 10% of the economy of developed nations. The US healthcare industry is valued at $3 trillion, while more than £100bn is spent yearly on the NHS, according to the Department for Health.Apple has also showed interest in the healthcare market most recently with is recentHealth appthat integrates with various medical and quantified-self devices, butmaintains patient data privacy.•Google calls for guinea pigs for ambitious ‘Baseline’ health study•Google: 100,000 lives a year lost through fear of data-mining
The police National Cyber Crime Unit has been asked to investigate claims that computers and mobile phones used by exiled Bahraini pro-democracy activists living in the UK are under illegal surveillance.A complaint about Bahraini officials’ alleged monitoring of the devices was compiled by the civil liberties group Privacy International (PI) and submitted to the Metropolitan police on Monday.The remote interference is said to have started after Dr Saeed Shehabi, Jaafar al-Hasabi and Mohammed Moosa Abd-Ali Ali inadvertently downloaded malicious software or had their machines infected by the programs. The intrusive technology is able to copy and transmit documents, remotely turn on cameras and microphones to record, as well as send emails from other people’s accounts, according to PI.It said the technology involved was FinFisher, software once owned by Gamma International, a company that used to be based in Andover, Hampshire, but is now run by a firm based in Germany.The complaint is partially based on evidence published in August byBahrain WatchandWikiLeaks, which, it is said, details exchanges between Bahraini officials and Finfisher staff who were providing technical support.The three men allegedly targeted are human rights activists who oppose the current regime in Bahrain and have been granted asylum in the UK.Moosa Abd-Ali Ali and Hasabi had both been detained and tortured in Bahrain. Shehabi has been sentenced to life imprisonment in absentia and had his Bahraini citizenship revoked.“We often had the feeling that they were spying on us but we had no physical evidence of intrusion,” said Shehabi, 60, who is a journalist. “I have lived here since 1971. I thought I was under British protection.”His only direct evidence of computer interference was when his Twitter account inexplicably began following more and more people; on another occasion, he said, his daughter’s travel plans were disclosed to Bahraini government officials. Three years ago his home in the UK was the target of an arson attack.Hasabi, 43, an IT specialist, said he had received numerous emails which he did not open because they appeared suspicious. He was alarmed to see his computer’s details appear in the WikiLeaks list online.Moosa Abd-Ali Ali, 33, a TV camera operator, said: “Many times I received notices from my friends that I had sent them emails when I had not. Once I opened up my Facebook page and found that someone was writing it. Later I found it had been deleted. On other occasions I received notices from Gmail saying someone had tried to hack into my account.“When I first came to the UK I felt safe but I don’t any more. They have hacked my computer.”PI said: “It is clear from the Gamma documents published online that among those targeted by the Bahraini government with FinFisher technology were Mohammed, Jaafar and Saeed, along with prominent Bahraini opposition politicians, democracy activists and human rights lawyers.“FinFisher was developed and produced by the British company Gamma International. Promotional material for FinFisher shows that it allows its user full access to a target’s infected device and everything contained within it, even enabling them to turn on functions such as cameras and microphones.“Reports from the Citizen Lab suggest that FinFisher command and control servers have been found in 35 countries, including Ethiopia, Turkmenistan, Bahrain, and Malaysia.”The National Cyber Crime Unit is part of the National Crime Agency. Earlier this year PI made a similar complaint to police about alleged surveillance of the computer of an Ethiopian activist living in the UK.Commenting on the alleged surveillance of the Ethiopian, a Metropolitan police spokesperson said: “On 28 February 2014, we received an allegation that a man in Islington had had his computer accessed without authorisation. This matter is currently under investigation by Islington CID.”PI alleges that surveillance carried out by Bahraini authorities amounts to unlawful interception of communications under section 1 of the UK’s Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) 2000.FinFisher and its previous owner Gamma have previously claimed they only sold their products to responsible governments. The German-based firm did not respond to requests for a comment, nor did the embassy of Bahrain.
The release of Stephen Fry’s latest volume of autobiography, More Fool Me, has provoked a stir for its revelations of his past cocaine use in various high-profile venues, from Buckingham Palace to the Houses of Parliament.Predictably, most of the broadcast interviews around the new book’s release focused on the drug-taking rather than another well-known aspect of Fry’s life: his interest in technology.It goes further than reviewing iPhones for the Guardian. Fry has been involved with a number of startups as an investor and also with some as an adviser, from Summly to SwiftKey.Meanwhile, the launch of More Fool Me is accompanied by an ambitious global hackathon, YourFry, which will see developers and digital makers exploring the text, audio and themes of his work.Fry doesn’t do print interviews any more – a section of his recent one-man show at the Royal Festival Hall in London expanded on his dislike of newspaper profile writers, based on past experiences.But he did sit down with the Guardian for a video interview before the concert to talk technology, starting with a question about YourFry, and the wider crossover between literature and technology, for better or worse.Fry also talked about his excitement and fear about the implications of some new technologies: including the prospect of insurers and employers requiring personal genomic data before taking on new people.“Knowledge is power, but power of course, in human hands as we know, is dangerous, and especially in institutional hands. But it’s also fantastically freeing when it’s in individual hands,” he said.Fry also talked about his personal use of devices, and the question of online negativity, including “weird, repulsive trolling” on news sites and YouTube.Fry also talked about Twitter, and his expectations of the social network at a time when it’s trying to make money from advertising without alienating its core users.“It is quite staggering how people have expected all kinds of services to be utterly free for so long, without really understanding that they’re not free,” he said.He also responded to a question about internet services from Amazon and Netflix to Facebook becoming cultural filters with the suggestion that this could be a positive trend, if they approach recommendations in a certain way.“Why not say to someone who’s just bought a Dan Brown novel: ‘Well, you’ve read that. Why not now try some literature? Here’s Oliver Twist’. Or here’s Great Expectations or The Great Gatsby or whatever it is. ‘Just try something that’s properly written’,” he said.
People who make games – and people who criticise games – love to talk about the emotions games can generate. Critics always cite emotions – such as crying or feeling tender – that a game couldn't possibly conjure up. Except thatgames can and do make players feel thesethings.And then games theorists talk about the emotions that you can feel only by playing games – this is a more interesting area. The critic and games creatorAndrea Phillips has writtenabout how games can give players "emotions of agency". That is, while a movie might make you feel sad or enraged on behalf of one of the characters, only a game can make you feel, for example, guilty about specific actions. Because only a game can make its audience do things.Game theorists also talk about the emotion offiero– an Italian word for the sensation of personal triumph when you've done something difficult. It's the feeling you get after getting a personal best time on a run or knowing that you've done well in an exam, a feeling of "I worked long and hard and I have been triumphant". This is of course also an emotion of agency and one that games can give easily but it's hard for other media to produce, with the possible exception of the sense of victory at struggling through to the end ofUlysses.But sometimes you aren't looking for triumph, or the hot sweaty emotions of guilt, or terror, or determination, or even the whimsical emotion beloved of hipster ad agency awaydays: "playfulness". Sometimes, as I was a few weeks ago, you're quite hot and sweaty enough already, lying in bed with flu when you were supposed to be out having a good time: sore limbs, aching joints, feverish head. At times like these, you want comfort.The journalistIndia Knight has compileda marvellous list of comfort reads which I heartily recommend seeking out. IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes are full of lists of feelgood movies to soothe the flu-sufferer. But what about games? What games can you play just to make you feel better?My first recommendation is a beautiful PlayStation game,Flower. Created by That Games Company, which went on to make the more complex and ethically chewyJourney,Floweris a game in which you play the wind, blowing petals across a meadow. When you blow on to flower buds, they unfurl. When you've brought all the flowers in a meadow to life – and sometimes they can be a bit tricky to find – the tree in the centre might, for example, burst into bloom.Floweris the game I put on when any children aged between five and 15 come over.The restful music and calming visuals make it a pleasure to be in the room when the game's being played. Older children try to solve the puzzles. Younger children just enjoy exploring the flower-strewn grassland. "I thought games just made children hyper," parents have said to me more than once, "but they're calmer now than when they arrived!" It is the game I go back to when everything in life just seems a bit stressful and frustrating; wordless, it allows my mind to slip out of gear for a while.Not wordless but equally lovely is Double Fine'sStacking– a game available on multiple platforms in which you play the youngest child in a family of stacking Russian dolls in a Victorian-style world. Your family's been kidnapped and you'll have to save them – by jumping inside other stacking-dolls to move them about – but with no countdown timers or twitch puzzles to play, you've got plenty of time to explore the charming world, discover hidden Easter Eggs and enjoy the plentiful jokes. One to play curled up under a rug on a sofa, preferably with a mug of soup by your side and maybe a dog on your lap.If you are feeling a bit more chipper, enough to enjoy a tiny bit of challenge but not anything too arduous or aggressive, how aboutKatamari Damacy, which is available in various formats now, for PlayStation, Xbox, iOS and other smartphones. It's a game of rolling things up into a giant ball. You start small, with a little ball that can pick up paperclips or sweets. The more you roll, the bigger the ball gets: soon you're picking up pads of paper and laptops, then chairs and desks, then people, eventually walls, buildings and monster trucks. The changes of scale are absurdly satisfying, and the absurdity itself is delightful. I defy anyone not to laugh when rolling up virtual picnics, cars and panda bears into a huge wriggling Katamari ball.Slow and thoughtful puzzle games might help when a swollen brain just feels tired. I love playing the intricate origami-like gameKamion the iPad while listening to a lovely audiobook.Peggle– a pinball-like game where some people might be skilful but I just basically keep trying until I get lucky and get all the right pegs in the right order – is deliciously engaging. And my old favouriteAnimal Crossingon the Nintendo DS is a world in which the hardest task is finding places in the ground to dig up virtual "fossils" or maybe planting some apple trees.Essentially, I think what you are looking for when in need of comfort is a game where nothing bad can really happen. No death, no permanent failure, no fast reactions needed. Especially when watching the news, the real world can often appear too distressing to bear.We all need a little comfort now and then – and these games offer a world just a little kinder than our own.
When the Space Shuttle Challenger blew up 73 seconds after liftoff in January 1986, killing the seven astronauts on board, the fault was traced to a tiny piece of rubber. The physicist Richard Feynman explained the problem in the subsequent public inquiry not through the use of equations or diagrams but by taking a piece of the material out of his pocket and putting into a glass of iced water. What he demonstrated was that rubber when cooled is not quite as springy as when warm.So what, you might say, but it's a big problem if rubber's elasticity is used to seal in the high pressure gases produced by a spacecraft's solid rocket boosters. Replacing rubber with something not as susceptible to cold is not easy because it has unique properties that not only underpin the operation of spacecraft, but the security of pretty much every aspect of our modern lives: rubber keeps your pants up, keeps your car on the road, and, in the form of condoms, makes sex safe. How rubberiness got to be so essential to human life is an interesting tale and a surprisingly modern one.Natural rubber grows on trees, or rather inside trees, such as the Para rubber tree, which is indigenous to South America. It takes the form of a milky, sticky substance that is extracted by tapping the bark and is then dried into a solid. The Olmec people, who were around more than 3,000 years ago, had long known about it and made balls that bounced for their ritual games.European explorers who came across this springy material in the 18th century had never seen anything like it: it had the softness and pliability of leather, but was far more elastic and completely resistant to water. They thought they had discovered a new class of material and they were right. No one could find an immediate use for it except the British scientist Joseph Priestley, who found that it was good for rubbing pencil marks off paper – and this is how rubber got its name.Natural rubber is a polymer called polyisoprene, which consists of thousands of carbon and hydrogen atoms linked together in a long chain. The molecule is hydrophobic and so repels water, and, being enormously long, is all jumbled up like spaghetti and so has plenty of scope for straightening out when pulled. This is what is happening when you stretch a rubber band. Interestingly, it springs back into shape not because molecular springs of chemical bonds pull it back, but because being all jumbled up again increases the degree of randomness of the material: its entropy.Since we live in a universe that favours processes that increase entropy, so your rubber band snaps back into shape. It's odd to think that the elastic contortionism of condoms is due to entropy, but there it is.The winning combination of flexibility and water resistance persuaded many 18th-century inventors to consider rubber as the perfect substance for making raincoats. Charles Macintosh patented the first of these rubberised coats in 1823, and, although popular, they suffered being smelly and having a tendency to melt in hot weather and become brittle in the cold. The problem was caused by the fact that polyisoprene molecules are not chemically bonded to each other; this means they can easily seep out when hot, causing stickiness; nor do they have much mechanical coherency in the cold to keep them elastic. The problem was solved by vulcanisation, a process by which the polyisoprene molecules were chemically knitted together with sulphur atoms.In this form the material found uses as a macintosh and also as rubber boots, now known as wellington boots, or wellies – the stalwart of country life. These boots were found not only to be waterproof but electrically insulating. A handy property to have just as electrical engineering was taking off. Ambitions such as laying an underwater telegraph cable from Britain to the America hinged on finding a flexible, electrically insulating material that would not react with seawater. Rubber was the answer, in this case a type called gutta percha from Malaysia.From that point on, engineers tried to use rubber to make anything and everything, and ended up creating all manner of grommets, washers, gaskets and seals. For it was, and still is, the perfect material to keep water and other fluids in their place, being flexible and highly resistant to corrosion. Those components are the difference between a washing machine that works and one that doesn't, a car that works and one that doesn't and, sadly for those Challenger astronauts, a spacecraft that works and one that doesn't.But it is in the form of a pneumatic tyre that rubber has arguably had its biggest influence on culture by allowing us to float on a cushion of air as we travel. It transformed the bicycle from an uncomfortable toy into a jaunty and liberating means of personal transport. It did the same for the car, which is so popular it has had the unfortunate consequence of creating a billion used tyres annually. The phrase "burning rubber" is not only a practice, but also a mentality inspired by a material. For rubber, and its family of modern synthetic incarnations called elastomers, is irreverent, sexy, sporty, and slightly uncontrollable: from the sound of screeching tyres to the rubber balls let loose in a kitchen, to latex outfits flaunted at a party, they are fabulously outrageous.The world would be much poorer both economically and culturally if it were not fuelled and taunted by rubberiness in equal measure. Whether we're going to the Moon or to yoga class, we are not recognisably modern without it.
It was a strange stage thatTrevor Paglentook to, standing against a cartoon forest backdrop in a faux Gothic meeting room that was once a masonic lodge, looking out over a sea of attentive faces, gilded chairs and a plush, red carpet.Paglen, a visual artist, is using this setting to preach about the power of the image to manipulate, to distort but also to reveal. “Images jump off the page and scramble our brains. They tell us to be afraid, that we are illegitimate, not perfect,” he says of the filtered, processed, post-production perfect images that saturate us in advertising and messaging. Paglen’s work is about subverting what has become the self-selecting, saccharin-distorted norm of the digital image.Paglen’s mission is to map the surveillance world, post-Snowden. Much of his artwork – and the work that led him to this odd assembly where he is being presented with thePioneer Award by the Electronic Frontier Foundation– is concerned with making the invisible visible, to expose the secret. “I want to help develop a visual and cultural vocabulary around surveillance. It’s difficult to talk about something that is so abstract and when we imagine these agencies we think of them as very separate from other civic institutions.”He argues that state surveillance operations should have processes and policies as available and transparent as public libraries, over which we have a far greater confidence in our understanding of the relationship between the agency and the citizen. “We don’t have any ownership over the intelligence community.”Trevor Paglen discusses his attempts to photograph the arcane and inaccessibleLast November he hired a helicopter and took some stark, aerial shots at night of the US National Security Agency headquarters in Maryland, the National Reconnaissance Office in Virginia and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency in Virginia. These agencies, which respectively lead national security, run spy satellites and manage mapping intelligence, had a combined budget request of more than $25bn in 2013. Publishing onCreative Timeand onthe Intercept, co-founded byGlenn Greenwald,Laura PoitrasandJeremy Scahill, Paglen also released the pictures under a creative commons licence and fittingly made the pictures freely available and shareable onFlickrand Wikimedia Commons. The images are high contrast, floodlight offices, car parks and walkways eerily absent, as if the building is defying the audacity of the photograph by refusing to give up any sign of human life.An earlier series of images on drones is equally insistent, a swath of Turneresque cloudscapes where, were it not for titles such asReaper Drone, the subject would be lost. But then look closely and a speck of drone is visible between clouds. Paglen’s shots of almost absentee drones, of which the physical versions are several feet long, create something out of nothing, a sinister silent, invisible presence made visible. These agencies, he says, rely, on the “organising logic” of invisibility and secrecy despite a real and significant presence in the real world.Trevor Paglen: “concerned with making the invisible visible”.Photograph: Adam Berry/Getty ImagesOther pieces have visualised the routes of unmarked planes and front companies used for forced rendition, carrying suspected terrorists to secret US prisons. Paglen examined flying patterns for planes permitted to land at US air bases – including premier executive transport services” – and mapped out flights that recorded destinations including Kabul and Guantánamo Bay.“The world is constantly changing and I feel like my job is to try to see how it is changing,” he says. “Traditionally images have functioned as representations of something in the world, but we are quickly approaching the point where vast majority of images are produced for other machines and no human being will ever see them. It’s an operational regime of images.”Paglen’s work is confrontational, risky and extremely powerful. As well as surveillance, the domestic technology on which many of us have developed individual and corporate dependencies is also shapeless and intangible, adding to the empowerment of those companies over us and contributing to our own disempowerment. What Paglen enables with his visual vocabulary of surveillance is a way to make surveillance systems and technologies relatable, giving them a representation that we can understand and, eventually, become familiar with.In that odd, bustling hall in San Francisco, the Electronic Frontier Foundation celebrated mischief and imagination and dissent and nearly 25 years of challenging the seeping persistence of the techno-industrial complex that dominates the city and increasingly the world.The best artists help to reflect, record and interrogate the world around us and Paglen is interpreting some of the most profound cultural, political issues that we have had to deal with.“Images,” Paglen concluded, “can make realities out of people and struggles, the reality we give them. Images really matter. Images have their finger on the trigger.”
It is beginning to sound like something out of an absurd comedy movie – or a frighteningly lucid fever dream. Both Lindsay Lohan, star of Mean Girls and Scary Movie 5, and former dictator Manuel Noriega are currently suing video game publishers for using their likenesses without permission – the former in Grand Theft Auto V, the latter in the military shooter Call of Duty.Lohan, who started the legal battle in July, is stepping up her case witha 67-page document, which alleges that the character of Lacey Jonas, a blonde actor who the player has to rescue from a paparazzi scrummage, is “unequivocally” based on the star. From the Hollywood Reporter:According to the amended complaint, the game publisher ‘used a look-a-like model to evoke the persona and image’ of Lohan by imitating a photograph that was once taken of her in 2007.Meanwhile, Noriega, who is serving 20 years in a Panamanian prison for killings carried out during his dictatorship, will face new difficulties in his lawsuit against Activision. The publisherhas brought inthe former New York mayor RudyGiuliani, now an attorney, to co-counsel in its defence.“What’s astonishing is that Manuel Noriega, a notorious dictator who is in prison for the heinous crimes he committed, is upset about being portrayed as a criminal and enemy of the state in the game Call of Duty. Quite simply, it’s absurd,” said Giuliani. “Noriega’s attack on the rights of Call of Duty comes as no surprise considering he’s a lawless tyrant who trampled over the rights of his own people.”In a press release on the subject, Activision stated:If successful, Noriega’s efforts would give numerous historical and political figures – and their heirs – a veto right over their appearances in works of art, having a chilling effect on movies such as Forrest Gump and Zero Dark Thirty, TV shows such as Saturday Night Live and Boardwalk Empire, and beloved books such as Primary Colors and The Paris Wife, just to name a few.So what does US law say on these matters? “Several countries give individuals a legal ‘publicity right’ to control how they are represented in media – including in games,” says Jas Purewal, an interactive entertainment lawyer at Purewal &amp; Partners. “The US in particular has strong publicity rights law, which is a big factor in both the Lindsey Lohan and Manuel Noriega lawsuits. Previously it has been used in games lawsuits including from the musician Axl Rose, the rock band No Doubt and a range of athletes against games publishers.”Technically, the ability to portray real-life people in fictional works is protected in the US by the First Amendment, which prohibits any law that abridges freedom of speech. Content creators will often seek defense against publicity rights claims via the “transformative use” test, which seeks to prove that that the likeness was used to create a wholly new and original work.This would appear to be useful in the Rockstar case – indeed no claim is made in the game that the character of Lacey Jonas is in fact Lohan. “The mere fact that there is a character looking more or less like a celebrity in a game is not a silver bullet on its own,” says Purewal. “You would still have the First Amendment and transformative use issues.”However, if Lohan’s legal team manages to convince a judge that the Jonas character is unmistakably a depiction of the actor, the situation changes – “transformative use” is less reliable when the depiction is specifically for monetary gain. Lohan’s new lawsuit makes specific reference to the use of the character’s image on merchandise such as T-shirts and mugs, as well as on advertising posters and billboards. It is also contending that freedom of speech extend only to limited artistic works, and not commercial products.If a precedent is set, does this mean that works of satire will no longer be free to depict, or even hint at, real-life personalities? “Publicity rights arguments do run into fair use and parody/satire arguments,” says Purewal. “A judge has to balance together the individual’s right to control their image with the creator’s freedom of expression and free speech rights, as well as their right to create parodies or satire. In practice, this often comes down to the kind of use of the individual in the product, whether it is considered reasonable for the purpose intended and whether it is a commercial or non-commercial use.”In the Noriega case, there’s no attempt to disguise the fact that the character depicted in Call of Duty: Black Ops II, is the ex-dictator – he’s part of the game’s Cold War setting which takes in other historical figures including president Kennedy. Here the freedom of speech and “transformative use” defenses would wobble – just as they did for Electronic Arts in 2013, when the publisher was sued by college football players when their likenesses were used in the 2008 game, NCAA Football. In that casea court ruledthat, as the onscreen figures were a direct representation of the players, their rights to publicity usurped the publisher’s free-speech claim. EA lateragreed to pay $40m in damagesto the athletes.Noriega’s case is much more complicated however – primarily because he’s not a US citizen. “US publicity rights law has been extended to foreign nationals in the past, but it is unclear whether a judge and jury would actually extend that to the former dictator of Panama,” says Purewal. “Even if Noriega does have US publicity rights, Activision may have First Amendment rights which trump them. Noriega may also have difficulty in demonstrating what loss he has actually suffered, especially given his reputation.“Finally, Activision almost certainly has considerably greater financial and legal resources than Noriega.”Both cases are pending, and both are being vociferously defended by the games’ publishers. Rockstar’s parent company Take-Two has yet to comment on Lohan’s latest gambit, but in a statement regarding her initial suit filing, a spokesperson said: “Her claim is so legally meritless that it lacks any good-faith basis and can only have been filed for publicity purposes.”Publicity is the one thing everyone has achieved out of this so far.Could this happen in the UK?We asked Alex Tutty of entertainment law firm Sheridans if similar cases could be brought before British courts. Here’s what he had to say.“The US has laws concerning publicity rights which are typically stronger than the protections that celebrities would try to utilise in the UK. Different territories have different rules (for instance Belgium has laws which give strong rights to individuals regarding their name and image).“In England there are a variety of different laws that could be applicable. Passing off (a misrepresentation of association with the subject likely to deceive the public and causing damage to the subject in the course of business) would apply if there was an impression of “false endorsement” through the inclusion of a likeness of a person in a manner that it would lead to people thinking that the individual (such as Lindsay Lohan) is endorsing the product because they are in it.“Most celebrities have registered trade marks for their names as shown in the Lady Gaga vs Lady Googoo/Moshi Monsters case. Defamation [may also apply] if ‘false’ words are communicated and likely to reduce the subject person in the eyes of a rightthinking recipient.”Manuel Noriega sues Activision over Call of Duty video game character
Amazon plans to hire 1,000 permanent staff at its UK distribution centres to meet growing demand for goods online.Britain’s biggest online retailer employs 6,000 people at its warehouses and customer service centres in the UK. It will take on the extra staff in the next few months.Amazon’s eight “fulfilment centres” are in Doncaster, Dunfermline, Gourock, Hemel Hempstead, Milton Keynes, Peterborough, Rugeley and Swansea Bay.John Tagawa, the director of UK operations at Amazon, said: “Over the past two years, we have added well in excess of 2,000 new employees to our workforce and we are delighted to be able to add a further 1,000 to that number over the coming months. As we see greater demand, we are able to rapidly grow our talented team across the UK.”The company, which has faced criticism over working conditions at its warehouses, said permanent employees now work four 10-hour shifts a week, giving them three days off and saving them time and money. Carlos Slim, the Mexican telecoms billionaire,has called for employees to work three days a week, offset by longer hours and a later retirement to increase wellbeing and productivity.Amazon said permanent employees start on an average wage of £7.39 an hour and earn up to £8.90 an hour after two years. The minimum wage for workers aged 21 or more is £6.50. Salaries can be increased by share grants and staff get private medical insurance, a company pension plan, life assurance and an employee discount.Last year,a BBC investigationalleged that an undercover reporter, working as a “picker” at the Swansea site, was expected to collect an order every 33 seconds while walking up to 11 miles during a night shift of 10 and a half hours. Amazon said at the time it warned employees some jobs were physically demanding.Amazon launched in the UK in 1998 and has become Britain’s most popular retail website, with more visitors than Argos, Next and Tesco. It sells a vast array of goods and recently won an award for offering the best customer service in the UK.But despite providing jobs, Amazon has faced criticism for avoiding UK tax.Amazon.co.uk recorded sales of more than £3.3bn in Britain last year, but paid no corporation tax on any of the profits from that income.The European Union has launched an investigation into Amazon’s tax arrangements in Luxembourg, where its business takes sales from across Europe including the UK.
A bouquet of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSnapchat can't stop the parasite apps that screw its users &gt;&gt; WIREDAndy Greenberg:even if Snapchat users' data was accessed via someone else's servers, that doesn't make the breach any less of Snapchat's problem, says security researcher Adam Caudill. He's been reverse engineering Snapchat's API to demonstrate exactly the problem of rogue third party apps for years. "Your average developer can build something in a day's time that interacts with Snapchat's API and saves everything that comes through it," Caudill says. "Quite honestly, I'm surprised this hasn't happened sooner."Caudill first warned Snapchat in 2012 that he had analyzed its API and could build a pirate app that stripped out its time-deletion features. "Given the nature of the application, I suspect unofficial clients are unavoidable…especially as the service grows in popularity," he wrote at the time.How do you prevent, in perpetuity, a third-party app with the correct login details from accessing your server?Stop supporting Gamergate &gt;&gt; The VergeT.C.Sottek:as Peter Frase wrote in Jacobin, there's a reactionary right-wing flavour to all of Gamergate's desperate yelling. (Liz Ryerson was the first to thoroughly document this extremism.) "Some gamers would like it both ways: they want everyone to take their medium seriously, but they don't want anyone to challenge their political assumptions or call into question the way gamers treat people who don't look and think like them," Frase wrote. "They hate and fear a world where games are truly made by and for everyone."What gives Gamergate power and momentum is its extremist conservative obstinacy; it is a reactionary movement against progressive voices that hoodwinks typically apolitical game players by convincing them of some harm that doesn't actually exist, like they are losing their right to free speech, or their hobby is being killed by an anti-gamer conspiracy. Once you've insinuated something like that, whether or not it's true, it's easy to get a lot of people on your side; a closely related project is to get people hyped up about people stealing votes to justify racially and politically biased ID laws, even though voter fraud in the United States is a mythical boogeyman.The amazing progress of LEDs, in one chart &gt;&gt; VoxEveryone knows about Moore's law, which says that the number of transistors in a computer chip (and, therefore, its computing power) doubles every 18 to 24 months. It has a less famous cousin calledHaitz's law. It says that every 10 years, the power of LED lighting packages will increase by a factor of 20, while the cost of these packages, per unit of illumination, will fall by a factor of 10.The law is named after Roland Haitz, who made the forecast in 2000. And so far, the industry has actually exceeded his expectations…Recently progress has accelerated, so that you can now get LED packages that produce 1,000 lumens of light. If current trends continue you'll be able to buy 10,000-lumen LED lights in a few years.For comparison, a 100-watt incandescent light bulb produces around 1,700 lumens. So LED lights are becoming nearly as bright as conventional lighting sources.We should all be lighting our homes with LEDs very soon.Password Security: Why the horse battery staple is not correct &gt;&gt; DiogomonicaDiogo Mónica leads platform security at Square, the payment processing company:In this post I'm going to make the following arguments:• Choosing a password should be something you do very infrequently.• Our focus should be on protecting passwords against informed statistical attacks and not brute-force attacks.• When you do have to choose a password, one of the most important selection criteria should be how many other people have also chosen that same password.• One of the most impactful things that we can do as a security community is to change password strength meters and disallow the use of common passwords.Android L release date, news and features &gt;&gt;TechRadarHere's what most of you will be wanting to know: when can I get it on my phone? Well, if you're a developer with a Nexus 5 or Nexus 7 then it will be easiest, as it was made available on June 26 for developers.For the rest of the folk in the world it looks like it's coming on November 1, which means that this is very much a preview to appease those that want to get cracking on development, and launching it at Google IO makes sense.This also means that as Android L readies itself for a consumer launch we'll find out more about whether it's Android 5, Android 4.5 and which dessert name it will have and indeed it's now looking very likely that it will be Android Lollipop, as Google recently celebrated its 16th birthday with a cake topped with lollipops, which is a pretty big clue.Holding back the app economy &gt;&gt; Jana MobileSmartphone memory and data costs are the two major limiting factors among app users in emerging markets, according to a recent Jana survey of smartphone users in 9 countries. The June survey, which collected feedback from over 8,000 smartphone users in India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Brazil, and Mexico, showed that there are still major limiting factors to digital consumption.Overall, 29% of respondents considered a shortage of memory on their smartphone to be the primary obstacle to app consumption. Another 25% indicated that lower data costs prevent them from downloading more app content.Hence Facebook and Google figuring out internet connectivity subsidies for mobile phones in a number of developing countries.Were we all suckered by the mystery "cell phone tower" story? &gt;&gt; ITworldThe Hill, another Washington, D.C. publication, said that StingRays have been in use since at least 1995 and are currently deployed by at least43 agencies in 18 states.Then it dawned on me. We had a rash of stories on these "mystery towers," and it seemed everywhere I turned, there was Les Goldsmith, the CEO of ESD America, the company that took a stock Galaxy S III and turned it into a hardened phone with numerous exploits removed and all kinds of security added. His phones had detected the StingRays since they display far more information than a standard cell phone.Goldsmith was in the Popular Science article that started this all. He spoke to VentureBeat and The Blaze. ESD consultants also accompanied CNBC on a ride around Washington, D.C. to discuss their findings.That sure worked out nicely for ESD America, didn't it? They show up in a lot of Google searches these days.Google considers new app trial technology for Android &gt;&gt; The InformationAmir Efrati:The discussions around a new app-testing feature come as Google Play struggles to get people to open up their wallets—both for the array of TV shows or music it offers or for paid apps. As of a year ago, less than 10% of Google Play visitors paid for anything, according to a person who had access to the figure.Over the past year or so, Google has reduced the cut of Google Play revenue it gives to some partners that sell Android devices from 25% to 15% and, in at least one case, to zero. It told at least one partner that the reduction came because Google wasn't generating enough money from Google Play.Google Play has been held back for other reasons. Android devices, with few exceptions, are viewed by consumers as more down-market than the iPhone. As a consequence, wealthier phone buyers pick the iPhone over Android, and those people end up spending more money through apps and on buying digital content than the owners of Android devices. Google has been working on ways to help change that perception, but it will be an uphill battle.Less than 10% of people have paid for something on Google Play; yet Google is slicing away at the cut it gives to OEMs (and carriers). Wouldn't that alienate the OEMs - and make them look at the alternative, Windows Phone?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Razer KrakenRRP: £54.99The Kraken is a solid all-rounder, offering 2.0 stereo and a regular 3.5mm jack for maximum compatibility. With chunky 40mm neodymium drivers, sound quality is clear and vibrant, and although not explicitly noise cancelling, the large padded cups kept out most background noise. What elevates the Kraken above the pack is the optional GameBooster software (£11.99), which does a startlingly good job at virtualising 7.1 surround. Hardcore audiophiles may know the difference, but for a good, sub-£100 surround sound experience, this is hard to top.Razer Kraken headset.Photograph: .Mad Catz Tritton KunaiRRP: £69.99Sitting somewhere between entry level and mid-range, the Kunai makes up for its meagre 2.0 stereo speakers by offering wireless compatibility with practically anything you can throw it at. A Wi-Fi hub does all the grunt work, coming with a jungle of cables to connect it to your preferred format. Aesthetically, the blocky Kunai is one of the least appealing from Mad Catz, but audio levels are surprisingly good, and the convenience of having one headset for all formats is a major plus.Mad Catz Tritton Kunai headset.Mad Catz Tritton Pro+ True 5.1RRP: £82.49The Tritton Pro+ “only” offers 5.1 surround sound. While that’s a couple of channels fewer than others here, it does so with four actual speakers in each ear cup – 30mm for front and rear, 23mm centre, and 40mm for the subwoofer. The result is an authentic, rather than virtual, audioscape that sounds divine. Crystal clear in fact, with almost tangible depth and distinct bass. Compatible with PC and Mac, it’s USB powered and incredibly comfortable to wear, though the included 3.7m cable feels redundant.Mad Catz Tritton Pro headset.Turtle Beach Stealth 500PRRP: £99.99This PS4/PS3 wireless headset (the 500X is, unsurprisingly, the Xbox One version) delivers 7.1 surround without the messy cables.Simple set up using the console’s optical out and an included wireless dongle has you playing in minutes, while the 50mm speakers boom even when the battery is running low. Luckily, it’s rechargeable while playing, though you’ll want a longer micro USB cable than supplied. It’s great for online gaming thanks to the included mic, and can be used (via included cable) with mobile devices too.Turtle Beach Ear Force Stealth.Turtle Beach Ear Force Z60RRP: £99.99This absolute beast uses DTS Headphone:X 7.1 tech with mighty 60mm speakers to create one of the best aural experiences you’ll hear on PC. The bass on it is tremendous, and the overall sound quality through its distinct channels makes it one of the best on the market for competitive shooters. For all its power, it’s incredibly simple to set up, with the in-line control box handling separate volume settings for audio and chat, as well as switching surround profiles. Superb performance, especially for its price.Turtle Beach Ear Force Z60 headset.
Monday again!
I’m buying a boat. Good lord, no: it’s not a super yacht; it’s a 31ft long, 6ft wide canal boat that’s going to double as an office/shed/storage space/weekend getaway for our expanding family. I was sceptical at first. There were more questions raised than answered. But they all disappeared when my husband, Ben, rolled out the clincher: “And when we’re not using it, we can rent it out onAirbnb!” Sold.For the record, I am not rolling in it. We live in central London in a 500 sq ft ex-council flat. We both work from home, which means we have an irregular rota to decide who gets the (fold-down) table, and who works from the sofa. When one of us takes a phone call, the other has to leave to get work done. As an occupational environment, it’s not ideal.I originally bought it for me and the cat, so when two dogs and a tall man moved in, it became a much more cosy – but still equally delightful – proposition. We siphoned our stuff to a storage unit around the corner at a cost of £250 a month, and started looking for office space. Three years and another, much smaller mouth to feed later, we’re still searching. And when we did the costing of the boat, we discovered the flat fee, insurance, security and licences would cost less than renting a 20 sq metre unserviced office for two within 40 minutes’ walk of our home. Subtract from that the potential income the boat could generate via the property-sharing site, and we were convinced.I’m not an Airbnb rookie. My place has been listed since 2012, when Ben and I started doing longer work trips abroad. Our first assignment was to the US, where I was researching a book for six months. Into our teeny house we welcomed four guests for between one- and three-month stays, and they had the run of it, complete with all my precious kitchenware, the larder of spices, the board games, the Sonos music system and the library of books that we couldn’t bring with us. Their bums were on my sofa, their heads were in my bed, their clothes were in my drawers. We hid the silverware and hoped our boat-inspired interior wouldn’t give up our hiding holes.The experiment was lucrative: it paid for the Airbnb property we rented that winter in Venice Beach, plus all the granny flats, Airstreams (travel trailers) and spare rooms we Airbnb’d at weekends as we toured up and down the California coast.There were a few hiccups as we got used to being landlords abroad. The eight-hour time difference made emergencies a 24-hour potential distraction. Getting keys to our tenants required gentle exploitation of friends who worked or lived locally. The cleaner I employed to shine the place up between guests couldn’t get through a snowstorm to put the pieces together after a pair who had departed leaving a mess, so my host ratings went south for a little while. But overall, it was a good experience that allowed us a lifestyle we’d not have had if the site didn’t exist; it took away most of the donkey work and the fees they charged were much more reasonable than a letting agent on the high street.The following year, we were away for eight months – Ben was offered a post-doctoral fellowship in Italy and, when that finished, we moved to Paris because it was cheaper to rent an Airbnb property in the 20th arrondissement and commute to London once a week via Eurostar than it was to rent a flat in as good a location as our place in the UK.We upped our game for this stint, raising prices, arranging key-wrangling with our local baker who welcomed each new guest with coffee and pastries covered by the kitty we left behind the till, and paying our cleaner to come every fortnight to tidy and to keep an eye on the place. Our neighbours were informed, and also provided on-location eyeballs.Although there were a few stressful moments – one couple were unhappy in the location and left three weeks early – we managed to cover ourselves by booking in-betweener short-term guests. Ultimately, we made enough to cover our Airbnb accommodations in Italy and France and to pay for our wedding. So of course we’re buying a boat. We need the space for ourselves, and for the rare occasions when we’re not using it, we’ll put it up on Airbnb and be quids-in in dog food and nappies. If we’re lucky, the boat will pay for itself. That’s the sharing economy, right?Well, not really. Listing a bed is much more complicated than it used to be, and this goes beyond getting a hotel licence, gas and electricity certificates and paying tax on rental income (for the record, HMRC, I do). The so-called sharing economy is a misnomer. Since it was coined in the mid-2000s, the sharing part has been thoroughly exploited, and, as in a recent case involving anAirbnb property and a squatterin California, free-riders ride again. Instead of pooling resources for the common good, we’re back to working for our own self-interest, sweating our assets and making bucks for us. Keeping it in the family.The first mistake of the movement was making Airbnb its poster child. It is not – nor has it ever been – about sharing. It’s barely about collaborating. It’s about profiteering from the capital people already have. Sure, it’s better to have someone occupy an existing room rather than building a new one, but it’s playing a factor in propping up property prices. Airbnb works to the strengths of the online environment: direct access between the person who has something someone else wants. It is the peer-to-peer business model of the 21st century in action.In the early days, people listed their homes because they believed in the ethos behind the site: make it available when you’re away, and let a visitor live like a local. The connections made between host and guest were human, intangible, palpable. I’m still in touch with some of the people who stayed in my teeny flat, and the thoughtful gifts left by others are on my shelf. And Airbnb exploited that human feature. When it was a relatively small site with a community of like-minded others who were looking for interesting things to see and do when away from home, it worked.As with most disruptive movements, the fallout is mostly in the gap between the original system and the new one. In the case of Airbnb, it’s facilitating the buy-to-let marketplace, and lets people like me – who have the assets to sweat – make a profit to cover the cost of more assets, which can then be priced accordingly to cover their own bricks and mortar (or, in my case, fuel and waterproof blacking). Functionally, Airbnb is now no different from any other vacation rental website: property owners simply see the site as a popular vehicle to get eyeballs on their stock. Its spin, though, is that it provides “authenticity”. The problem is, it doesn’t. The property site used to be a matchmaking service for people who might make connections and discover affinities; now it’s a place where property owners can fill their empty beds. When I was living in LA and Florence, the Airbnb properties I stayed in were shells with no personality and cheap filler furniture. This shift is particularly obvious in destination towns such as London. According toresearch conducted by theGuardianin June 2014, more than 1,500 hosts in London have more than one property, and 180 have more than five. The result? Just Another Property Site. Bye, bye community.As a host, I’ve noticed the effects of this too. It comes out plainly on host message boards, where listers can hear about pop-up events, bake sales, the best way to solve problems and tips and tricks for making guests feel at home.But I’ve started to see ominous thread titles such as: “Which nationalities do you refuse to host?” on the boards. These are some of the most popular conversations, with people from around the world weighing in with distinctly anti-North and South American sentiments. A recent study fromHarvard titled “Digital Discrimination: the case of Airbnb”found that black hosts on average must charge an average of 12% less to book guests than their white counterparts who list equally desirable properties.I still have authentic experiences using the site, but they’re increasingly rare. Earlier this year, I stayed in a remodelled gypsy caravan in the garden of the owner’s home while making my way back to the UK via Burgundy. I had the run of my host’s kitchen, and hung out with her chickens. I brought olive oil and Parmesan from Italy, and she invited us to her boyfriend’s house in the next village for wine and nibbles. Last Christmas, I rented an Airbnb with my family in San Diego. We stayed in what was very clearly someone’s home, and it was lovely. It made me want to treat it with respect. That’s why, when I do rent out my place, I don’t hide my furniture or books.The decision to buy a boat is absolutely related to the success I’ve had on Airbnb. But it’s not the primary reason for buying it. We need a bit more room, and financially, it makes sense. It’s a bonus if we can share stories with strangers along the way.
Videos and pictures of as many as 200,000 teenagers posted via the Snapchat service and stored on a third-party website have been put online, apparently by the same people who were behind the posting of nude celebrity photos in August.The photos and videos were captured after some users of Snapchat – a mobile phone app which allows people to send photos to each other but which delete themselves within seconds of being viewed – were tempted into using a site called “Snapsaved.com”. That offered to let them use the service on a website on a desktop computer, rather than just on a mobile phone.But the site appears to have been maliciously saving the users’ login details and storing the photos and videos that were posted. An app called Snapsave, which offers similar functionality but whose developer says it only stores photos on the user’s mobile phone, is not believed to be involved.By getting a user’s username and password, the site could authorise itself to Snapchat’s servers, and receive or send pictures they viewed through it but could also store it without the knowledge of the user or Snapchat.It is suspected, but not so far proven, that those behind the scam are linked to those responsible for the collection and posting in August of personal and often nude photos taken by hundreds of celebrities, including Jennifer Lawrence and Kim Kardashian. The celebrity photo leak began with discussions on one of the 4chan discussion forums, and the latest photos have also come via 4chan leaks.After warnings appeared on the bulletin board 4chan on Friday that the photos would be leaked, a site went live on Sunday offering 13 gigabytes of content which was said to have been captured from users.Observers said that anyone downloading the files could be breaking child pornography laws if any of the pictures includes unclothed pictures of children under 16 even if the child took them.One user on the Reddit discussion forumsaid that the leak dubbed “The Snappening” did not live up to its billing. He called it “13GB of low resolution garbage. Mundane, boring shit like “check out my new hat!” or “heehee my shoes are so silly!”.But he added that there were also “maybe 100MB of actual nudes” in photo and video form.In a statement, Snapchat said that: “We can confirm that Snapchat’s servers were never breached and were not the source of these leaks. Snapchatters were victimised by their use of third-party apps to send and receive Snaps, a practice that we explicitly prohibit in our terms of use precisely because they compromise our users’ security.”While Snapchat was apparently secure in this case, it was the subject of a hack last year in which 4.6 million usernames and phone numbers were stored by a site called SnapchatDB, which says it captured them by hacking a weakness that then existed in the program.
Behind an unpromising black facade on north London’s Caledonian Road, a quiet revolution has begun. Meltdown, which opened last June, is the UK’s first e-sports bar, the London outpost of a small French chain.“I wanted to provide an offline space for gamers,” explains Duncan Morrison, 27, the bar’s founder. “I was living in Paris, where there is a more developed e-sports scene. My flatmate started the French one, and when I moved back I opened one here. Business has been good – interest has grown noticeably since we opened, and there’s a real sense of community.”Inside, there is little in the way of furniture, but plenty of expensive electronics. At a bank of computers five men sit playing Dota 2, a “multiplayer online battle arena” game set in a World of Warcraft-style fantasy world. Footage of their contest appears on screens around the bar, while another monitor shows a bout of League of Legends, a similar game, in which two teams are vying for promotion to the professional leagues. Neither League of Legends team is actually in the bar. Spectators are simply watching the game, just as they would Arsenal v Chelsea.Meltdown … surprisingly relaxing.Photograph: FacebookWhile e-sports are not yet at Premier League levels,they are surprisingly big business. In August Amazon bought Twitch, the game video-streaming service, for $970m (£597m). The prize pot for the recent Dota 2 world championships was more than $10m.What’s perplexing to the outsider, however, is that the games played here are not necessarily ones that the general public have heard of. “The games played as e-sports are designed to be watched, and have high skill ceilings – in other words, they reward ability,” says Azdean, a data analyst by day, who is propped at the bar watching the League of Legends finale.Morrison agrees, emphasising the skill entailed at this level. “When I play Starcraft 2 it is more as a hobby or a sport than relaxation. It’s very demanding – a real mental workout. It’s not at all the same as Sim City.”Once you get over the weirdness, the atmosphere at Meltdown is quite relaxing. Perhaps united in a sense of geeky outsiderdom, the people here are friendly – much more so than the fronting hipsters who clog many of the area’s trendy pubs and bars. There aren’t many women, but then again there aren’t many women in the pub when the football is on.
