Apple is facing a "Nike moment" which hit the shoe company in the 1990s when its use of cheap labour in the far east was revealed, one of the inspectors of Apple's Chinese suppliers has said.Speaking to ABC News' Nightline programme, Ines Kaempfer of the US Fair Labour Association (FLA), which is inspecting the Foxconn assembly plants used by Apple in China, said: "There was a moment for Nike in the '90s, when they got a lot of publicity, negative publicity. And they weren't the worst. It's probably like Apple. They're not necessarily the worst, it's just that the publicity is starting to build up. We call it the 'Nike moment' in the industry."Foxconn, which is one of Apple's main contractors, said on Monday it had raised wages by up to 25% after a spate of suicides last year and reports of long hours for the hundreds of thousands of staff.It is the second significant salary increase in less than two years at the world's largest electronics contract manufacturer, where workers' conditions have  come under intense scrutiny.The FLAinspection came at the prompting of Apple, the first technology company to join it. The FLA aims to end sweatshop conditions in factories.The continuing reports of deaths and distress at Foxconn have created a PR problem for Apple, which is seen as the principal user of the company's facilities. So far Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft and Dell, which also use Foxconn for assembly work, have not commented on their use of its factories.None is presently a member of the FLA, whose membership is principally made up of clothing companies with suppliers in the far east.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, said last weekthat it took working conditions very seriously and that every worker had the right to a fair and safe work environment.Foxconn, which has its headquarters in Taiwan, employs about 1.2 million workers at a handful of plants in China which are run with almost military discipline. Staff work for six or seven days a week and for up to 14 hours a day.The workers assemble iPhones and iPads for Apple, Xbox 360 video game consoles for Microsoft, and computers for Dell and Hewlett-Packard. Foxconn is one of China's largest single private employers.Foxconn's staff now receive 1,800-2,500 yuan (£180-250) a month after the pay rises that became effective from 1 February, the company said."This is the way capitalism is supposed to work," David Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,told the New York Times. "As nations develop, wages rise and life theoretically gets better for everyone."But in China, for that change to be permanent, consumers have to be willing to bear the consequences. When people read about bad Chinese factories in the paper, they might have a moment of outrage. But then they go to Amazon and are as ruthless as ever about paying the lowest prices."Nike faced an outcry in the 1990s when independent reports revealed sweatshop conditions at a number of its suppliers – and which the company initially tried to disown, saying conditions were the companies' responsibility. Continued protests changed its mind.Foxconn is also taking measures to limit working hours. The pay rises are compensation for workers' reduced overtime, company spokesman Simon Hsing said in a statement. Foxconn said it was co-operating with the FLA inspectors, pledging again to provide a safe and fair working environment.In 2010, a spate of suicides at an enormous Foxconn complex in the southern boomtown of Shenzhen drew attention to the stress many young workers faced.The company denied allegations that it ran excessively fast assembly lines and demanded too much overtime, but it soon announced two pay rises that more than doubled basic salaries to up to 2,000 yuan a month.Last month, dozens of workers assembling video game consoles climbed to a Foxconn factory dormitory roof in the central Chinese city of Wuhan and some threatened to jump to their deaths amid a dispute over job transfers that was later defused.Apple has also given ABC's Nightline  special access to the Foxconn plants. The report is due to be broadcast on Tuesday.In the programme, Louis Woo, who spent 15 years at Apple and now advises Foxconn chief executive Terry Gou, said that if not for the explosions and suicides that have grabbed the attention of the western media, the access probably would not have been granted."You being here is part of the openness, part of the learning, part of the change that Foxconn is undergoing," he told reporter Bill Weir.Wooagreed that the deaths had forced the company to rethink how it treated its workers: "absolutely, absolutely, yeah," he told Weir.The New York Times reported that workers welcomed the pay rises and overtime limits, though some were unsure they would cause much real change."When I was in Foxconn, there were rumours about pay raises every now and then, but I've never seen that day happen until I left," said Gan Lunqun, 23, a former Foxconn worker. "This time it sounds more credible."Foxconn has also announced plans to invest millions in robots and to automate aspects of production.
Bill Weir of ABC News has provided pictures from inside Foxconn's assembly lines where it makes Apple devices such as the iPad.Besides the video (below), there is also aphoto gallery, showing how thousands of migrant workers show up on a Monday morning, how people sleep eight to a room in the dormitories (where often some will sleep while others get up to work), how gift-wrapped items are done by hand, and the telling line that "The average starting salary at Foxconn is around $285 a month or $1.78 an hour. Even with 80 hours of overtime it considered so low that the Chinese government does not deduct any payroll taxes."In anaccompanying article, Weir talks to one executive at Foxconn who says it is the international pressure that has driven the change."You being here is part of the openness, part of the learning, part of the change that Foxconn is undergoing," said Louis Woo, a former Apple executive who serves as an advisor to Foxconn CEO, Terry Gou. "Of course you can argue that we should have opened up five years ago. Well five years ago, we are under the radar screen, nobody really knows us, we are doing well. Why should I open it up?"I ask if it took such deadly tragedy for Foxconn to rethink the way it treats its workers. "I think absolutely, absolutely, yeah," he says. "You know, success is the mother of failure. Because we've been so successful, successful in the sense that it seems everybody's happy. Right?"Weir says that access was unencumbered:Apple promised complete access, no dog-and-pony, no Potemkin Village, but they denied my repeated requests to interview Apple CEO Tim Cook or the senior vice president of industrial design, Jony Ive.In a three-golf-cart convoy, both Apple and Foxconn reps took us around to a half dozen production lines in Shenzhen and Chengdu, and there were always five to six people with us as we toured the factories and dorms. But aside from suggesting a visit to the counseling center or canteen, they never steered us to interviews and never interrupted.There are some other telling moments, such as when Weir speaks to a counsellor about the suicides that attracted so much attention:"So why did the horror happen?" I ask. "There are many reasons," she says. "We had many scholars here doing research. Of course some (suicide) has to do with the management. But they had more to do with the new generation of migrant workers from the rural areas, their state of mind and how they cope with society. Also it's hard to make friends here."And what about Apple's shift to letting people like ABC go and see its supplier lines, and letting the Fair Labor Association in to inspect them?"We call it the 'Nike moment' in the industry," audit inspector Ines Kaempfer [of the FLA] adds. "There was a moment for Nike in the '90s, when they got a lot of publicity, negative publicity. And they weren't the worst. It's probably like Apple. They're not necessarily the worst, it's just that the publicity is starting to build up. And there was just this moment when they just started to do something about it. And I think that's what happened for Apple."Kaempfer is completely expectant that Foxconn is putting on a show for its inspections, which were not a surprise, and that the visible compliance with safety standards might not be what they do all the time. But the true picture will emerge from the "bottom up" confidential interviews with the staff, Kaempfer says: "the dysfunctionality starts to come up."
So, those Windows tablets. Given that the iPad and Kindle Fire are sweeping all before them, where will Windows fit in once it launches later this year?Tim Anderson, in common with multiple thousands of eager Windows developers, is keen to try out the forthcoming Windows 8 Preview. So he's beenlooking around for a tablet on which to try it out.OK, so what are your choices? It has to be an Intel tablet - the code for Windows On ARM (WOA) isn't going to be released, Steve Sinofsky, the Windows chief, points out in his super-long blogpost about the forthcoming OS. Only manufacturers will get that.To properly test the Preview, you really want to be able to take advantage of some of the smart features that Microsoft has built in. One thing it has which the iPad definitely doesn't (and nor does any flavour of Android so far) is the "Snap" feature, which can put two applications on the screen at once. One app gets about two-thirds of the screen, and the other (subsidiary) one gets the remainder, minus the right-hand Charms bar (which has the functions).Fine - but if you want that, then you need a tablet with a resolution of 1366x768 (which is a 16:9 ratio; the first two generations of iPad use 1204x768, which is 4:3).As Sinofsky explains, "We chose this [1366x768] resolution as it can fit the width of a snapped app, which is 320px (also the width designed for many phone layouts), next to a main app at 1024×768 app (a common size designed for use on the web)."Great. Except many of the tablets presently on the market don't offer 1366x768. They're much more likely to offer 1280x800 (which is a 16:10 ratio). Anderson found that you can get the Samsung Slate 7 with the requisite resolution - but it's not on general sale in the UK; he could only find it on ebuyer.com for more than £950.Yikes. As things stand that twice the price of an iPad. Yes, Windows 8 on an Intel tablet brings all sorts of benefits (such as running legacy code directly, plus the new Metro interface), but that sort of price delta puts it right back in the place where tablets were before the iPad arrived: overpriced and not offering anything more than a cheaper laptop (which will come with a built-in keyboard too).Though as Anderson points out, there's also theDell Inspiron Duo, the convertible 10.1in tablet (aka "the deckchair") with a dual core Intel Atom N570 processor, 1366x768 and 2GB of RAM. That has the much more reasonable price of £339. But with an Intel Atom (even dual-core), it's not going to set the processing world on fire. And the customer reviews indicate that the battery life is around two and a half hours: "I can only get through a couple lectures when the battery is dead as opposed to two days on the iPad," says one customer who has both.We'll expect that Windows 8 brings much better battery management, though it's hard to know how the Intel versions will compete with ARM products.Another thing about 1366x768: it's a pretty strange resolution for those used to laptop screens which tend to be more like 16:10. Look atthis discussion on Superuser: people talk about what a dire height that is. (Most prefer 1280x800, which is 16:10 - common to most laptops.) The difference between 16:10 and 16:9 might not sound much, but it's going to make things that looked great on a laptop or desktop look strange, because you'll have such constricted height.This dearth of tablets, as Anderson points out, means that most people will try the Consumer Preview on virtual machines, or a standard desktop or laptop, or a cheaper 1280x800 tablet: "this will not show the new operating system at its best," he points out.Here's the key point:The Samsung slate handed out at the BUILD conference last September, which I had on loan for a few days, was delightful to use, whereas Windows 8 Developer Preview (the same build) is nothing special in a virtual machine.But that also raises a further question. If Windows tablets - including ARM tablets - are going to require that 1366x768 resolution (which presently isn't very common on tablets) then that is going to drive the cost of those devices up. And given that we know that the tablet market is presently very price-sensitive (if you're not the iPad, then it's best to be priced around the $200 mark, like the Kindle Fire), is there really going to be enough demand to make Windows Intel tablets sell?As for Windows on ARM tablets, which are an even more unknown quantity - and screen resolution - the expectation has previously been that those would be price-competitive with the iPad. But if you add in the inclusion of Office (which Microsoft is hinting, but not saying, will be included; certainly it's the only desktop app that will be allowed on WOA), it looks like they're going to be much more expensive.In fact, they might be coming in at well above the $800 mark - perhaps, if the Samsung Slate 7 price is any guide, more like $1,000 (and so probably £1,000 in the UK). Is there really going to be a market at that price, when you could buy an ultrabook instead and get all those benefits?So - puzzling data. Where are all the tablets running 1366x768 resolutions? Do tell us in the comments. And let us know what price you think would be acceptable for an Intel or ARM Windows 8 tablet.
Angry Birds is set to go galactic with a new game called Angry Birds space, due for release on 22 March according to developer Rovio Mobile.The companypromises on its blogthat it will be "the biggest game launch since the original Angry Birds", while adding that it is "a completely new game with innovative new gameplay, but with some of the familiar Angry Birds elements that fans already know and love".Rovio has grand ambitions for the new game too, claiming that it will be launching "simultaneously in mobile gaming, animation, retail, and publishing". The company haslaunched a websitefor the new title, and uploaded 'Teaser #1' to YouTube, presumably with more to come.The 20-second trailer reveals nothing about the game bar reiterating its launch date, but Yahoo Games hasmore detailsfrom an interview with general manager of Rovio North America Andrew Stalbow, claiming that Angry Birds Space will feature zero gravity levels and slow-motion puzzles, as well as two big brand partnerships."Science and education are very important to us, and we're very excited to have NASA and National Geographic as launch partners on Angry Birds Space," says Stalbow.The launch will cap a busy first quarter of 2012 for Rovio, which launched the Facebook version of Angry Birds on 13 February, complete with new power-ups that can be bought in-game, gifted or earned.According to industry analytics site AppData, Angry Birdsalready has 340,000 daily active users(DAUs), although that only makes it the 153rd most popular Facebook game at the time of writing, a long way behind Words With Friends, which with 8.9m DAUs is the most popular game by that metric.Rovio's last Angry Birds milestone had the game notching up more than 700m downloads across all platforms, although as the franchise diversifies, it may soon be more useful to adopt social gaming metrics for a more accurate gauge of its popularity – in October 2011, the companysaid it had 30m DAUsfor the Angry Birds games, but that figure may well be higher now.
The filesharing website The Pirate Bay has come a step closer to being blocked in the UK after the high court ruled that the site breaches copyright laws on a large scale.Major music groups want British internet service providers (ISPs), such as BT and BSkyB, to prevent their millions of customers from accessing The Pirate Bay in the UK.In a judgment handed down at the high court in London on Monday, Mr Justice Arnold ruled that The Pirate Bay and its users unlawfully share copyrighted music.The Pirate Bay is one of the world's longest-running and biggest filesharing sites. According to record labels, it generated up to $3m in advertising revenue in October last year by making 4m copies of music and films available to its 30 million worldwide users. The site has 3.7 million users in the UK, according to comScore.The high court is expected to rule in June whether the ISPs should prevent their customers from accessing The Pirate Bay.Mr Justice Arnold said in a written judgment: "In my judgment, the operators of [The Pirate Bay] do authorise its users' infringing acts of copying and communication to the public. They go far beyond merely enabling or assisting."I conclude that both users and the operators of [The Pirate Bay] infringe the copyrights of the claimants … in the UK."The music groups claim that The Pirate Bay ignored repeated requests to stop making available copyrighted music."Despite their ability to do so and despite the judicial findings that have been made against them, the operators of [The Pirate Bay] take no steps to prevent infringement," the judge said. "On the contrary … they actively encourage it and treat any attempts to prevent it (judicial or otherwise) with contempt."The high court action follows a blocking order made against the Newzbin2 website, aftera judge found it infringed copyright on a grand scale.The case was seen as a green light for rights holders to force ISPs to block access to a number of high-profile filesharing sites in the UK, using the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the British Phonographic Industry, which represents the music groups in the UK, said: "The high court today ruled that The Pirate Bay is illegal. The site defrauds musicians and causes huge damage to the music industry and wider creative industries."The ruling helps clarify the law on website blocking and we will now proceed with our application to have the site blocked to protect the UK's creative industries from further harm."In April 2010, The Pirate Bay co-founders Fredrik Neij, Peter Sunde and Carl Lundstrom werefound guilty in a Swedish courtof allowing internet users to infringe copyright. They were collectivelyordered to pay a £4.1m fine.
Brutal Legend. Day of the Tentacle. Psychonauts. Costume Quest. The games of Tim Schafer and the fun-lovin' lot at Double Fine Productions in San Francisco are noted for the way they bend genres, deviate from the norm and provide gamers with laugh-out-loud moments of comedy gold.The studio's latest release, however, is something a little different as, according to Schafer, it's not really a video game. The second title Schafer has helmed for the Kinect interface, Happy Action Theater, is a kind of virtual toy aimed at the very young and the very young at heart.Where did the idea for Happy Action Theater come from?Well, I have a young daughter and I was trying to play a Kinect game with her that was perfect for her age group – you know, it was cute and she wanted to interact with it. But I found that even though Kinect removes a lot of barriers – like buttons and controllers – there's still a couple still in place, like signing in, or positioning yourself properly, which are hard for really young players. The hardware is so powerful, and its depth sensor should be able to pick up what you're doing and engage you.So I thought about what sort of thing would engage my daughter. I started thinking about much more free-form activities that would do that. At the same time, I realised that this didn't have to be just a kids' game – it could be fun for to adults to play at a party. So, that was the goal, really; to make a game that was fun for a birthday party filled with three-year-olds, and a party filled with drunken grownups. Well, you don't have to be drunk, but it helps!It's weird, isn't it, that games that are aimed at very young players such as Happy Action Theater and Monkey Buzz, seem to also hit the demographic of drunken 30-somethings spending a Friday evening in?Well, any mental impairment will usually do the trick. We purposefully made it so it wasn't too kiddie-oriented. It doesn't have spelling-bee's and 1-2-3-counting exercises. What we wanted was what you'd call enriching content, which is all about inspiring the imagination of kids and presenting fantastical scenarios, like it's snowing in your living room, or there's hot lava flowing through your house. We just wanted to let kids play with that. We found that adults took to it too.As the father of a young child, you're probably aware that young audiences can be quite discerning …… they are.So I imagine the age range of the beta testers for this was pretty wide?Oh, that was critical. We would come up with ideas and then we would rapidly prototype in the office. We would get a rough version going in a day and then see if it was fun. We found that if you feel like you're physically interacting with an object on the screen, it's very satisfying, so we developed a lot of activities around that.Then Microsoft would have a weekly play-test with kids of different age groups, along with groups of parents, too. We got to watch the live-stream feed and we learned a lot about the game we were making in that it just wasn't being experienced the way we'd imagined.There were some immediate successes. We knew, for example, that knocking down buildings and crashing helicopters like Godzilla would be fun and the kids got that right away. But the lava was weird – we thought kids would jump on the couch to avoid it and it turned out they wanted to swim in it and hide in it and splash around in it. We made Achievement changes to reflect that. We really took the lead from the kids on that one.Happy Action Theater doesn't really feel like a gaming experience, really, does it? It doesn't have difficulty levels, progressions and the like. Would you describe it as a game or a toy?I think it's definitely not a game. Toy is the word I'd use to describe it because it's like Play-Doh in that you can play with it for hours if you want. We give the player a situation to interact with. Say, there are pigeons flying around in your living room. We don't have any tutorials in the game, so we have to rely on knowing what kids will instinctively do in that situation. We know some kids, when they see a pigeon, will identify a mortal enemy and they know instinctively they have to chase it down!Then again, there are some kids who would just like to stand there with their arms outstretched and have the pigeons land on them.It's really just a video toy that allows you to interact with a bunch of fun situations in your living room. That's really where we started. When we were developing Once Upon a Monster for Kinect – which isn't as competitive as a shooter, for example – the game still needed to keep track of all the players and what they were doing. Kids don't conform that way; they want to run off-camera, or come right up close to the camera or climb on each others' shoulders. So when we thought about how we were going to track all that with the Kinect module, one of the first things to go was the temptation to put in gaming conceits, like a score, for example.As soon as you have that, you need a sense of accuracy where you need to be able to track the player. So we thought, what if we just relieve ourselves of that and focus instead on reacting to the player? Have the toy just react to the chaos in the room. Rather than be a scorekeeper or a referee, it would just be a playmate.Was this a way of creating an experience that plays to Kinect's weaknesses, with regards to the sensor's latency issues?That's not really much of an issue in the game. You know, when you're splashing around in the lava, if the lava doesn't go exactly as high as you feel it should have done when you kicked it, it doesn't really look inaccurate. In a lot of the situations, we work to enhance the chaos.On the other hand, we've done a lot of work towards making everything look good. We're having the video feed interact with moving objects so we've put a lot of work into presentation. You know, when you're in a pit full of rubber balls, we've made sure the balls are taking shadows and lighting from you. You take lighting from virtual fireworks you hold in another activity. When you grab a fishhook and get pulled off-screen, we replace you with the background so it looks like you're missing from your living room.Were the development costs quite low for Happy Action Theater?It was slightly cheaper than Brutal Legend. By many millions of dollars. (Laughs) It was built to be a kind of "fly-below-the-radar" project. Something we made with a small team and in a small timescale. Once we got the basic game up and running, people could see that it had a very powerful affect on kids and that it was very accessible. We got a little more money and support off the back of that, so it grew to where we could make it look fancier and nicer and generally polish it up.It started small and it did stay small compared to some of our other games. The more money you ask for, the fewer risks you can take, and I wanted the space to have a lot of autonomy and take a lot of risks. The trick there was to fly low.Did you find the experience slightly more liberating than if you were working on Triple A titles?Yeah, definitely because you could try out a ton of activities and none of those activities, you know, something like Skyrim. We got to try out little simple ideas and see if they're compelling. Some of the ideas are good – like we came up with the idea for a kaleidoscope you could play with – but they're not deep – like the hot lava you can play around in. It ended up being a compilation of the best ideas, like a really cool mix-tape. It was 18 different games in one.Is this a new direction for Double Fine? Would you rather work on these smaller projects?Well, as the games get bigger and bigger, you've got to ask for more and more money and you can take less and less risks. When you come up with a new IP, like we like to do at Double Fine, which has untested worlds and combinations of different genres of gameplay – people feel less comfortable about risking $30m (£18m).The fun part for me is coming up with these worlds and ideas, though, and it's nice when you can do that with $30m. But it's also nice to not have that overhead sometimes, when you can do a small project and move on to the next thing. Depending on how successful an idea is, though, you never know, it could turn into a blockbuster game.I'm happy with this arrangement where I get to come up with crazy ideas that then turn into something like Happy Action Theater, and I'd never like to give up that. But I'd also never want to give up making immersive fantasy worlds, but sometimes that just costs money. If you want to make someone feel like they're in the world, of say, Brutal Legend, it takes time to produce that world. I don't think we'll ever give up our aspirations of creating worlds like that, but right now we're just having fun.You've developed two Kinect titles for younger audiences now. From that experience of developing those games, do you think Kinect has more potential than we've seen so far, when it comes to making games for the hardcore audience?I think it's possible, but I'd rather leave that to other people to figure out, because all of the ideas I have for Kinect games are aimed at families and kids because they're more comfortable jumping about and looking goofy in their living room. There are probably other people who are a lot smarter than me who are working on core titles for Kinect.Do you think you'll be developing more games for the Kinect sensor?We are still exploring what Kinect can do, and I expect that we would keep playing with it in the future.Do you think, that on next generation of consoles motion sensing controllers are going to be a major factor?Game controllers that let you stand up in your living room without the need to hold anything will continue to grow – not just for games but as utilities. I actually use the voice commands on the Xbox dashboard a lot. And I think we know they'll be here in the future, because we've seen it in Total Recall and Minority Report – and movies never lie. We will be learning to play tennis in front of our TVs with a hologram.But both of the movies you're citing are based on Philip K Dick novels. Now, are you saying we'll get lightsabers as well?Did Philip K Dick invent lightsabers?No, but this is why I'm asking; is it just the sci-fi tech we see in films based on Philip K Dick novels that we can take as given, or are you saying we'll get the tech from the Lucasfilm movies too?Well, obviously we'll have lightsabers! George Lucas showed us how cool they are! Listen to the way they sound! They even sound cool, so I'm sure there's someone working on one right now.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 18 FebruaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)UFC Undisputed 3(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (45)12 (5)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (31)Wii (9)PSP (5)213 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (44)Wii (3)PC (2)154 (10)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (64)3DS (36)125 (6)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (39)PC (7)176 (2)Final Fantasy XIII-2(16+)PS3 (55)Xbox 360 (42)37 (14)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (42)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (18)3DS (9)128 (3)The Darkness II(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (35)PC (2)29 (9)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (39)PC (11)1510 (12)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (83)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (2)1911 (8)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (1)1412 (1)Kingdoms Of Amalur: Reckoning(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (37)PC (7)213 (4)Metal Gear Solid Hd Collection (15+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)314 (13)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (75)Xbox 360 (20)PS3 (4)4715 (–)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (26)Wii (23)DS (22)PS3 (16)616 (16)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (35)1417 (15)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (33)PC (2)1418 (–)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)DS (37)Wii (33)Xbox 360 (12)PS3 (8)2819 (–)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)1320 (17)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (45)Xbox 360 (37)Wii (8)3DS (7)13UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 17 apps for you today:Sky GoBSkyB has launched its Sky Go app for Android, following its debut on iOS in 2011. It provides live access of up to 22 Sky channels depending on the user's home subscription status. Up to two devices can be registered, but it appears to be smartphone-only at the moment: supported at launch are the HTC Desire, HTC Desire S, HTC Desire HD, HTC Incredible, HTC Sensation, Samsung Galaxy S and Samsung Galaxy S IIAndroidPeppa Me BooksPenguin's Me Books app for classic Ladybird children's books has been a hit, not least because it lets kids re-record dialogue and text in their own voices. Now Peppa Pig is getting the same treatment on iOS, with one book included and others available via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadNet Nanny Safe BrowserParents spooked about what their children might be doing on an Android device? There are numerous apps for that, as every web security company piles onto Google's platform. The latest is Net Nanny – a Mozilla-based Android browser that filters the web based on four age profiles, and 18 content categories. It even blocks other browsers from launching.AndroidLegendary HeroesThere is justifiable excitement around the launch of this Android game from developer Maya. It's an action real-time strategy game with spiffing graphics and a freemium business model – buy in-game diamonds to help upgrade characters.AndroidWinZipAs iOS utilities go, this is one of the more useful: open and manage zip attachments from email, including encrypted files and those on webmail services like Gmail and Hotmail.iPhone / iPadCloudOnMicrosoft has yet to bring native apps for its Office suite to Apple's iPad, but CloudOn is plugging the gap in the meantime. Its app enables you to create, edit and view Word, Excel and PowerPoint files, while synchronising them with DropBox. It's been available to US users for a while, but is now available in the UK too.iPadCarbonLooking for an alternative Twitter app for Windows Phone? Carbon is the latest contender, promising a Metro-optimised interface that puts "All of Twitter on one screen".Windows PhoneAnthm - Powered by RdioThis is a clever idea, although you'll need a subscription to streaming music service Rdio to use it – not something that's available in the UK yet. The app functions as a party jukebox: "Launch the app, start a party then you and your friends can add music into one playlist... Unlike a jukebox, everyone can vote songs UP to hear them sooner and vote them DOWN to move them down the playlist."iPhoneMonster ShooterAnother hotly-tipped Android game comes from Gamelion, whose latest title promises that "hand-drawn 2D ultra violence has never looked this cute". It's another free-to-play game, with dual-stick virtual controls.AndroidCisco Smart StorageCisco has launched an app for its Smart Storage NAS devices, enabling iPhone and iPad owners to stream music, videos and photos from one to the other. The app caches recently-played music for offline listening, and can upload photos to the Smart Storage device from the iOS unit.iPhone / iPadBerlitz Mon Prof de Français for iPadBerlitz's new language-learning app offers a 15-minute daily French routine, as well as tests and a built-in dictionary.iPadBurtonIt's not yet available in the UK App Store, but Burton's new iPhone app is the latest example of a brand exploring the potential of apps. It's aimed at snowboarders with a powder alarm, day trackers and downloadable wallpapers.iPhoneLego Duplo ZooLego's latest iOS game sees a rabbit, a giraffe and a lion living in present-distributing harmony. It's all based on the Duplo sub-brand.iPhone / iPadPikhubThe latest social photography app for iPhone is Pikhub, which promises to "create social albums for your past, present and future events and bring together the entire event's experience". That means geolocation features, group sharing and the option to create "missions" around specific events.iPhoneLondon Pub CrawlsWith British binge drinking in the headlines once more, this may not be the most auspicious week to launch an app about London pub crawls. Even so, here it is: 40 suggested walks across the capital, each with four pubs to investigate.iPhoneMoby Dick - A Digital OdysseyMoby Dick is the latest classic fictional work to get the iPad interactive treatment, with the full text accompanied by videos of experts, infographics and a neat hashtag system to create "a book club within the book" so students and teachers can swap views.iPadPeek to RetroPeek to Retro is a games-focused quiz with a clever peeking interface that challenges users thus: "Let's see how your C64 and Spectrum knowledge is smartypants..."iPhone
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNo comment &gt;&gt; Dave WinerI finally decided today that even though sometimes I get some value from having comments here on Scripting News, in balance they're not worth the trouble. So I'm turning them off.Your comments welcome. (Here, obviously.)Major Bitcoin exchange shuts down, blaming regulation and loss of funds &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRuh-roh:Bitcoin experienced a rough night on Monday as TradeHill, the second-largest Bitcoin exchange, announced that it was closing its doors. In a statement, CEO Jered Kenna cited regulatory problems and the loss of $100,000 in a dispute with one of its payment processors as major factors in the decision. He has pledged to open a new site once these issues have been resolved.Bitcoin's exchange rate is now around $4.50, compared to last summer's $30 high. Maybe that will drive the speculators out.Singularitarianism? &gt;&gt; PharyngulaPZ Myers, biologist:Magazines will continue to praise Kurzweil's techno-religion in sporadic bursts, and followers will continue to gullibly accept what he says because it is what they wish would happen. Kurzweil will die while brain-uploading and immortality are still vague dreams; he will be frozen in liquid nitrogen, which will so thoroughly disrupt his cells that even if we discover how to cure whatever kills him, there will be no hope of recovering the mind and personality of Kurzweil from the scrambled chaos of his dead brain.Perhaps "Singularitology"?Google, Safari, and a clamour of cookie confusion &gt;&gt; Lauren WeinsteinWeinstein feels everyone has gotten too het up:My gut feeling is that we've passed beyond the era where it made sense to concentrate on Internet privacy controls and issues mainly in terms of specific technologies as we've done in the past. As noted above, cookies are neither good nor bad, neither intrinsically righteous nor evil. Cookies, like the other local storage mechanisms that have now been implemented, are merely tools. And as with other tools, how they are used is under the control of the entities who deploy these complex functionalities...What we really need to be concentrating on are the fundamental issues of trust and transparency. If we as users feel confident that individual firms are doing their best to be transparent about their policies and are handling our data in responsible manners, then putting our trust (and data) in the hands of those firms is a solid bet.Reasonable, and with useful links. But it then throws the question of who you trust off to a hazy "branding" issue. Is that really helpful?Google's rogue programmers &gt;&gt; James GrimmelmanGoogle Buzz, Streetview's Wi-Fi calamity, Cookiegate:The only other firms I can think of with this kind of sustained inability to make their internal controls stick are on Wall Street. Google has already had to pay out a$500 million finefor running advertisements for illegal pharmaceutical imports. And the company is already operating under a stringent consent decree with the FTC from the Buzz debacle. If those weren't sufficient to convince Larry Page to put his house in order, it's hard to know what will be. Sooner or later, the company will unleash on the internet a piece of software written by the programmer equivalent of a Jérôme Kerviel or a Kweku Adoboli and it won't be pretty, for the public or for Google.Kerviel and Adoboli being two notorious rogue traders. (Grimmenlan is a professor of law.)Android and Chrome OS - Really a two horse race? &gt;&gt; getwired.comFrom September 2010:People expected that Google would have a hissyfit because telcos are bastardizing Android instead of shipping it in the "pure" form offered by Google in the form(s) of the Nexus One and Nexus S. Google hasn't. Why would they? Unlike Apple and Microsoft, their imperative isn't the purity of the platform.... Think for a second - effectively every product Google makes is dedicated to getting you, or keeping you, on the Internet. The Chrome browser isn't setting speed records because Google cares about you in a deep, meaningful way. It's to make the time you use on the web, and on your computer, so painless and effortless that it becomes the way you always do things. Google's true mission statement could to some degree actually be reduced down to: To become your conduit and guide to everything, via the Internet.Eli Pariser: Beware online 'filter bubbles' &gt;&gt; TED.comStunning talk, just nine minutes long, whose key message is embodied by comparing two peoples' searches on one word: Egypt.As web companies strive to tailor their services (including news and search results) to our personal tastes, there's a dangerous unintended consequence: We get trapped in a "filter bubble" and don't get exposed to information that could challenge or broaden our worldview. Eli Pariser argues powerfully that this will ultimately prove to be bad for us and bad for democracy.The best use you'll make of nine minutes today. (Thanks @ocoonassa, from the discussion about Google's Dafari hacking.)New Google+ iOS app, now with Instant Upload! &gt;&gt; Google+Over at Google:A new version of the Google+ iOS app is rolling out to the App Store, and it comes with one of your most requested features: Instant Upload! Once enabled, all photos and videos that you take are automatically uploaded to a private album on Google+ - ready to share with your circles, or the world.Google wants to be the new Facebook, and Flickr, and iCloud.A Sad State of Internet Affairs: The Journal on Google, Apple, and "Privacy" &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogBattelle on Google's circumvention of Apple's blocking of third-party cookies:It'd be nice if the Journal wasn't so caught up in its own "privacy scoop" that it paused to wonder if perhaps Apple has an agenda here as well. I'm not arguing Google doesn't have an agenda - it clearly does. I'm as saddened as the next guy about how Google has broken search in its relentless pursuit of beating Facebook, among others. In this case, what Google and others have done sure sounds wrong - if you've going to resort to tricking a browser into offering up information designated by default as private, you need to somehow message the user and explain what's going on. Then again, in the open web, you don't have to - most browsers let you set cookies by default.Umm. Most browsers might (we'll see how that stands up) but this explicitly went against Apple's settings for Google's benefit. The user became less important than advertisers and Google itself. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the pointer.) Battelle's take (made when the story had just broken) doesn't gel with his commenters, who have had a few hours more to digest it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Foxconn, the Taiwan-owned manufacturer with giant assembly facilities in mainland China which is one of Apple's main contractors, says it has raised wages by up to 25% in the second major salary hike in less than two years.See also:Apple faces its 'Nike moment' as ABC Nightline goes inside Foxconnwith video from inside the facilitiesAs the world's largest electronics contract manufacturer, it has come under intensive scrutiny after a spate of suicides last year and reports of long hours for the hundreds of thousands of staff. Its facilities are scheduled forinspection by a team from the US Fair Labor Association, at the prompting of Apple.The continuing reports of deaths and distress at Foxconn have created a PR problem for Apple, which is seen as the principal user of the company's facilities. So far Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft and Dell have not commented on their use of Foxconn.None is presently amemberof the FLA, whose membership is principally made of clothing companies with suppliers in the Far East.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive,said last weekthat Apple took working conditions very seriously and that every worker had the right to a fair and safe work environment.Apple has also given ABC News's Nightline TV program special access to the Foxconn plants, in a segment due to air on Tuesday.Foxconn employs about 1.2 million workers at a handful of massive plants in China which are run with almost military discipline, in which staff work for six or seven days a week and up to 14 hours per day.The workers assemble iPhones and iPads for Apple, Xbox 360 video game consoles for Microsoft, and computers for Dell and Hewlett-Packard. Foxconn is one of China's largest single private employers.Chinese workers at Foxconn now receive between 1,800-2,500 yuan (£180-£250) per month following the raises that became effective from 1 February, the company said.''This is the way capitalism is supposed to work," David Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,told the New York Times. "As nations develop, wages rise and life theoretically gets better for everyone.''But in China, for that change to be permanent, consumers have to be willing to bear the consequences. When people read about bad Chinese factories in the paper, they might have a moment of outrage. But then they go to Amazon and are as ruthless as ever about paying the lowest prices."Foxconn is also taking measures to limit workers' total work hours. The raises come as a compensation for their reduced overtime, company spokesman Simon Hsing said in a statement.Foxconn said it is cooperating with the FLA inspectors, pledging again to provide a safe and fair work environment.In 2010, a spate of worker suicides at an enormous Foxconn complex in the southern boomtown of Shenzhen drew attention to the stress many young workers faced working in some factories.The company denied allegations that it ran excessively fast assembly lines and demanded too much overtime, but it soon announced two pay hikes that more than doubled basic worker salaries to up to 2,000 yuan per month.Last month, dozens of workers assembling video game consoles climbed to a Foxconn factory dormitory roof in the central Chinese city of Wuhan and some threatened to jump to their deaths amid a dispute over job transfers that was later defused.The New York Times reported that workers welcomed the announced raises and overtime limits, though some were unsure they would cause much real change."When I was in Foxconn, there were rumors about pay raises every now and then, but I've never seen that day happen until I left," said Gan Lunqun, 23, a former Foxconn worker. "This time it sounds more credible."''China can't guarantee the low wages and costs they once did," Ron Turi of Element 3 Battery Venture, a consulting firm in the battery industry, told the paper."And companies like Foxconn have developed international profiles, and so they have to worry about how they're seen by people living in places with very different standards."Foxconn has also announced plans to invest in millions of robots and automate aspects of production.
Hello, it's Monday, did you notice? And was it a good weekend for gaming?
Price£4,999Weight9kgGearsShimano XTR 2x10It's a Porsche with a&nbsp;difference. It has two wheels, 20 gears, one seat, no doors and weighs just 20lb. Its engine is 46 years old, though, and hasn't been tuned in years. Worse than that, it wheezes badly on the slightest hill. On the upside, it's cheap to fuel – it runs on food scraps and red wine… Whether it's a bike or a car, however, some Porsche details are the same: it's fast, expensive, stylish – and still doesn't have a boot.The Porsche RS is a high-spec, carbon-framed bike which in the words of the press release has been "inspired by the company's GT road-car department". I'm not sure if inspired is the right word. It's certainly not the first time a&nbsp;carmaker has gone from four wheels to two. BMW, Land Rover, Audi and Mercedes have all been here before. Of course some bike makers, Peugeot for instance, have gone the other way – from two to four wheels.There are two Porsche bikes to choose from: the S, which comes in at £2,999 and is aluminium framed with a fixed gear, and the RS, at a nostril-twitching £4,999. Both are startling-looking bikes. In the same way that the Panamera and Cayenne have broken ranks with the design ethos of Porsche's classic bubble-shaped 911s, the bikes, too, manage to be Porkers that are both poisedandlumpen. The RS's carbon frame sweeps from the front stem in a graceful arc. Its rear forks bow out in a perfectly sculpted wishbone. But the down pipe and front forks seem swollen and bloated.It's an odd mishmash. The seat is the narrow sort usually seen flossing a&nbsp;road racer's Lycra-wrapped buttocks, but the handlebars are the flat cross of a mountain bike. The frame is an unremarkable grey but each joint and knuckle is picked out in a metallic cerulean. The boutique wheels are outsize 29in-ers, but the huge slicks are out of keeping with the off-road set up. It's either a brave new concept in go-anywhere urban cycling – or just a bit confused.I can't imagine who's going to spend five grand on a bike – even a&nbsp;bike made by the world's greatest car manufacturer. And isn't that just it? They'recarmakers and most Porsche owners I know would drive they're beloved cars into their own bedrooms if only they could. As for cyclists, they're just as brand obsessed, but the same brands don't have credibility in both spheres. MAMILS will gladly fork out £5,000 on a bike; it's just that it would be a Colnago or a Pinarello. Men in leather jackets and Clarkson jeans would clearly spend the five grand upgrading their PDK gearbox.To make the most of the RS, I've been commuting all week on it. And I haven't tired yet of telling my wife cheerfully that "I'll be taking the Porsche to the office today". I&nbsp;even toyed with the idea of putting a&nbsp;Porsche key ring on my D-lock. And here's the thing with Porsche. Just as its rear-engined 911s dominate the world of performance cars despite their engineering rather than because of it, so this odd but supremely crafted superlight hybrid has slowly won me over. It delivers an exhilarating ride. It's smooth, responsive and agile – and not as ugly as I first thought.And how many other Porsches are there which produce no emissions whatsoever (well, hardly)?Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
What happens when you click on a weblink? Here's one answer: a request goes from your computer to a server identified by the URL of the desired link. The server then locates the webpage in its files and sends it back to your browser, which then displays it on your screen. Simple.Well, the process was indeed like that once – a very long time ago. In the beginning, webpages were simple pages of text marked up with some tags that would enable a browser to display them correctly. But that meant that the browser, not the designer, controlled how a page would look to the user, and there's nothing that infuriates designers more than having someone (or something) determine the appearance of their work. So they embarked on a long, vigorous and ultimately successful campaign to exert the same kind of detailed control over the appearance of webpages as they did on their print counterparts – right down to the last pixel.This had several consequences. Webpages began to look more attractive and, in some cases, became more user-friendly. They had pictures, video components, animations and colourful type in attractive fonts, and were easier on the eye than the staid, unimaginative pages of the early web. They began to resemble, in fact, pages in print magazines. And in order to make this possible, webpages ceased to be static text-objects fetched from a file store; instead, the server assembled each page on the fly, collecting its various graphic and other components from their various locations, and dispatching the whole caboodle in a stream to your browser, which then assembled them for your delectation.All of which was nice and dandy. But there was a downside: webpages began to put on weight. Over the last decade, the size of web pages (measured in kilobytes) hasmore than septupled. From 2003 to 2011, the average web page grew from 93.7kB to over 679kB.You can see this for yourself by switching on the "view status" bar in your browser; this will tell you how many discrete items go into making up a page. I've just looked at a few representative samples. The BBC News front page had 115 items; the online version of theDaily Mailhad a whopping 344 and ITV.com had 116. Direct.gov had 71 while YouTube and Wikipedia, in contrast, came in much slimmer at 26 and 15 respectively.Whether you view this as a good thing or not depends on where you sit in the digital ecosystem. Aesthetes (and graphic design agencies) drool over the elegance of pages whose look and feel is determined down to the last pixel. Engineers fume at the appalling waste of bandwidth involved in shipping 679kB of data to communicate perhaps 5kB of information. Photographers love the way their high-resolution images are now viewable on Flickr and Picasa. Futurists (and broadband suppliers) rejoice that this epidemic of obese webpages is driving a demand for faster (and more profitable) broadband contracts and point to the fact that communications bandwidth is increasing at a rate even faster than processing power.Personally, I'm a minimalist: I value content more highly than aesthetics.  The websites and pages that I like tend to be as underdesigned as they are cognitively loaded.  Take for example, thehome page of Peter Norvig, who is Google's director of research.  In design terms it would make any graphic designer reach for the sickbag. And yet it's highly functional, loads in a flash and contains tons of wonderful stuff – such as his memorable demolition of the PowerPoint mentality in which he imagines how Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address would look as a"presentation".  Or his hilarious spoof of Einstein's"annual performance review"for 1905, the year in which he published the five papers that changes physics for ever. (Einstein, you may recall, was a humble patent clerk in Berne at the time.)But in addition to these plums, Norvig's site is full of links to fantastically useful resources – such as the open source code that accompanies his textbooks. And it's as easy to navigate as anything produced by a web-design agency for £100,000 plus an annual service contract.Sites like his remind one that the web is not just about shopping orLOLcatsbut is the most wonderful storehouse of information and knowledge that humanity has ever possessed.Think of it as the Library of Alexandria on steroids. And remember that it's as accessible to someone in Africa on the end of a flaky internet connection as it is to a Virgin subscriber in Notting Hill who gets 50MB per second on a good day.
Vita, for those who have missed&nbsp;the hype, is the latest handheld to emerge from PlayStation supremo Sony. A successor to the PSP and rival to Nintendo's 3DS, it is also quite possibly the most powerful games machine ever produced for the back pocket.Its clean, polished design makes the Vita look every bit the cutting-edge gadget, and in the hands it feels just as a high-end gaming portable should: robust and compact. But in an era where smartphones and tablets are already hugely popular, power and good looks are no longer enough. If the Vita is going to succeed it needs to offer distinctive features and games for a range of tastes and budgets.It certainly has the former. Packed with functionality, it boasts, among other things: a front and back camera; music and video capabilities; a sharp and expansive touch screen; Wi-Fi and (depending on model) 3G connectivity; social media; motion sensitivity; twin control sticks; and, uniquely, a touch-sensitive panel across its back that can be used when navigating virtual worlds. Instead of a disk drive, the Vita has access ports for digital card formats, allowing games to be downloaded through online stores or bought directly on&nbsp;cards released by&nbsp;publishers.Physically, then, the Vita is a marvel, and in combining touch interfaces with so many buttons and sticks, it has a significant advantage over most of its competitors – as is evident in some of its high-end games. The likes ofUncharted,Wipeout 2048andVirtua Tennis 4, all ambitious in size and stuffed with showy visuals, absolutely deliver the "console in your pocket" experience, while download-only titles are also being developed for those seeking more affordable thrills.Yet there is a sense of anachronism that remains difficult to dispel. This powerful, relatively expensive (£229, Wi-Fi-only model; £279, 3G model) device has an air of something imagined in the&nbsp;pre-iPhone era: it stubbornly refuses to acknowledge that the way games are played has moved on. But for devoted gamers interested in PlayStation 3- and Xbox 360-quality blockbuster gaming on the move, it is close to being an essential purchase, and the impressive array of features should make it hugely tempting to the gadget-hungry.Selling well outside of these demographics, however, may well depend on the volume of smaller games published and how competitively they are priced.SIX OF THE BEST PS VITA TITLESUncharted: Golden Abyss£34.99This star of the Vita launch line-up ably demonstrates the power of the platform. Vast and varied, it is comparable to the PS3 games, only letting itself down in the quality of scriptwriting that has made the series a hit.Little Deviants£24.99An accessible collection of bite-sized games with a cheerful spirit,Little Deviantsdoes a superb job of showcasing the variety of the Vita's&nbsp;features. As a welcome for the less familiar gamer, it makes a perfect introduction.Wi peout 2048£34.99Futuristic racing seriesWipeouthas long been Sony's favoured way of drawing the hipster crowd to a new gaming platform, and2048is a great addition to the series, deftly mixing ultra-modern urban raceways with contemporary dance music.Virtua Tennis 4£39.99The same sport that gave the worldPongreturns to bring Sega's long-running tennis series to the Vita. Of all the games in the higher end of the gadget's software price range,Virtua Tennis 4is perhaps most suited to playing on the move.Super Stardust Delta£6.49This 2D shooter is a brilliant example of what the Vita can offer as a download, revisiting the bullet-dodging, laser-wielding shoot 'em-ups that permeate the history of gaming, modernising them with real flair.Escape Plan£9.99It wouldn't be a Sony platform without a minimalist, somewhat abstract release to call its own, andEscape Planfits that bill. A sombre platform-puzzler, it can also be surprisingly cruel and unsettling – perfect.
Beyond the updated fighter line-up, which includes two new weight classes (featherweight and bantamweight) and the addition of a Pride fighting mode,UFC Undisputed 3seems little different to its predecessor. Subtle changes, however, are soon noticeable, both in scope and substance, making this the most realistic and technical fight sim to date.The controls remain largely unchanged, with buttons used to deliver powerful strikes to the head, body or legs (you can now even finish fights with bone-shattering leg-strike TKOs) and the right thumbstick controlling transitions in a clinch or when wrestling on the ground. In EA'sMMA, THQ's rival developer opted for the opposite configuration, using the thumbstick for complex punch combinations, thereby creating a simpler ground game. Nevertheless, THQ has made progress with its own fight dynamics, superbly capturing individual fighter styles and signature moves. There's a new submission system that makes it easier to finish opponents with controlled thumbstick movements (no more frantic rotating), cage interaction to "wall-walk" when backed up, and sway motions to dodge bombs when on your back.Considering how quick some fights can be (flash KOs are rare, but possible), THQ would do well to improve its tardy load times. But that aside,Undisputed 3is an accomplished game with a satisfyingly steep learning curve, whether you're seeking a post-pub rumble or a "hall of fame" career. And thankfully it's free of the online bugs that plagued the last version, making for a much improved online experience&nbsp;too.
PS Vita's promise for the game player is straightforward: a PlayStation 3 in your pocket. That means a ridiculously beautiful and high-resolution screen, two tiny analogue joysticks, and the rest of the buttons found on your now-obsolete PSP. It's also got smartphone standards such as touch screen, tilt control, accelerometer, cameras and microphone, as well as a Vita-exclusive touch panel on the back of the device. Alongside the gaming, few will be surprised to discover that Facebook, Twitter, foursquare, Skype, Netflix, PlayStation Video Store and Google Maps are just a few of the big-name social and shopping add-ons that are now pretty much obligatory for anything that can connect to a modern network. It's light, the battery lasts a respectable few hours' play, and the unit itself is frankly gorgeous. Whether there'll be room for it in pockets already weighed down with smartphones and iPods is debatable, but here are some of the titles it's launching with this Wednesday to further whet your appetite.PS Vita: £229 (wi-fi only) or £279 (3G &amp; wi-fi)Launch titles roundupUncharted: Golden AbyssArriving mere months after big-budget console release Drake's Deception, Golden Abyss delivers a similarly polished adventure, with superb voice acting and characterisation keeping things lighthearted, even if the aiming is a  little ponderous in its frequent gunfights. Still, it brings an unlikely epic grandeur to the world of handheld gaming.SCEE, £44.99Wipeout 2048Wipeout 2048. Photo: PRWipeout has been helping Sony launch consoles since the original PlayStation and it doesn't matter – aside from appearing here in exquisite high definition – that this features essentially the same hover racing, block-rocking beats and mildly psychedelic visuals that made the series famous. It's still a thrilling game.SCEE, £34.99Modnation Racers: Road TripThere's no go-kart game in the world to compete with Mario Kart 7 but Modnation Racers: Road Trip gamely has a go by throwing in endless customisation options, from track creation to accessorising your driver in innumerable amusing ways. Sadly this is missing an online multiplayer mode, which will seriously limit its long-term appeal.SCEE, £34.99Reality FightersThis plays like a simplified Virtua Fighter, with staccato moves blending into combos easily triggered by button mashing. The story mode offers racially stereotypical interludes from Mr Miyagi, your caustic trainer, and the novelty of staging augmented reality fights on your own coffee table is underpinned by decent, if uninspiring, fight mechanics.SCEE, £24.99Virtua Tennis 4: World Tour EditionVirtua Tennis 4: World Tour Edition. Photo: PRFrom the mildly unhinged mother hen mini-game to the world tour's familiar mix of training, matches and rest periods, this is everything its console big brother was, with an added Vita-only "touch vs" mode, where you play against a friend on the same screen, plus a VT cam that lets you take photos of yourself alongside  your virtual player.SEGA, £34.99And the rest...Other launch titles for PS Vita includeLittle Deviants, a set of boring mini-games to encourage exploration of its controls;Escape Plan, a monochromatic platform game with Tim Burton influences;Everybody's Golf, which does its usual grand job of making golf fun; andRidge Racer– like Wipeout, an essential for any new Sony console.
I recently drovea Peugeot that had a funny little see-through screen that flipped&nbsp;up on top of the dashboard in front of the steering wheel. On to the&nbsp;screen the car's speed was projected. Good idea – I could see&nbsp;how fast I was going without my&nbsp;eyes leaving the road, though I&nbsp;have to say the temptation to burn&nbsp;rubber isn't great in a Peugeot&nbsp;3008.This car has an even better system. My speed is projected on&nbsp;to&nbsp;the bottom of the windscreen; it's perfectly clear both day and night. And it's plugged into the GPS,&nbsp;too, so up there next to the speed I'm going is the speed limit of&nbsp;where I&nbsp;am, in a little red speed limit sign.Not only is the system neater, but it's also more likely to be needed. Because the BMW M5 is a beast. What kind of beast? A shark – because it's big and grey and has a&nbsp;fin on the roof and gills on the side.&nbsp;And because it can cruise smoothly and effortlessly, and then, when it needs to… bam, it's off – powerful, fast, dangerous. Very powerful – 560 horses powerful. Very fast – 0-60 in 4.4 seconds (that's Porsche fast, but this is a big fat saloon, with room for five and their luggage, not that you'd know it, so well does it handle). And very dangerous, especially if you have a&nbsp;few points on your licence.The M5 is temptation itself. It whispers in your ear, "Go on, be naughty. You know you want to,&nbsp;Jeremy…"Jeremy? Who the hell is Jeremy?&nbsp;I&nbsp;look in the mirror. Oh my God, I'm Jeremy. My hair has grizzled, I've developed a paunch and some rather unpalatable views, I dress like a twat, I am a twat, and I appeal to twats (well, I must do, because I suddenly rather like myself). I have actually turned into&nbsp;Clarkson.Which is probably why I find myself so attracted to this car, even&nbsp;though the only place you&nbsp;could properly appreciate it would be on a track. I mean, it's insane, as the numbers-in-the-windscreen thing constantly reminds you. Just&nbsp;keeping the figure&nbsp;on the left&nbsp;equal to or less than the figure in the red circle on&nbsp;the right is a constant battle, an&nbsp;exercise in mind control. The horses are whinnying, trying to&nbsp;escape; the Jaws music begins,&nbsp;der dum, der dum, der dum dum dum… Wild animals and&nbsp;metaphors are becoming confused. And excited. As is Jeremy. Deep down in his loins, he's&nbsp;becoming aroused...Euurrgh, I'm sorry. No one should have to read that, ever. I'm sorry. Take this thing away, it's bad for me. I love it.BMW M5PriceFrom £73,040Top speedLimited to 155mphAcceleration0-60 in 4.4 secondsAverageconsumption28.5mpg (combined)CO2 emissions232g/kmEcorating: 2/10Cool rating7/10• Sam Wollaston will be appearing at Guardian Open Weekend on 24 and 25 March. Festival passes are now on sale atguardian.co.uk/open-weekend. Buy your pass before 1 March to ensure the best chance of booking reservations for individual sessions.
TheUS Federal Trade Commission says mobile app developers are doing far too littleto help parents protect the privacy of children who use phones and tablets. And,according to a story in the Wall Street Journal, the head of an app developers trade group agrees; he's quoted as saying:"Parents should have clear, simple, easy-to-use tools to protect their children's privacy."I have an even better idea for the mobile industry, and the tech industry in general: how about providing clear, simple, easy-to-use tools to protect every person's privacy? And for the regulators: is there a way to require the industry to do this, in a way that won't cause more problems than it solves?In recent days, one mini-debacle after another has demonstrated the tech industry's true nature. This is an industry that considers the idea of providing serious privacy choices for its product users an unacceptable deterrent to one of its key business models.The latest round of surprise disclosures began when Path, a social networking company, was discovered to be surreptitiously uploading iPhone users' entire address books to its corporate servers. The CEO apologized –but in the typically unconvincingly manner of tech CEOs (Mark Zuckerberg being the best-known practitioner), whose companies constantly push the boundaries, taking two steps ahead into privacy invasions and then backing up one step.Then, we learned thatTwitter – among a host of other companies including Foursquare– was also storing users' contacts without explicitly explaining what it was doing. Oops, said Twitter, we'll explain it better in the future.In many cases, the initial reason for the activity is benign. Applications that have a social component work better if they can mine your address book in order to help you connect with people you know. What they emphatically donotneed is to store that information after they're finished with that task.Apple's iOS ecosystem has been chiefly implicated in this behavior, and Apple has said it'll work harder to enforce privacy guidelines. But Android users are just as vulnerable in their own way, because Android apps demand all kinds of permissions they don't really need, and which unsuspecting users allow in order to install the apps in the first place.I've "rooted" my Android phone – that is, I've unlocked low-level access that lets me do things the phone-maker would rather I leave alone – and have turned off some of these permissions in apps that clearly do not need them to function. For example, many of these apps say they need access to my phone information, possibly including the numbers I call.I have some sympathy for the app developers. They're working in an ecosystem where they have an incentive to collect as much data as possible from users, because they'd prefer to make money from advertising than by trying to charge end users for what they provide. But they don't usually give us a choice of paying in return for non-invasive data capture; I would gladly pay at least some amount of money, in many cases, if I had that option.I'm looking for third-party products, as well, that let me lock down functions of my devices and software that transmit information to third parties. We need more countermeasures, and I am glad to pay for them if they work.The idea of government intervention in this arena worries me, because bureaucrats tend not to consider unintended consequences. This is especially problematic in a field that moves as fast as technology.But if it's possible to do what the app-developers association spokesman claimed – give parents a way to create granular privacy settings for their kids – then it's equally possible to give the rest of us the same tools. And I'd support government mandates to that effect, though not a blunderbuss approach that did more harm than good.I'm happy to let some web/mobile services track what I do in certain ways. What worries – and angers – me is their assumption that they have all the rights and that I have so few. We need the ability to choose, and to do so in more nuanced ways.
Google has come under attack for violating users' privacy and ignoring their wishes after admitting that it intentionally circumvented security settings in Apple's Safari browser to track users on both desktop computers and iPhones.A number of other advertisers exploited the loophole it had created to track those users too."Our data suggests that millions of users may have been affected," Jonathan Mayer, the independent researcher at Stanford University who discovered the workaround by the search giant, told the Guardian.An Apple spokesman said: "We are aware that some third parties are circumventing Safari's privacy features and we are working to put a stop to it."The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a pressure group for users' rights online, said that then admission was bad news for the company, coming so soon after the news that it is aiming to unite the data it keeps about people using different parts of its services such as YouTube and its main search engine."It's time for Google to acknowledge that it can do a better job of respecting the privacy of web users,"the EFF said in a statement, in which it warned: "Google, the time has finally come. You need to make a pro-privacy offering to restore your user's trust … it's time for a new chapter in Google's policy regarding privacy. It's time to commit to giving users a voice about tracking and then respecting those wishes."The company may also be tracking people without their knowledge on other browsers, including those on its own Android phones, because those do not implement the same security restrictions as Apple does.The admission will put extra pressure on the company in the US where it has already fallen foul of the US Federal Trade Commission over privacy practices, and in Europe where it could still be subject to an antitrust investigation by the European Commission.The circumvention, carried out by a small piece of code, meant that people could see messages indicating whether their associates in Google "Circles" on its Google+ social network had clicked on ads – but it also let Google and other advertisers see which websites people landed on.Mayer told the Guardian that his team had been looking into what was being done for two months, and was sure it had been used by Google certainly since December – though it could have been running since July 2011.Google declined to answer a Guardian request to say when it had begun the tracking.The search giant insisted that a report in the Wall Street Journal, which first revealed the tracking, mischaracterised its actions, and that the users' identities had remained anonymous throughout – although they were signed in to Google's systems.At least three other advertising companies – Vibrant Media, WPP Plc's Media Innovation Group and Gannett's PointRoll – also exploited the Google code to track users.Google's search engine is the default on all Apple's mobile devices and in its Safari browser, of which there are more than 100m in use.By default, Apple's Safari browser only accepts cookies – small chunks of text with unique information such as the time of a user's visit to a site – which come directly from by the sites that users are browsing.But Google wanted to use its DoubleClick and other ad systems to track where people go online, so that it can serve "relevant" ads. It also wanted to be able to integrate its Google+ data into that information.To get around Safari's blocking,the Wall Street Journal explains, Google put code onto some of its ads served by DoubleClick's servers at doubleclick.net to fool the Safari browser into thinking the user was interacting with DoubleClick.But, the EFF notes: "That had the side effect of completely undoing all of Safari's protections against doubleclick.net."That meant that other DoubleClick cookies, including the principal tracking one which Safari would normally block, were allowed."Like a balloon popped with a pinprick, all of Safari's protections against DoubleClick were gone," the EFF said.In a statement, Google said: "We used known Safari functionality to provide features that signed-in Google users had enabled. It's important to stress that these advertising cookies do not collect personal information."Unlike other major browsers, Apple's Safari browser blocks third-party cookies by default. However, Safari enables many web features for its users that rely on third parties and third-party cookies, such as [Facebook's] 'Like' buttons."Last year, we began using this functionality to enable features for signed-in Google users on Safari who had opted to see personalised ads and other content – such as the ability to '+1' [the equivalent of Facebook's 'Like' for Google's new Google+ social network] things that interest them."To enable these features, we created a temporary communication link between Safari browsers and Google's servers, so that we could ascertain whether Safari users were also signed into Google, and had opted for this type of personalisation."But we designed this so that the information passing between the user's Safari browser and Google's servers was anonymous – effectively creating a barrier between their personal information and the web content they browse."However, the Safari browser contained functionality that then enabled other Google advertising cookies to be set on the browser [by other advertising companies using the DoubleClick network]. We didn't anticipate that this would happen, and we have now started removing these advertising cookies from Safari browsers. It's important to stress that, just as on other browsers, these advertising cookies do not collect personal information."While the data collected by the cookies would not contain the user's name or personal details, privacy campaigners have long pointed out that the pattern of a user's web browsing allows a picture of them to be built up which can led to direct identification or profiling so precise that it leave little doubt about their identity.Google's use of such systems in defiance of the settings of the user's browser is the first time the company has been found doing so.Google said: "Users of Internet Explorer, Firefox and Chrome were not affected. Nor were users of any browser (including Safari) who have opted out of our interest-based advertising program using Google's Ads Preferences Manager."We didn't anticipate that this would happen, and we have now started removing these advertising cookies from Safari browsers."Cory Doctorow, a novelist and columnist for the Guardian,commented at the Boing Boing blogthat he believed the tactic by Google indicated that the internal pressure put on staff by chief executive Larry Page to integrated "social" elements into all its work – which has included the announcement that all staff bonuses are now tied to Google's success in social software – "is leading the company to take steps to integrate G+ at the expense of the quality of its other services.He pointed out that his own Google Mail account, whose address he has never made public, "has somehow become visible to G+ users, so that I get many, many G+ updates and invites to this theoretically private address, every day, despite never having opted into a directory and never having joined G+".
Modnation Racers: Road Trip ★★★PS Vita; £39.99; cert 7+; SonyIt's a lazy, oft-repeated comparison but a mostly accurate one. Modnation Racers is Mario Kart road battling meets LittleBigPlanet customisation. Certainly on the track, the muscle memory learned in Miyamoto's classic serves players well, with taut, frantic races that have characters switching places in a blaze of nitrous boosts and weapon strikes.Mario Kart's purity may be muddied a little with a boost gauge (that fills when you drift around corners or absorb your weapon) and a host of optional challenges (eg, collect three weapons before you reach the finish line) but the strong core remains untouched, a game that brings just enough of is own style and tone to shift from dead-eyed clone to fiery homage.Off track and the game is far less fussy than LittleBigPlanet, allowing you to throw together tracks, characters and vehicles of all shapes, size and texture in next to no time. Components are selected with a radial dial in the bottom left of the screen, allowing you to swipe and poke at options.It's a little cramped – occasionally you'll swipe past the option you wanted and need to make a series of jerking thumb moves to get back on track – but offers a breezy kind of customisation both for those with inspiration and plans they want to execute and those without, who just want to browse and tinker. An auto-populate option will even furnish a track you've just designed with weapon-drops, scenery and speed ramps if you can't quite be bothered.While there are some ad-hoc multiplayer modes and a clutch if asynchronous modes that allow you to download ghost data, the lack of an online head-to-head mode is a clear oversight (or, over-budget, more like). But despite this shortcoming, Road Trip offers a compelling kart game wrapped in a UGC dream, where the least creative player and the most can both create something satisfying and shareable.Simon ParkinEscape Plan ★★★PS Vita; £9.99; Fun Bits InteractiveI wanted to like Escape Plan more than I actually do. It features cute characters, interesting mechanics and comes packaged in an artistic style that's gorgeous, zany and unique. However, this PA Vita launch title is let down badly by imprecise controls, an arbitrary scoring system and the overall sense that it serves to function more as a tech-demo rather than a gaming experience that players will feel compelled to return to.In Escape Plan players control Lil and Laarg, two characters who look like they're made of black vinyl and ink, who are trying to escape a facility that bears a passing resemblance to a factory crossed with a psycho ward. The place is comprised of a series of puzzle rooms that the pair needs to navigate with the help of the player, who guides the movements of their two charges, and interacts with certain movable objects in their environment.The PS Vita's front and rear touchpads control the lion's share of the in-game movement, although there is the odd instance when players will need to use the console's trigger buttons and its SixAxis functionality. They can also move the in-game camera around the rooms with the console's two joysticks.  The structure of the game is brutally simple; Lil and Laarg enter a room (sometimes separately) and they have to make their way to the exit while avoiding any fatal obstacles the room may contain. Once the room is solved, the player is given a rating out of three stars and they move onto the next one.The puzzles themselves start off insultingly easy and then slowly ratchet up to frustratingly hard levels. For example, an early puzzle involves moving a brick out of Lil's way so he doesn't trip over it and die. Later, the player has use laser-guided precision to poke a series of ledges out of a wall with the rear touchpad, to prevent the blades of a giant fan slicing Laarg open like a grapefruit. Lil and Laarg have certain abilities, which aid in the puzzle solving. Lil can float about a room if he fills himself up with gas and he is also capable of short bursts of speed if he downs a cup of coffee. Laarg can use his impressive bulk to break through wooden barriers.Escape Plan is likely to appeal to players who just want a casual, quirky puzzler to breeze through. The structure is very similar to that of games that are proven hits on smartphone platforms – such as Angry Birds and Cut The Rope – and it goes down very well in bite-sized chunks. Its presentation is immaculate; the game's visuals are adorable, yet contain Tim Burton-esque levels of gothic quirk, while the soundtrack is a mix of cute sound effects and sublime (and largely out of copyright) classical music.However, these strengths won't satisfy gamers for whom high scores are a priority. Escape Plan's scoring system is based on the number of gestures the player uses to solve each puzzle room and the more gestures they use, the lower their end score is. The problem here is that the controls are frequently too imprecise to guarantee the player can hit a high score.The exact level of precision needed to solve some levels is difficult to achieve with the rear touchpad, and the fact that some levels require knife-edge timing on the part of the player just rubs salt in the wound. One mechanic, that involves pinching Lil to expel gas from his lungs and lower him to earth, depends on what direction he's facing in. Given that his aerial movements are entirely controlled through the SixAxis function, the player has little to no ability to influence this.It's a pity because with an increased level of fidelity in its control system would have marked Escape Plan out as one of the PS Vita's must-have titles. As it is, it's a pleasant diversion at best. Still, it's evident that in Escape Plan is the kernel of a great game, and this makes the future of endeavours of Fun Bits Interactive well worth keeping an eye on.Nick CowenEverybody's Golf ★★★★PS Vita; £39.99; cert 3+; SonyGolf games have been a console staple since the early eighties – remember Golf on the NES, or World Tour Golf on the Commodore 64 and Amiga? These days, the golf game that usually springs to mind is the EA series Tiger Woods PGA Tour. Woods is good, but for many of us, there's more fun to be had with Everybody's Golf.The long-running series is on fine form here, and finds a comfortable home on the PS Vita. As always, the graphics are sensational – almost photo-realistic courses blended with anime-style Japanese avatars. This, it has to be said, is probably the most Nintendo-like game of Sony's entire line-up.If you're familiar with the Everybody's Golf series, then you know what to expect. If not, it's a game that's pretty easy to pick up and play, but it will take you many hours to master.The shot-making is not overly complicated – tap the X-button three times to start the stroke, set the power and strike the ball. But getting the timing right is the tricky part, and that's where practice comes in. I can't stress enough that a round or two in Training is worth the time before you take on the myriad challenges at your fingertips.Post-training you have two options – Stroke or Challenge. Stroke play is simply you against yourself, going around either nine or 18 holes to card the best score you can. Challenge sees you playing in tournaments against AI players to earn points – 1,500 is the standard prize for a nine-hole round. The points you win can then be exchanged for equipment upgrades in the clubhouse, or buy new clothing or background music. And as you progress you get to unlock features such as better skills, or new courses to play.The beginner's courses, starting with Maple Leaf in Canada, are pretty easy and forgiving, but once you progress, it gets tougher. In beginner's mode, I could easily get through 18 holes on a London tube journey (and finish nicely at four over par), but the Amateur and Pro tournaments are not quite that easy. One stray ball, and you can end up in a ravine that will take you 20-odd shots to get out of and completely ruin your round. Yes, this video game can be just as frustrating as the real thing ... although it requires a lot less sunscreen. And you lose less balls.The touchscreen itself doesn't really enter into the gameplay. You can tap your character (he'll say hi to you), rustle the trees and move the ball around on the tee to find a better position ... but that's about all. The rear touchpad comes into play a lot more – that can be used to measure the distance from any point to both the ball and the hole, which is useful when making a club choice.It was impossible to check out the online offering pre-launch, but we're told it will include the opportunity to play in a daily international tournament. Plus there will also be a multiplayer option where up to 30 players can compete, and a social networking feature to just chat about golf or set up a game.Everybody's Golf doesn't do anything particularly new or revolutionary, but it does what it does very well indeed.Stuart O'Connor
Tiga, the trade body representing independent UK games developers has submitted new evidence to the treasury and to the Department of Culture, Media and Sport in support of targetted tax relief for the games industry.The report, titled A Video Games Tax Relief: An Incentive to Build a Sustainable Video Games Development Sector, puts forward plans for a tax relief system similar to that already provided to the UK film industry. This would mean 20% relief on the UK core expenditure for games costing over £3m to produce, and 25 per cent of the UK core expenditure for game projects budgeted at between £50,000 and £3m.Tiga chief executive Dr Richard Wilson claims that the tax relief would more than pay for itself over five years, calculating that it would generate and safeguard 4,661 direct and indirect jobs, while increasing the games development sector's contribution to UK GDP by £283m.Britain has always been a world leader in the global games industry, which generates more than $50bn a year and is projected to grow by 8.2% a year up to 2015, according to Price Waterhouse Coopers.However, tax incentives employed in countries such as Canada and the US have attracted major publishers, who have witthdrawn support from UK studios over the past five years.Tiga has estimated that 41% of the jobs lost in the UK games development sector between 2009 and 2011 relocated overseas, many to Canada.Tiga has garnered the support of Consrvative MP John Whittingdale for its latest attempt to bring tax relief to the industry – he wrote the Foreword to Tigas report."The opportunity for Britain is clear," he said. "The global games industry has grown by 23%through the global financial turmoil, and is projected to grow by over 8% each year to 2015. If the right support from government is forthcoming, the UK game development sector can take advantage of this projected growth, consequently contributing to the rebalancing of the UK economy."Labour MP Tom Watson, himself a keen gamer, has backed the tax relief cause since the outset,blogging angrily about the issueon his own site.Wilson asserts that parlimentary support for the campaign is growing. "In Westminster, the all-party group on the computer and video games industry are supportive of games tax relief," he said."We have a list of MPs on the Tiga website. Additionally, the Scottish government has repeatedly backed games tax relief. The SNP and the Labour Party MPs have regularly backed [tax relief for the games industry]. Also, the Conservative leader in Scotland has publicly supported tax breaks for games production."In 2010, Labour chancellor Alistair Darling announced plans to introduce tax relief for game developers in the party's last budget before the general election.However, when the coalition government gained power, George Osborne abandoned the plans in his emergency budget.
A Lords committee has launched an inquiry into whether government plansto build "the best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015"are ambitious enough.The Lords communication committee, whose members include broadcaster Lord Bragg, called on Friday for written submissions on whether the investment will deliver "maximum social and economic benefit".The government wants all 25m UK homes to have access to a basic speed of 2Mbps (megabits per second), and 90% of homes to have a minimum of 24Mbps – enough for several computers to download video simultaneously and on a single line. With cities including Paris and Moscow planning fibre cables direct to millions of homes, to deliver speeds of 100Mbps, there are questions over whether the UK targets will be out of date by 2015."Superfast broadband is clearly an important development across Britain, not just for economic growth but also because it will impact on how people do things such as view media content, shop and even access healthcare," said committee chairman Lord Inglewood. "We want to look into the government's proposals to find out if its targets are likely to be met and whether it is being ambitious enough in its plans."Ministers have earmarked £530m to bring superfast broadband to rural Britain and a further £100m for high-speed fixed and mobile internet in ten cities including London, Belfast, Edinburgh and Cardiff.Inglewood is asking for views on whether speed is the best way of monitoring broadband, whether enough is being done to connect remote areas where rolling out fibre-optic cables is not commercially attractive, and what role different technologies such as mobile broadband and fibre should play.Local councils must submit plans for rolling out high-speed internet to rural locations by the end of February if they are to win a share of the £530m funding.Government and industry witnesses are likely to be called as the committee said it wanted to "find out more about the thinking behind and progress with the government's broadband strategy". The deadline for written evidence is 13 March.
At Build in September 2011, Microsoft put out an architecture diagram, which in Microsoft circles has become either famous or infamous depending on your perspective. The diagram shows Windows Runtime (ie WinRT) and the bits that feed into it. Here it is:Windows 8's software architecture diagram. Click for a link to the original post where it appeared (at davidburela.wordpress.com)The odd thing about this diagram is that everyone wants to redo it. Here'ssome examples from the week after Build. Six months later,people are still redoing it. It has a tendency to elicit exclamations of "hang on, that makes no sense!" That's because it doesn't make any sense. That diagram is not about cold, hard logic – it's about something else entirely.Start by imagining that it's 1999. To build apps on the Microsoft stack, on the desktop side you were typically looking at VB6 for desktop, or maybe something like Delphi, or Java. On the web site, you had Classic ASP. You could either write plain Classic ASP in VBScript, or you could write COM components in VB6 and consume them on the pages. Either track was rubbish, and Microsoft deserved to have someone come in and eat their lunch.If you're in charge of Microsoft's developer toolset in 1999 you might take a blank sheet of paper and think: "Right! How do we do this differently?" From there, you draw out something that looks like .NET. Well, really it looks a lot like Java. Imitation is the best form of flattery as we know. But the point is this – .NET turns out to be actually really good when it's released. It's a massive step forward and takes all of the embarrassment off of the table. People want to use it, and they do.If over the next 10 years that exercise is repeated, you end up starting from a point that your development toolset and runtime platform looks pretty good. So when the exercise is redone, small improvements are made – egLinq,lambda expressions,MVC, etc. We even get Silverlight, which improves the capabilities of targeting native apps (despite what I may think of it).But at some point over the run-up to Windows 8, someone threw their .NET toys out of the pram, leaving the COM-and-C++-drenched WinRT to entice cluckiness out of the onlookers. Seems a strange move, given that there's no external pressure on Microsoft to "fix" .NET …Enter WinRTTake this quote from the MSDN sub-site on Metro-style apps:"You write Metro style apps using familiar technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, and Cascading Style Sheets, Level 3 (CSS3), or XAML, with C++, C#, or Microsoft Visual Basic code-behind."Umm … why is C++ getting top billing there? Accepted you can do .NET in Managed C++, but if you put 1,000 .NET developers in a room maybeonewould be rocking Managed C++. Noises about the importance of C++ started to materialise before Build, and at the time I thought it was weird. But a key message about WinRT is that it is about C++.(This isn't an isolated example – in the run-up to Build there was a lot of chatter about a resurgence of C++ in the developer toolset.)Astand-out good explanation of WinRT on Stack Overflowstarts by saying that WinRT "uses COM as a base". Uh …what? COM? Is it 1999?WinRT, as I've indicated, defies straightforward explanation. One way to think of it is that it's an attempt to reboot the Win32 programming model. With WinRT, rather than opening a file usingthe Win32 CreateFile functionyou'd use theWindows.Storage.StorageFileclass, which lives in Windows.Storage.dll.OK, but as a .NET developer I've hadSystem.Net.FileStreamfor about 10 years.Aha! But Metro-style apps aresandboxedand protected and trustworthy – perhaps the idea of wrapping CreateFile is to stop the developer going outside of the sandbox? OK, so on the one hand Windows is pretty good at locking down a process identity's file access. On the other hand we already haveIsolatedStorageFilein .NET which does exactly that. (And we've had it since v1.) We also haveCode Access Security(CAS) to further block running outside of our permissions manifest.WinRT implies that the way we're doing that job in .NET is rubbish – but actually the way you do it in both is exactly the same. Well, except that the WinRT one isn't garbage-collected because WinRT doesn't have garbage collection. Because it's 1999. Or they just wanted to make it look more likeiOS development. One of those.I should reiterate here that .NET is not going away. Run the CLR in a Metro-style app and you'll be using a special "profile" that limits access (much like the.NET Client Profile introduced in .NET 4). Here's alist of things you need to change when moving to the Metro-style profile, and here's a list ofsupported namespaces. The v1 implementation is likely to be a bit naff – it always is – but none of the .NET stuff is actually being killed.(Before panic ensues – the CLR within Metro-style apps does garbage collection in the usual way, so if you're writing proper managed code, you're fine. It's still 2012 if you do that.)A fashionable rebootRebooting things is fashionable. (We've all seenthe new Sherlock, right?) But if you're Microsoft and you're deciding to reboot something, why on earth choose Win32?Most developers on Microsoft use .NET. If you're hacking around in Win32 you're doing something pretty weird. Most line-of-business applications involve shunting data in and out of a database, some network comms, and building up a method to present that data. Is Microsoft saying that we all need to be C++ developers to do that now?This is why the architecture diagram presented at the top of this piece doesn't make any sense. It assumes alogicalmotivation for introducing it, but actually WinRT is pure politicking.WinRT is more about representing the message that developing for the Microsoft stack is not about .NET than it is about helping developers get stuck into building Metro-style apps. You just have to look at that diagram – there is virtually no mention of .NET on there, yet (I reiterate) the vast majority of developers who build software for Windows spend all of their time in .NET. One possible reason why you would go out with a message that .NET was not "for the win" is that you hated it and wanted to take it for a quiet ride out to the desert so you could bang it on the head and bury it in an unmarked grave, then return and insist that you loved .NET but it's just a bit wayward, because look, it hasn't come back from that desert trip.Now, is that likely? Well ….NET was not invented by the core Windows team; it came out of its developer division. If you design operating systems, you're not going to like .NET. It's an abstraction layer that sits over an operating system. It also looks a lot like Java in terms of architecture. What you like if you build operating systems is very low-level, very fast, very tight code. You also hate garbage collection, because that does stuff when you're not expecting it. Philosophically, the worlds of OS engineering and .NET do not go well together.Ironically, WinRT would be great if it weren''t for Windows 8. I'm all for improvements, and an object-oriented API such as WinRT and the COM improvements are lovely in isolation. The problem it that at the moment the Windows team have 100% of the airtime because they own Windows 8's new touch-centric user interface (ie Metro).Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe the WinRT message is just what happens if you don't spend that much time with .NET because day-to-day you work further down the stack. Hanlon's Razor is a fabulous thing for cutting through the crap.And yes, like everyone else, I've tried redrawing the architecture diagram. Like everyone else, I gave up.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is the keynote speaker at the firstWindows 8 Conflabbeing held in London on April 18.
Are millions of people champing at the bit to find a way of watching YouTube videos on their main TV sets? Probably not, although that may change as Google encourages more producers and creators to launch original channels on its video service.Still, a new app calledClikprovides some food for thought about the role smartphones (and by extension, tablets) may play in the connected living rooms of the near-future.Available for iPhone and Android, the app is the work of the same team that built Kik Messenger, a group messaging app that has attracted 6m registered users.At launch, Clik is all about YouTube videos: browse them on the smartphone, then fire up a web browser on a bigger screen, scan a QR code, and then watch the videos on the big screen, while controlling them from the small one. Several people can do it at once, too.The mention of QR codes raises a warning flag: a fiddly additional step that, over time, will surely become redundant as it becomes easier to make a smartphone and a connected TV play nice together.Even so, there's something in the idea of a neutral app that doesn't require specific hardware – an Apple TV set-top box in the case of Apple's AirPlay Mirroring for example.Clik is tapping into an interesting trend though: a step on from the second-screen idea of doing one thing on your smartphone or tablet and watching another on your TV. This is about controlling your TV with the mobile device. One of Clik's investors, Union Square Ventures partner Fred Wilson, is banging the drum for this idea."The ability for highly personal mobile devices, like phones, to easily take control of computers, TVs, cars, and other expensive and complex devices is one of the most important megatrends in technology right now," he says, in a statement to accompany Clik's launch announcement.The company is looking beyond YouTube, too. "We believe Clik will enable content providers and game developers to change the way people experience content and games everywhere they go - instantly accessible on any screen with a browser," explains the company on its website.Other startups are exploring this too: British social TV companyZeebox, for example. Its app doesn't just let you see which channels friends are watching; if you have a compatible connected set, the app can be used to channel-hop accordingly.Meanwhile, iOS games developers like Firemint have been getting their teeth into the AirPlay feature, and how it might be used to make an iPhone the controller for a game played on the big screen – see its Real Racing 2 forthe best example of this in actionso far.Also look at what connected hi-fis company Sonos has been doing with its apps, which make the smartphone or tablet the remote controller not just for its devices, but for the various streaming music services (Spotify, Rhapsody and the rest) that flow through them. Apple's AirPlay itself is turning the iOS Music app into a remote control for compatible speakers and devices too.There is much more of this to come, and some chewy issues as a result, especially when rightsholders are involved.Think of a YouTube video that has been made unavailable to stream on a mobile phone, or on a television. What happens if it's being controlled by a mobile phone, to be streamed to a web browser on a TV?Or think about differing royalty payments for music streamed to a hi-fi controlled by a mobile phone, versus to a mobile phone docked with a hi-fi. The issue here, of course, is that licensing models are lagging behind technology developments – hardly a new phenomenon.While Clik may seem like just a fun, slightly fiddly way to watch funny cats and thumb-biting babies on a bigger screen, it's actually part of a wider, more important pattern of interesting and controversial disruption.
In what could be the most post-modern, self-referential toy tie-in of all time, Lego has announced that it is releasing a new construction kit based around the hugely successful PC title, Minecraft.The downloadable game, which has now sold more than 4m units, allows players to construct their own environments and buildings out of pixellated blocks, and was heavily inspired by Lego. Fans of the game have constructed astonishing models with its virtual doman, includinga version of the Starship Enterprise. Now the concept has come full circle.The first Lego Minecraft set, named 21102 Lego Minecraft Micro World, features four interlocking vignettes that combine to create a small and highly authentic chunk of Minecraft landscape. Better still, the top can be removed to reveal a cave system beneath – just like the game.The set also contains two 'micro mobs' based on well-known characters Steve and Creeper. The basic building blocks are apparently 1×1 Lego plates with a tile on top. "Not a perfect cube," concedes the press release, "but the best approximation at the chosen scale."The set was developed by four members of Lego'sCuusoocommunity, a group of enthusiasts who design and prototype their own Lego sets. When projects attract more than 10,000 supporters they can be submitted to Lego for manufacture.Markus "Notich" Persson, the creator of Minecraft has supported the development of the set; and his company Mohang will be donating one percent of the proceeds to charity.Toy construction sets based on video game licenses have become increasingly popular over the past year. Mega Bloks has a successful range based on the sci-fi shooter, Halo, while Meccano showed new sets based on Sonic the Hedgehog and Xbox blaster Gears of War 3 at the recent London Toy Fair.The first Minecraft Lego box will be available via Lego's website and larger brand stores in the summer, but can bepre-ordered via video game retail site Jinxfor £34.99.
A selection of 16 apps for you today:Monopoly HotelsElectronic Arts has launched a new mobile spin-off from board game Monopoly, which sees you running hotels, attracting VIP guests and adding micro-businesses and attractions. It's free to play, and funded by in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadClikClik promises to let you "take control of any web-enabled screen with your smartphone". Initially, that means finding YouTube videos on the device, then streaming them to a bigger screen via its web browser. Several people can join in the fun at once, too.Android / iPhoneI Am ZlatanArsenal fans, look away now. AC Milan footballer Zlatan Ibrahimovic – last spotted putting the Gunners to the sword in a Champions League match – has his own "biography app" for iPad. Based on his existing print autobiography, it includes more interactivity, videos, location-based features, and the chance to "scope out Zlatan's tattoos interactively".iPadBuildAppAndroid app BuildApp aims to help anyone who's planning a redecoration or remodeling project for their home. It helps you create a 3D model of your house, take photos of the real walls to import their textures, and then shift around furniture and walls to your heart's content.AndroidPinwheel (again)Okay, this is an unusual repeat appearance in Apps Rush from an app. When westumbled on Pinwheelon 16 February, all we knew was that it was a group photo-sharing app with location elements. It turns out we'd accidentally scooped theproper announcement, which revealed Pinwheel is the new thing for Flickr co-founder Caterina Fake. "Is it like Flickr for Places? Ish," she says.iPhoneHappy to BedHappy to Bed is a new app from Ikea, but it's not punting furniture. Instead, it wants to help people get a better night's sleep by monitoring their sleep patterns, and recommending when they should be unwinding in readiness for getting their heads down.Android / iPhoneThe Offspring: Rock ProdigyItching to crank out the riff from Come Out and Play, but don't know the notes? This new iOS app is your friend. It aims to teach fans of The Offspring to play some of their hits, with master tracks to play along with, and a system of scoring and feedback (via the device's mic) to help progress.iPhone / iPadGems of LondonGuardian Technology alumnus Victor Keegan makes apps nowadays, working with developer Keith Moon. Their latest app is Gems of London: a location-based guide to some of the "hidden delights" of London, beyond the famous tourist hotspots.iPhoneBaseball Superstars 2012Gamevil's latest Baseball Superstars game was released for iOS in January 2012, but has quickly made the jump to Android. Cute cartoon visuals are teamed with plenty of depth as you guide your baseball team to glory (hopefully). The link above is for iOS, buthere's the Android version.AndroidMy First Motor CarUK firm Fluid Pixel have designed an app for kids that provides a virtual car to play with – one that won't get lost under the sofa. Kids can rotate the car and examine its parts, while also changing the paint job.iPhone / iPadExuruUK startup Exuru's app combines daily deals with inbox-cleaning: scraping incoming emails with deals and serving them up while deleting the emails – and promising to over time learn what you do and don't like, and alter its recommendations accordingly.AndroidDesign Review MobileAutodesk has launched an Android version of its productivity application that lets people review Autodesk 2D or 3D files on their smartphone or tablet. "View and mark up drawings on the spot, reduce the need to carry around over-sized paper drawings, and enjoy an all-digital design review workflow on your mobile device..."AndroidPalringoMessaging app Palringo hasn't always got the recognition it deserved, possibly because it's a.) been around a lot longer than some of its buzzy competitors, and b.) is based in the UK rather than Silicon Valley. Anyway, the company continues to evolve its service, with a new beta Windows Phone app available for people to try out.Windows PhoneMyPlay Chef HDAndroid-owning parents may love MyPlay Chef, a playful app that gets their kids cooking in a virtual kitchen: pancakes, sandwiches, noodles and cupcakes. Creations can be saved to the device's photo album for bragging purposes too.AndroidPlants vs. Zombies for BlackBerry PlayBookEA and PopCap have launched a PlayBook version of their popular undead-defence game, with 49 plants and 26 zombies doing battle in the garden.BlackBerry PlayBookRaindrops AirPlay EditionWatching virtual rain on your iOS device, and streaming it to your TV? There really is an app for that. No, really.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Tracked iPhones, Bypassing Apple Browser Privacy Settings - WSJ.comGoogle apparently disabled the code when contacted by the Wall Street Journal."The Google code was spotted by Stanford researcher Jonathan Mayer and independently confirmed by a technical adviser to the Journal, Ashkan Soltani, who found that ads on 22 of the top 100 websites installed the Google tracking code on a test computer, and ads on 23 sites installed it on an iPhone browser."About Gatekeeper &gt;&gt; Panic BlogWhy the new Gatekeeper feature on the new version of the Mac operating system matters to all users.Apple granted patent on slide to unlock, even though it existed two years before they invented it &gt;&gt; Android CentralOctober 2011:The software patent system is totally askew. We need to look no further to see this than the recent news that Apple was granted a patent on sliding to unlock a mobile device. (Edit: It actually was granted back in February, but the case pinged again, and so we're all revisiting it.) It's bad enough that a governing body somewhere actually believes that you or I aren't smart enough to come to the natural conclusion on our own (that's basically what a patent means - it's a unique idea or process), but the fact that it existed on an old Windows CE device in 2005 was totally overlooked.The "slide to unlock" element is at about 4:00 in the accompanying video. If any patent lawyers are reading, they'll be able to point out the difference(s) between Apple's patent and this implementation. (Thanks @char2006 for the link.)Lessons from the failure of Flash: greed kills &gt;&gt; Mobile OpportunityThe [DoCoMo] deal [in Japan] was a breakthrough for Macromedia. Instead of giving away the flash client, the way it had on the PC, Macromedia could charge for the client, have it forced into the hands of every user, and continue to also make money selling development tools. The company had found a way to have its cake and eat it too! In late 2004, the iMode deal was extended worldwide (link), and I'm sure Macromedia had visions of global domination. Unfortunately for Flash, Japan is a unique phone market, and DoCoMo is a unique operator. The DoCoMo deal could not be duplicated on most phone platforms other than iMode. Macromedia, and later Adobe, was now trapped by its own success. To make Flash Lite a standard in mobile, it would have needed to give away the player, undercutting its lucrative DoCoMo deal. When you have a whole business unit focused on making money from licensing the player, giving it away would mean missing revenue projections and laying off a lot of people. Macromedia chose the revenue, and Flash Lite never became a mobile standard.More trouble followed. A very interesting potted history with smart lessons.Mountain Lion drops support for several older Mac models &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple WeblogBasically, anything earlier than 2008 means you're hosed, apart from the iMac. Though of course your existing system will continue to run.Pinterest Data Analysis: An Inside Look &gt;&gt; RJMetricsMany lines are involved.On Pinterest, every pin ties back to an external link. We used RJMetrics to extract the top-level domain of those links for the pins in our sample. What we found was a pretty tremendous long-tail effect. In our sample of about a million pins, over 100,000 distinct source domains existed.Top pin sources: Etsy; Google Image Search (so actually other sites); Flickr; Tumblr (more third-party stuff?). After the top 5, no domain represents more than 1% of pins. Basically, Pinterest is the long tail turned into a website.SABAM vs Netlog European Court of Justice press summary [PDF] &gt;&gt; European Court of JusticeHere is the press summary from the ECJ on the judgment, which we will post if and when we find it.EU court: Social networks can't be piracy brakes &gt;&gt; ReutersImporting ruling from the European Court of Justice:The owner of an online social network cannot be obliged to install a general filtering system, covering all its users, in order to prevent the unlawful use of musical and audio-visual workWhat do Path's privacy violations mean for Android? | The Download Blog - Download.comWorth reading Seth Rosenblatt on the Path fallout:Could this happen on Android is a fairly cut-and-dry question. The answer is no, as in, a snowball's chance. No, nien, nyet, non. Why it can't happen on Android still only hints at the bigger problem.iPhone Address Book Fiasco Should Be Apple's Cue to Build Its Own Social Network &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebCurious suggestion by Dan Frommer. Leave it at Ping?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Phew, Friday! What are your weekend gaming plans?
Gamers with the urge to fire guns in an apocalyptic or dystopian future aren't exactly short of options. They can, to name just a few big franchises: bust caps in the irradiated asses ofFallout's post-nuclear ghouls; tearMass Effect's space-faring mercenaries new ones; pumpDeus Ex's digitally-enhanced terrorists full of cyber-lead and mow down weird insect-zombie-aliens inGears of War. Clearly, shooters-in-nightmare-futures aren't exactly in short supply. So launching a newcomer in a marketplace this crowded is a very bold move indeed.Lucky forSyndicate(PS3/Xbox 360/PC) that it's not a newcomer then. In fact it's older than any of the above. It's 19 years since developers Bullfrog released the original Syndicate for home computers on the MS-DOS operating system (essentially Windows before the windows) and 16 years since sequel Syndicate Wars for MS-DOS and the original Playstation, the last instalment in the franchise until now. The originals were, like much of Bullfrog's output, classics – bold, innovative games full of very cool, very new ideas.In the original Syndicate – as in the reboot – the player takes on the role of a microchip-enhanced super-agent working for one of the many shady corporations doing battle for world domination. In this dark tomorrow every man, woman and child has had a computer chip (and clunky metaphor for consumerism) implanted in their brain by their parent corporation. As your syndicate's dirty enforcer you have the power to hack in to these chips, mess around and, if the situation demands it, blow the chip and the brain around it to smithereens.Making your messy way through missions with a team of up to four agents you bribe, blackmail, kidnap and brain-explode your way to full-scale corporate global dominance. In essence, it is a mafia game re-imagined by a drunk, psychotic William Gibson.Now, having been badgered out of retirement by a new developer like a cyberpunk Paul Scholes, the franchise has undergone a radical makeover. What began as an isometric, fixed-view tactical shoot 'em up awakens from cryo-sleep in 2012 as a far more conventional first-person-shooter. Most of its predecessors' defining quirks remain – the hacking of brains and machines is still there, but like the special attacks in the Mass Effect games, they take a while to recharge, forcing the player to rely heavily on good old-fashioned aim, fire and reload.Perhaps the most striking change is the inevitable improvement in the game's appearance. What was once heavily pixelated ultra-violence has become high-definition bone-crunching gore. In fact, they've gone to such incredible lengths to recreate the gruesomeness of the original that the Australian government's classification board has deemed the game too violent to be rated. It's not too hard to see why, either: blood spurts as microchips are wrenched from inside brains, limbs are severed to reveal wobbly flesh and bone and, from the first mission on, sadistic gamers can execute civilians with a boot to the face.The ability to get all Orwellian with an innocent scientist's head aside, Syndicate plays as a first-person hybrid of Mass Effect and Deus Ex. The player can charge through all guns blazing, but it's best to use cover and exploit your surroundings, hacking turrets, shooting gas canisters and turning enemy soldiers against each other. From a sneak peek at the first few missions, it looks like level design is tight and linear, with a handful of puzzle-solving elements, a little platform-jumping and a steady flow of ever-bigger guns to let rip with.As seems now to be mandatory in first-person shooters, the player can upgrade skills and powers in simplified RPG style, in this case by ramming microchips into a grid in the hero's brain. In the single player mode, the effects are limited – more ammo, faster reloading, better health regeneration – but they take on a greater significance in the game's online co-operative mode, where each member of the team can develop some degree of specialism.Four player co-op games will probably be where the game is at its best, demanding teamwork from the players to outsmart the often fiendishly cunning AI. Squads that wander apart and fail to cover each other's backs won't last long, as players ofthe online demo– out now – have very quickly had to discover. Veterans should get a kick out of seeing old isometric maps from the first games given full, three-dimensional life as co-op missions, but if you're new to the franchise then, well, there's really never a bad time to start hacking into people's brains.
Apple has won a significant patent battle in Munich that could see Motorola smartphones running Google's Android software blocked from sale in Germany – and potentially could be expanded to other handsets running Android too.Apple won the case on the basis of the "slide to unlock" system which it introduced with the iPhone in 2007, which indicates how to make the touch screen active. The court decided that two of the devices made by Motorola Mobility (MMI) using Android software infringe theApple's patentbecause they are unlocked by sliding an icon (of a padlock) across the screen.Update:Motorola insisted in a statement that the decision would not affect "current supply or future sales".Apple's complaint failed against Motorola's Xoom tablet, which uses the Android 3.0 Honeycomb software and is unlocked by moving a padlock icon out of a circle.The announcement in the Munich I Regional Court is the latest in an ongoing struggle between Apple and a number of Android handset makers also including Samsung and HTC in which it is claiming that they infringe patents it holds on functions embedded in the iPhone. Apple already has a case underway in Mannheim, Germany, in which it is asserting the same patent against Samsung, the biggest Android handset maker.Earlier in February Motorola won a case against Apple in Mannheim which would force it to disable "push" email over its iCloud and MobileMe services in that country.The latest judgement – which Motorola is expected to appeal but which Apple could enforce by paying a bond into the court – will further heighten tensions between Apple and Google, which has received almost all the formal approvals it needs to complete its $12.5bn (£8bn) acquisition of Motorola Mobility (MMI)."Whenever Apple decides to assert this against additional Android device makers, it can do so in Munich with a high likelihood of success," Florian Müller, an independent patent analyst who was at the court when the judgement was handed down, told The Guardian.Update:In a statement to the Guardian, Motorola said: "Today's ruling in the patent litigation brought by Apple in Munich, Germany, concerns a software feature related to phone unlocking in select Motorola devices sold in Germany. Motorola has implemented a new design for the feature. Therefore, we expect no impact on current supply or future sales." It is not yet clear whether this means Motorola has implemented its own new software feature, or whether the "new design" is the introduction of Android 4's unlocking system on forthcoming Motorola phones, which uses a different unlocking system from that which Apple sued over.Apple and Microsoft are both attacking Android handset and tablet makers over multiple claims of patent infringement. But the two companies are taking different tacks: Apple is seeking to restrict the sale of products which it claims infringe its patents so that it can expand its sales of the iPhone and iPad. Microsoft, meanwhile, has so far sought to force the manufacturers to pay a licence fee and per-device royalty rather than block their sale. Microsoft has recently won rounds in patents battles in the US against both Motorola and Barnes &amp; Noble."Today's ruling is significant bad news for Android at large, and Google," Müller noted on his blog after the judgment. "Today's ruling … show that the noose keeps tightening around Android's neck in many ways."The Android OS was developed by an independent company started by Andy Rubin, which was acquired by Google in 2005. Google makes the software available for free, but unlike Microsoft over its Windows Phone and Windows Mobile software, does not indemnify licencees against patent claims.Müller said that Germany – which is Europe's largest smartphone market, and where Android phones dominate sales – has become the focus for the current patent wars because its courts hand down judgments in such cases more quickly than US federal courts or the US's International Trade Commission, which can enforce import and export bans for the country.The decision on Thursday followed a trial hearing on 22 December.Motorola may seek to have the judgment struck out on the basis that the patent is invalid on the basis of "obviousness": patents have to include an "inventive step" and be "non-obvious". A Dutch court previously indicated that the slide-to-unlock patent could be invalid in a case Apple brought against Samsung.Microsoft has a hearing in Germany in which it is asserting a different patent against Motorola's Android devices.Google has previously indicated that it is buying MMI to acquire its portfolio of 17,000 existing and 7,500 pending patents. But a number of MMI's patents presently being asserted in court battles against Apple have been declared to be "standards essential" by MMI, and agreed by external standards bodies, meaning that MMI would normally be obliged to license them to anyone at a standard rate and without revocation.The European Commission and the US Department of Justice have put Apple, Microsoft, Google and MMI on notice that the use of "standards essential patents" (SEPs) in litigation could be investigated as antitrust abuse, and has sought assurances from the companies that they will not do so. While Apple and Microsoft pledged not to do so in letters to the bodies, the EC and DOJ noted that Google's language was "ambiguous".
Social networks such as Facebook and Twitter cannot be required to install an anti-piracy filtering system, the European court of justice has ruled.Europe's top court has made therulingin a case brought by Belgian music royalties firm Sabam against the website Netlog.Sabam wanted the court to declare that Netlog and other social networks should actively monitor music and video posted by users to ensure that it does not infringe copyright.However, the ECJ ruled that requiring social networks to install anti-piracy filtering software would fall foul of the existing e-commerce directive.The ruling was welcomed by online advocacy groups, who have warned that unfettered use of the internet is under threat from the controversial anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (Acta).Netlog has tens of millions of users each day, according to the court. Sabam claimed that some of its users illicitly shared copyright music and videos on the website.The ECJ ruled that an anti-piracy filter would require social networks to carry out "active observation" of information shared by users."Accordingly, such an injunction would result in a serious infringement of the freedom of the hosting service provider to conduct its business since it would require that hosting service provider to install a complicated, costly, permanent computer system at its own expense," the ECJ said in thejudgment."[The] injunction could potentially undermine freedom of information, since that system might not distinguish adequately between unlawful content and lawful content, with the result that its introduction could lead to the blocking of lawful communications."The judgment will be used as legal precedent in courts across the EU where this aspect of European law is in question.Peter Bradwell, the Open Rights Group campaigner, welcomed the ruling. He said: "It's good to see courts promoting our rights by swatting away plans to snoop on people's use of social networks. It is especially timely because, as seen in agreements like ACTA, policymakers everywhere find it much harder to respect our rights when making intellectual property policy."
Cisco has launched an appeal against Microsoft's $8.5bn (£5.4bn)acquisitionof internet phone serviceSkypeon the grounds that the deal could prevent video calls becoming as popular as voice calls.The move could threaten Microsoft's largest ever takeover, which has already completed after being approved by American regulators last summer and by the EU four months ago.Cisco, an American multinational, says it does not wish to block the deal but wants European commission regulators to ensure Skype's 700 million customers are not locked into a Microsoft platform.Cisco uses open standards for its own video conferencing product and wants Skype to do the same."Our goal is to make video calling as easy and seamless as email is today," said Marthin De Beer, Cisco's video conferencing boss, announcing the appeal in ablog poston Wednesday evening."Making a video-to-video call should be as easy as dialling a phone number," he said."Today, however, you can't make seamless video calls from one platform to another, much to the frustration of consumers and business users alike."Both Microsoft and Skype use technologies that are not compatible with other video and calling services.Video calling applications, which also include Apple's FaceTime, are growing in popularity but their use has been held back because they cannot link with each other.Messagenet, a European internet phone service based in Italy, has joined Cisco in filing the appeal.Both companies had contributed during the commission's original consultation on the deal."The standards discussion is a legitimate one but that's not why this is going on," said Henry Dewing, an analyst at Forrester Research.The real focus was competition, he said, with Cisco trying to slow Microsoft's momentum.Skype was founded in 2003 in Estonia and acquired by online auction giant eBay in September 2005.It was sold to an investment group led by Silver Lake in November 2009 in a deal that valued the company at $2.75bn. Microsoft's biggest acquisition until Skype had been its2007 swoop on digital marketing firm aQuantivefor $6.3bn.Microsoft responded to the Cisco appeal by stating: "The European commission conducted a thorough investigation of the acquisition, in which Cisco actively participated, and approved the deal in a 36-page decision without any conditions. We're confident the commission's decision will stand up on appeal."
Apple has released a preview of its next update for the Mac operating system, dubbed Mountain Lion.The revamped OS mirrors several features of the flagship iPhone and iPad, including a new messaging app and Twitter integration."The Mac is on a roll, growing faster than the PC for 23 straight quarters, and with Mountain Lion things get even better," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing."The developer preview of Mountain Lion comes just seven months after the incredibly successful release of Lion and sets a rapid pace of development for the world's most advanced personal computer operating system."Mountain Lion will introduce popular iOS apps such as Messages, Notes, Reminders and Game Centre to the Mac for the first time.The new operating system will be compatible with iCloud, Apple's cloud-based storage system for music, films and other media. It will also introduce AirPlay mirroring, meaning Mac owners will be able to stream video content from their computer to a TV using Apple TV.Apple said the Messages app will replace iChat and will allow users to send unlimited messages, photos and videos from their computer.Apple chief executive Tim Cook said the latest release brings the Mac software closer to the iOS system on the iPhone and iPad."We see that people are in love with a lot of apps and functionality here," Cook told the Wall Street Journal inan interview published on Thursday. "Anywhere where that makes sense, we are going to move that over to Mac."Cook did not rule out the possibilty of Apple using the same microprocessor chips in its iPhones, iPads and Mac computers, saying: "We think about everything. We don't close things off."Microsoft is expected to release its new operating system, Windows 8, later this year. Like Apple's Mountain Lion, Microsoft has borrowed features popular on smartphones running its Windows Phone system.Cook denied to the Wall Street Journal that Microsoft was keeping the heat on the world's most valuable company. "I don't really think anything Microsoft does puts pressure on Apple," he said.The new software will go on sale from the Mac App Store in late summer this year, Apple said. The California-based company sold a record 5.2m Macs in the quarter ending in December, up 26% from the same quarter in 2010.
The Cat that Got The Milkis a PC and Mac game with a bit of a difference. It looks strange, it sounds strange and it involves controlling a cat through a variety of of obstacle-strewn environments, designed to represent a feline understanding of the world. It also has just two controls, up and down. But that's not the key bit. The key bit is that it's meant to be completed in just 15 minutes."In the modern age there is so much entertainment vying for the attention of the tuned in gamer," says co-designer Oliver Clarke, who had worked in the industry for several years before starting out on this venture with three other developers. "We believe it's a privilege to be a part of a player's time therefore we should respect it. 15 minutes is the right length of time to provide an exciting, compelling experience that you can enjoy without having to worry about investing that time in a game."The simple mechanic grew out of discussions about the one-button games that have flourished in the smartphone sector. From here, the feline element sort of sauntered in. "The theme came from a pet cat I grew up with," says Clarke. "And there's a Jack Nicholson quote, 'If you're on stage, a cat walks on and everyone is still looking at you...you're a star,'"The other striking part of the game is the art-style, which seems to zip between Mondrian, Miro and Wassily Kandinsky in the blink of a cat's eye. "The visual look was inspired by many visits to London Galleries," says Clarke. "We looked at artists ranging from Mark Rothko to Kandinsky. In this country, we're so lucky to have an incredible variety of art available to us to see, for free! I believe if we can take an understanding of just 1% of what's in our galleries we can make some visually amazing games. It's been great to receive feedback from players who are really getting a kick out of seeing art they recognise in a game in ways they've never seen before."The title is currently available for download on PC and Mac, and the team has already started working on a follow-up,The Button. It's another 15-minute experience, although the four-person studio is looking to build up as they become more experienced. "Right now, we feel that we should earn a players time," says Clarke. "We're going to continue learning how to create quality, short, entertaining games. With The Cat that Got the Milk we're making our first brave steps, we're taking on board all the feedback, all the criticisms, and learning, learning, learning."
I have been looking at some cloud backup solutions, and for the time being I am using Memopal. Although they all give detailed descriptions of how you back up, none of them describes how to restore. If you lose your hard drive suddenly, but are backed up in a cloud application, can you restore the whole hard disk, applications and data in one operation?RL SymondsIf you are using cloud storage, then a server keeps copies of your hard drive somewhere on the internet, probably encrypted for security reasons. You can't access those files unless you have an internet connection and perhaps a copy of the cloud service's client (PC) software as well. I don't see how all that can be done in one restore operation. It's certainly not as simple as restoring a disk image from a local drive, as discussed herein January.If you suddenly lost your hard drive, you would normally use a restore partition, if available, or a drive image, after booting Windows from a recovery CD, DVD or thumb drive. Third-party boot-and-restore utilities are often based on a small version of Linux, but you could also use any Live Linux CD to get online. So, if you have a recovery CD or a Live Linux CD, plus any software that your online backup service requires, then you can indeed restore your PC from the cloud. WithCarboniteand probably some other services, you can restore a complete backup if you can get to the site in a web browser. This is useful, but I would not recommend it as your primary backup strategy.Things are different with mobile phones and other devices where the operating system is stored on a Rom chip, and where "restore from cloud" may be a simple menu option. Phones have built-in connectivity, and there is relatively little data to back up. PCs are not designed to work like that, and it's not unusual for people to have 500GB or even a terabyte (1TB) of data.Size matters, for two reasons. First, it can take a long time to upload and then download 500GB or 1TB of data. It's much quicker to restore from an external hard drive (EHD), as mentioned, or from a local fileserver such as a Windows Home Server or Apple Time Machine. Second, it costs a lot of money to keep data in the cloud.Cloud services typically offer 2GB to 5GB of free storage to get you going, but after that, they charge a monthly fee. If you want to back up a whole PC, you could end up paying £10-£20 per month for storage, which is £120-£240 per year, or £600-£1,200 over five years. You can buy several terabytes of fast, local storage for that sort of money.Memopal, which was founded in Italy, is a cheap option, and offers good discounts for signing multi-year deals. Storing 300GB (the highest amount offered to personal users) costs €69 for one year and €213.90 (rather than €345) for five years. You could buy a 500GB or larger hard drive for the first year's cost (£57) and several terabytes for the five-year cost (£178).Cloud storage does have some advantages. You get an off-site backup that will still be there if your house is burgled or burns to the ground, and you can access your files from different PCs or even from smartphones and tablets. This also makes it simpler to share files with other people.Against that, cloud storage brings some significant risks. You can lose access to your account, your data can become corrupted, or the cloud service provider can delete it either by accident or deliberately because you haven't paid your bills. Worse, web-based companies frequently go bust. I experienced these problems after uploading some files toStreamload, an award-winning service launched in 1998. The company lost a lot of data transitioning to new software, got taken over, and then closed down. It didn't matter because I had everything backed up locally, but Streamload had 20,000 paying customers (as well as countless freeloaders), and I don't think everyone did.I'm not suggesting that you should never use cloud services. I use Dropbox and Microsoft's SkyDrive (25GB free) to back up and share photos and Office documents from smartphones: it's very handy to have photos automatically uploaded and/or automatically copied to a PC. It means I'm less likely to lose valuable files. Nonetheless, I still back them up to one or more EHDs, and sometimes to CD-R discs. The cloud isn't my primary backup, and only a small proportion of my files are in the cloud, but it's still useful.Not all cloud services are the same, but there are two basic approaches. Some provide a sort of "magic folder" or virtual online drive where you can put files that you want to back up. This is the idea behind Dropbox. With other services, you select one or more existing folders and have them backed up on a continuous basis.For example, you could have the service monitor directories of My Documents and My Photos, knowing that whenever you changed files in those folders, the changes would be backed up online. Mozy and SugarSync are popular examples of this kind of service, and Memopal works in the same way. (This partly answersa separate query from Andrew White.)Which you prefer is, of course, a matter of taste. However, the continuous backup approach tends to consume more resources, so you should use the service's trial period to make sure the cloud's constant monitoring software doesn't slow your PC.Cloud services should be smart enough to back up the changes to a file without uploading the whole file again. The "diff" approach makes it easy to keep backups of many different versions of a file. Services should also be smart enough not to back up files they have already uploaded from someone else. Even Streamload did that. There are plenty of files – such as operating system files and iTunes and Amazon downloads – that are identical on millions of different hard drives. Indeed, charging thousands of users for the same small bit of storage is where cloud services should be able to make money.In his query, Andrew White also asked for a cloud storage service that was "preferably based in the UK". There may be some but, sorry, I can't think of one.Large cloud services providers, such as Microsoft, typically have large data centres on different continents. The best Microsoft will do with its Office 365 service is keep your data in Europe, in Dublin and/or Amsterdam, rather than (say) Chicago, San Antonio, Singapore or Hong Kong. Smaller cloud service providers, including Dropbox, often use Amazon'svery reasonably priced Simple Storage Service (S3), so data is probably held in the US: Amazon has data centres in northern California (us-west-1), North Virginia (us-east-1), Ireland (eu-west-1) and Singapore (ap-southeast-1). However, Amazon caches data in many other places, including London and Tokyo.I'm not sure it makes any practical difference where data is stored. The US government can get it under the terms of the Patriot Act if it's kept by an American company or one that does business in the US, even if it's a European company. You might find cloud storage in a country that won't give your data to US or European government agents on request, such as Russia or China, but would that be a satisfactory solution?With cloud services, you really don't have much protection unless you pay business prices and sign an SLA (Service Level Agreement). Even then, it would be wise to read the fine print very carefully.
Apple displaced BlackBerry-maker RIM as the best-selling smartphone maker in the UK in 2011, according to figures from the research company Gartner.The data flatly contradict RIM's claims  earlier in February that it had secured the top spot, and will increase pressure on the company in a territory where it had been dominant.According to Gartner's analysis, Apple and Samsung both outsold RIM during both the fourth quarter of the year and – because of their strengths during the Christmas period – for the entire year.The news will also cast further doubt over the future of the company, which recently replaced co-founders Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, who acted as its joint chief executives and chairmen in the face of growing investor pressure.A researcher at another analysis company, who declined to be named, agreed with Gartner's figures, saying that the data indicate that: "RIM's market share is definitely slowing down," and that: "Our first numbers suggest they were overtaken by [Apple and] Samsung too [in the fourth quarter]."Another research company, Kantar WorldTech, said at the end of December that Apple had raised its share of UK smartphone sales in the previous three week to 30.9%, from 21.4% the year before.The news will be unwelcome for RIM, whose stock has lost more than 75% of its value in the past year and which indicated in December that the current financial quarter – which ends this month – will see only 11m-12m handset sales worldwide, compared to 14.9m a year ago and 14.1m the previous quarter.With its share of phone sales in the USdwindling from dominance to single figures over December, RIM has made much of its strength in the UK and other non-US territories.But the latest figures offer little encouragement that the company is finding its way out of disastrous 2011 during which its cash reserves halved and it wrote off $485m(£310m) against unsold stock of its PlayBook tablet.The Gartner data also contradicts a confident claim made earlier in February, when RIMput out a message claimingthat: "The latest results from data firm GfK show that BlackBerry was the No 1 selling smartphone in the British market for the second year running, grabbing 26.3% of December sales and averaging 27.7% through 2011."Gartner's figures for the UK – which take into account not just retail sales, as GfK's do, but also the entire supply chain, including Apple's own stores – suggest that Apple had a 28.4% share of the UK smartphone market in the fourth quarter, boosted by the introduction of its iPhone 4S and lowered pricing on its older iPhone 4 and 3GS models.Samsung, which principally sells phones using Google's Android software, had a 23.3% share, Gartner said.For the year as a whole, Apple had a 21.5% share of sales, ahead of Samsung with 21%, said Gartner, and both ahead of RIM with 20.3%.For RIM the figures for Christmas, when BlackBerrys were a popular gift, indicated future weakness: its fourth-quarter share was 17.6% compared to the 12-month figure of 20.3%, said Gartner. For both Apple and Samsung, their share rose in the fourth quarter compared to the year as a whole.Google's Android dominated the quarter and the year, with a 40.4% and 43.2% share respectively. The figures also underline Samsung's dominance of Android, where the UK figures – in line with broader world trends – show that it has roughly half of all Android sales.
A coalition of US publishing groups has taken legal action in Ireland in a bid to close websites they accuse of copyright infringement.The crackdown came as the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency announced it would treat illicit filesharing websites as organised crime threats and seized the domain of one popular music site.Ireland-based websites Library.nu and ifile.it were served with cease and desist court orders on Tuesday after two major publishing groups accused the sites of earning $10.6m (£6.7m) in revenue a year.The action against alleged filesharers came amid fresh opposition to controversial anti-piracy legislation in Europe. Internet advocacy groups have expressed concern about the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (Acta) which has so far been signed by 22 EU member states, including the UK.The Association of American Publishers (AAP) and the International Publishers Association (IPA) claimed that Library.nu made more than 400,000 copyrighted ebooks available for free."While this action is a significant step in shutting down two major rogue websites stealing content from publishers and others, it also captures the enormous investment of time and cost required for rights-holders to protect their work," said Tom Allen, president and chief executive of AAP."For every rogue site that is taken down, there are hundreds more demanding similar effort. I can't think of a more timely example of the need for additional tools to expedite such action."The internet advocacy organisation, Open Rights Group, has called for an urgent meeting with Soca afterpolice took down the music website RnBXclusiveand posted an online warning to users visiting the site that users face jail for illegal downloading.Soca's message was removed late on Wednesday after the police said they had completed a targeted 32-hour crackdown designed to "jolt" copyright infringers.On Thursday Soca confirmed that three other websites were involved in the crackdown. According to police, one of the unnamed websites voluntarily closed down, another was considering shutting, and another said it only shared "legal" material."This is a matter concerning considerable power over access to information, amongst other things," said Peter Bradwell, campaigner at Open Rights Group.
A selection of 25 apps for you today:Barclays PingitBritish bank Barclays has launched an ambitious new app that promises to let people send money to family, friends and small businesses using just a mobile number. At first, only Barclays customers can send money from the app, but people with other banks can use the app to receive it, with plans to let them send too in the near future. The bank worked with London studio ustwo on the app.Android / iPhone / BlackBerryMakegoMakego is a marvellous idea from British artist and designer Chris O'Shea. It turns an iPhone or iPod touch into a top-down toy vehicle, complete with cartoon driver. The idea is that kids build a physical car or boat – for example from Lego – and then pop the device on top to provide the interactivity.iPhoneAP LiveThe Associated Press has teamed up with Livestream for a new iPad app, AP Live. It promises live and recorded video from the entertainment world: "Exclusive live celebrity interviews, fashion shows and red carpet coverage at the Oscars, Grammys and Golden Globes". Yes, it might have been better if it had come out before the Grammys...iPadTWEEK for iPadIndian publisher Times Internet has launched what it says is "India's first and only tablet magazine". The free app offers global stories from the last week, beefed up with multimedia and social features. It joins stablemates The Times of India and The Economic Times on the App Store.iPadChickens Can't FlyWell, indeed. This is Microsoft's latest first-party game for Windows Phone, with full Xbox Live integration. It sees you experimenting on luckless chickens across four laboratories.Windows PhoneMy VodafoneVodafone UK has launched its customer app for BlackBerry, enabling people to check on their allowances and credit, browse FAQ lists, and find their nearest Wi-Fi hotspots. Oh, and monitor data usage – probably the most useful feature.BlackBerryDeadline Hollywood GameDeadline Hollywood Game is the work of Paramount Pictures: a free iPhone social game about making it in Hollywood. But here's the part that piqued our attention: "Influential Hollywood website Deadline.com is streamed directly into the dashboard of the game and influences gameplay." Intriguing.iPhoneVera Wang on WeddingsFashion designer Vera Wang has her own weddings app for iOS. It aims to help people plan their big day, browsing images of dresses, cakes, flowers and other people's nuptials. There's also a task list feature to keep track of who's doing what.iPhone / iPadBeat Sneak Bandit"Rhythm. Stealth. Puzzle." Developer Simogo has managed to boil down the appeal of its new music-driven game nicely, as you sneak past guards, security lights and traps to the rhythm of the music.iPhone / iPadBeatStepAndroid app BeatStep has launched in beta, promising to "always select music matching your speed". It's for joggers and runners, fading between different playlists according to the speed they're running at.AndroidNPR MusicUS public radio organisation NPR has launched a music-focused iPad app to accompany the iPhone version. It streams more than 75 public radio stations, and some full albums before their release. There is also a searchable archive of artist news, interviews and reviews.iPadLeeds Student Newspaper for iPadYes, student newspapers have iPad apps nowadays, with Guardian-gonged Leeds Student one of the first we've noticed launch on the App Store. It delivers a weekly issue with additional audio, video and photo galleries.iPadRobotGladi8toriOS hit Infinity Blade appears to have invented a new genre, judging by RobotGladi8tor's promise that it "brings swipe-fighting to a new level". Swipe-fighting! Anyway, what you're fighting here is a procession of angry robots in an array of lovingly-rendered 3D scenes.iPhone / iPadTASCHEN Winter 2011/2012 MagazineBook publisher Taschen has launched an iPad version of its latest magazine, offering a guide to new releases, and the ability to fill a virtual shopping cart to buy them from the company's online shop.iPadWord TrickOutplay Entertainment's first iPhone game sits somewhere in between crosswords and Scrabble, running across Facebook and iPhone with 2-4 player games.iPhoneLittle AcornsTwee attack! This is a game where you play a squirrel called "Mr. Nibbles", collecting acorns across an array of colourful levels. There's a fair amount of buzz around Chillingo's latest iOS game though, with 60 levels and simple controls to explore them.iPhone / iPadMUJI Life Check InHere's a new example of a retailer jumping into the social location space. MUJI wants people to check in at its stores and create their own virtual shelves of products, books, CDs and DVDs, earning virtual coins and "special limited figures" for their efforts. It's for Japan, but interesting nonetheless.iPhoneV-O-O-VMore brand-app action here, with eyewear firm Vanquish launching an iOS app to help people virtually try on its glasses. There also appears to be a focus on cosplay, anime and game characters, if you're that way inclined.iPhone / iPadClickySticky SuperheroesandClickySticky CarsAndroid-owning parents looking for new kid-apps have a couple of interesting apps today, both from Merge Mobile's ClickySticky range. They're billed as animated sticker books, one with superheroes and the other with cars.AndroidToy FactoryGames publisher Chillingo has a new freemium title, Toy Factory, that sees you running, yes, a toy factory. Make toys, then sell them to customers, complete with a workforce of stuffed bears.iPhoneStockJamThis new iPad musical instrument app uses the stock market as its source. "Gracefully arpeggiating over realtime charts of today's companies, StockJam turns stock performance into musical performance," as its description explains.iPad360 FashionStylish blog network 360 Fashion has launched an app for Windows Phone, promising news, views, and plenty of pictures of trendy frocks. "Keep your ear to the pulse of fashion from around the world, and never miss a fashion week..."Windows PhonePlaychess.comOnline chess community Playchess says it has 20,000 daily players. Now it has an iOS app for mobile players, enabling them to log in and play other people, or watch live grandmaster games.iPhone / iPadPinwheelColor tried and failed to get the whole location-based group photo-sharing idea off the ground. Can Pinwheel do any better? "You know the situation: You're at a kickin' party. You're taking lots of pics. So are your friends. And you think, wouldn't it be cool if you all could see what you're all taking in real time, right on your phones? Welcome to Pinweel, my friend!" Bro-tastic...iPhonePlaytime HDLike a virtual pet game, but with a video baby in the foreground of the nursery scene. "All the fun of having a cute baby boy, without any of the cleanup afterwards!"Allthe fun?iPhone / iPad
Bafta has announced the nominations for this year's video game awards.Batman: Arkham CityandLA Noireare the big contenders, attracting eight nominations each. Just beneath them, PlayStation 3 titlesUncharted 3andLittleBigPlanet 2are competing in six categories apiece, while Valve's sci-fi adventure puzzlerPortal 2, the Guardian'sgame of the year in 2011, received five.The pinnacle Best Game award looks set to be a fascinating showdown. Batman: Arkham City,Fifa 12and LA Noire are all in the mix with Portal 2,Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimandLegend of Zelda: Skyward Sword.The academy has also introduced three new awards this year. Debut Game, Online browser and Online multiplayer are there in an attempt to recognise original titles, as well as the growing importance of social connectivity. Of these, Debut Game is set to be the most interesting, pitching smaller titles Bastion, Eufloria and Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet against Rockstar's LA Noire giant.The 16 main categories, all judged by groups of industry insiders, take in everything from Action and Artisic Achievement to Audio, Acting and Innovation. A wide range of titles is competing, with Namco's cult RPG Dark Souls, Eric Chahi's From Dust and Denki's word game, Quarrel all finding space. There's a star studded face-off in the Performer category, which sees Mark Hamill (The Joker, Batman) taking on Stephen Fry (LittleBigPlanet 2) and Stephen Merchant (Portal 2).The awards are taking place on 16 March and it should be an intriguing night.Here is the full list:ActionAssassin's Creed RevelationsBatman: Arkham CityCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 3Deus Ex: Human RevolutionPortal 2Uncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionArtistic AchievementBatman: Arkham CityLA NoireLitteBigPlanet 2Rayman OriginsThe Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimUncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionAudio AchievementBatman: Arkham CityBattlefield 3Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3Dead Space 2The NightjarUncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionBest GameBatman: Arkham CityFifa 12LA NoirePortal 2The Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimThe Legend of Zelda: Skyward SwordDebut GameBastionEufloriaInsanely Twisted Shadow PlanetShadow Planet Productions/Microsoft StudiosLA NoireMonstermindRIFTDesignBatman: Arkham CityLA NoireLittleBigPlanet 2Portal 2Super Mario 3D LandThe Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimFamilyDance Central 2Kinect Sports 2Leho Pirates of the CaribbeanLego Star Wars III: The Clone WarsLittleBigPlanet 2Mario Kart 7Game InnovationBastionChild of EdenFrom DustLA NoireLittleBigPlanet 2The Legend of Zelda: Skyward SwordMobile and HandheldDead Space iOSMagnetic Billiards: BlueprintPeggleQuarrelSuper Mario 3D LandThe NightjarOnline – BrowserGardens of TimeI Am PlayrMonstermindResistance 3Skylanders: Spyro's AdventureThe Sims SocialOnline-MultiplayerAssassin's Creed: RevelationsBattlefield 3Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3Dark SoulsGears of War 3LittleBigPlanet 2Original MusicAssassin's Creed: RevelationsBatman: Arkham CityDeus Ex: Human RevolutionLA NoireThe Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimUncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionPerformerAaron Stanton (Cole Phelps) – LA NoireMark Hamill (The Joker) – Batman: Arkham CityNolan North (Nathan Drake) – Uncharted 3:Drake's DeceptionStephen Fry (Narrator) – LittleBigPlanet 2Stephen Merchant (Wheatley) – Portal 2Togo Igawa (Dipolomat, Advisor and Military General) – Total War: Shogun 2Sports/FitnessDance Central 2DiRT 3Fl 2011Fifa 12Kinect Sports 2Your Shape Fitness Evolved 2012StoryBatman: Arkham CityDeus Ex: Human RevolutionLA NoirePortal 2The Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimUncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionStrategyDark SoulsDeus Ex: Human RevolutionFootball Manager 2012From DustGhost Recon Shadow WarsTotal War: Shogun 2Bafta Ones to Watch Award in association with Dare to Be DigitalDreamweaverJoust!Tick Tock ToysGame Award of 2011 (voted for by the public)Batman: Arkham CityBattlefield 3Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3Fifa 12LA NoireMinecraftPortal 2The Elder Scrolls V: SkyrimThe Legend of Zelda: Skyward SwordUncharted 3: Drakes Deception
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung Galaxy Note Review: Better as a jotter, not a talker &gt;&gt; Walt MossbergBig it is:As a mobile phone, the Galaxy Note is positively gargantuan. It's almost 6 inches long and over 3 inches wide. When you hold it up to your ear, it pretty much covers the entire side of your face. You look like you're talking into a piece of toast. The Note is so big, an iPhone can almost fit within its display. And it dwarfs even the more-bloated crop of recent Android phones, like Samsung's own Galaxy S II series, whose screen can be as large as 4.5 inches. And while it can fit into a large pocket or handbag, the Note isn't going to slip unobtrusively into your jeans or a small purse. It weighs 6.28 ounces, nearly 30% more than the iPhone and nearly 50% more than some Galaxy S II models.More tablet than phone, in short. Also: research companies say they will class the Note as a tablet - not as a phone.The Dead Platform Graveyard: Lessons Learned &gt;&gt; VisionMobile blogDetails 26 platforms that are either dead or 'zombie' (hello Windows Mobile; nice to see you, WebOS) and looks at the reasons why they died. Generally: cost of ownership; conflicting revenue model; lack of network effects; high adoption barriers. (Note that none of those is the reason why Windows Mobile died.)Thousands of public encryption keys found to offer no security &gt;&gt; V3.co.ukThe flaw came to light by analysing more than seven million public keys which are used to secure online transactions, email messages and other web services. The researchers discovered that a flaw in the process for generating random prime numbers - a critical component of the public key encryption - resulted in thousands of public keys sharing common prime numbers. "What surprised us most is that many thousands of 1024-bit RSA moduli, including thousands that are contained in still valid X.509 certificates, offer no security at all," the research paper states.Well, not exactlynosecurity. Just rather less than immense security.Judge: Microsoft's Android tactics were 'hard bargaining,' not patent misuse &gt;&gt; GeekWireSomething of an eye-opener:Theodore Essex, administrative law judge for the International Trade Commission, wrote in his Jan. 31 decision that Microsoft's negotiations with Barnes &amp; Noble over the use of Android in the Nook were "certainly hard bargaining," but he concluded they didn't qualify as patent misuse. "Even assuming that these transactions and the related evidence establishes that Microsoft is bent on eliminating Android as a competitor, the mere fact that Microsoft is targeting Android for destruction is insufficient to establish an antitrust violation let alone patent misuse," he wrote.Let's just read that again: "the mere fact that Microsoft is targeting Android for destruction is insufficient to establish an antitrust violation let alone patent misuse". Not sure that Google is going to sit by for this one. Litigation hats on .Motorola Android Software Upgrade News &gt;&gt; Motorola Owners' Forum | Motorola Mobility Inc.Want an upgrade? Patience is advised. European owners of Xooms and RAZRs may see updates start in Q2, and pretty much everything else is on the "don't really know yet" list. Don't expect this to change with full Google ownership.Nearly 80% Of All Bugs Are In Third-Party Apps &gt;&gt; Dark ReadingDon't blame it on Microsoft: The lion's share of vulnerabilities last year were in third-party applications, with 78% of all bugs, versus 10% in Microsoft software products, according to a new report published today. Secunia's annual report for 2011 found that the number of endpoint flaws jumped past 800 bugs, more than half of which were considered very critical.Apple-Samsung lawsuit involves eight patents, 17 products &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsApple is trying to get 17 Samsung devices - smartphones, media players, tablets - banned in the US. Among them is the "pure Google" Galaxy Nexus; and the patents being asserted include some which if upheld by the court might worry Google. One dates back to 1995.Google's grand vision: what the Motorola deal means for Android &gt;&gt; Daily TelegraphMatt Warman:So the tie-up, now approved by European and American regulators, is about more than simply patents, as Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidt has himself acknowledged. Any visitor to both Motorola's substantial stand at Mobile World Congress and Google's I/O conference in 2011, however, could probably have guessed that. At MWC, Moto's representatives were as keen to show you the security alarms, the set-top boxes and the other emerging technologies as they were the tablets and the mobile phones. Cut to Google's own show, I/O, and there the company demonstrated its plans for Android@home, with tablets turning on lights and used to stream music. The fit is about much more than patents.MMI's home business is the profitable side. The handset business loses money.How Infographics are ruining the web &gt;&gt; SplatFSo true, and so much the reason why we do not do infographics here as a rule.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Where would we be without Thursdays, huh?
Wikipedia is looking to North Africa as the key to unlocking an audience that would increase the number of visitors to the online encyclopedia by millions.While the English version of Wikipedia has about 3.8m articles, the Arabic version has only about 150,000 – this despite the fact that Arabic is the fifth most common language in the world and has about 400 million speakers globally. Even the Japanese have a significantly bigger presence on Wikipedia, with about 800,000 articles, despite there being just 130 million speakers worldwide.Now, in an attempt to increase its editor base – its current community of editors stands at about 600 volunteers – Wikipedia is launching a pilot program in Cairo this month, under which students will edit and write for the online encyclopedia as part of their class assignments and under the guidance of their professors."Wikipedia's mission is to provide free knowledge to the world," says Annie Lin, a global education program manager who is spearheading the Cairo initiative for the Wikimedia Foundation, the San Francisco based non-profit that operates Wikipedia. "We really see it as a problem that a language that is so common in the world has a Wikipedia version that is so small."The pilot will take place across seven classes at Ain Shams University and Cairo University, in which a limited number of students will contribute new content to the Arabic Wikipedia or translate content into Arabic.The online encyclopedia, which recently celebrated its 11th birthday, has become an integral part of the daily lives of internet users, particularly in the US.ComScore estimates that Wikipedia has about 457 million monthly unique visitors worldwide, with 80.5 million of these from the US, and that about 10 million users were recently affected byWikipedia's blackoutin protest of anti-piracy legislation Sopa and Pipa .Wikipedia is home to more than 19m articles in over 270 different language versions. Traffic research firm Alexa says it is the sixth most popular website in the world.The Cairo initiative is part of a larger push to expand its network of student editors, a particularly important mission for Wikipedia as it is populated, edited and managed by a volunteer community of about 100,000 "Wikipedians". In recent years, this community has plateaued in size, despite the continuing growth in content."From Wikipedia's beginnings in 2001, students have fuelled its growth, as both contributors and readers," says Frank Schulenberg, who heads Wikipedia's global education program. "Students are immersed in a culture of learning and sharing, and we started the Wikipedia education program to capture that academic work and turn it into freely shared knowledge."Wikipedia's education initiative roots back to the summer of 2010, when the Wikimedia Foundation launched its firstpilot project focused on public policy. The program helped public policy professors incorporate Wikipedia into their classes by offering suggestions regarding the curriculum, editing workshops, online support through virtual ambassadors and in person support through campus ambassadors.Since then, the education program has spread. There are currently 42 courses in the US across 33 universities, and 10 courses across seven universities in Canada that incorporate Wikipedia into their curriculums.Last fall, Juliana Bastos Marques, a professor at Federal University of Rio de Janeiro State in Brazil who is active in the Portugese Wikipedia community, began assigning her students to work on existing Wikipedia articles that needed improvement. The Wikimedia Foundation will launch a formal pilot project in Brazil in March.In India, Wikipedia's education program has a somewhat more checkered record. Last summer, the foundation launched a pilot project in Pune, only to suspend it recently after widespread plagiarism"We made some big mistakes," admits LiAnna Davis, communications manager for the Wikipedia education program. "Class sizes were larger than we had anticipated. Our general feeling is we should have focused more on students who were really interested in the assignment. Because we made it mandatory for all a bunch of students ended up copy pasting content."Plagiarism wasn't the only problem. "Writing in English in general – and in encyclopediac language in particular – was hard for many students," says Hisham Mundol, who oversees the education program in India. "Concepts that are central to Wikipedia like a neutral point of view or notability or referencing proved challenging for many students. There is also a very low level of appreciation of the difference between paraphrasing and copying."However Davis says the foundation will try again in India once they've had time to evaluate what went wrong."We want to be in regions where there is a lot of internet connectivity – where people are interested, but not a lot of people are editing Wikipedia yet in those regions," she says.Overall, Wikipedia's education program has had mixed success. The fiasco in India aside, writing entries that should ideally be cited line by line can be far more intense than putting out a traditional research paper, and at some universities, the completion rate on such assignments is low.Amrita Dhawan, an associate professor at the City College of New York, found this to be the case when she incorporated a Wikipedia assignment into her research and writing class last fall. Out of the 23 students in her class, only one managed to publish a piece on Wikipedia – a short translation of an existing piece from English into Polish.Despite this, Dhawan maintains that she will incorporate a Wikipedia assignment into other classes. "It was exciting, students loved the class," she says. "Using this tool empowers students. It gives real life meaning to the research in class."Dhawan notes that sifting through citations on Wikipedia was particularly useful in honing her students' ability to discern good from bad sources. "I was preparing them for life," she says. "In life you encounter a variety of sources. Whenever they research something, they will need to be able to deal with diversity of resources."Even academics who are sceptical about Wikipedia believe there is a value for students in writing for it. Jonathan Obar, who is currently teaching a class at Michigan State University that trains students to be Wikipedia administrators, doesn't encourage students to cite it in academic papers. Yet he still calls the encyclopedia "an incredible teaching tool," because it teaches students to be "informed consumers of information."Apart from the benefits for students, tapping educational institutions to create content for Wikipedia – particularly in non-English speaking areas where the encyclopedia still has much ground to gain – could improve the quality and quantity of information that is available for free online.A study conducted by the Wikimedia Foundation that assessed a randomly selected sample of 140 articles (84 pre-existing, and 56 new) created by students under the public policy initiative found that the average article saw a 64% improvement in quality.Michael Mandiberg, a professor at City University New York who incorporated Wikipedia into an undergraduate class he taught last fall, on the history of design and digital media, says students prefer Wikipedia assignments over more traditional research papers. "They were able to do something that was beneficial to other people. Doing something for the greater good is what they called it in their response papers," he says.
Apple has pledged to block apps from accessing user contact lists after accusations that several were copying address book details – including phone numbers and other details – without requesting permission.Twitter has said it will also update its apps for iPhone and the Google Android operating system to make it clear that emails and phone numbers are uploaded to its servers, where they may be kept for 18 months.The software overhauls were announced aftertwo members of US Congress wrote to Apple chief executive Tim Cookdemanding answers to "claims that the practice of collecting consumers' address book contacts without their permission is common and accepted among [third-party] app developers".In response, Apple said any apps accessing address books without prior permission were in breach of guidelines and would be stopped in their tracks by forthcoming software upgrades. "We're working to make this even better for our customers, and as we have done with location services, any app wishing to access contact data will require explicit user approval in a future software release," it said in a statement.Last week, it emerged that Path, a social networking app, uploaded and kept a copy of new users' address books without consent. One developer, Dustin Curtis,wrote: "I did a quick survey of 15 developers of popular iOS apps, and 13 of them told me they have a contacts database with millons of records. One company's database has Mark Zuckerberg's cell phone number, Larry Ellison's home phone number and Bill Gates' cell phone number. This data is not meant to be public, and people have an expectation of privacy with respect to their contacts."Congressmen Henry Waxman and GK Butterfield have demanded to know why Apple is not as protective of address data as it is of location data. The latter issue caused a storm in April 2011 when the Guardian revealed that theiPhone had an inbuilt database that effectively tracked the user's location. Apple updated the iPhone software soon afterwards to encrypt or remove that data.Twitter, meanwhile, has acknowledged claims made by the LA Times that the "find friends" feature on its iPhone app downloads the user's entire address book to its servers, where the details are then kept for 18 months.The only clue that the app gives to its aims are that it says it will "scan your contacts for people you already know on Twitter".A Twitter spokeswoman said that a forthcoming version of the app would use clearer language: "In place of 'scan your contacts', we will use 'upload your contacts'," she said. Meanwhile, the Android Twitter app will be  tweaked to say "import your contacts".
Want to know what Amazon will make next? It's blindingly obvious if you think about it. Despite the mad reports thatAmazon will come up with a phone, or buy RIM, neither of those makes sense. Getting into the mobile phone business is the most gigantic pain if you aren't already very big, and right now the rewards aren't that great even if you're good at making phones – ask HTC, Sony Ericsson or Nokia.No. Think about what Amazon does best: it sells content and gadgets. It's really good at both. Its Kindle is a sort of apotheosis: an e-reader to which it can sell content (and no direct rival can). The Kindle is its perfect lock-in.Except, of course, that Amazon has loads of video content. That doesn't work on the e-ink Kindle.Enter the Kindle Fire, using its forked version of Android which doesn't touch Google's servers (and where the browser goes through Amazon's own proxies, not the "native" internet). That shows Amazon moving up the scale – but again, that's nowhere near being a phone. The Kindle Fire is a product that it can sell itself, or persuade retailers to sell. And you can stream films on it, as TechCrunchnoted in November:Despite its smaller screen size, the Fire is an excellent video viewing device. It ties in directly to Amazon's Instant Video store, where you can either buy or rent video downloads. The selection is pretty decent, with a mix of old and more recent movies and TV shows. You can either stream the movies directly or download them for later viewing. I've had no issues with streaming. The pictures are sharp and I've watched entire episodes without any hiccups over a strong Wi-Fi connection.You can also watch movies through Netflix or Hulu Plus, which both have apps available on the Fire. But if you are an Amazon Prime member (all-you-can-eat shipping for $79 a year), you get Instant Video thrown in. That's a good deal, considering that the Netflix streaming-only plan costs $96 a year, and you don't get free shipping of any Christmas gifts with that.But, as that article also noted, "watching video on the Fire [is] a solitary experience".Hmmm. How could you fix that, eh? What's the next glaringly obvious move for Amazon?TV. To be precise, a set-top box that's "tuned" into Amazon content, in the same way that Google TV is "tuned" into channels such as YouTube, in the same way that the Kindle Fire is tuned into Amazon content.Please notethat I'm not saying this on the basis of any briefing from Amazon, or partners. I'm simply following what's logical for a company that has focused on selling content through devices it controls.Seem crazy? Not at all: Amazon already owns LoveFilm in the UK, and it has some of the heftiest servers in the world (a legacy of its decision many years ago not to get rid of any of its old servers; instead it decided just to add new ones in. And so a growing cloud service was born.)Getting into the set-top box business in the US, the most logical place to begin, makes enormous sense for Amazon. It has a huge number of customers. It has those customers' credit card details, so if you wanted to buy a film and have it start streaming to your home it could all happen without trouble.Oh, but where is it going to get the software from? No problem – Android rides to the rescue again. It wouldn't take much tweaking of the Google TV software (which is Android, and open-source, and being tweaked to hell and back by companies around the world for their own projects) to produce Amazon TV. It would have all the elements of smart TV – it would link to the internet, but as a set-top box (so you can retrofit it to existing TVs – a far better way to go than having to buy an entire new set) it would be portable. And it would bring people ever closer to the Amazon content ecosystem.Next, let's look at how the landscape is shaping up.According to Xyologic, which has been tracking Google TV app downloads since August of 2011, the total installed base for Google TV is just 4.8m – and people aren't falling over themselves to download extra apps, with the most popular app being Napster for Google TV (903,000). Of course, Google TV has only been available through Logitech and Sony, andLogitech gave up after losing millions on its set-top boxes.Even so, when you compare it to the 300m TV sets in use in the US, and the 60m in the UK, it's clear there's a really big market to aim for. Now, Eric Schmidt has assured people that"by the summer of 2012, the majority of the televisions you see in stores will have Google TV embedded on it".Fair enough – though Samsung and a number of other big manufacturers are going with their own software (forked Android, in almost every case).But already we can see that Apple has gotten interested too in this big and largely untapped market. Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, didn't put down the idea that the company might make a more aggressive move into the smart TV market when he spoke at the Goldman Sachs conference on Tuesday. In fact, he positively seemed to point towards TV as a place where Apple hasn't done enough yet.Thefull transcript is at Macrumors, but here's Cook on TV:Q: Looking at the living room, you've said Apple TV is still on the hobby stage. What has the challenges been saying it's on the hobby stage or going into the future?Cook:In terms of existing product, we sold just shy of 3m Apple TVs in the past year. It's very cool product and I can't live without it. We sold 1.4m last quarter. It's clearly ramping, but the reality – the reason we call it a hobby – we don't want to send a message to our shareholders that we think the market for it is the size of our other businesses. The Mac, the iPad, the iPod, the iPhone. We don't want to send a signal that we think the length of that stool is equal to the others. That's why we call it a hobby.Apple doesn't do hobbies as a general rule. We believe in focus and only working on a few things. So, with Apple TV however, despite the barriers in that market, for those of us who use it, we've always thought there was something there. If we kept following our intuition and kept pulling the string, we might find something that was larger. For those people that have it right now, the customer satisfaction is off the chart. We need something that could go more main-market for it to be a serious category.The clue is in that phrase that "we've always thought there was something there". Link that to his comment that the iPad's success came because it "stood on the shoulders" of everything else – notably the iTunes Store, with all its content and apps – and you have a hint that Apple is looking to head into the "smart TV" market, which is expected to achieve some sort of liftoff this year.So: there's Apple, with 2.8m Apple TVs sold in the year, including 1.4m (Cook previously announced) in the fourth quarter. If we're generous, Apple has probably sold another million in the previous years – which gives it about 3.8m users.That's less than Google's 4.8m, but with so much of the market open, that really doesn't matter. This is basically virgin territory.The other point is that Apple and Amazon have aligned aims here: get people using the set-top box (personally I doubt Apple will offer a TV; too expensive, too hard to make people shift) to buy content. Apple of course will be pushing apps and other experiences too, while Amazon will focus on the lower end, and direct sales and other promotions. In fact you might expect that it will be just like the current tablet market, where Amazon is conquering the low end in the US, while Apple is wiping everyone out at the high end.So that's my analysis: this is completely obvious market for not just Google (which can get people to watch ads on YouTube and internet TV) but also for Amazon (which can sell people content for download or streaming via its enormous server farms) and Apple (which can do the same as Amazon while also offering app developers the chance to aim at a whole new screen size).Possibly Amazon isn't building a set-top box. But I think it will build a set-top box long before it builds a mobile phone.
Google's Android mobile operating system dominated the fast-growing smartphone market in the fourth quarter of 2011, powering 50.9% of mobile devices shipped worldwide as it crushed Nokia's Symbian and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion.Android was the biggest smartphone OS by share throughout 2011 – marking a conquest by the software for which the first handset only appeared at the end of 2008.But the figure marked a slight sequential fall from Android's third-quarter share, when it hit 52.5% – a fall apparently due to Apple's introduction in October of the iPhone 4S together with reduced pricing on older iPhones. That saw Apple's share jump from 15% in the third quarter to 23.8% for the fourth quarter, the largest rise among any platform.Apple also became the biggest smartphone vendor for the quarter and for the year,the research group Gartner said. Overall, it was  the third-largest mobile phone vendor in the world, behind the Finnish company Nokia, which narrowly kept its lead over Samsung, from South Korea.Smartphone share from 1Q 2007 to 4Q 2011. Android has led for four quarters; Apple became the biggest single vendor. Source: Gartner.There was some light for Nokia in the smartphone end: while shipments of its Symbian devices almost halved to 17m during the quarter, Gartner says that it shifted 1.3m Lumia 800 phones, confirming Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop's remark that it had established a beachhead in the market.Nokia has adopted Microsoft's Windows Phone as its future smartphone platform, and the figures from Gartner suggest that it is already the largest supplier. Samsung and HTC, which also make Windows Phone devices, together sold a total of 1.4m.Smartphone share from 1Q 2007 to 4Q 2011, normalised to 100%. Android had a nip taken out of it by Apple in the fourth quarter. Source: Gartner, the GuardianThe new figures, published on Wednesday by Gartner, indicate that the fast-rising Android tide is not lifting all boats. Sony Ericsson, Motorola Mobility, LG Electronics and HTC all saw their share of the Android smartphone market eroded as Samsung took over the top end, and new entrants including China's Huawei and ZTE moved into the low end.For the fourth quarter, ZTE and Huawei were the fastest-growing vendors after Apple: "[They] expanded their market reach and kept on improving the user experience of their Android devices," said Roberta Cozza, smartphone analyst at Gartner. HTC, MMI, LG and Sony Ericsson are being squeezed between Samsung at the high end and ZTE and Huawei at the low end, said Cozza.Overall, the smartphone market grew by 47% in the fourth quarter, and by 59% over the year, from 297m in 2010 to 472m in 2011. Android shipments were 219m for the year, or 46% of the smartphone total.Smartphones comprised 31% of overall mobile sales in the fourth quarter, up from 22% in the same period in 2010 and 12.3% at the end of 2008, when the first Android phones went on sale.The total world market for smartphones hit 472m in 2011, up from 297m in 2010.Worsening midrange Android outlookAaron Jeny, smartphones analyst at brokers Nomura Securities, forecast that the problems of the mid-range companies – notably Taiwan's HTC – will worsen as cheaper Android smartphones from Chinese rivals make progress in the US and other markets."Over the past two months, we have seen an accelerating trend for smartphone commoditisation and low-margin requirements by competitors that we believe will structurally hurt HTC," Jeng noted. "We still like HTC's brand value and strong attempt to innovate but think its valuation may retreat to a trough level in the product commoditisation process."Apple, Samsung and who?Tavis McCourt, an analyst at the stockbroker Morgan Keegan, suggested in a note to clients that: "The [fourth quarter] data seems to suggest Apple is close to a checkmate on the rest of the industry, which is quickly losing its profit pool necessary to keep up with Apple's R&amp;D engine."McCourt also warns that there are signs that the overall handset market could fall during the current quarter – something which normally only happens during a recession. Both Apple and HTC are expected to show smaller sales in the current period.His analysis suggests that while the industry's profit margins hit 21.8% overall – "the highest on record based on our data" – Apple took a huge chunk of it: "Ex-Apple, margins were 8.0%, the weakest Q4 since 2008, and alarmingly down sequentially in what is normally a seasonally strong quarter," McCourt wrote.He suggested that shipment growth slowed in line with weaker demand in China and the emerging markets, clearly reflecting weakening global economic growth.He calculates that Apple accounted for nearly 50% of handset revenues – the company reported that the iPhone brought in $24.4bn (£15.2bn) – and more than 80% of the industry's profits."Profit trends outside of Apple and Samsung were exceptionally weak, and many of these vendors face a 'make of break' year in 2012," McCourt warns. "Profits appear to be shrinking everywhere (except Samsung) and the rising tide of smartphones no longer appears to be lifting all boats… outside of Samsung, it's getting increasingly hard to understand where the rest of the competitors will get the research and development dollars to compete longer-term, given their shrinking profitability."Perhaps Microsoft and Google have the answer."RIM slipsFor RIM, Gartner's figures offered little comfort. Its shipments fell year-on-year from 14.7m to 13.2m, and it slipped from fifth-largest phone supplier overall in in the fourth quarter of 2010 to seventh, overtaken by ZTE and Huawei.Cozza could find little comfort for it: "RIM's delay with its BlackBerry 10 platform" – which the company says will not arrive until later this year – "will further impair its ability to retain users," Cozza noted."However, RIM's biggest challenge is still to expand the developer base around its ecosystem and convince developers to work and innovate with BlackBerry 10."
Last month, Capcom delighted zombification nuts with the news that Resident Evil 6 is in development and due out in autumn 2012. The publisher has now released some scintillating new details, translated from a recent feature in Japanese games magazine Famitsu.The fresh data will appease fans of the Resident Evil 4 era, but may well send Resi 1 and 2 veterans shuffling back to their George Romero movie collections in disgust.So here goes. Resident Evil 6 takes place in 2013. According to the announcement trailer, Leon Kennedy has returned from the events of Resi 4 and is meeting with the US president, Adam Benford (the one after Ashley's father from the fourth game), when the unfortunate statesman transmogrifies into a monster.We also get glimpses of a virus outbreak in a small northern American town named Tall Oaks, complete with what appear to be fast-moving zombies. With guns.Just to re-cap, here's the trailer:Okay, Capcom has confirmed that therewillbe running undead in the game, and that they'll also use firearms – plus, whatever they're infected with, it isn't the T-virus.To counteract the speed of the zombie hordes, player characters are able to run and shoot simulteneously, as well as quick-turn, melee and use cover. They're also super athletic, able to roll and dive between safety points.From all this we can infer that Resi 6 will be much more along the bloodline of the action-orientated Resi 4 rather than the earlier titles, where character movement was obsfucated by a limited movement mechanic, and firing was always a stationary (and not very accurate) endeavour.This is horror action, not survival horror. Indeed, executive producer Hiroyuki Kobayashi confirms as much in the Famitsu article;according to a translation on games site Andriasang, he says that number six won't be a return to the roots of the series; instead it'll take the best elements of Resi 4 and 5, but then up the horror factor.Alongside the Kennedy plotline, we'll also ses Chris Redfield, who is recovering from some major personal trauma, heading to China, or more accurately a fictitious city named Lanshiang. He's still part of the BSAA and is in town to investigate some kind of bioterrorist attack.Other confirmed characters are Helena Harper, a government agent who feels the outbreak is her fault, and Ingrid Hunnigan, Kennedy's secret service contact during Resi 4. The game will include co-op play, so we may well be controlling at least one of these.The teaser trailer also introduces us to a newcomer, a mercenary who could carry a cure to the latest zombie mutagen in his blood.According to Andriasang, this will be a cynical youngster, included to appeal to more youthful Resident Evil players.There's also a new, more intelligent monster named J'avo (the Serbian word for devil, apparently) that show up in the battelefield during an Eastern European conflict a few months before the events of Resi 6. They're smart, they work in groups, they can understand language, and they're ultra-aggressive.So what's going on? Are there two seperate outbreaks happening – the bio-terrorism in China and some sort of genetic weaponry experiment gone awry in the US? Capcom isn't saying right now.The certainty is, the development team is attempting to appease all parties, with shocks and body horror for the old crowd and fast-paced, colourful third-person action for the kids who grew up on Gears of War rather than fears and gore.
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTim Cook on the "Law of Large Numbers" &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu on Apple's new numbers.Apple Chief Unveils a New Product: Himself &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comA look at the man who took the helm from Steve Jobs.April 2010: 'Apple sells 300,000 iPads - but is that good or bad? We figured it out' &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologySince we're now hearing about imminent iPad 3s, a quick look back:Let's return to the big question - good, bad or indifferent sales? Piper Jaffray had been predicting 5.6m will be sold this year (calendar year 2010), but on getting those official Apple numbers revised it downwards, to 4.3m. Forrester is rather less positive: it thinks 3m. iSuppli has the frankly hard-to-believe 7m in 2010, tripling by 2012.The conclusion was that 300,000 was a good sales figure and that "there are plenty of other reasons... that will keep it selling". For the record, 14m iPads sold in 2010. The comments also make entertaining reading. If you're in there... did you call it right or wrong?A report summing up 'something other reports have said' &gt;&gt; David NieldWe think he may be on to something here. Also: we're looking for a "something must be done" template. Pointers welcome.Hit men, click whores, and paid apologists: Welcome to the Silicon Cesspool &gt;&gt; Real Dan Lyons Web SiteLyons weaves together the Silicon Valley tech journalism imbroglio. Must read.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
