Is "email overload" only a reality for a small minority of moaning technocrats? According to a study by the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project, reported today in theWashington Post, 60 percent of workers say they get 10 or less messages a day, on average. Only "about 15 to 20 percent of the population" get high volumes of email. Maurene Grey of Gartner Research was not impressed by the survey. Doubtless between frantically stabbing at the delete key, she said: "We've found workers are extremely overloaded. My gut reaction was who in the world were they interviewing? I would seriously question the results of that study."
Just back from an entertaining five day holiday in Las Vegas, chasing UFOs in the desert and an expanded waistline in the buffets. But even in that desert oasis of sin (especially there?) there was no escaping the technology world. One afternoon I got talking to my cab driver, only to discover I was talking to Kenneth Turner, the tech-savvy taxi veteran who wrotethiscomment piece for the Register during the Comdex show, held in late November. It's an interesting perspective on the tech world today, and an entertaining read to boot.
Harrods is poised to reopen its online casino. Top people will be able to play blackjack, roulette, baccarat and take their chances on the slot machines over the internet in the new year.Harrods had to close the casino last month when the agreement with its gambling software platform provider ended. Without appropriate technology the casino could not operate.Harrods has now struck a deal with the US's Kismet International which will provide its interactive gaming technology.The two companies have been working to develop the new Harrods platform for the past few weeks. They are hopeful that the system will be ready for the casino to reopen in January.Harrods will not provide data on the financial success of its online casino but it is understood to have become an important revenue stream.The luxury store is convinced that it has found a balance which encourages gamblers to visit the online casino in numbers without undermining the integrity of the underlying retailing brand."We are delighted to be selected by Harrods, and look forward to providing a superior gaming experience, of the type players expect from Harrods' luxury brand," Kismet's chief executive, Manu Gambhir, said.
You may remember Diary's fearless expose of the light-fingered Mirror picture department, which shamelessly ripped off a picture of handbag-wielding Argentinian footballers from b3ta.com and entered it for an award. Now we have spotted another b3ta.com creation gracing mainstream media - Joel Veitch's rocking kitten creations. Trailers for Channel 4's new Sara Cox-fronted music show Born Sloppy feature the famous felines - but we're sure that in this case, C4 cleared their use first.&#183;BT Looksmart is dead, long live Looksmart. BT has backed out of yet another joint venture formed at the height of the boom by selling out to its partner in search-engine business, BT Looksmart. In 1999, when the company was formed, BT promised to sink &#163;75m into the venture. If it did end up losing that much, then Looksmart - which paid &#163;2.2m to take full control - has got the better end of the deal. All of which goes to show that, despite all the nonsense spouted in the boom times about a brave new world of partnerships, joint ventures are as difficult to manage in the online world as they are in the offline one.&#183;Barclay Knapp, the chief executive of NTL, who somehow held on to his job despite running up debts of &#163;12bn and pushing the cable giant to the brink, was back in the public eye last week. With NTL about to re-emerge from bankruptcy, he was in far more ebullient mood at the Westminster Media Forum than when Diary last heard him speak. Gone was the haunted man bemoaning his role in laying off 8,000 people. In his place was the return of the consummate salesman. "Cable has promised a lot and failed to deliver for the past 10 years," he told us, before promising the moon on a stick, prompting the obvious question - how long does he want, exactly?&#183;The Independent on Sunday is for sale. No, not the newspaper (not yet anyway) but the domain name. Type in IndependentonSunday.co.uk and you can become the proud owner of the domain name of a once-proud newspaper. Further inquiries reveal that the name belongs to one Nick Johnson, who's happy to sell to the highest bidder. So if Associated, owners of the Daily Mail, want to get a bid in - they know where to go. That's if Diary hasn't got there first.&#183;Telecoms regulator Oftel was patting itself on the back last week for stimulating broadband take-up so that connections are growing at a faster rate than in other countries in Europe. Well done, you might think. But the self-congratulatory press release failed to point out that Britain still has the lowest broadband penetration among G7 countries, chiefly because it took so long to get BT to pull its finger out and reduce wholesale prices.&#183;Owen Gibson is new media editor ofmediaguardian.co.uk
It is a soulless 1960s office block close to the local railway station and with a view out across suburban Surrey. Yet Quadrant House, the Sutton headquarters of trade magazine publisher Reed Business Information, has assumed an unlikely new role.After a remarkable three years for RBI's parent company Reed Elsevier, Quadrant House is now the creative heart of Europe's largest public stock market-listed media company.The specialist publisher of scientific, business, legal and educational magazines, including Variety, Flight International and Farmers Weekly, is now valued at more than &#163;15bn - making it the fifth largest media company in the world.The dog of the media sector three years ago, Reed is now bigger than Pearson, Reuters, and Lord Hollick's United Business Media combined. Its shares now outperform giants including AOL Time Warner and Disney.And while executives in the media villages of London, New York and Los Angeles still struggle to get their heads around how to make money out of the internet, RBI employees beavering away in a town many disparagingly describe as "Mutton" have contributed to another remarkable statistic: Reed now generates more revenues online than eBay, the US internet auction giant.Last week, Reed told the City that despite dire conditions across the media sector it was sticking to its earnings targets. The reason? Although the economy is tough, subscriptions are holding up and only 12% of profit comes from advertising. The news was issued by Crispin Davis, the former head of media buying firm Aegis, who since taking the helm at Reed three years ago has emerged as one of the most admired media bosses in Europe.Until he arrived, the publisher, created in 1992 from the merger of UK trade magazine publisher Reed with the Dutch scientific journal firm Elsevier, was best known for executives who seemed more intent on settling old scores than taking on outside competitors.Davis immediately replaced 11 of the top 12 senior managers and cut 40% of head office staff. "It was necessary to create a business capable of delivering sustained, long-term growth," he says diplomatically.The group was reorganised into four key divisions - science &amp; medical, education, legal and business - while sales and marketing investment was increased dramatically."Before we migrated information online, a scientific researcher would have to get on his bike, go to the library, sign out books and ride home to complete a piece of work. Now with a subscription to our products he can access the equivalent to three miles of academic journals from his PC at home."What has crucially changed is the way Reed publications are produced by its 6,000 UK staff. Kelly's directory, a red hardback business book published each year since 1978, evolved into Kellysearch.co.uk, an online reference facility attracting a far wider audience than before and significant advertising revenues.New Scientist is no longer just a weekly magazine with a circulation of 140,000, but a website breaking news and claiming 1.2 million unique users each month. Around &#163;100m has also been invested in Science Direct, a site that groups more than 1,500 scientific journals in a single place and is expected to attract up to 350m page views this year. A further &#163;350m has been spent turning around legal reference resource Lexis Nexis. Once a declining business, it now accounts for one third of Reed's revenues.Crucially, users are prepared to pay for the content, even though most information available on the internet is free. "As long as the information we produce is high quality and helpful to the job our customers do they will pay, but we are not sitting on our laurels," says Davis.Eventually he wants to do the same with educational books and products but believes that for now, in the school classroom, text books will retain precedence over the internet. "Electronic teaching will continue to grow from a low base but until there is a computer at every desk it will only be a complementary method to traditional textbooks," he says.Davis is relatively unconcerned by customers who might think they can drop their subscriptions and find similar information for free using search engines like Google and AOL. "You can get a wide amount of information free of charge on the web, but if you want truly high quality content that helps you do your job then your best bet is to subscribe to the likes of Science Direct and Lexis Nexis."The reliability of its subscription revenues has made Reed the media sector's safe haven in this economic downturn. Quadrant House may not feel glamorous to those who work there, but as long as advertising remains in the doldrums, investors believe there is no better place to be.
What are your favourite websites?Well, oami.eu.int has a staggering breadth of useful online information from the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market. Also, easily.co.uk which is the easiest of the UK domain registration sites. Diytools.com offers a beguilingly simple and brilliant e-commerce system, and the UK's best sector pricing and after-sales.Last online purchase?A handful of domain names yesterday evening. I have just bought an apartment in Richmond and the entire apartment has been constructed on purchasing and knowledge garnered from the internet. I have made over 80 purchases online totalling about &#163;40,000, from shower systems to oak flooring.Ever been in a chat room?Yes, media and industry chat rooms but also TV channels from 1 through to 5, satellite and news channels. I am a current-affairs chat room fanatic.Most recent technological faux pas?Purchasing an unnamed MMS-enabled mobile phone without paying careful attention to its antenna performance. I now have a phone that purports to do everything but is seldom able to establish a connection with which to do it.Main news source on the web?Reuters UK Online and Guardian Unlimited. Reuters because it is so flat in term of its politics and GU because it isn't, and has very creative editorial which I like.Most useful website?I hate to be hackneyed but it's got to be Google.Least useful website?Marks and Spencer online. It's incredibly slow, and stock-driven as opposed to information-driven.Do you use a screensaver?Agent Provocateur's murder on a train, in the Agatha Christie style.Most irritating thing about the internet?The surprising volume of ill-considered commercial and civic websites, many of which do little to reflect or enhance the brands and organisations represented.What type of online business is least likely to succeed?One that is built on any platform other than the profound understanding of internet customers.Do you still bother with old media?Yes. I still buy a newspaper at the weekends. I am also an avid watcher of TV. I think interactivity and incumbent old media can work very successfully.&#183;James Ghani is MD of ECelebrations whose site,www.merrychristmas.co.ukhas just launched an e-card campaign to raise money for Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity.  Interview by Sharon Bainbridge
Fears are mounting among computer experts that Britain may be becoming increasingly vulnerable to attack by hackers.They believe that both civil and military institutions, as well as major companies, are in danger of a devastating 'cyber attack' - possibly as a prelude to a terrorist assault on the country, or simply as a challenge for expert young computer users.Among the trends recently noted by computer security officials have been an illegal trade in ageing Cray super-computers, which are ideal for cracking complex encrypted passwords used to guard major installations and companies, and a steady rise in attempts to recruit the services of young computer researchers, particularly from eastern Europe, by a variety of shadowy organisations, including terrorists.There are also fears over the country's lack of readiness for possible attacks. 'The trouble is that we have got our priorities very badly mixed up,' said Paran Chandrasekaran, head of the security consultancy Indicii Salus.'Just take the recent example of Cherie Blair. I am sure she is very carefully looked after by security guards, but her cyber security is abysmal.'Evidence recently collected by experts includes reports that:&#183;Government institutions are successfully attacked by hackers an average of 84 times a week.&#183;A total of 44 per cent of UK businesses have suffered a malicious electronic security incident in the past year. This figure is almost double the 24 per cent that reported breaches in 2000.&#183;More than 200 UK companies are now targeted by hackers every day.&#183;Eight out of 10 office workers open and read other people's emails without permission.'It is incredibly easy to do a search on the internet for a program that you can then download and use to read emails round your office,' said Dr Magnus Ranstorp, of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, at St Andrews University.'Then you get recruited by a group or business outfit and used to infiltrate an office with fake credentials. Someone starts working as a temp in one department. After a few weeks, he or she could have gone through half the secure documents in the whole building.'To guard against such attacks, many key installations and government departments change passwords with the departure of any worker for a new job. However, most security officials now doubt that such efforts go anywhere near to protecting institutions against committed cyber attacks.'It's like standing in a field with your trousers round your ankles,' said one. 'You are still terribly exposed.'www.guardian.co.uk/online
It has always had its critics, but this time the internet may really have lost its innocence. Many readers will never have heard of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), but it is the nearest thing the world wide web has to a 'government'. And it has just decided to get rid of representatives voted in by internet users.For some, the move is a betrayal of the democratic, liberating, inclusive traditions of the web. Critics fear it will put the internet into the hands of big business and governments.One such critic is Karl Auerbach, one of Icann's outgoing directors, who told  The Observer that the Los Angeles-based body 'has repudiated the concept of public participation in the internet.'Icann disagrees. 'You can't have a global democracy without a globally informed electorate,' says Esther Dyson, its founding chairman. Besides, Icann argues, the reform will streamline its decision-making and make it more responsive to internet users, thus answering the persistent complaint that it has not provided web addresses quickly enough to cope with demand.All this is to be thrashed out at Icann's annual meeting in Amsterdam his month. The summit is likely to be a milestone for the internet body, which has spent the first four years of its life in a state of constant evolution.Icann's powers are strictly circumscribed, but it does control the huge central registry that operates the internet's worldwide addressing system. It sets up and oversees the allocation of the most importantdomain names, such as dotcom and dotorg, as well as country codes, such as dotuk and dotfr.Established to replace a plethora of American government and academic bodies, and run by a motley collection of geeks and entrepreneurs, it operates as a private, not-for-profit company.One of its earliest tasks was to set up an effective arbitration system to tackle 'cybersquatters' - such as the pornographer formerly behind 'madonna.com' - who attempt to profit from company or celebrity trademarks.Auerbach dismisses this achievement, accusing Icann of 'acting as a handmaiden to the trademark industry'. He claims the agency is siding with business interests who fear that the creation of large numbers of internet domains could jeopardise their brands.Icann, he says, has created an artificial scarcity of domain names. 'It could be adding hundreds or thousands of new domains every year, with no technical problems,' he says. 'By not doing so, it is making a major social policy decision that goes well beyond any scope ever assigned to it. It is creating rules that dictate who may or may not use the internet.'Icann's directors certainly include representatives and alumni from industrial powerhouses, such as Fujitsu, Siemens and MCI. Nor are intellectual property lawyers under-represented on the 18-man executive board. On the other hand, and for all its undoubted intimacy with the US Department of Commerce, Icann has been scrupulous about keeping government representatives out.Instead, it makes policy via a decentralised structure of advisory committees, working groups and task forces, peopled by representatives of all continents. Yet this system has been attacked as inefficient and, ironically, undemocratic. Edward Markey, a member of the Congressional telecoms and internet subcommittee, recently complained: 'Events at the Vatican are shrouded in less mystery than how Icann chooses new domain names.'Icann's mandate will be reviewed by the US government next year. To ensure its legitimacy, if not its survival, it will probably have to give lawmakers a greater say. This dismays Michael Froomkin, a critic of the agency and a law professor at Miami University.'Icann was created to save the internet from governments, but is now turning to governments to save it from the internet,' Froomkin said.Icann is also having trouble outside the US, not least in Britain. Nominet, appointed by the UK Government to run the registry of dotuk domain names, resents the large fees it has to pay Icann for running the 'root server' computers that handle worldwide internet traffic.It also claims Icann is using this controlling position as leverage to meddle in policy decisions affecting the internet in this country.Then there is China, with its 50 million internet users. Discussions in Amsterdam will probably focus on the peculiar operational needs of this fast-growing online community. However, the world's most populous country is also likely to be given several seats on Icann's board.The new directors will be industry, rather than government, figures, but critics claim this is a meaningless distinction in China. Internet user representatives claim they are being stood down from Icann in favour of a regime with a history of internet censorship.But Icann is probably going to have to listen to unsavoury governments if it is to be a 'United Nations of the internet'. What this will mean for the web - which, so far, has been remarkably ungoverned and unregulated - is another matter.
Continuing the theme of Great Britons, you can now nominate your Great Disabled Britons at the BBC's Ouch websitehttp://www.bbc.co.uk/ouch/. If you have trouble finding the story, it'shere.
President Bush has signed a law to introduce a safe haven on the net for kids under the .kids.us domain. There are stories in theWashington PostandInfoWorld, among others.
IDG is cancelling the show due to lack of interest, reportsCNet.
Researchers at CMU are working on a toy robot that will help children do science at home, reports theBBC, but it's a couple of years away.
Disney employees getting a PDA for Christmas should make sure it is aRIM Blackberry or Compaq iPaqif they want to connect it to the company's network.
""The new iMac has the essential features of a baby that needs nurturing," according to Geoffrey Miller, an evolutionary psychologist at the University of New Mexico. "A big head with a frail neck and body. These are all the cues a healthy human infant might give. It says, 'I've got a big brain so I'm worth taking care of, but I've got a little neck so I need nurturing. Don't abandon me for a Dell PC.' It taps into a response the same way a healthy but needy infant does."Wiredhas the story. Clearly there's now a major industry devoted to explaining why 2.5% of the computer-buying population is still willing to pay well over the odds for very slow computers that severly limit your range of choices and lock you in to a single dictatorial supplier. Maybe Miller should have looked at infantilism instead....
Troubled internet giant America Online is set to cut hundreds of jobs in the US as part of a cost cutting drive to offset a sharp fall in advertising revenue.Earlier this week, America Online revealed ad revenue was likely to be down by up to 50% next year as various deals signed during the dotcom boom came to an end.Jonathan Miller, the recently appointed chief executive of America Online, is planning wholesale changes, including the introduction of a "bring your own access" subscription product and an increased reliance on exclusive content from the AOL Time Warner music and film divisions.Broadband users, for example, will be offered a version of CNN on their desktops while films such as Harry Potter and artists such as Madonna will be promoted heavily through the service.America Online also plans to introduce a number of premium subscription services to increase the amount of revenue generated by each subscriber.According to a report in today's Washington Post, the vice chairman of America Online, Joseph Ripp, has told managers to expect heavy cuts in all divisions.The cuts are part of a wider plan to restore the credibility of AOL Time Warner on Wall Street, where its reputation has been battered by disappointing financial results and a string of investigations into accounting irregularities around the time of the £67bn merger of AOL and Time Warner.In an internal memo to staff, Mr Miller said there were hard times ahead as the company sought to regain the impetus of the late 90s."I want to be clear with you: even if this plan succeeds, 2003 will be a difficult year for AOL," he said."There will be some down quarters and some hard choices to make. But if we execute? If all of us are accountable for doing our jobs to the best of our ability every day? AOL can return to substantial growth in the years to come."But analysts remain sceptical about whether, with subscriber growth levelling off in the US and a highly competitive broadband market, America Online can return to substantial growth."The strategic direction to address the challenges is sensible but our concern is the continued decline in the AOL division would be severe enough to offset the strength of other Time Warner businesses," said a new research report by Goldman Sachs.
Sony's president Kunitake Ando has been talking toZD Netabout the future. He says, among other things: "TVs are changing. At one time, they were the center of home entertainment, but PCs came in and were essentially the gateway to the Internet and took their place." Of course, PCs have been able to show TV programmes for a decade or so, and have more recently started working as hard disk recorders (TiVo-style PVRs). PCs are also the digital hub for music (with Internet radio and connections to MP3 players), still and video photography (with connections to cameras, printers and video projectors), and personal data (with connections to PDAs and phones). All this is obvious enough, you might think, but it is often obscured by bullshit from the anti-PC crowd.
It's not often that technology developed in the UK becomes major news in Japan. Yet the team at Sharp's European Laboratory in Oxford are behind one of the year's big stories in Japanese mobile phones.A month ago the country's biggest network, NTT DoCoMo unveiled the Sharp mova SH251iS handset - the first to feature a colour screen capable of rendering 3D images. It uses technology the British team have been working on for the best part of a decade.A clamshell camera phone that's available as part of DoCoMo's i-shot service, the mova allows its user to take images and then, using an editing system, convert them into 3D. They can be sent as 3D images to other phones, with the recipient able to see the 3D images if they own a similarly equipped handset. No special glasses are required, although in order to see a quality 3D image the user has to be positioned directly in front of the phone, and around 1ft away from its screen. DoCoMo is also offering downloads of 3D animations and hopes to offer 3D video in the near future.The 3D mobile phone is the latest application for a technology that has been a century in development, yet has never really established itself in the mainstream. The first 3D movie was screened back in 1915, though it wasn't until the 50s and 60s, and movies like It Came from Outer Space, that it captured the imagination of cinema-goers.The emergence of LCD and Plasma screens (which are better suited to rendering 3D images than traditional CRT (cathode-ray tube) monitors and TVs) in both consumer electronics and the computer world has once again fired interest in the technology. And in a largely unprecedented move, many hardware and software companies are collaborating on 3D products.Although it is the mobile phone that offers the first glimpse of how 3D might function on LCD screens, according to Sharp Labs' Managing Director, Stephen Bold, the handset only provides a taste of what is possible with 3D technology.Bold claims 3D's future is assured, as the company has overcome two of the major obstacles to 3D development - the issue of comfort of viewing 3D images and the requirement for a screen to toggle between 2D and 3D images.Sharp's 3D display system uses a long-established technique called the Parallax Barrier. This controls the path of light from the display so that different images reach each eye. When the brain combines the images it sees them as a 3D representation.As Sharp's LCD screens electronically controls the Parallax Barrier it can eliminate its ability to separate light paths, therefore enabling the screen to display 2D images in a conventional way.The demonstration Sharp gave to a group of journalists certainly highlighted the potential of the format. Particularly impressive was an 8inch LCD where journalists were invited to try a 3D version of the popular PC game Quake II. Both characters and effects really did seem to leap out of the screen towards the player. Inevitably, after a few minutes, the game-players eyes started to feel a little strained. Sharp, however, insists users will be able to play 3D games for up to half an hour before they require a screen break.Other screens showed how 3D could be used for more commercial applications, such as enhancing computer aided design software.The only major downside was that in order for the viewer to see a 3D effect they had to position themselves in a fairly exact spot. The ultimate goal for Sharp, and other 3D developers, is to develop a 3D TV system, and as there would be a number of viewers all with different viewing angles, there is clearly still a long way to go before this can be achieved.Sharp hopes to launch the 3D LCD panels during 2004 and is aiming for a retail price that's around 25% more than traditional 2G monitors.As for the phone, if the UK networks are convinced of the potential of 3D we could see it arriving here within a year. The still images can be quite fun, but the real breakthrough is sure to be when Sharp adds 3D movie replay to the handset. It could certainly spice up videos of Premiership football streamed to your mobile.
British computer buyers find the telephone helplines set up to guide them through getting their new equipment up and running are not helpful at all, according to a year long study by the office of fair trading.Consumers in the UK spend more than &#163;2bn a year on computers and IT equipment and while 83% feel they get a good deal on their PC, complaints rocketed when customers had to call on after-sales support. British customers spend an average &#163;1,000 on computer equipment.The OFT, which launched an investigation of the PC market in October last year, said around 32% of consumers polled needed to call on after-sales support. It also found their experience of dealing with helplines was poor.In total, 28% of people who used helplines said they were not impressed with the service they received. Consumers who considered themselves technically literate and first time buyers were equally unimpressed with the help offered.The OFT said that across Europe and the US, after-sales support services are one of the biggest sources of complaints in the industry.Almost a third of British PC buyers who tried to call a helpline said they experienced problems getting through to an adviser and almost half those polled said they spent far too long waiting for someone to answer their call.Even when they managed to get through to the call centre, less than half said they had been able to solve the fault using the advice they received.The OFT also found that consumers were dissatisfied with the price and performance of ink jet printer cartridges. While the price of ink jet printers has dropped in recent years, cartridges have remained expensive.British consumers spend &#163;315m on ink jet cartridges every year and expenditure on cartridges often runs to twice the cost of the printer itself.
1 Archos Multimedia Jukebox from&#163;350Archos created the Swiss-Army knife of the gadget world by taking its portable hard disk-based music player (the PC world's forerunner of Apple's iPod) and adding video and still image functionality.Its audio facilities are very impressive. The Jukebox's 20GB hard disk is capable of archiving up to 400 albums of MP3 music transferred from a PC or recorded directly from a hi-fi/CD player via the unit's on-board MP3 encoder.Then there's the imaging side. Factor in a plug-in camera and the user can take both still (JPeg) and moving (up to 40 hours of MPeg4) images that can then be reviewed on the Jukebox's 1.5inch 320 x 240 colour screen. The Jukebox can also connect to a TV to play back footage.Inevitably, battery life could be better - it's more like six hours than the manufacturer's claimed eight - and the Jukebox is not the most elegant gadget on sale. Yet, for an innovative roll-call of facilities and massive storage, the Jukebox is one of the year's must-have gadgets.www.archos.comRivalsApple iPod from &#163;259,Creative Jukebox 3 from &#163;3002 Fuji @xia Slimshot&#163;80     2002 was the year digital photography stormed the mainstream, as the trickle of low-budget, low-resolution cameras turned into a flood.Easily the most elegant and usable of the sub &#163;100 snappers is the Fuji @xia Slimshot. Other models claimed to be credit card thin, yet only the Slimshot is skinny enough (6mm) to fit into a wallet or shirt pocket.And while it took low-resolution 640 x 480m pixel images, a feature called an Auto-Brite sensor ensured images were sharper and more colourful than its rivals.www.fujifilm.co.ukRivalsSiPix Snap &#163;40, L'Espion Digital Dream DDR52100 &#163;403 Sony Clie PEG NR-70V&#163;425The NR-70V re-wrote the PDA rulebook with an innovative clamshell design that split open to pair a large LCD screen on the top frame with an easy to use full Qwerty keyboard underneath.Music fans were offered an integrated MP3/ATRAC 3 audio player, while gMovie and Picture Gear Pocket software enabled the user to view video and still images. An on-board digital camera with a swivel-round lens, which enabled the user to take snaps of themselves, added to the fun.Sony also launched several new applications including Clie Remote Commander, which enables the PDA to moonlight as a remote control for home entertainment products. Overall, a wonderfully executed Palm-compatible PDA.www.sony.co.ukRivalsHandspring Treo 90 &#163;250, Sharp Zaurus SL-5500 &#163;3504 Panasonic DMR-HS2&#163;1,000In spite of a format war that threatened to kill the product category off, DVD video recorders have been one of the big success stories of the year.Panasonic has now taken the debate into new territory with the launch of the HS2 - the first unit to team up a DVD recorder with a hard disk recording system. The theory is that users will timeshift programmes on the hard disk and then archive them on to a DVD disc.It's far from the perfect solution. The lack of an easy to use electronic programming guide (as used on the Sky+ and TiVo boxes) is a noteworthy omission, while the DVD-RAM's format compatibility problems (its discs won't play back in most standard DVD players) is annoying. Still, Panasonic has given home cinema enthusiasts a glimpse of the future.www.panasonic.co.ukRivalsSky+ &#163;300 plus subscriptionPhilips DVDR880 &#163;5005 Compaq HP iPaq 3970&#163;550Last year, this model's predecessors, the H3800 series PDAs, played a significant role in establishing Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system as top choice for those after a high-end handheld.Surprisingly, Compaq HP has chosen not to tamper too greatly with its formula. The styling and features are the same, although under the hood is a new Xscale PXA250 400MHz processor that replaces the 206MHz chip in previous models and enhances video playback and web surfing. HP Compaq has also added a cool application called Nevo, which enables the user to control their TV.The iPaq is still our favourite high-end business PDA, and is a terrific product. Yet unless the company does something about its poor battery life and relatively chunky design, we   are unlikely to be as generous next time.www.hp.comRivalsPalm Tungsten T &#163;400Toshiba e740 &#163;5806 Orange SPV&#163;169 (with Orange contract) Currently on offer at &#163;100The only mobile phone on our list, Orange's SPV is the first to use Microsoft's Smartphone operating system. Hence, not only is it incredibly intuitive for those weaned on Windows, but it also sports a Windows Media Player for replay of music, still image and video files.7 Philips Streamium MC-i200&#163;400A new breed of hi-fi, the Streamium not only includes an FM tuner alongside its CD player, but also a web browser optimised to deliver internet radio stations via a connection to a broadband modem.8 Innogear Duex MP302$179A neat twist on the USB storage devices that have become very popular this year, the chewing gum pack-sized Duex also includes an integrated MP3 player and voice recorder. So, in addition to housing files and documents, any spare capacity of its 128MB storage can be loaded with your favourite tunes.www.innogear.com9 Gyration Ultra Cordless Optical Mouse&#163;79Rather cool cordless optical mouse that works both on the desktop, or if you prefer, waved around in the air.www.gyration.co.uk10 Olympus C-50 Zoom&#163;549Five megapixels on a compact model, plus a host of controls make this one of the best value cameras of the year.www.olympus.co.uk
Up the qualityMost enforcement authorities have better things to do than waste their time chasing the importers and sellers of allegedly counterfeit products at the behest of global brand leaders (Shop tactics, November 28). They will usually only act when cajoled into doing so, or if there is a safety issue. Designer goods' manufacturers want to achieve the cost savings of outsourcing production to poorer countries while maintaining absolute control over the manner of marketing.They, and the private enforcement agencies who represent them, often obfuscate the issue by stating that what turn out to be parallel imports are illegal counterfeits. The situation is complicated by the way the manufacturers vary the quality of branded products to suit particular markets. Many members of the public are happy to buy "pirate" goods sold cheaply and are in no way deceived by the counterfeiters. Such goods can be found easily at    car boot sales and markets. Many branded goods' manufacturers have ignored what made their products desirable in the first place: quality and style. It is a popular joke among designer clothing suppliers that the best way to distinguish a counterfeit product from the genuine article is that the counterfeit will survive the first wash. An obvious way to reduce the incentive for counterfeiting is to make a product that offers such value for money that it becomes unprofitable for others to produce illegal copies.Tony Troytony.troy@virgin.netA majestic siteI am amazed that Lousie Ferguson can write an article about wine on the web without mentioning the best wine site (and one of the best retail sites), namelyMajestic. And no, I don't have any connection with them - except as a very satisfied customer.Peter Smithpeter.smith@eudoramail.comLindows styleAdrian Langford (Feedback, November 28) confuses difficulty of use with complexity of structure. When Unix became widely available and was adopted in computer science departments in the UK in the late 70s and early 80s, we were amazed at its simplicity and elegance, compared to what was around at that time. None of us dreamt, though, that 20 years later it would still be the best thing around, both technically and now, thanks to the efforts of Apple and others, in its ease of use.You don't need to open a terminal window in OS X if you don't want to, but for those familiar with Unix, or interested in learning, the fact that you can is a huge plus. The real threat to Apple's new-found geek appeal comes not from Microsoft, which most geeks I know have striven strenuously to avoid, but from Lindows, another attempt to put a pretty face on the elegant bone structure of Unix (in this case, Debian's flavour of Linux).I recently purchased the e-scape Li PC from Evesham for under &#163;250, which comes with Lindows and OpenOffice installed. This looks like being able to do everything I need it to do at least as well and as easily as my iMac, which cost four times as much.Alistair Kilgouralistairk@blueyonder.co.ukGeek-less MacThe new Mac OS X system really is different. The only time I reboot is when I install new software, usually sent automatically from Apple. Everything on my system works fine - ADSL, Ethernet network, photo downloading    from my D1, scanners, Bluetooth portability and emailing with no glitches. If anything, OS X is the geek-less system that just misses a few drivers occasionally like any other upgrading system. I can hardly remember what the Mac start-up chime sounds like. OS X works.Martin Shallcrossmartfoto1@btinternet.comFast linkLast week in your business solutions section, you printed an article saying satellite broadband is now affordable, starting at around &#163;25 a month. BT has no plans for installing terrestrial broadband here (Hay-on-Wye), and I would be interested in a satellite option at around the above price. Who offers this?Jon Fieldjon@thebear-hay-on-wye.co.ukBlurry edgesMichael Cross's article (E-gov at the ready, November 21) makes sensible reading on what has been a blurry issue for the government. The prime minister's pledge at the e-summit about setting new targets for the delivery of public services via broadband is not enough to bridge the digital divide and extend the infrastructure to difficult-to-reach places such as rural England.The fact that only one in 10 Britons has used an e-government service isn't surprising: the existing structure doesn't come up to scratch. Before asking us to use these new facilities, make sure the infrastructure is there first. Don't promise motorists and ambulance crews access to broadband when the promise is a dream. What our broadband industry needs is an increase in efficiency and a decrease in costs - instead of government targets that have been set against already unmet demand levels.P&#243;l SweeneyChief information officer a.p.solvepol.sweeney@apsolve.com
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:So far the Iraq government has shown uncharacteristic cooperation with UN weapons inspectors, even allowing them access to one of Saddam Hussein's palaces. The US and Britain insist Iraq possesses weapons of mass destruction, but can they make a case for war if none are found? What do you think?Pashmina:how do u know their Liams real teethBronco:theyre on ebayPashmina:that dont proof anythingGordonZola:saddam is lying. It's time to go to warLadeezMan:I tried to buy crack on Ebay, but it was fakeHost_Chris2:but unless Iraq actually violates the UN resolution...Pashmina:LadeezMan u shoud NOT take crackLadeezMan:I was only gonna sell itGordonZola:Saddam must diePashmina:you shoud also NOT SELL itLadeezMan:that is excatly wot the police saidHost_Chris2:GordonZola, the question is whether war can be justified if resolutions are complied withPashmina:the police!!LadeezMan:I know. they shoud be out catching real crooksBronco:anyway I allready bid on the teethLadeezMan:like the guy who sold me those lumps of sea saltGordonZola:SOD THE UN SEND IN THE MARINESPashmina:how much broncoBronco:&#163;150 the pairPashmina:!!!! Wot r u gonna do with themBronco:glue them on me own teethPashmina:that is sickHost_Chris2:does no one else take issue with GordonZola's stance?LadeezMan:I take issue with his smellPashmina:gordonzola u r wrong as usualGordonZola:you idiots know nothingBronco:he smells like a big cheeseHost_Chris2:this is not exactly what I had in mindGordonZola:shut up or I'll kill youBronco:come &amp; get me cheeseyGordonZola:I can find your address with the push of a buttonPashmina:Id never put nothing in my mouth that was in liam galaggers mouthBronco:go on then Im waitin u fat chedderHost_Chris2:personal abuse will not be toleratedLadeezMan:lolGordonZola:18A Langley Terrace, Bristol BS3 OJS*GordonZola has left the NewsRoom*Bronco:oh christLadeezMan:wicked!!! how he do that?Host_Chris2:let's return to the topicBronco:hes coming to kill mePashmina:bronco is that in the clifton areaconnection to server has been terminated...
I did intend to write an article about nanotechnology before someone decided it was being overhyped, butDaniel Leffhas already started putting the boot in.....
Three Brits want to do some educational Web-casting from the frozen north, specifically the North Pole, reportsZD Net UK.
The Tiger team behind the Furby developed theFurReal Friends-- robot toys that are selling well in the US this Christmas. The New York Times reports [Free registration required]
Punch, the satirical magazine closed down earlier this year by Harrods owner Mohamed Al Fayed after 161 years, has been reborn online.The magazine, which for decades was a thorn in the side of the establishment with its satirical sideswipes and political cartoons, will now have a permanent home on the web.As well as an archive of articles and cartoons from the magazine's history, it will also feature new book, film and restaurant reviews.Its small but loyal band of aficionados will be able to carry on discussing the title and exchanging vintage issues in the Collectors' Club section of the site.It will seek to make money by selling high quality copies of the magazine's cartoons and licensing them for use in magazines and corporate brochures.Plans for the website were first announced as a means of sugaring the pill when Mr Fayed announced he was shutting the magazine due to spiralling losses.The first edition of Punch was published on July 17 1841 and the magazine developed a reputation as a "defender of the oppressed and a radical scourge of all authority".At its peak, each edition sold thousands of copies, but by the late 1980s circulation had dropped to an alarmingly low level and Punch was closed for the first time in 1992.Mr Fayed revived the title in 1996 but was unable to restore the ailing magazine's fortunes. Despite efforts to improve circulation, subscriptions had fallen to fewer than 6,000 and with each edition costing more than £40,000 to produce, it was no longer commercially viable.
Emma Passmore, who has won this year's &#163;1,500 prize for the best text message poem, schedules sound crews for programmes such as Blind Date and Pop Idol during the day. But at night, she is a secret writer waiting for a lucky break. For the past year, she has been writing a screen play for a film she hopes to direct herself.Emma, 34, did a theatrical studies degree at Lancaster University. She has been writing poems since she was eight years old, and has accumulated about five books of them. It was while sorting out her stuff in the attic recently when she was moving house that she came across her winning poem.It was written about seven years ago and she only needed to shorten it and put it into text message form. It was inspired, she said, by her fascination at what she saw on the streets of London."Every day, if you look, you see  so many discarded letters and photographs. Some holiday snaps may be sitting there for several days. I thought it was a poetic thing, all about people wanting people to love them".She added that she was attracted to dark subject matter, and the film she was working on was about grief and how you overcome it. The second prize of &#163;500 went to Sharon Mann, a 30-year-old English teacher from Leeds, who works at a secondary school in Wakefield with her partner, 35-year-old history teacher, Mike Mawson. She says he wrote most of it on the subject of how boring most days are.Third prize went to Peter Wroe, 49, who describes himself as "a freelance marketeer". He wrote his poem based on the experience of a friend who had had breast cancer. They were discussing the fact that even in traumatic times, there can be a bit of humour, and texting was a good way of getting it over.The fourth prize of &#163;150 goes to Mandy Coe, a writer. She took my call in the middle of a seminar on writing she was giving to 15 people at a school. She said her poem was inspired by the firefighters.  She doesn't do text messaging and reception is so bad in her part of Liverpool that she had to stand on a kitchen chair in the garden to get through.Fifth prize (&#163;100) goes to Josephine Dimbleby, 23, who is temping.   The &#163;250 Orange prize for the most creative use of SMS shorthand was won by Graham Francis, a 30-year-old freelance web editor who lives in Brixton, London.He condensed it from a longer poem he had written called Ode to Glastonbury. The cheque will be presented at the Orange Word West End poetry event on December 9. For more poems and last year's winners, seewww.guardian.co.uk/textpoetry.The winners1 Emma Passmore&#163;1,500I left my pictur on th ground wher u walkso that somday if th sun was jst right&amp; th rain didnt wash me awau might c me out of th corner of yr i &amp; pic me up2 Sharon Mann&#163;500Awokewashedcoffeetoasttrainworklunchworktrainhomepasta.putbinout.the lightofthesun,reflectedbythesurfaceofamoonfleckedwiththegreyshadowsofmountains,littheyard3 Peter Wroe&#163;250Jus left th clinicbstrong cheriarm ok no panicneed u 2 promis me2 keep kissinme left breastcos baby nxt weekme right'll b missin4 Mandy Coe&#163;150We carry u, hods of screams.Stund u grasp, cof lastwords but fire is the star.We r xtras, greyfaced w ash.Blulite stild we go hmewhr evn sleep tstes of burn5 Josephine Dimbleby&#163;100"Where is my joie de vivre?slumped on the grass verge outside asda."Orange prize for creative use of SMSGraham FrancisGLSTNBRY FSTVLseasnd w msts n fruitlss mellwnssn pungent smlls f grss ovr haywe flp nto ponchos fr a mnts restn try nt t pln t rst f t dayWhat the judges saidU A FanthorpeJudging a poetry competition can be a tedious business: judging a text poem competition is a livelier business altogether. The poems are short, but there's a kind of energy about them that gives them great force. And, like dancers, it is not hard to see whether they can pirouette or whether they fall down. I was also a judge last year, and this year's entries were much better.Clearly, the text poem has become an established form, and it has a head start because of its brevity. Many poems fail because they go on too long; some of these got by with hardly any words at all. I found that invigorating.When words, or time, are limited, urgent sentiments come to the surface: we'll never forget those brief messages sent on September 11 from the doomed aircraft. Like them, a great many text poems were about love. Generally, they voiced the essential messages needed in living: courage, resignation, joy, stoicism. Hopelessness and loss gained great power in their shrunken syllables, and many found the form an excellent vehicle for wit (brevity being the soul of).The limitations of the form inevitably invite playfulness with language, and there were plenty of games. There was nice ambiguity with spelling, which took me back to the Elizabethans, for whom such things were everyday. It was interesting to see so many varieties of the demotic. As with all good poems, what was not said was as clearly there as what was said.Some poems were curt re-workings of the classics. Some managed to include the extra grace-notes of rhyme. The sheer inventiveness that went into these little compo sitions was amazing.I grew fond of these poems, and some have stayed in my mind long after I read them. Those fingers on the button grow progressively more adroit. Congratulations to the Guardian on sowing this new poetic seed.Peter SansomText poems are a new genre, a bit like haiku, only interesting. The competition encourages real people to have a go at discovering what poetry helps them say.This is great. It's a way of breaking down the Us and Them of verse, allowing people into the Charmed Circle. Ezra Pound said his first poems were "stale cream puffs" and I guess most poets begin that way. But text poems are fresh, bang up to date, and the best of them fit Pound's definition of poetry as news that stays news.This year's competition was as immediate as last time, and the standard just as high. Though there was no "They phone you up, your mum and dad", there was LIFT OFF:  "One small vibration in my hand. One giant leap in my heart."Another near-miss was Sensation: Festival. It starts with "wet earth/syrupy sloe gin" and ends with "my last pair of dry socks". Though I'm firmly of the opinion that  talent will out , more and more I find myself adding  eventually. So if you came nowhere, it might have been different with a different panel.Context counts for a great deal - and I expect some of my choices were too considered, too, as it were, on the page rather than on screen. This is a big part of what makes the text poem competition such a success.If judges prove that a poem  is only as good as its reader (or put another way, that the reader is a kind of co-author), this competition re-emphasises that texting is a defining part of the process of writing; and likewise that reading the poem on the screen (and reading them all together in a newspaper) is very different to reading them in a book or even a poetry magazine: one that seems more  real than even a lot of very good poetry these days. More power, anyway to text poets' elbows (fingers?) I guess. The poems are all worthy winners, and it was great fun.Peter Florence/ The Orange WordThe poems that seemed best-suited to the competition were those that were either beautifully crafted versions of the sort of text messages we receive every day, using the limits of the genre, or those that played with the idea of language and phones. I, too, wish LIFT OFF had made it.We also read a lot of poems that were short, elegant and acute. There were a few that would bear inclusion in any short poetry competition - particularly Parting Thought: "When he left her he took not one stick of furniture nor any appliance. He thought it might unsettle the children if things started going missing."But I also loved this:"My dark fear as a child  was that I would come home and my mum and dad would, like my hamster be the same but subtly different."I found a lot of wonderfully inventive language, and an inkling that phone messaging is essentially humorous, and that even the darkest anxieties about cancer, death or the fear of love are imbued with a humane comedy in this shortest shrift.The poem I most regret not making the cut harks back to 9/11 with the savage reference to the twin towers' "red mist", the twist on the old Christian "what's missing" gag, and a beautiful image of how we fill that famous skyline.
Xmas choiceIf you are thinking of buying a desktop PC this Christmas, think about hyperthreading. HT - which has been available on Intel's Xeon processors, for workstations - has now come to the PC market with the latest 3.06GHz Pentium 4. In some cases, HT provides a big performance boost by enabling one processor to work almost as well as two.However, two things need   to happen for HT to become mass-market. First, Intel will have to make it a feature of most Pentiums, which could take 18 months. Second, applications that are not designed for multitasking will need to be updated to support HT.At the moment, it is not essential to have HT, but it will be. You should therefore consider buying a cheaper machine for the short term rather than an expensive one that will become obsolete. You could also consider adding more memory to your current PC to extend its working life.If you are thinking of buying a notebook PC, Intel also has a new power-efficient chip on the way, codenamed Banias. This is expected to appear in the first quarter of next year, running at 1.4-1.6GHz. Banias will not affect notebooks running Pentium 3M and P4M (Mobile) processors.However, if you plan to run a notebook PC from its batteries, it may well be worth waiting.Under attack?My internet security firewall keeps blocking and identifying computer ID numbers that are trying to access my computer. Can you tell me how I determine which are friendly and which are not so I can block the dodgy ones?Gill GribbinJack Schofield replies:When a firewall blocks access to your PC, it usually tells you the IP (Internet Protocol) address of the source. This is a set of four numbers, such as 123.45.67.890 - you can find yours by going towww.whatismyipaddress.com. You can find out who owns an address by pasting the numbers into a Whois query service: there are lots, but Geek Tools offers a good one atwww.geektools.com/cgi-bin/proxy.cgi.Usually, you will find the address is owned by a website you have visited, or an advertising service, or a large ISP (internet service provider).The firewall should also tell you the port through which the contact was made. Some ports are commonly used by Trojans and other malware programs - seewww.sans.org/newlook/resources/IDFAQ/oddports.htmfor a list. You can then search Google for port 1243, port 27374 or whatever for more information. There is a good guide to Firewall Forensics (What am I seeing?) atwww.robertgraham.com/pubs/firewall-seen.htmlIn theory, you could identify a persistent hacker by searching Whois for the IP address, then contact his ISP. However, only beginners use their own IP address, instead of hiding behind an anonymous proxy server (seewww.multiproxy.org) or using some other anonymous route.Ports closedI read last week's query from Alan Gent with some interest since I have recently had cable broadband installed: I have a home network with three PCs connected to the internet via a router. The free security check fromSygatereported that all my ports were blocked, therefore my system was secure. So, with a router, do you also need a firewall?Dave RobertsJS:Yes. A router will block unsolicited traffic, but it does not check which programs on your PCs are generating "legitimate" traffic. It would not stop a remote-access Trojan, which could have arrived by email, from communicating with a hacker. For a more detailed answer, seewww.dslreports.com/faq/4629Port 139I ran the online security scan at Sygate. Most ports were closed or blocked, but NetBIOS Port Number 139 was reported as open. Additional information was shown as follows: "NetBIOS is used to share files through your network neighbourhood. If you are connected to the internet with this open, you could be sharing your whole hard drive with the world!"G A DivechaJS:A firewall should block port 139, but it is also possible to turn off NetBIOS. Versions of Windows vary, but go to the Properties sheet for each of your internet services, double-click Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and look for an option that says "I want to enable NetBIOS over TCP/IP", or "Disable NetBIOS over TCP/IP", or similar. There's also a small program (which I have not tried) to close ports 137-9 at http://home.earthlink.net/ ~ rm box/Reticulated/Toys.htmlSmall OutlookI don't want a handheld PC - I prefer my laptop! But I do want a device that will give me a portable, pocketable and really small diary facility that's sychronisable with my laptop's Outlook.David BartlettJS:Starfish Software thought there was a market for such a device and createdRex, a handheld organiser not much bigger than a credit card. Franklin launched it, then sold the range to Xircom, which was taken over by Intel. Intel discontinued the Rex line last summer, but you can still pick them up very cheaply on eBay.Otherwise, you could consider a smartphone that can synchronise with Outlook. Options include the Siemens   SL45, the Sony Ericsson T68i and Nokia's 7650, as well as more obvious models.Backchat&#183;Dave Russell is planning to buy a digital camera for Christmas, but was dismayed to find that none of his shortlist is reviewed on the website I recommended,www.dpreview.com. Good alternatives include Total Digital Photography's guide atwww.totaldp.com/kitguide.cfmand (as suggested by reader Richard Carter) Steve's Digicams atwww.steves-digicams.com.&#183;In last week's Backchat, a reader claimed "you can get a 128Kbps ISDN service for &#163;14.99 from OneTel". Sorry, OneTel UK says not.However, if you have a 64Kbps ISDN line, OneTel will support that on its unmetered dial-up service for &#163;12.99 a month. Phone 0800-957 0100 then press 1 and 3.
Arx FatalisPC 	&#163;39.99 JoWooD/ Arkane Studios 	****Hailed as the spiritual successor to Origin's Ultima Underworld games, the world of Arx   Fatalis is dark and dangerous. Driven underground by the onset of a premature ice age, the people of Arx have lived in relative peace until the subterranean tribes start to fight among themselves, threatening the world's fragile existence.In the middle of this malaise you wake up in a prison cell, semi-naked and with no recollection of who you are. So far it's typical role-playing game fare, and, in fact, the game does very little that has not been done before. But what it does cream off other games is cleverly woven together to create an engaging experience.Like the Ultima games, the gameplay in Arx Fatalis thrives on little interactive   details: potions can be mixed from herbs found along the way, raw meat is more palatable if cooked over a fire first, and if you find the right ingredients, you can even whip up a pie or two.Although the magic system, by which you draw symbols in the air to cast spells, isn't entirely original - having notably made an appearance in Black and White - it works exceeding well in Arx Fatalis. Spell-casting actually feels like it takes patience and practice, rather than being just a case of pressing a button. Originality is sometimes too highly prized, and there's a lot to be said for just doing it right. Arx Fatalis is by no means flawless, but it has been put together with an eye for what makes a good RPG, and thankfully it shows. (RP)Dancing Stage: Party EditionPlayStation1, 2 £19.99 (plus Logic 3 mat) Konami ***Konami's Bemani games are a      phenomenon. Having invaded arcades worldwide, these dancing games, where players respond to onscreen commands by      moving their feet accordingly, are moonwalking into the living room.Perfect for parties and families, these titles have      proved incredibly popular with an oft-ignored console gaming demographic - girls. Peripheral manufacturers such as Logic 3,      whose mat I used, are happy, too, as these games need to be played with a plug-in dance mat.They aren't essential, but      tapping the commands in via a joypad is pointless. Assuming you have a mat, then not only can you have fun and get fit, you      can make a fool of yourself. Players can compete against each other using two mats. However, the main attractions are the      new tracks, with Kylie and S Club 7 the highlights.The garish graphics can make some moves hard to follow and the music      will annoy anyone over the age of 25. And this latest version offers little in the way of innovation. But plug in a dance mat      and you'll always have someone wanting to try. Dancing Stage Party Edition is an enjoyable game for people who don't      normally like gaming. (GH)Auto ModellistaPlayStation 2 £39.99 Capcom **So-called cel-shading technology is the latest vogue. Essentially, it      imparts a comic book-style, two-dimensional look to 3D graphics. Perhaps the highest-profile game to succumb to its      charms is Nintendo's Zelda for the GameCube.  But Capcom has also developed a cel-shading engine, and from the evidence of      Auto Modellista, has been racking its brains for ways in which to use it.Applying cel-shading to a driving game could have      been a stroke of genius: the cartoony, stylised look it breeds is beguiling. But, sadly, Capcom forgot to construct a game to      tack on to its technology. Auto Modellista slavishly follows Gran Turismo's format: you have a garage in which to work on      your cars, and ever- increasing levels of competition; there is the usual cornucopia of hi-tech Japanese machinery, and a      selection of Japanese circuits and road-tracks.Tellingly, it lacks Gran Turismo's driver training segments, presumably      because a monkey could be taught to play Auto Modellista's cars, which handle as though on rails. In the early stages, your      car is much faster than your opponents', big crashes cause no damage and only slow you minimally, and the need to nail      racing lines is not there.Auto Modellista is, in other words, the driving game for those who cannot drive, which seems      utterly pointless - whatever the merits of its striking graphics. (SB)
The mobile phone is metamorphosing from its raison d'&#234;tre - an expensive way for businessmen to make corporate calls - into a medium with potential for creativity.It has been happening almost invisibly. This is partly for snobbish reasons: not everyone regards composing your own polyphonic ringtones or designing sassy fascias as a creative activity.Text messaging has already   been used creatively as people exchange terse jokes or use text shorthand in a novel way. We hope we have made a small contribution with our SMS poetry competition  which has unleashed thousands of poems, most of which would not have seen the light of day.But it is not just snobbery. It is partly because we have still not got used to the tantalising potential of these inter-active handsets that most of us carry around all day. This may change over the next couple of years as we encounter two new creative forces for mobiles.The first is the onslaught of models with cameras attached. They are pricey now, but are bound to get cheaper as surely as the quality of the snaps will improve. I have had one for a month or two. Although I have not succeeded in the prime purpose (sending a photo to another phone as a multimedia message), for reasons that would take another article, I have accumulated dozens of photos that would never have been taken otherwise. I am loath to get rid of them, as they provide a visual diary. The scope for creative use of these images is endless. And when mobile phone   cameras morph into video cameras, everyone will be their own mini film director.The second creative application is already happening. Most new phones now have the facility to download games or other services written in a cross-platform software code, Java.Thanks to their prowess at video games for computers and consoles, British developers ought to be able to dominate the new genre of mobile games. Europe is still at least a year ahead of the US in exploiting mobile technology, and the potential customer base for mobile services is even bigger than the combined PC/console market. It costs &#163;20,000 to &#163;50,000 to develop a mobile game, as opposed to the millions it takes to get a good video game off the ground.This is a UK creative industry waiting to explode - but one that may be strangled at birth instead. At the moment, all the action is concentrated in repackaging old arcade or even Spectrum games in the form of &#163;5 to &#163;10 a throw downloads. Digital Bridges, one of the UK's leading publishers, offers Space Invaders and Fifa World Cup. Others, such as Opera, are promising streams of new   games each month. Tesco will also be stocking them this Christmas.They will be joined by mobile versions of PC and console games such as Tomb Raider and even Grand Theft Auto. Repackaging existing games makes good sense to kick-start the mobile era.But the revolution won't happen until the creative talents of thousands of developer operating in such places as Sheffield, Dunfermline, Dundee, Liverpool and Hampshire are harnessed into making games custom-built for the mobile phone, rather than sawn-off versions of video game hits.In theory, the smallest developers in Britain ought to be able to promote their games on the internet so anyone, anywhere in the world can buy them - or send them directly to customers' phones. In practice, they are screwed up by two things. First, the reluctance of pub lishers, and especially telecoms carriers, to offer decent revenue deals and, second, the existence of unusual barriers to entry. As Daniel Lopez, of IDG Ventures, reminds us in New Media Age, it is almost impossible for alternative carriers to arise, so the few operators that exist have a vested interest in maintaining control.Also, he says, whereas in a single afternoon you can put something on the web that is, in principle, accessible to anyone in the world, it takes a maze of talks with many people (including the dominant carriers) to get a very simple mobile game available through one operator.One answer is to get developers to gang together to build and brand their own website where punters can go to download games on a commercial basis. Last month, the government produced a report on structural problems within the video games industry. That was looking backwards. What we really need is some forward thinking to prevent an emergent mobile games industry from being needlessly smothered before it has seen the light of day.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Buy NapsterNapster, the former nemesis of the record industry, may have been sold to Roxio, but at least you can still bid for what is left of its fixtures and fittings. The auction will take   place at the Santa Clara Marriott Hotel in California on Wednesday, but you can bid over the internet providing you have an open telephone connection with a touchtone phone. (See the site for further details.) The whole proceedings will be webcast live. The auction includes everything Napster owned, including IT equipment, printers and a number of promotional products. It's your chance to buy a slice of dotcom history.www.roxio.comwww.dovebid.com/AuctionsDotstoreOther dotcom relics are also for sale as part of an online art site. UK internet artists Allison Craighead and Jon Thomson have made a limited edition of Google tea-towels and are selling them on their new website. The pair, perhaps the first artists ever to work with mobile phones, have also produced a number of ringtones that are claimed to help teach birds to sing. They are a real bargain at &#163;7.99 a piece.www.dot-store.comwww.triggerhappy.orgStreet lifePhotographing everyday objects in unlikely places and uploading them to the net is a growing trend. First there was the ironing board, then came fire escapes; the latest photography cult is the abandoned mattress. A similar, but more ambitious, photographic project is that of artist Michael Koller, who recently launched the first phase of a project to photograph the whole of San Francisco and to hyperlink each picture on a new website. A number of routes are already online. When the project is   completed, sometime in 2004, you should be able to explore the city as if on foot, says Koller. He also claims that if all his images were placed end to end, the strip would be more than 30 miles long.www.seamlesscity.comwww.extremeironing.comwww.streetmattress.comPhoenix risingBolton funny man Peter Kay has been including routines about t' "internet" for some time, so it's no surprise that he's launched an official site just in time for the festive season. So to fit with the ethos of his Mum Wants a Bungalow live tour, his site is merely selling his official merchandise. If you want to buy your Dad a "put big light on" T-shirt, or get a stick of garlic rock for the uncle you don't like, then it is taking orders for Christmas presents until December 16.If you simply want to revive memories of Kay's Phoenix Nights series, then web designer Gavin Horricks runs a fan site that should satisfy even the most diehard Phoenix regulars. There are a couple of funny screensavers, an archive of video footage, and you can even download your own Phoenix Nights ringtones. If Steve Coogan's acidic style of humour is more to your taste, then the Beeb has just launched a microsite to accompany the new Alan Partridge series.www.peterkay.co.ukwww.peterkay.netwww.bbc.co.uk/comedy/partridgeGood EngrishPoking fun at bad English has been a staple of satirical magazines such as Private Eye for years. Engrish.net, which takes its name from how the Japanese pronunciation often sounds, is a site that showcases examples of bad English from around the world, but with a particular emphasis on Japan. The site features chocolate bars named Woody Chocolate and Angel Sweet Asse and computer messages that say, "Do you feel ENJOY!!! Sorry for Disturb". Elsewhere, there's a   site showing Japanese commercials starring western actors. If you fancy Pierce Brosnan advertising male cosmetics, or Euan McGregor using the force to sell cans of pop, you now know where to go.www.engrish.comwww.japander.comNew &amp; noted* Literary gothic catalogue:www.litgothic.com* Interactive Alice:www.ruthannzaroff.com/wonderland* A US site trying to build support against a war in Iraq:www.moveonpac.org* Bond is back:www.jamesbond.com* The designers' playground:www.db-db.com* St Michael &amp; All Angels 2002 Advent Calendar:www.stmichaelschristmas.orgSix of the bestChristmasGet what you wantwww.yourwishlist.comCharity cardswww.shoptour.co.uk/charity-christmas-cards.shtmlOriginal works of artwww.britart.comRare bookswww.abebooks.comHard to find recordswww.htfr.comOne stop for shopsshopping.guardian.co.uk/christmas2002
Harry Potter fever is once again at a high following the release of the second film in the series, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. But with still no sign from JK Rowling that the fifth book is nearing completion, fans of the boy wizard may be getting desperate for some fresh adventures from the gang at Hogwarts.Help is at hand in the form of fan fiction. In this curious literary genre that is flourishing on the net, fans of a particular book, TV series or film write their own stories using established characters and settings. Click on tohttp://fanfiction.net, the largest repository of fan fiction on the web, and you will find nearly 50,000 original stories written by Harry Potter addicts using Rowling's characters.Quality control on such vast sites is variable, to say the least, so digging around for smaller, more specialised, sites is worth the effort.  One of the legends of the Harry Potter fan fiction field is a 20-something New York journalist, Cassie Claire. Her novel-length HP stories can be found onhttp://schnoogle.com.In one of the best of the genre, Draco Dormiens, she captures Rowling's style and cliffhanging chapter endings in an online book that promises "romance, mistaken identities, Really Cunning Plans, evil bake sales, a love triangle, and snogs galore". For a quicker fix of magic and muggledom, explore the larger sitewww.fictionalley.org, which offers a wealth of HP short stories, parodies and art.Other stylish HP fanfic sites arehttp://Sugarquill.net, run by a group of young, professional, Harry Potter obsessives who beta-read all stories submitted to them for quality, andhttp://gryffindortower.net, which specialises in stories that explore the Harry/Ginny Weasley romance hinted at by Rowling.While Harry Potter fan fiction has flourished on the net in the past couple of years, the genre predates Rowling's creation and its scope goes far beyond children's books. The site athttp://fanfiction.netincludes stories using characters from books, TV, movies, cartoons and comics.On the TV front, cult series such as Buffy are a popular choiceshttp://slayerfanfic.com, as are the X-Files and Xena: Warrior Princess. But the range of fanfic offerings is staggering, covering the gamut of TV drama and sitcoms from Allo Allo to the Young Ones.Fan fiction grew out of the Trekkie phenomenon, with the first zine of fan fiction - Spockanalia - printed by Star Trek fans in 1967 .The sitehttp://fanfiction.netalone has thousands of stories dedicated to the adventures of Spock, Scottie, and Captain Kirk.Smaller Trekkie fan fic sites includehttp://Trekfan fiction.netand theStarfleet Fiction Archive.Fan fiction can take on adult themes never encountered in the original books or films, and good fanfic sites will mark each story with a rating, based on the categories used by film censors.Anything labelled NC17 may contain material of an adult, generally sexual, nature. "Shipping" - developing relationships between characters far removed from the author's original intent - is a common preocupation, and this reaches its apogee in slash fiction, a sub-genre in which homoerotic affairs between characters are explored. It is an idea born out of Trekkies' interest in the devotion between James Kirk and Dr Spock.Unusually, most slash fiction features male/male relationships and is written by women, for a female audience. To dip a toe into these decidedly more adult waters, tryhttp://beyonddreamspress.com.The legal position of fan fiction can be murky, and some authors understandably dislike their characters being commandeered in this way. Anne Rice, for example, asked Fanfiction.net to remove all stories using her characters. A full exploration of this tricky area can be found athttp://writersu.s5.com/law/copyright.html.If reading fan fiction has inspired you to try writing your own, there are plenty of sites offering advice.Dr Merlin's Guide to Fan Fiction, written by respected fan-ficcer Melissa Wilson, is a good place to start.According to Zsenya and Arabella ofhttp://Sugarquill.net, fan fiction is ideal for inexperienced writers to hone their skills as it provides a ready-made world and characters. Unfortunately, inexperience, and, frankly, sheer inability, means that there is some truly dire fan fiction on the net.Godawful Fan Fictionis a site dedicated to documenting the depths to which the genre can descend, and bringing the "foulest fan fiction" to our attention. Hermione and the Pizza Boy, anyone?
What camera do you use for aerial shots?For Earth from The Air I used aCanon EOS-1N, with an L series zoom with 17mm to 400mm range. The speed is between 1/250 and 1/1000. I work with Fuji Velvia film.Has digital become equal to film photography?The silver process is still far superior. Digital photos don't have as good a definition. From a 24 x36mm film negative we can print a 1.80 x1.20 m photo, a resolution that wouldn't be possible from a digital photo.Do you use Photoshop or similar in your work?All the photographs presented in the exhibition are digitised before being reprinted on large-format photographic paper. Therefore, they've had somePhotoshoptreatment to make them as faithful to the original as possible. Photoshop enables professionals to work on colour pictures and improve the "realness" of the colours in the same way people used to do with black and white film. The risk is to be tempted to go too far.How important is your website for displaying your work?I'm astonished by the success of our site. There are around 400,000 pages read per day. More important is the site allows the message to complement the images. We have a section calledUnderstanding The Earth, which we use each month to present an aspect of the sustainable development of the planet. This message hopefully awakens interest in the planet's future, which is more significant than the techniques of my work.Does the "free" nature of the net worry you with copyright?I'm not obsessed by copyright. Our message is more significant than our photographs. That's why I authorise small environmental protection groups who wish to put my photographs on their site to use them so long as they're accompanied by the appropriate captions. It's very important that they use the captions, as it's the message that countsIs the net reawakening environmental activism?Yes. The internet has changed the world. It makes exchanging information, and everything else, much faster. There are fewer things today that people are unaware of. Events that happened in previous decades would not happen today with the advent of the internet and the instantaneous link it's created between people and nations.Favourite sites?www.wwf.fr;www.greenpeace.org;www.panda.org;www.lacabaneperchee.com/intro.htm&#183;Visit:www.earthfromtheair.comA free exhibition of photographs from Earth From The Air is on at London's Natural History Museum
Generalisations are dangerous, but if you meet a nice IT manager, it's a good bet he works in local government. 
    Partly it's personality: in the IT industry's go-go years, the sharks and backstabbers tended to migrate to the City or
    management consultancy, more balanced individuals to the public sector.Partly, it's the job. While hardly stress-free - obsolete kit, choking bureaucracy and relentless cost-cutting are everyday
    frustrations - the life of an IT manager is rarely in the public eye.Even when it comes to e-government, most council leaders are content to let their techies quietly get on with ensuring that
    Whitehall's targets (all services to be "e-enabled" by the end of 2005) are met. As central government has so far footed
    much of the bill, this is the way most IT managers like it.The result: an enthusiastic and contented corps of individuals, generally doing a good job. Try out your council's website
    today. Unless you live in Bridgnorth, Shropshire, which doesn't have one yet, you may be pleasantly surprised.This idyllic lifestyle is in for a shock, if the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister has its way. Last week, it published a plan
    to put e-government at the centre of its local government reforms. The National Strategy for Local e-Government aims to
    create "not just local e-government but good local government," said Chris Leslie, local government minister.Tellingly, the strategy runs to fewer than 30 pages, compared with a consultation draft of more than 100 pages that the
    Department for Environment, Transport and the Regions published last spring. "Shorter, punchier and pithier," was how
    Leslie described the difference. This reinforces the message that it is aimed at chief executives, who are assumed to have
    a shorter attention span than techies.The strategy sets out three reasons for putting local government online.&#183;To transform access to services. "Many people will appreciate the convenience of being able to book services, report
    faults or pay rent and taxes during the evening or weekends, through the internet, digital television or over the telephone."
    Leslie cited the example of the computerised customer service centre at Swale Borough Council, Kent, which handles 11,000
    calls a month.&#183;To renew local democracy. Ministers see e-government as an opportunity (perhaps the last chance) to encourage people
    to engage with local authorities, through online consultations and eventually e-voting. Here, the exemplar is the consultation
    section on the London Borough of Harrow's website.&#183;To encourage economic vitality, by promoting an area globally and making life easier for business start-ups. Ipswich's
    IP-City, for example, "represents an exciting cluster of businesses and organisations at the eastern pole of the Cambridge
    to Ipswich Hi-Tech corridor".However, the pressing reason for councils to develop e-services is that Whitehall has ordered them to. As councils handle
    about 80% of everyday transactions with government, local authorities' cooperation is essential to the 2005 target. Hence
    the £675 million earmarked as "pump priming" money. But the strategy contains sticks as well as carrots.Under the strategy, e-government will no longer be a techies' backwater but play a key role in what Leslie called "one of the
    largest and most ambitious systematic reforms in a generation".This reform, set out in a white paper last month, offers councils "earned autonomy". The formula, similar to that being
    tried in schools and hospitals, is that councils meeting performance targets will have new freedoms to raise and spend
    money. Those that do not will have the heavy squad sent in.E-government plans, set out in documents called IEG (implementing electronic government) statements, will be part of the
    "comprehensive performance assessment" designed to identify failing authorities. "Where councils are judged to be good or
    excellent, we will adopt a light touch to subsequent IEG requirements," the strategy says.Up to now, most IEG statements have had a back-of-fag-packet air to them, knocked up by the IT department just before
    the deadline. But with each council's very independence hanging on their content, this will not continue.Whitehall's plans for compulsory e-enabled new localism will require many qualities in the IT managers who are supposed to
    make it happen. Niceness will not necessarily top the list.&#183;The National Strategy for Local e-Governmentwww.localegov.gov.uk
Just hours after a surface to air missile passed within metres of an Israeli airliner in Kenya last week, media websites began humming. Internet chatrooms set up by Islamic sympathisers had been buzzing with rumours of an attack barely a week before. It was just one in a long line of hysterical media reports alluding to the way the internet has been co-opted by "cyberterrorists" for their evil ends.Since September 11, for which much of the planning happened over email, cyber-terrorism - loosely defined as using computers to intimidate others to further political or social objectives - has become a useful buzzword. Governments have used it to justify ramping up internet monitoring and - some argue - a corresponding crackdown on civil liberties online.The official fear is that religious or political zealots could, for instance, hack into a hospital computer system to change a ward's dosage of medicine; or switch  off a city's power supply; or change the operations at a sewage treatment works to poison the water.In November last year, the European Union member states signed the Convention on Cybercrime. It was the first international treaty on crimes committed via the internet and other computer networks, dealing with infringements of copyright, computer-related fraud, child pornography and violations of network security.It also contained a series of powers, such as the search of networks and "legitimate interception" of communications traffic. Europe is not the only one to resort to these methods. Last Thursday, President Bush signed legislation creating the new Homeland Security Department, which will bring together 22 federal agencies to help stop nuclear, chemical and biological attacks, and, specifically, cyberterrorism.Japan is so concerned about the possibilities of cyberattack that they have thrown a virtual fence around the country to check email and web traffic. But Hollywood-style hacker scenarios such as those outlined in the latest James Bond movie are far removed from reality. At least, that's according to the people who should know: the hackers themselves.As hackers and security consultants gathered last week for Dublin'sHivercon conference, a newer and simpler argument was aired: that it is far easier to be a real-world terrorist than a virtual-world one.Simple Nomad is a senior security analyst forBindView Corporationand a founder of theNomad Mobile Research Centre, an internationally known group of hackers. He is concerned about how governments are using the cyberterrorist pretext to "sniff" personal email and web traffic."Cyberterrorism is a catchy phrase and seems to be a hot topic. I'm not saying that a hack could never lead to someone's death, but it's much easier for a terrorist to throw a knapsack of poison into a reservoir than to do something remotely with a computer," he says. "If I knew George Bush was going into hospital and would be on a life support system, conceivably I could interrupt the power grid or hit the back-up batteries in the middle of his operation. But most of these systems already have a lot of safeguards, mainly just to prevent simple accidents."Nomad argues that the biggest hackers, in fact, are governments themselves. "There are at least 10 governments out there - like the US, the British, the Germans, the  Chinese - with very sophisticated teams. In the name of cyberterrorism, there is more funding than ever going into the listening and data sniffing capability of governments."It is this capability that is often being used by countries to gain commercial advantage over other countries, not prevent terrorism, claims Nomad.  He says one of the biggest "sniffers" is the international Echelon project, set up by western governments to sniff the net, telephones, and almost everything digital to provide intelligence for the security services.Most of Echelon is large scale, to do with all telecommunications - which is why, he says, national governments have had to introduce such legislation as the UK's Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act to be able to monitor pure ISP internet traffic.So can hackers really gain access to sensitive data? "Most of the big stuff, like military systems, can't be accessed anyway. There are air-gaps - things not connected to the outside internet," says Nomad. He is dismissive of the recent case where Gary McKinnon, a 36-year-old former systems administrator from London, allegedly deleted files on a  server used by a US navy command centre between April and September of last year. Nomad believes this is a rare case and that the files could not have been sensitive if they were accessible via the net.Tom Reeve, editor ofSecurity Voicemagazine, agrees: "From a global perspective, I am far less concerned about cyberterrorism and hacking than acts of terrorism in the physical world. With bombs going off around the world and everyone wondering when al-Qaida will strike next, who cares if a web server gets hacked?"He admits he would be as annoyed as anyone if his web site was hacked or defaced: "But you couldn't justify diverting large amounts of resources from anti-terrorism in the physical world to protect my assets in the virtual world."That's the argument of Hivercon speakerRichard Thieme, a consultant who is also contributing editor for Information Security Magazine and a regular speaker at the Black Hat Briefings and DefCon, the well-known hacker conferences. Thieme says some of these cases are legitimate causes for    concern, but that usually, cyberterrorism is a sideline affair."It's a lot easier to blow up a pipeline in the middle of nowhere than it is to hack your way in over a computer terminal," he says. "A single car bomb in the right place in Wall Street, in conjunction with the events of 9/11, would have taken out the US financial system. Not a hack."Such "force multipliers" can make a terrorist attack a great deal worse. "Using hackers in conjunction with real world events would have more impact, but just bringing down a web server does not," he says. Cyberterrorising is more often than not directed at opposing groups, rather than governments.In the Israeli-Palestinian battle, criminal hackers, or "crackers", on both sides are constantly attacking one another's web sites. A Pakistani cracker once stole the credit card numbers of members of a pro-Israel lobbying group and posted them online.Indeed, it is the Middle East and the Indian sub-continent, not western Europe, that have often been at the forefront of official attempts to block techno-terrorists.Last week, Indian mobile phone companies were facing the prospect of a    government plan to tap into SMS (short messaging service) mobile mail services to combat malicious hackers.  And last year, the Yaha virus emerged to launch a rudimentary denial of service attack on the Pakistan government's website. But since then, computer hackers have reverted to type - going for corporate systems in the main.According to Synstar, an information security company, 1,057 corporate organisations were hacked in September - a five-fold increase over the previous year's 225 attacks.Thieme is one of the first to admit that the internet - the ultimate "network technology" - helped create the events of September 11. Although America's intelligence communities were well aware of the threat posed by small bands of fundamentalists before 9/11, "it brought home to them that the way power is distributed has been changed by network technology", says Thieme.In fact, in common with Simple Nomad, he points out that the US itself is capable of the biggest acts of cyberterrorism. "The US has enough electronic warfare capabilities in its own right. High power microwaves can knock out command and control centres. It's not necessary to just hack the enemy's network. We did this in Kosovo, and in Iraq.""Ultimately, the idea of a cyber Pearl Harbor is pure hype. The surrender of some liberties in the name of security is about physical security and terrorism, not cyberterrorism, which is a less important subset. People are much more worried about dirty bombs and gas attacks."Thieme argues that the true cyber threat does not come in the traditional form of the disaffected hacker located in a remote country, but the insider - the guy who already knows all the passwords and works inside the system."The next stage for technology is true globalisation. We'll see a single kind of flexible interface develop which unites all societies. So the biggest threat to society is an insider who uses our own technology like an insider - just as happened on 9/11."In the final analysis, however, hackers saying they are not going to get involved in cyberterrorism is not going to be enough to call off the dogs and halt the data clampdown, even if some of the most sensitive systems are not directly connected to the internet.Jason Hart, head of secu  rity with consultantssays: "As far as we know, no one has died as a result of the work of a hacker, but we'll never know the true answer because of the nature of hacking.'Good' hackers don't leave any trace of their incursion into a system. So, for instance, someone could hack into an airline system to change the weight allowance on an airliner's payload, causing the plane to crash on take-off or landing."Everyone is aware of the physical threat to, say a reservoir, but at the end of the day, that threat has to be checked using computer systems, which are vulnerable," says Hart. He points to evidence that drug cartels have employed hackers to do such things as fooling banking systems to take a pound every month from 20,000 individual credit card accounts."You can hide the fact that a pound goes missing and use that money to fund more hacking. Terrorists could use this model to fund their own activities. "The biggest threat is ignorance - people believing it will not happen to them."&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
High-priced workstations running Sun's Solaris (a version of Unix) contain abuffer-overflow insecuritythat could allow hackers to take them over, according to a CERT advisory. What's more, Sundoes not have a fix. This is pretty funny, considering the past posturing of Sun's Microsoft-obsessed chief executive, Scott "Motormouth" McNealy.
The BBC's Domesday Book project was a worthy one, and captured the state of the nation 900 years after the original. Unfortunately it foundered on problems with its implementation -- non-standard data accessed from a non-standard computer. Now, however, a project has "developed software which emulates the obsolete BBC computer and video disc player and makes the material accessible on a modern computer", says the VNUnet reporthere. But don't be too harsh on the BBC, because its local stupidity is just a small example of global stupidity. The world is full of people who spend all their time worrying about cheap, transitory things like operating systems (Microsoft cases, passim) while almost no-one worries about the hugely expensive, very long term problems of storing data in readable formats. It's tempting to wonder what the creators of the original Domesday Book would have said if you'd told them their work would be unreadable in a decade.
Last summer, US federal agents arrested Dmitry Sklyarov, an ElcomSoft programmer, at a conference in Las Vegas. ElcomSoft has now become the first defendant to be charged for criminal activity under America's Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The case startshere
If you have a view, you can votehere. Note: "Heterosexuality is not a barrier to consideration, provided the person made a significant contribution to the welfare of British gay people."
Internet sites containing the words "democracy", "Tibet" and "Taiwan" are among those most frequently blocked by the Chinese government, a study of Chinese net access has revealed.Researchers at Harvard Law School's Berkman Centre for Internet and Society said that other blocked sites included those on health, education, news, entertainment, religion and pornography.Ben Edelman, a Berkman researcher, and Jonathan Zittrain, the centre's co-director, found more than 19,000 of the more than 204,000 websites they checked were inaccessible at least some of the time.Amnesty International last month called for the Chinese government to release 33 people being held for using the internet to circulate or download information.A report from human rights group estimated that filtering software prevents Chinese internet users accessing as many as 500,000 sites, including many foreign newspapers.The research also found that the top 10 Google search results using the key words "Tibet", "Taiwan China" and "equality" were all blocked, as were eight of the top 10 search results using "democracy China" and "dissident China". Chinese officials often block an entire website, even if only parts of it contain sensitive information, Mr Edelman said.It blocks several sites for leading US universities, including Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr Edelman noted that the blocked university sites host campus pro-democracy groups. MIT also hosts scrambling software that makes email unreadable to censors.Since the research was published, Berkman's site has also become inaccessible in China.
AOL Time Warner yesterday warned advertising and commerce revenues from its core ISP would fall by up to 50% next year.The gloomy outlook was disclosed as management presented plans to restore growth from 2004 to hundreds of investors and analysts in New York.Jonathan Miller, the chief executive brought in to run AOL little more than three months ago, said the business was in a period of "transition".The slump in AOL advertising next year is chiefly due to the expiry of large, long-term contracts signed during the boom years of the 1990s. Around $500m of revenues will disappear as contracts run out, dragging down advertising and commerce revenues to around $1.5bn.Total sales for AOL, including subscription revenues, will be flat next year at $9bn, while core profits are likely to fall by as much as 25% to between $1.7bn and $1.8bn."We see 2003 as the year we bottom out, with a return to solid growth thereafter," Mr Miller said. In his first public presentation since taking over, he said the company wanted to "make it cool again" to be on AOL. "We don't have all the answers but I am confident that we have a working plan to restore double-digit growth."His presentation focused on the improvement of AOL's core dial-up narrowband service by getting "back to basics" and the migration of users on to higher speed broadband.Many steps, including the end of pop-up advertising and tighter controls on spam, have already been implemented. But there was also strong emphasis on producing better original content and additional premium services.Content from Time Inc magazines including People, Entertainment Weekly and InStyle will be available to subscribers and otherwise restricted. Subscribers will also have access to exclusive Warner music and films content, HBO TV programming and free access to CNN newsfeed, which otherwise costs $5 a month.Echoing words from his predecessors during the period of AOL and Time Warner's merger, group chief executive Richard Parsons said: "This is not a wasting business but a business which, in the fullness of time, will become the main driver of growth for all AOL Time Warner's businesses."Mr Miller said the company had been too focused on simply adding new customers, something that becomes untenable as the narrowband market begins to mature. Shares fell $1.67 to $14.90 shortly after the outlook for next year was released.
Earth as Artis a collection of strikingly beautiful photographs taken by the Landsat-7 satellite, and used by the US Geological Survey to monitor crops and minerals.APprovides the story behind the pictures.
Is it a bird, is it a plane, no it's aFrogpad. Seems this was shown at Comdex, and I missed it.... TheHalfkeyboardpioneered this area.
Microsoft has now launched trials of itsXbox Liveonline gaming service in the UK, France and Germany.
stillhasn't caught on, reports the Mercury News. But the IT and content production industries -- especially Hollywood -- are still sparring for position. The Seattle Times has anoverview.
Mike Langberg recently revisited his predictions for 1992 (below), made a decade ago. Now he's had another look forward to2012.
When a car is stolen or written off having insurance should be one of the few things that brings peace of mind. What matters to most people in the chaotic days that follow is getting a pay-out as quickly as possible, and the use of a car while waiting to buy a replacement.However, it is wrong to assume that an insurance policy will automatically provide you with a courtesy car, and the policy may also contain some other nasty surprises.Even the insurers which offer courtesy cars may only do so for a very limited period.Policy small print can differ dramatically, but on the whole courtesy cars are taken back by the insurer as soon as they have made a pay-out offer. So, if the offer is made quickly then the car could be recalled within a matter of days leaving many policyholders stranded.But the problems really begin if the courtesy car is taken back and then the insurer drags their heels in paying the policyholder.According to the ABI's General Insurance Claims Code, claimants should expect payment within 10 days of agreeing it. In reality, however, some insurers take at least four weeks to pay out.Andrew James, who runs his own company from his home near Newport in south Wales, lodged a claim with Barclays Insurance Services, when his car was written off in an accident last October.The insurer made an offer very quickly and he accepted it but the pay-out took seven weeks to arrive. "I don't understand why my pay-out took so long. And what use is a courtesy car if it has to go back when the offer is made but it takes weeks for the money to arrive for a new car?" he says.After looking into Mr James' case, Barclays apologised for the inconvenience caused in not paying within the usual three to four weeks and offered some compensation.But even if most insurers do pay within a reasonable time frame, it still means customers - many of whom have paid high premiums to qualify for a courtesy car - are left with no transport for a long period."Courtesy cars are a bit of a grey area," says a spokeswoman for AA insurance brokers. "They are not provided as standard."Premiums and excesses differ between policies, so digging in to the small print to see exactly what you get for your money is crucial.Norwich Union, for example, charges an additional &#163;15 a year if the policy is taken out direct with them. Direct Line - which only introduced courtesy cars as an option last month - estimates that it would add just under &#163;10 to the average annual premium. In both cases, cars go back as soon as an offer has been accepted.Insurance experts argue that it is reasonable for insurers to limit the amount of time a courtesy car can be supplied for. The AA spokeswoman says: "I think two to three weeks is reasonable. Arguably, once you've got the cash to buy a new car, it's up to you to buy it quickly."So if an insurer pays out in a matter of days, it makes sense for them to take the courtesy car back then. Otherwise people could become complacent and hang on to the car longer than necessary."But even if your insurer coughs up a courtesy car and pays out speedily there could be a further problem lurking in the policy detail.Insurers are highly unlikely to operate a "like-for-like" policy. So, if you have a big family and normally drive an MPV you are unlikely to be too pleased with the Micra or Corsa you will probably be given. Some insurers, such as Norwich Union say there is a degree of flexibility. In some cases, a customer may pay a surcharge for a bigger model.The AA says it is investigating the possibility of working with the 20 insurers on its books to improve the provision of courtesy cars. If it comes to fruition, the AA would provide the courtesy car for an initial two weeks with insurers picking up the slack if the claim is not processed by then.But there is a drawback. "This would involve some sort of costs," the AA spokeswoman says. "And of course, some of this would have to be passed to the policyholders. Either integrated into the premium or in the form of an added extra."
How much should a motor insurer pay out for your stolen or written-off car? The Financial Services Ombudsman said this week that complaints against insurers for under-valuation are mounting - but is taking a hard line against drivers who over-inflate the value of their car when making a claim.In a report published this week, the ombudsman said that while drivers can expect to be given a pay-out to allow them to buy a "car as near as possibly indentical to the one that has been stolen", you can't expect to be paid the prices quoted in local newspapers or the internet.The ombudsman said: "Customers who dispute the firm's assessment of a car's market value   often draw our attention to 'forecourt prices' advertised in local papers, and - increasingly - to prices quoted on internet sites. Generally we place little weight on such evidence."Advertised prices are just a starting point for negotiation, says the ombudsman, and do not take into account condition and mileage.Owners who have added special features to their cars will also find the insurer will not cover them.The ombudsman said: "It is a fact that special features may not add substantially to a car's market value. Indeed, in some extreme cases, they may actually reduce the value."So what value should you accept for your car? The ombudsman says insurers should consult the "normal trade guides", then allow for differences as a result of mileage or condition.It released details on a number of complaints, which highlight how simply complaining to the ombudsman will not ensure that you will automatically receive a higher pay-out.Case one - the low mileage carDr M's insurer valued her car at &#163;2,040. She disputed this, saying it cost &#163;7,500 new eight years before and was now worth &#163;4,500. The firm raised its offer to &#163;2,500. Dr M refused the offer, saying the insurer had not taken account of the car's low mileage of just 6,000 miles.But the Ombudsman rejected the complaint. "Even considering the unusually low mileage, the firm's offer seemed to us to be quite generous. It was more than the car's 'market value' so there was no reason for the firm to increase its valuation."Case two - new or nearly new?Mr Q's &#163;18,495 new car was stolen after just one month. But the insurer offered him just &#163;15,564, even though his policy said he would be given a new car if he suffered a "total loss" within 12 months. The insurer said that the car was not "new" as it had been pre-registered with a dealer before Mr Q's purchase.In this case, the ombudsman supported the complainant. Despite pre-registration, the car had only five miles on the clock when bought by Mr Q. The ombudsman ordered the insurer to increase its offer to the full amount Mr Q paid for the car, and to add interest from the date of the theft.You can contact the Financial Ombudsman Service at South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London E14 9SR or by ringing 0845-080-1800. Its website is:www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk. In general, the Ombudsman will only look at complaints where you have already reached deadlock with your insurer.
Only a demo, but Toshiba has shownfuel-cellspowering one of its PocketPC handhelds, reports Nikkei Electronics Online.
If there was ever a person destined to be a sucker for photo messaging, or Multimedia Messaging (MMS) to give it its proper title, it is me. I'm a mobile phone freak who loves cameras and has a hard drive over-run by digital snaps.Factor in an unbelievably cute three month old baby girl and a text-crazed girlfriend capable of sending messages just using her toes and you can see how photo messaging is destined to big news in the Norris household.I even enjoyed a trial run with photo messaging courtesy of T-Mobile, the first network to launch a service. I was given an MMS account along with a Sony Ericsson T68i and Communicam camera just around the time Lola was born.I figured being the proud father of the first newborn in the UK to be flashed  round the world by photo messaging was too good an opportunity to miss. So, ignoring all the "no mobile phone signs" plastered around the hospital, I smuggled my handset in with me and seconds after my new daughter drew her first breath whipped out my phone and prepared to snap and send.A small piece of mobile phone history would have been made were it not for the intervention of a rather burly midwife who insisted the phone would not only interfere with monitors on the nearby intensive care wards, but also could blow up the gas and air machine. I suspected she was lying, but my impassioned speech about the technological significance of the event cut little ice with her, and when security turned up I sheepishly returned the handset to my bag.Ever since T-Mobile reclaimed their handsets I have been waiting for my network 02 to launch its service. Finally in a blaze of advertising that exhorts its subscribers to "create your own language," the network launched MMS a couple of weeks ago. Guess who was first in the queue to upgrade his mobile.I must admit to being a little disappointed by the choice of handsets on offer. 02 suggested I invest in a Nokia 7650, a high-end phone stacked out with features like Bluetooth and Java for downloading games. Yet I hate its strange rectangular design and found it a bit cumbersome to use.Instead I settled on a pair of Sharp GX-1s - a handset exclusive to 02. Having played the GX-1 several months ago,|I was very impressed by its quality large colour screen, easy to use interface and camera features like a mini zoom, and get this - a self-timer.I could even forgive Sharp for the GX-1's rather outdated upright Mars bar-style design. That was until I saw Vodafone's own picture messaging phone - a really neat clamshell model that looked fabulous and was manufactured by, you guessed it, Sharp.Orange's excellent choice of phones - which include another desirable clamshell  model, Panasonic's GD87, and the Microsoft powered hybrid PDA, the SPV - only fuelled my techno-envy. I have since discovered that a rather cute Siemens phone with camera attachment, the S55, will be available very soon via O2, so maybe I shouldn't have been in such a rush.Still, we now both have GX-1's up and running (they came at £129 a pop) and I expect at least five images of Lola per day to drop into my MMS inbox. As sending photo messages is free until the end of January we have certainly become a snap happy couple. After that the cost of around 30p per message might slow us down a little.Of course the images I've sent are nothing like the large, detailed and cleverly captioned ones in the ads. In reality, most pictures you take end up barely being viewable on a phone screen let alone anything larger (you can also upload photos to O2's web page - the recipient gets a text message detailing the URL and a password).Part of the problem is framing the image. To get a clear image on the screen/viewfinder you have to remain perfectly still, and so does your subject. Inevitably, most of my best shots of Lola have been while she has been sleeping.As for all the grandiose claims the networks made a few years back about the commercial potential of picture messaging (I seem to remember something about architects snapping images of sites and texting them back to the office) well, they look pretty laughable now.I have also had fun adding voice and creating a proper Multimedia message. O2 is right. With a combination of image text and sound you can get quite creative.Ultimately, until phones can take higher resolution images, which will inevitably require more bandwidth to carry the larger files, picture messaging is likely to be the preserve of die-hard early adopters, and, when the price for the handsets drops under £100, a few kids.A large increase in the birth-rate among tech-savvy dads will probably help too.Links:--O2--T-mobile--Vodafone--Orange
The worst thing about Christmas has to be buying presents and the worst thing about buying presents is undoubtedly the crowds. But as so many internet sites are keen to let you know this Christmas, bad weather, swollen feet and hoards of grumpy people can be avoided.As well as inspiring ideas, the internet can allow you to shop with greater discrimination for more conventional presents.Internet shops are aware of the boost to trade promised by the festive season and are already in Christmas mode - expect to see plenty of decorative flakes and snow-dusted price tags.That doesn't mean you're getting any better deal than usual, and as ever you may find the bother of trailing round the shops in person pays dividends when it comes to unearthing bargains or special offers on stickered stock.And of course you might actually like shopping, and discriminating between products you can see and feel.Sites likekelkoo.co.ukallow you to compare prices on goods like books and CDs, as well as food and drink and all sorts of household appliances.If you want to buy the new Playstation 2 video game Grand Theft Auto Vice City (retail price £39.99), for instance, Kelkoo gives you eight online outlets to choose from, quoting prices from £31.99 to £36.98 (including postage and packaging, which is not always included).Kelkoo isn't always comprehensive; for example, a search for Michael Palin's book of his series 'Sahara' (retail price £20.00) comes up with three options (priced between £15.00 and £17.75), but omits two better deals on well known sitesamazon.co.uk(£10.00 plus p&amp;p) andbol.com(a mere £8.00 plus p&amp;p).But it can provide a short cut to your best bet: if you want to invest in the long-awaited DVD boxed set of the Back to the Future trilogy (retail price £34.99), Kelkoo suggests justchoicesdirect.co.uk, whose £25.99 price was matched only byplay.com.  Other sites offering some notable discounts on CDs and DVDs includeblackstar.co.ukorsplashdvd.com.These sites are in hot competition, so check them regularly for special promotions which may undercut a price you were about to pay elsewhere.It's important to make sure that your online orders will be delivered on time, and to bear in mind postage costs.Some sites have Christmas deals offering free delivery - orders over £39 are sent at no extra cost by Amazon, for example, until December 12.A site similar in principle to Kelkoo,abcaz.com, gives access to a network of over 1,500 high street shops, and is a good place for electrical goods, home and garden equipment and sports kit.When it comes to food or drink, the net is ideal for bulk buying. For chocolate, drinks and various baked goods you could tryallpresent.com. Cases of wine or beer can be delivered free of charge by many operators such as majestic.co.uk.Alternative Christmas ideasTrying to find the right Christmas gift but feeling uninspired? Rather than plumping for a book which might not be read or a CD which might get just a cursory listen, you could search for something imaginative that suits and surprises your loved one in equal measure.Here are some highlights:For the adrenaline seekerThe "Adrenaline Zone" atbuyagift.co.ukoffers you unconventional thrills in the form of zorbing, a new craze from New Zealand allowing you and a friend (it's a "dual zorb") to be strapped inside a giant ball and rolled at speeds of up to 40mph across the Dorset countryside, and all for just for £59.00.Or there's the chance to be a firefighter for the day in Redhill, at the cost of £125.00 - choose your date carefully to avoid spending the day warming your hands at a brazier and counting horn toots.For the big softieFor £34.00 you can adopt a donkey, which means you get an "adoption pack" with a fluffy donkey, news updates twice a year, and a visit to your asinine friend's "care farm". Also at buyagift.co.uk.For the one in need of pamperingAn imaginative health product on the market is the Erogenator, a head massaging device which looks like a cross between a mediaeval torture device and a giant egg whisk. Pay £19.95 to experience the "ten feelers gently stimulating the nerve endings on your scalp."For the slightly strange friendWackier ideas can be found onfind-me-a-gift.co.ukandneedapresent.com, which both offer you the chance of buying an acre of the moon or Mars ("no plot will ever be sold twice") for £19.95.
