As the England football team feel the bruises after making fools of themselves playing Austria on Saturday night, they could do worse than pop along to theArs Electronic festival- "art, technology and society" - which finishes today in Linz.Those taking home the festival's big prizes - the "Golden Nicas" - include:Chris Landreth forRyan, a tribute to Canadian animating legend Ryan Larkin; the collaborative wiki encyclopediaWikipedia; Mark Hansen's fascinatinglistening post; and theCreative Commonslicence.Comment:Actually, it's probably better that the England team stayed away: that David James wouldn't know his Ars from his elbow.
I choked on my cornflakes this morning when I discovered that the latest casualty in the train wreck that is MMORPG (massively multiplayer online role playing games) was the home-grownDragon Empires, only weeks after the announcement of theClimaxStudios-generated Warhammer Online stopped production.Dragon Empires has been in development for at least three years at the Midlands-based Codemasters, and has had unbelievable delays and problems, gobbling talent from other teams to create the pervasive, internet-based world. The game has reportedly now been discontinued due to "technical problems". For more details head togamesindustry.biz.This latest stoppage points towards rumours of the continued deflation of the virtual worlds bubble, a genre which could ostensibly make publishers very wealthy. Indeed, over the past few years games of this ilk have been viewed as certain cash cows, bringing dough in the form of monthly subscriptions in their hundreds of thousands, with little work after release except to provide a minimum of player support.Hundreds of companies across the globe have visualised generating enough lucre to repeat the unbelievable successes of well-established titles likeEverQuest,Ultima Online,The Sims Online,Star Wars GalaxiesandCity of Heroes– the latter from MMOPRG publishing giant NCSoft, whose Korean-heavy gameLineagesupposedly boasts more players in its native country than TV-viewers. However, the market appears to be saturated with a glut of similar titles, berated for their time-consuming nature and lack of originality.Many of these issues will certainly be discussed at this week's massively multiplayer-centredAustin Games Conference. If you can't wait for my reports from there and must know more about this fascinating genre NOW, head toterranovafor a lively debate on the real world implications of these virtual environments. If you're still not satiated, check out last year's papers from theState of Playconference, which discuss the implications for online gaming on real world politics, governments, economics and ethics. Prepare to have your mind bent. This is the stuff that madness is made of.
"GLENDALE, California (AP) -- Police arrested a man they said tracked his ex-girlfriend's whereabouts by attaching a global positioning system to her car," reportsAP."Police said Gabrielyan attached a cellular phone to the woman's car on August 16 with a motion switch that turned on when the car moved, transmitting a signal each minute to a satellite. Information was then sent to a Web site that allowed Gabrielyan to monitor the woman's location."The woman learned how Gabrielyan was following her when she discovered him under her car attempting to change the cell phone's battery, police said."
"After Apple unveiled the iMac G5 in Paris this week, Vice President of Hardware Product Marketing Greg Joswiak gave Macworld editors a guided tour of the desktop's new design. Among the topics of conversation: the iMac's cooling system, why FireWire 800 was left out, and how this new model fits in with Apple's objectives." Interviewhere
The Center for Democracy and Technology, the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the American Library Association have filed a brief supporting the US government's appeal against a 1st Court of Appeal ruling that "rewrites the field of internet surveillance law in ways that no one in Congress ever imagined".Wired Newsreports: "The case centered on Bradford C. Councilman, an online bookseller who offered his customers free e-mail accounts and then sifted through e-mails from Amazon.com to his customers. Councilman was charged in 2001 by the US Attorney's office with violating the Wiretap Act, which outlaws most interceptions of phone calls and e-mails. The case never made it to trial, as the court dismissed the charge."A three-judge panel from the 1st Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the dismissal, arguing that the wiretap law did not apply since the e-mails were stored, even if only for seconds, on Councilman's computer."Wired News reported the original casehere.
They are renowned for  not talking or showering  as much as their  parents would like, but  now teenage boys are  in the vanguard of an  internet publishing revolution.While their sisters have always  had an abundance of print, and now  web, magazines, teenage boys have  never had a title or portal to call their  own. That is until the middle of this  month when the creators of the  teenage girl portalMykindaplace.comare due to launchMonkeyslum.com.Claiming it will be funny and irreverent,  the team insist the site will  achieve at least 125,000 unique users  in its first month and will provide the  best solution for any advertiser wishing  to reach school age boys."Teenage boys are notoriously difficult  to reach," admits Charlie Redmayne,  managing director of Mykindaplace  and Monkeyslum. "They get  into a particular hobby and devour  magazines on the subject but don't  find a commonality of interests like  girls do. A girl might be into horses,  say, but will still be into fashion,  music, gossip, makeup and boys."There has been a change, though,  which we think makes it the right time  for a general site for boys. They're now  far more interested in lifestyle than  they used to be because they get  involved in the lives of their football  or film heroes and want to know what  clothes they're wearing, who they're  dating, which clubs they use and what  they drink, and so on."Hence the Mykindaplace team,  mainly comprised of former advertising  executives, decided they could  do for boys what they have already  done for girls and give them all the  football, cars, computer games and  general interest content they could  ever want under one roof. At the  same time, they will be creating a  captive audience for advertisers that,  in Redmayne's opinion, are fed up  with advertising through hobby  magazines that are read by a wide  age group."We know that the only way you  can reach teenage boys is through the  men's magazines like FHM, because  they aspire to be older, or special  interest titles," Redmayne says. "The  obvious problem with that is you  reach a lot of men from all age groups  at the same time so you're not getting  value for money from your budget."As the first launch of a portal  specifically aimed at teenage boys,  Monkeyslum is attracting a lot of  attention from the publishing and  advertising industry.Whether they believe the launch  will be successful or not, all are agreed that while the team behind it  are obviously keen to win over advertisers,  making sure the content on  the site is "engaging" will be key, as  William Makower, founder of digital  marketing agency Panlogic, explains."We've done a lot of work on how  the brands we represent can reach  teenage boys because it's such a huge  untapped market. The problem is  that, because they're so focused, a site  like Monkeyslum will have to provide  great depth to the content it puts on  the site, while at the same time it will  have to provide a lot of breadth to  cover the relevant areas. So, that's  going to be a difficult one - breadth  and depth at the same time."As Monkeyslum is part-owned by  Sky, the team are hinting that they  have a useful resource for sports  information and news, and have  signed a deal with publisher Highbury  House for gaming content.Central to the Monkeyslum team's  argument that they can bridge a  demographic divide nobody has  spanned before is the idea that they will buy in top content and then complement  it with stories from a dedicated  editorial team based at their  offices. It has been tried, competitors  say, and the closure this year of Sorted  magazine is testimony to how difficult  a market Monkeyslum is aiming at.James Carter, publishing director  of FHM (print and online), warns  that teenage boys will be very difficult  to win over with "repurposed  content". FHM has not considered  tapping in to the market with a junior  version of its magazine, he insists,  because its average 25-year-old male  reader is far more of an attractive  option for advertisers to reach."Until you can pay for goods online through your mobile, Monkeyslum  won't be able to offer any e-commerce,  like we do, because teenagers  don't have credit cards," he says."Their main problem is going to be  that the web doesn't really operate like  they're trying to make it work. People  would love there to be a single site  people get their information from -  but what will always happen is if  somebody wants to read a match  report they'll go to a football site, if  they want to read about a computer  game, they'll go to the relevant service."People come toFHM.comto be  entertained because they know our  brand and the voice we write stories  in. If you take content that's already  available in other places I can't see  how you can then present it as quirky  and zany when it's already appeared  in a place where it was presented as  mainstream. I can't see how they're  going to build a brand."It is a concern shared by Jon Holt,  director of PR firm Golin Harris.  While any publicist would welcome a  new site that makes it easier to target teenage boys, Holt believes that  monkeyslum will face big problems."The main thing is they need to  remember that a brand is a promise  and if you fail to deliver that promise,  you're in trouble. I can't see how  they're going to build that brand of  zany irreverence if it's based on content  boys can get elsewhere. It  sounds like they could end up putting  a brand at the top and then have content  underneath it that doesn't fit."The other area where Holt  believes the site will have to tread  carefully is sex. As kids are well  known for buying magazines that are  meant for older readers, he predicts  the site will face a difficult question  soon after launch."All the girls' magazines know they  have to be salacious to get readers," he  says. "They're clever enough to partner  a story about blow jobs with some  other article that's serious and educational.  As there hasn't been a magazine  for teenage boys, I wonder how  soon Monkeyslum is going to find out  their readers are into the smutty stuff.  Then they're going to have to decide if  that's what they want to provide. It  will be tempting for them as they're  obviously working on getting as many  teenage boys as possible, so they  appeal to advertisers."Monkeyslum's Redmayne promises  that the site will never feature soft  porn and has been in active discussions  with the government to double  check that its content is responsible  rather than salacious. He also believes  that the chat side of the site will allow  teenage boys to ask questions anonymously  that they would never dare  raise with peers.It is this side of the launch that  Damian Burns, head of digital at  advertising agency Zed Media,  believes will ensure it is a success:  "We find when we're researching  teenage boys for our clients that they  love to use chatrooms and bulletin  boards. So, I would say Monkeyslum  is a very welcome move for advertisers  because I can assure you we all  know that at the moment whenever  we want to target teenage boys as  much of 80% of the budget can be  wasted reaching older men."It's good timing because teenage  boys have come on a long way in the  last couple of decades. They are  becoming far more savvy about  brands, just like girls have always  been, and want to make sure they've  got the right gear. The days of being  happy with a bottle of Old Spice at  Christmas are long gone."
Cash-strapped football clubs unable to find themselves a friendly Russian billionaire are embracing the mobile phone industry with open arms. The reason's simple: behind the logo-emblazoned football shirts lies a plethora of football-themed mobile services generating revenue for mobile phone company and football club alike.The starting point is a belief in the power of football as a social currency. Football fans love to talk about the beautiful game, and the latest news or incisive insight is highly prized. Mobile phone companies facing near market saturation are having to find new ways to win customers from rival networks, or extract more   revenue from existing ones. They are on the look-out for communities of consumers rather than individuals because of the inevitable cost advantages of one-to-many over one-to-one communication. And as their global ambitions grow, they are eager to associate themselves with big clubs with an international following, too.At the same time, however, mobile phone companies are also using football to underline their positioning of the mobile phone as a legitimate medium in its own right. So, recent weeks have seen third generation (3G) mobile video network 3 trumpet the launch of its goals highlights from Barclays Premiership matches by 5.15pm on a Saturday - ahead of Match of the Day. On other match   days, in both the Barclays Premiership and Uefa Champions League, highlights will be available just five minutes after the final whistle.3 is well ahead of the pack in video terms as, although Vodafone began rolling out its 3G service earlier this year, it has yet to offer its customers football-related video content. Rival networks, meanwhile, expect their 3G services to go live "in the next few months". However, while video-based content is widely regarded as the future, a broad range of SMS, MMS and other content services are available off the back of high-profile club sponsorships.Earlier this year 02 renewed its sponsorship of Arsenal for a further two years in a deal reportedly worth &#163;6m, to be not just the club's sponsor   but "digital partner". Since July, Orange has struck three-year "official mobile network" partnerships with Chelsea and Manchester City - the first in a series of planned deals with a number of top UK clubs to generate exclusive content.Vodafone, meanwhile, has an on-going sponsorship and digital partnership with Manchester United. And T-Mobile now sponsors West Bromwich Albion, Birmingham City and Aston Villa and is mobile phone partner to each; it also has mobile phone partnerships with Celtic, Rangers, Charlton Athletic and Southampton.In each case, mobile phone networks are developing a portfolio of paid-for, value-added services for football fans. These range from standard downloads such as ringtones and wallpaper to text alerts and exclusive player or manager interviews. Some are only available to subscribers, others on a pay-as-you-go basis. And as more and more rival services launch, the emphasis now is on segmentation - offering different bundles of content to different fans.For the time being only 02 makes its mobile football services available to users of any network: rival networks cater only for their own customers. In the light of this and the fact that it struck that its first digital partnership with Arsenal back in 2002, 02 sees itself as a pioneer in this emerging new media market."It has been an extremely successful venture for us so far," insists Paul   Samuels, 02's head of sponsorship and interactive partnerships, despite demurring when asked to quantify "success" in exact revenue terms. "At launch we believed the key would be timely and exclusive content and this is still the case today. Mobile is now the first place many people choose to get their football news."For this season 02 is starting to segment its football content services to boost their appeal and relevance amongst different groups of Arsenal fans. It has also introduced a range of personalised downloads. And as the sophistication of handsets grows, richer content is becoming more widely available."As Wap and video become more prevalent, and with the arrival of 3G, mobile phones will become a true medium in their own right - as legitimate a media channel as newspapers or TV," Samuels says. "3G is the final destination and the key to succeeding with it will be more and more immediate, relevant and exclusive content."Both Orange and T-Mobile are also moving towards tailoring mobile football content for different groups of fans. "Personalisation is a growing priority," says Orange's director of multimedia, Mark Hird, who is looking to strike strategic partnerships with a number of football clubs. Another priority is evolving the style and sophistication of content as more advanced mobile phone handsets become more widely available."Our aim off the back of every sponsorship - be it sports, music or arts-related - is to create interactive experiences for our customers," he adds. "Our football services are already amongst our most successful content services. Our aim is to create something complementary to other media that maximises the potential of mobile."Vodafone, meanwhile, is pursuing a slightly different agenda. With a greater global presence than its rivals in the UK, the company recently extended its sponsorship of Manchester United for another four years in the hope of exploiting the club's powerful brand internationally. Vodafone will shortly roll out Manchester United mobile content to customers in Australia, New Zealand, Sweden and Ireland."The driving force behind this isn't just generating additional revenue through mobile phone content," insists Maria Bellanca, head of PR for Vodafone's group sports sponsorship. "It's about a range of mutual benefits for the club and for ourselves. It's about exclusivity on both sides - enabling Manchester United fans to access the latest technology and exclusive content. And it's about one major global brand endorsing another."With most of the larger football clubs in England signed to a mobile phone network eager to develop their digital mobile rights, the race is on to create increasingly sophisticated and appealing mobile content. The biggest challenge, however, will be deciding just which services to develop as technology advances."For the time being, standard services such as text alerts and ringtones are the most popular amongst T-Mobile customers," says David Grint, head of marketing communications at T-Mobile which, like Orange, is building a portfolio of club partnerships. "Given the access we now have to exclusive content, the range of services we could now develop is virtually infinite. The trick, however, will be to identify what fans and clubs most want."It's the $64m question, of course, and just how well these mobile phone companies have positioned themselves in the run-up to launching 3G services remains to be seen. For, according to Gareth Jones, chief operating officer of 3 which, with Vodafone, holds exclusive video rights to Premier League matches for the next three years, their emphasis on one club sponsorships and exclusive partnerships may well prove ill-founded."What we've learned over the last 12 months is that customers don't want magazine-style mobile content but intensive content to fill small, compressed periods during the day," he says. "Success in the future 3G market won't be about huge, big ticket club sponsorship deals but fresh new content updated frequently - something some may struggle to do if they are locked in to one club."The coming months will show just who is right.
There are some businesses that offer you such an excellent service that you couldn't ever imagine going anywhere else. By focusing on understanding and supporting the critical aspects of your key interactions, like opening an account or choosing a complex new product, businesses like First Direct made into a pleasure what in the past had been chores.First Direct has been the UK's most recommended bank for 12 years and - writing as someone who finally took the plunge last year and converted to their black and white world after 20 years of banking inertia - I know exactly why and have happily told anyone prepared to listen to me on the subject.Great customer experiences promote positive recommendations, which are not only the most valuable form of marketing but also, of course, are by far the cheapest. We are compulsive sharers of our best and worst customer experiences and now that we have a very sophisticated sense of what is possible when it comes to customer service - and that choice is a click away - we have become very demanding.In the past ten years, customer relationship management, or CRM as it is known, has attained near mythical status within organisations. Some of the most successful companies in the world have built their operations around the notion that an ability to understand and deal directly with their customers helps to reduce costs and improve sales, but most importantly in an age of radical competition, actually increases loyalty and profitability by providing a more personalised and responsive service.The model on which this virtuous circle relies is the notion that every transaction with an organisation should improve your next experience. The world's greatest retailers, like Tesco and Amazon, view every shopping basket as not just a sale but as another opportunity to understand. These companies religiously study every interaction in the service of delivering better specification to their supplier and improved value to their customers.This is not an easy job; in fact applying this model of continuous improvement is fiendishly difficult and relies not just on a complete devotion to the principle of putting the customer at the centre of how your organisation thinks, but,   most importantly, it stands and falls on the follow-through of the policies, processes and technologies used to support this vision.The notion of customer focus has so permeated organisational culture that even the public sector has embraced the concept that one size does not necessarily fit all. This wasn't always the case, in fact it wasn't more than ten years ago that databases were still a novel part of most organisations. So the idea of pulling together a single real-time view of a customer's history from information gleaned from both within (and sometimes beyond) their organisation was still in the realm of science fiction.The nirvana which the CRM travellers seek is a company where the extremities are perfectly attuned to the needs and realities of the customer. This is the world where all customer-facing employees have all the information they need at their fingertips, so when they interact with you they can appear as if they've known you forever, understand your issues and suggest solutions that at best will make you spend more and at worst will make sure you don't defect to the competition. Chasing nirvana has always been a frustrating and expensive business. IDC predicts that $11.4bn will be spent worldwide on CRM applications by 2008. But the bills don't stop with the software. The real money is being made by businesses like Accenture and IBM in services like CRM training and outsourcing which are expected by IDC to be worth $93bn in 2005.You'd think for all this expenditure and opportunity, we'd be stamping out more perfectly formed organisations. But the history of most CRM implementations has been nothing short of disastrous. Gartner reports that most businesses underestimate costs by as much as 75%. Large businesses will typically spend between $30m and $90m over a three-year period in technology, staff, consulting services and training related to CRM but Gartner suggests that over 50% of these implementations are considered a failure by the customers.One of the great opportunities for ground-breaking CRM is in telecommunications. You would think with the intimate knowledge that phone companies have about our calling habits, coupled with the huge investments they have made in CRM systems, service and staff would have generated some world leaders. But today's operators have typically chosen a policy of sales over service. The operator who analyses calling habits for the purpose of letting its customers know not just that they could buy additional services, but that by changing packages they could save money would win my loyalty for life and I'd tell anyone prepared to listen.&#183;Saul Klein is co-founder and CEO of Videoisland.com and can be reached atwww.saul.klein.name
A Californian man has been arrested for allegedly using global positioning system technology to stalk a former girlfriend.Ara Gabrielyan is said to have attached a mobile phone with the tracking system to the woman's car, allowing him to follow her movements.The unidentified woman said he had turned up unexpectedly while she was having coffee at a bookshop, picking up a friend from the airport, visiting her brother's grave and at dozens of other places."This is what I would call stalking of the 21st century," said a police spokesman .Mr Gabrielyan, 32, from Glendale, is said to have phoned the woman 30 to 100 times a day after she ended their two-year relationship six months ago.She called the police and had him arrested after seeing him underneath her car, changing the phone's battery.The phone, which had a motion switch that turned on when the car moved, sent a signal to a satellite, allowing Mr Gabrielyan to track her movements on the internet.He is being held on $500,000 (&#163;280,000) bail and faces up to six years in prison.The police spokesman said: "It was an obsession, an obsession to the point where 24-hours a day he had to know where she was, what she did, who she met and how she carried out her daily routine."
[Off topic]"There were 128 of us competing for the top three places in the DC National Rock Paper Scissors Tournament at DC9, a Washington bar. The first prize was $1,000 and an XM satellite radio, a significant haul — although modest compared to the $31,000 BMW that was awarded at a tournament in Vail, Colo., last April, or to the one million shekels (about $220,000) that a 13-year-old boy won by beating 700 other competitors in an Israeli tournament on Aug. 5," reports Jennifer 8. Lee inThe New York Times[free reg req'd].Comment:A UK team is going to theThird Annual Rock Paper Scissors World Championshipsin Toronto next month. No, notDerren Brown....
When it comes to naming models, car manufacturers fall into three categories. First up are the dry-as-dirt numbers-only boys. As you might expect, these are mostly the Germanic and northern European producers: Audi, BMW, Mercedes, Volvo, Saab. It's all A3s, 325s, 230s, V70s and 95s. You'll notice the odd letter in there and the fact that they think that adding an A or a V or a Z peps things up just shows how unadventurous they are.In category two, we have actual words. These are mostly the Americans and the rest of Europe, and include the likes of Chrysler, Ford, Land Rover and Renault with names such as Voyager, Fiesta, Freelander and Espace. Special mention should be given to VW, which veers between the bizarre (Phaeton and Touareg) and blatant snobbery (Golf and Polo - but why not a VW Skittles?). In the third group are words with no foundation in reason. Who on earth decides to call a car a Charade, a Getz, a Tacuma or a Carisma?This brings us neatly to the Terrano. It used to be the Terrano II - surely the first instance of a car issuing a 'prequel'. The reference here, I'd guess, is to a cult Japanese horror flick featuring man-eating terrapins stalking the planet. And driving the Terrano really is a bit like starring in your own nightmare. Short and lumpy, its plastic protruberances make it look like a vehicle that's either been disguised by a sinister spymaster or is partially melted. I have never sat in a car that has been on the receiving end of so much casual abuse from passersby. Comments as inoffensive as 'ugly' would have been welcome. I got: 'Urrggggh!' and: 'You won't be keeping that one, will you?'This comes as a surprise, as the Terrano is from Nissan, the company that also created the beautifully stylish and feline 350Z - Top Gear's car of the year, not to mention the X-Trail, which at £2,000 less than the Terrano seems to cover the same ground as its ugly older sister, only better.The Terrano boasts admirable ground clearance, but this combined with its short wheel-base and narrow width gives the driver a feeling that the car is about to topple over. To top that, the engine is so noisy and the gear-stick so long and waggly, it's easy to believe you're behind the wheel of an ancient Land Rover that some demented mechanic has decided to supercharge.To me, this soft-roader seems to fall between stools. On the one hand it is a well-equipped off-road 4x4 with a lively 3-litre turbodiesel. The blather that comes with the car goes on about its 'grunt' and impressive torque. It does 0-62mph in 13.3 seconds. All great for the country set. On the other hand, it also attempts the street styling any self-respecting urban homeboy would expect: leather seats, alloy wheels, CD, climate control, etc. For all this, you'd pay up to £25,495. But it's too blinged up for the hunting and shooting brigade - and too overqualified for the city boy.If Nissan was trying to have its cake and eat it, with the Terrano it's only ended up with cream-and-jam filling in its lap.
"An estimated 4.2 million closed-circuit TV cameras observe people going about their everyday business, from getting on a bus to lining up at the bank to driving around London. It's widely estimated that the average Briton is scrutinized by 300 cameras a day," reportsAP."The phenomenon is enabled by the arrival of digital video, cheap memory and sophisticated software. And Britain is acknowledged as the world leader of Orwellian surveillance -- perhaps because it has the experience of Irish terrorism, and is on guard for even worse today."Comment:The article, which reworksthis earlier piece, refers to "The Naked Lunch, Reclaiming Security and Freedom in an Anxious Age" by American author Jeffrey Rosen. Unfortunately, poor old AP has got the title of the book wrong. It should beThe Naked Crowd : Reclaiming Security and Freedom in an Anxious Age. No relation to theBurroughs'fiction.Rosen has also published a long essay called The Naked Crowdhere.
"In separate advisories, the MIT Kerberos team warned of security holes in the Kerberos 5 implementation's Key Distribution Center (KDC) program and a Denial of Service bug in the ASN.1 decoder library. Independent research firm Secunia rates the flaws as 'highly critical'," reportsInternetNews.com.
Eidos announcedChampionship Manager Onlinelast week. It was only shown behind closed doors at EGN/GameStars Live but I managed to sneak in before they shut them. As a man who has spent far too much time on previous incarnations of this game, the online version feels me with dread. Don't they know we have lives to lead? Actually, what little they showed of the game suggests that it may be easier to manage a Champ Manager addiction when playing online rather than off. With matches scheduled bi-weekly there is none of that "just one more game" temptation...Essentially how it will work is that every player in the league - and there will be hundreds of leagues - has to choose a level 1 team to start. Maybe Lincoln City or Northampton Town. Then, as the game goes on, players will get offered better jobs until they reach the pinnacle of the game - working for Rupert Lowe at Southampton (well, if it'sgood enough for Sir Clive?) Developers Jadestone were keen to talk about building a community around the game, and with Champ Manager's branding who would bet against them? Well,Sports Interactive, developers of Football Manager 2005 and previously the Champ Manager games, just might. Anyway, lets have a quick straw poll of Champ Manager fans - on or offline, which is most appealing?
It may have been made in England, but Peter Molyneux's long awaited new game -Fable- is coming out in the US first. The hype machine has already started with anarticle in the New York Times. You'll have to register to read but Peter says of his game: "I want players to be themselves. I want them to play who and how they want, as opposed to who I think they should be or how I think they should play." Another look at Fable at the Game Stars Live show showed its huge promise, but will players focus onwhat has been left out, rather than put in? Fable is due in October.
As a boy he was a bookworm who built toy ships and planes and wanted to be an astronaut. As a student he got through three universities in five years and never managed to graduate. To many, the bespectacled, robot-collecting Will Wright is the ultimate geeks' geek. But he is also acclaimed as a genius in his field, and a multi-millionaire whose fortune is about to become even greater.Wright, 44, is the brains behind The Sims, the most popular personal computer game ever, having sold, with its predecessor SimCity, a combined 37 million copies. Effectively granting you licence to play God, it is one of the few titles to have reached beyond the hardcore gaming community to strike a chord with women, gay men and others with little time for dungeons or dragons. For this reason millions around the world are bristling with excitement at the prospect of Wright's long awaited sequel, The Sims 2, later this month.The Sims is a real-time strategy game where players create and furnish an average house while looking after the needs of a virtual family. Unlike the typical video game formula of death and destruction, The Sims is based on the minutiae of daily suburban life and can be as engrossing as soap operas or Big Brother. Among unlikely addicts was the writer Fay Weldon, who has observed: 'Such stubborn suburbanites, those Sims, those simulacra, how they shook their tiny fists at you if you interfered with their parties, their affairs. How you struggled with them, the families of your own creation, against disaster, debt, child neglect, the interference of social workers - shortage of time and money the great enemy.'The Sims 2, released on 17 September, allows players to direct the Sims as they pass on genetic traits from one generation to the next, witness their life-changing moments from cradle to grave and make movies about them, creating the cast, operating the camera and writing the screenplay. An early review in  PC Gamer magazine praised its vastly improved graphics and gave it a 92 per cent rating.The game looks set to crown the career of Wright, arguably the most important visionary in computer gaming's short history. He is to aficionados what Matt Groening is to devotees of The Simpsons, which also happens to be one of Wright's favourite TV shows. He lives in a mansion commanding magnificent views of the Californian hills north of San Francisco where he indulges nerdish passions such as robotics.Such fortune barely seemed likely for a small town boy growing up in Georgia, the son of a chemical engineer and theatre actress. When Wright was nine his father died, and he moved with his mother and sister to Louisiana.After school he bounced from one college to another, variously studying architecture, mechanical engineering and aviation, earning a pilot's licence but never lasting the course. Then he discovered computers and, at 22, created his first game for the Commodore 64. For his next, he drew on the work of a sociologist who modelled cities on computers, adding people, cars, an eco-system and an internal logic of how the environment would develop over time. The result, in 1989, was SimCity , the first game based around building civilisations rather than napalming them.Legend has it that in 1991 Wright's home was destroyed by fire and, as he and his wife pieced their life back together, he observed patterns in the way they re-acquired items for their new home. This 'dolls-house' concept bore fruit in 2000 with the game in which the player designs characters' houses and nurtures them through life's ups and downs.By then Wright had sold his development company, Maxis - where he rode around the office on a red electric scooter - to Electronic Arts in a $125 million deal, personally banking an estimated $15m in stocks. EA's marketing muscle ensured The Sims would be a global smash hit. Wright once remarked: ' SimCity made me as rich as I need to be and this is definitely a labour of love. If I didn't do this I'd probably be building something - almost certainly it would be something to do with robots. They're cool things to build.'Wright's house, modest by millionaire standards, is full of robots, including one named Misty, rather than rich men's ostentatious playthings. Every year he and his daughter take part in an annual 'Battlebot' competition on US national television. He once joked: 'I don't think I'm a robot. I'm not sure I could tell if I was.' His favourite film is  2001: A Space Odyssey yet he does have a hinterland, devoted to 'reading, skiing, scheming'.His friend Peter Molyneux, one of Britain's leading game designers, said: 'He is eccentric and always thinking of what we'd regard as an outlandish thing. He knows what he wants to do, and he naturally has inspiration rather than having to look for it. He's more comfortable talking about computers and programming than beaches or fast cars, and he'd rather spend all his money on a robot that walks upstairs or a giant ant farm. He's got enough robots around him to be described as a geek.'Molyneux is in no doubt about the scale of Wright's achievements. ' The Sims is a work of true and utter genius, and what Will has done is creatively and culturally very significant. The Sims has taught the games industry not to care only about murder, violence, guns, horror and sci-fi. It talks to us about everyday life and the everyday world. It also paints the American dream: you can start in an apartment somewhere with no friends and by the end you can be super-rich with a beautiful girlfriend living in a palace.'technology@observer.co.uk
Sender Policy Framework (SPF) is supposed to fix a fundamental weakness in Internet e-mail by checking the origin of messages so you can reject ones with forged addresses. But spammers are already adopting SPF and using it with throwaway e-mail addresses, so the spam still gets through. However, CipherTrust Inc reckons it does help stop ''phishing", where users are sent e-mails that purport to come from their bank, credit card company or whatever. SeeThe Boston Globefor more.
The Natural History Museum is currently staging an exhibition that seeks to unravel the mysteries of your hair. The accompanying website (www.nhm.ac.uk/hair) has lots of great stuff for coiffure fans including a brilliant tool where you can insert your own photo and try on dozens of different hairstyles.Meanwhile, for hairstyle extremism, visitwww.super-hair.netan obsessive website that monitors daily changes in celebrity hair length and Kelly Osbourne's dyeing disasters.www.featheredback.comis a site dedicated to chronicling a hairstyle that was once known as "the Farrah" after its most famous wearer Farrah Fawcett, while Ministry Of Hair (www.brylcreem.co.uk) rates crimes against hair such as John McEnroe's 1970s sweatband bonce.Finally, Mulit (absolut.com/mulit) is a sublime Bollywood-style homage to the ultimate bad hairdo, the mullet.
Resident Evil: OutbreakPlaystation 2Converted for its European release from online-only to offline-only, Resident Evil: Outbreak is a game mired in an identity crisis. The redoubtable zombies of the original series make a return, gamely shuffling over in search of a quick snack, but this time you've got plenty of other survivors to help, and because this is offline-only, they're controlled by your PS2 rather than American teenagers, with an AI "personality", the only distinction of which appears to be whether they slavishly follow you around or not. The game is now split into discrete scenarios, with tension derived from the number and sheer relentlessness of the zombies, rather than the creeping dread of an attack, effectively stripping away the greatest asset of the game: atmosphere. Without narrative to follow, a sense of fear or even decent puzzles this is an anaemic playing experience at best, and at worst actually dull.&#183;Capcom, £40Burnout 3: TakedownPS2, XBOXAt the heart of the new breed of ultra-realistic racing games is a nerdy focus on upgrading every last element of your car, and by implication understanding why shifting your powerband up by 2,000 revs might improve lap times. Burnout is the opposite - forget suspension set-up, forget tracks even - Burnout is about tearing through crowded city streets at face-melting speeds. The latest instalment adds a crash "aftertouch" that lets you steer your car's burning hulk into competitors and a Road Rage mode that eliminates even the race in favour of seeing how many fellow racers you can destroy. Fast, brutal and subtle, this is a game that will leave you as dizzy and breathless as too many ristrettos in the morning.&#183;Electronic Arts, £40-£45Conflict: VietnamPS2, XBOX, PCWith Battlefield Vietnam, ShellShock: NAM '67, Men Of Valour: The Vietnam War, Vietnam Med Evac and the upcoming Vietnam: The Tet Offensive to look forward to, it's clear that many of us currently love the smell of napalm in the morning. Conflict: Vietnam follows the earlier Conflict: Desert Storm in giving you command of a four-man fire team to direct in a series of mildly tactical battles. The problem with transposing this mechanic to the claustrophobic jungles of south-east Asia is that your team is constantly so vulnerable there's no time for strategy, with platoons of VC bowling up and turning you to mincemeat before you can say di-di mau. True to its subject or not, this is a recipe for frustration.&#183;Capcom, £40SCi, £35-£40
Paul Ford offers insight into how Larry and Sergey came up with their slogan and resisted the temptations of Satan, plus an exclusive look at the 2006 home page designhere. (Guest appearance by rms.)
After getting lost in Olympia, having been misinformed by my brain, I find myself at the pint-sizedGame Developer's Conference -Europeat Earl's Court. Though I haven't yet made it downstairs to the trade-based (and relatively sparse) ECTS, thus far the upstairsAcademic Dayseries of sessions is broadly interesting. Certainly combined with the conference sessions from the Docklands EDF and EGN events, in which the strands were very much about the importance of immersion to un-tapped audiences, there's a theme emerging amongst the movers, shakers and thinkers of the computer games industry. From politics to plot, it seems now that the technology is suitably up to scratch the focus has moved away from this gadget or that graphics card and is now on getting people involved in play through narrative.Story, character and plot are buzzwords at the moment. But is this really important? OK, so some research suggests that this is one of the things that might attract more non-traditional players. Perhaps, but where is the plot in mass-market phenomena like the Dance Mat games, EyeToy or SingStar? As gamers, and as people interested in computer games enough to read a blog about them, what do you think about the importance of plot in interactive entertainment? Does it really matter?
BusinessWeek Onlinehas an interview with Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates about its move into the music and video download markets.Q: Steve Jobs has said consumers aren't going to watch video on tiny screens. Is he wrong?A: Yes. Ask kids in the back of a car on a two-hour trip, "Hey, would you like to have your videos there?" My kids would. I guess Steve's kids just listen to Bach and Mozart. But mine, they want to watch Finding Nemo. I don't know who made that, but it's really a neat movie.
"US-CERT issued an alert [Multiple Vulnerabilities in Oracle Products] Wednesday citing several security flaws in Oracle products that could be used to shut down or take control of vulnerable systems running the software or to corrupt or steal data from the Oracle Databases," reportsInfoWorld."The security holes affect a number of Oracle products, including versions of its 8i, 9i and 10g Database, Application Server and Enterprise Manager software, according to a bulletin posted Tuesday by Oracle, which also released a patch for the vulnerabilities."Comment:It's always worth remembering how Oracle's multi-billionaire boss Larry Ellison boasted: "We will take your data and make it invulnerable to hackers."
Microsoft yesterday launched its attempt to dominate the emerging market for digital music, going online in the United States with a store to rival Apple's pioneering iTunes service.The service, MSN Music, is offering individual songs at 99 cents and albums for $9.99, matching iTunes' price range.Initially it will offer 500,000 songs, half the number on iTunes, but Microsoft said it will be adding content on a daily basis. The company is not saying when it plans to extend the service to Europe.In six European countries including the UK, Microsoft is already offering MSN users an online store via partner OD2. It is unclear how that relationship will be affected by MSN Music.Apple is hoping it will not repeat its experience in the PC market, where it failed to capitalise on early innovations.The iTunes site has sold more than 125m tracks since its launch 16 months ago and the iPod, Apple's handheld player, has about 70% of the market. Apple sold 860,000 iPods in the third quarter alone, a 183% rise on the same period a year ago.Microsoft holds some advantages. It aims to generate traffic to the music store from its MSN portal, and the songs it sells are compatible with numerous portable players, unlike the iPod-only iTunes.MSN songs are encoded using a higher bit rate, in theory giving better-quality sound. "We believe we've built a better service than Apple," said Yusuf Mehdi, MSN's vice-president.Reviews of MSN suggest Apple still has the upper hand. The Wall Street Journal said: "Overall, MSN Music is no match for iTunes - yet."
"TheU.S. Copyright Officehas drafted anew versionof the Induce Act that it believes will ban networks like Kazaa and Morpheus while notputting hardwaresuch as portable hard drives and MP3 players on the wrong side of the law,"reports CNet."But the Copyright Office's proposal is raising eyebrows among consumer groups and Internet providers, who fear that it suffers from many of the same defects as the original. One section, for instance, says companies that "actively interfere" with a copyright holder's efforts to identify pirates could be liable."Comment:When will the RIAA and their ilk realise that the ship sailed on this one years ago? Online recently wrote thatfilesharing actually has little effect on music sales- something the figuressubsequently confirmed.If the music companies spent as much time and energy on making p2p technology work for them rather than trying to ban it, then they'd probably be a lot better off - and so would we.
EA has announced that it is increasing its activity in the mobile gaming market. The company plans to bring more of its key brands to Java handsets over the next year, and has strengthened its partnership with mobile publisher Digital Bridges, which has overseen the development and distribution of previous EA titles such as Tiger Woods PGA Tour and FIFA Football.So what does all this mean to mobile gamers?This year we will see three more EA mobile titles: 2005 editions of Tiger Woods and FIFA, plus a new conversion ofNeed For Speed Underground 2. Not sure how well the graphically luxurious console racer will translate to mobile - driving games have been pretty disappointing so far. Hopefully, an attempt will be made to simulate the free-roaming, challenge-based elements of the gameplay, rather than just producing a simple 2D driving game. EA could even add location-based elements, altering the driving conditions depending on the weather and time in the player's locale.Next year, the company plans a mobile phone version of The Sims. Again, this could be really interesting if they choose to implement any of the unique features of the mobile format. For example, Bluetooth would allow players in close proximity to exchange game items and maybe get their Sims together - this would certainly make an interesting addition to the burgeoningBluetooth datinggenre. GPRS connectivity would also make it possible to provide downloadable content and updates.The temptation must be there to simply exploit mobile gaming as an easy revenue stream, but I hope EA and Digital Bridges reallythinkabout the format, and find ways to exploit its strengths rather than just cope with its weaknesses. Time will tell.
One of the busier stands at Game Stars Live was theJoystick Junkies Retro Lounge.Essentially a collection of classic arcade machines - noStar Wars cabinetthough - the area was heaving with punters either trying to relive their youth or finding out what dad and mum used to do in their spare time. Of course, the lure of these games lies not only in their nostalgic appeal but in simplicity. Playing a game at an event is a noisy and frustrating exercise. Any game that can't be picked up and appreciated within 30 seconds is usually passed over by punters. But who needs instructions for Defender? Of course, you could argue that the retro trend iswholly unwelcome.
Here's a top tip for accessory manufacturers: if you fancy making a quick buck, make sure the name of your next product starts with i. As sales of Apple's iPod music player continue to rocket, so too does demand for accessories such as the iTrip, iBoom and iPal.Yet for every worthwhile add-on like Griffin Technology's iTalk - which enables the iPod to double as a voice recorder - there's all kinds of junk hopping on the bandwagon. Among the worst are the recycled glasses cases masquerading as designer holders for the iPod mini, and the iCleaner Pro, &#163;12 of polisher that claims it will remove the scratches and swirls from the metal back of the machine without harming the laser engraving.However, there is emerging a new breed of iPod gadgets that aim to place the player at the heart of the home hi-fi system. Among the most high profile is Griffin Technology's soon to be launched RoadTrip system. Ostensibly designed to wirelessly connect the iPod to a car radio, it also work wells as a basic streaming device for the home, piping music from the player to any FM radio.Unlike the iTrip, the previous version of the device, the RoadTrip can also stream audio directly from Macs or PCs. Although it is illegal in the UK because it falls foul of the 1949 Wireless Telegraphy Act, the companies that import it are expecting it to be a huge seller.There's also a growing selection of hi-fi add-ons for the iPod that offer speakers and an amplifier, enabling the player to act as the main music source. The cute &#163;120 iPal radio from Tivoli Audio, which connects to the player via a cable, only ranks as an iPod accessory because it is finished in white. Strip away the surface and you are left with a good quality, but expensive, radio.Slightly more imaginative is the iBoom, a personal audio system with a dock to house an iPod that debuts later this month. Perhaps the most impressive is the Felicidade Groove Bag Triplet - a &#163;120 handbag that includes a pouch for the Apple player alongside integrated speakers.There are signs, too, that hi-fi companies, traditionally snooty about the sound of the compressed music, are sensing they can make serious cash by associating with the iPod. Eclipse, the high-end Japanese audio manufacturer, has started shipping the TD 307PA, a &#163;400 speaker system/ amplifier it is billing as the perfect partner for the Apple player.A number of companies are working on a Bluetooth transmitter that will enable iPod owners to listen to music through wireless headphones. If, as analysts are predicting, the player evolves into more of a PDA-style device, then expect cameras, TV tuners and other goodies for the iPod to begin rolling off the production lines.www.everythingipod.co.ukwww.griffintechnology.comwww.tivoliaudio.comwww.eclipse-td.com
In theory, wirelessly streaming audio and video files from your PC or the net to a TV/home entertainment system should be simple. Yet many of the products available so far are hampered by awkward menu systems and interfaces.However, the installation procedure of the &#163;550 Philips MX 6000i, a fully fledged home entertainment surround-sound system, is a pleasant surprise.The MX-6000i, which works with 802.11b and g wireless connections, can also access internet content. Video quality was better than expected, with few notable drop outs and blurring.However, it does have a few key limitations. If you have a large library of MP3 files, it will take an age to find the track you want. The machine also needs a good wireless signal or it will leave you hanging as it searches for your network. Lastly, there's no compatibility with AAC music files used by iTunes, and until an upgrade later this year, you won't be able to play Windows Media files, either.
Tracking deviceDave Birch (Second Sight, August 26) is unrealistic in thinking David Blunkett will angle his ID card scheme to keep our anonymity. The hidden agenda is surely to accumulate information about our activities - if the scheme ever works. Anyone with common sense can see it is hopelessly impractical, and will no doubt be abandoned after millions of pounds have been wasted.You can keep anonymity with cardboard! When I borrowed a library book in the pre-IT era, the card index was ticketed with my ID card. When I returned the book, the cards were separated and the record of my borrowing vanished. Now my borrowings are recorded on computer for access by who knows who?Philip SpruceBirminghamTuning inTom Corcoran (Feedback, August 26) suggests the holy grail is being able to stream internet radio through his hi-fi. How about a cable? With a 3.5mm jack on one end that goes into my laptop's headphone socket and standard hi-fi plugs on the other, I enjoy internet radio through one of the AUX inputs of my hi-fi, which is in another room. My 10m cable cost about &#163;7.50. Not pretty, but cheap and effective.Richard Lloyd-WilliamsRomeFilter tipDai Bickham (Feedback, August 26) is not receiving an unusually high amount of spam - several colleagues   receive a similar amount. I receive practically none. I think this is related to my usage of the net and my email account provider's filtering system. It would appear that users of Microsoft products such as Outlook and Outlook Express generally receive more spam than web-based email users.Tim PinderPontefractClean machineI had an email account that received large amounts of spam. My solution is to close down the offending account and open a clean one, then avoid doing anything that will attract spam. I also think not using Microsoft products helps, and I use Mozilla Firefox. Email programs, such as Pegasus Mail, allow you to leave email on the server and download selectively.Ian BrooksbankBackward stepBefore the introduction of spam filters, I hardly ever received spam. Is the introduction of such filters by ISPs just an advertising gimmick?Okpaku MadedorLondonJoin it upRegarding Simon Browne's experience of phishing (Feedback, August 26), it is probably best to report such scams to theNational Crime Squad's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, though its website provides no advice. The Metropolitan Police gives general advice on computer/internet crime and has useful links atwww.met.police.uk/computercrime/.   The Office of Fair Trading and the Department of Trade and Industry's Consumer Gateway sitewww.consumer.gov.ukdoes not offer specific advice on phishing, but it is worth copying them in on complaints. Trading standards departments will normally refer phishing complaints to local police forces. The Home Office'swww.identity-theft.org.uksite offers advice and links to theAssociation    for Payment Clearing Services. With such a lack of joined-up advice and enforcement, is it any wonder so many scams slip through the net?Tony TroyNothing doingPeople need to be warned about what they are getting themselves into when they sign up to broadband.I was an NTL customer for about three years. Because of going to university I had to disconnect, which was when the problems started. I arranged for my broadband to be disconnected on August 6. I was also asked if I wanted my phone line disconnected, but our line is with BT. He told me I had had a phone line with them for two and a half years, at a cost of &#163;10 a month. I never signed for a phone, no engineers have installed one and I have never received a phone number.Three weeks later I was still connected to the net. I have phoned NTL three times and told them. They said not to worry because I wasn't being billed and all services had been cancelled. This week, I received a letter from them, dated August 18, when I was no longer a customer, saying I owed &#163;371 for September. I phoned up and was told to ignore it and that I wouldn't be billed anymore.This is a shocking way to treat customers. Still nothing has happened and I have phoned three times. As it is their fault, I can't get into trouble, can I?Lewis BakerStormy warningAlthough my laptop was turned off, my modem was destroyed by a thunderstorm last week, as was my neighbour's. I don't remember receiving warnings about this danger. Perhaps you could suggest that readers disconnect from phone and broadband when storms are forecast.John WakefordHead, Missenden Centre for the Development of Higher Education
American beautyHP has announced a September 15 US launch for its badged version of Apple's iPod digital music player. Surprisingly, the new models, known as the HP+iPod, are exactly the same as the original iPod, with 20 and 40 gigabyte versions available. While Carly Fiorina, HP's chief executive, touted a blue version of the player at its announcement back in January, the HP iPod is only available in white. Also contrary to rumours, the player is not compatible with Windows Media Audio (WMA) files. HP in the UK is expected to announce a launch date and price for the player in two weeks' time.www.hp.co.ukTouch of classCreative's new Zen Touch 20GB player  meanwhile, is trying to elbow its way in to the ever-expanding market. Styled in the iPod mould, it's a little weighty, but the sound is crisp and it looks smooth enough to satisfy any design junkie. It supports MP3 and WMA files and connects to your computer via USB. The touchpad is a little over-sensitive, and our review model crashed a few times, but the battery lifespan comes in at a seriously useful 24 hours. And that's before the competitive price tag of &#163;199 is taken into account.http://uk.europe.creative.comSmall wonderCasio has updated its range of tiny Exilim digital cameras with four new models, including the Exilim Card EX-S100, which it claims is the smallest camera to include an optical zoom. Due on sale next month, the &#163;349.99 EX-S100 is a 3.2 megapixel camera made from stainless steel that sports a two-inch monitor and a 2x8 optical zoom.In the same month, Casio will also debut the &#163;329.99 Exilim Zoom EX-Z50 and &#163;349.99 EX-Z55 cameras, both of which take five megapixel images and feature a 3x optical zoom. The Z55 boasts a slightly larger LCD monitor than its sibling -2.5 as opposed to 2in.Completing the range is the &#163;499.99 Exilim Pro PX700, a seven megapixel camera housed in a black shell.www.casio.co.ukSoftwareUpwardly mobileNorwegian company Opera, which makes one of the most highly rated web browsers for Symbian Series 60-based smartphones, has announced that a version of the browser will soon be available for Microsoft Windows Mobile handsets.Similar to the Symbian version, the Windows Mobile Opera browser will include Small-Screen Rendering (SSR) technology. This enables users to browse regular Web pages on mobile screens by reformatting the page, thereby eliminating the need for time-consuming horizontal scrolling.The manufacturer hasn't yet set a price for the browser, but if it retails for   a similar fee to the Symbian Series 60 version, it will cost around &#163;20.www.opera.comSmartphonesTreo rumoursAlthough there's no official word from PalmOne, the internet is awash with stories about the successor to the Treo 600 smartphone. The new model, codenamed Ace or the Treo 650, is expected to feature a faster processor (312MHz), more memory and a higher resolution 320x320 LCD screen. Other key upgrades are rumoured to be a one megapixel, compared with a VGA, camera and the addition of Bluetooth. The phone apparently keeps the Treo 600's excellent miniature Qwerty keyboard and, surprisingly, given its unpopularity, its large protruding aerial.www.palmone.com/ukStat of the week:Internet bucks the trendSummer is traditionally a dry time for most of the media, but the net seems to have kicked the habit. The launch of Doom 3 helped the online games sector grow by 45% last month, with the impending American election and holidaymakers also having an effect.
Retro v MetroThe Great Divide is the hot topic in the US, being the title of a new bestseller by John Sperling, the founder of the University of Phoenix. The division is, of course, between the Retro states - pro-life, anti-gay, the home of old-fashioned gun-toting values - and the Metro states, where the pinko-liberals support things such as industrial progress, scientific innovation and the new net-based economy. Nothing surprising there, except that the Bush-supporting Retro states run the country in spite of only representing one third of the population. The Retro v Metro site has all the info, and you can download chapters of the book, if you don't mind reading them on screen.www.retrovsmetro.orgiPod v C90Daniel Turek has produced a funny slide show comparing the Apple iPod with the compact cassette tape. As someone who still loves his venerable Sony Walkman Professional WM-D6C, I have to concede that the iPod wins on convenience, but will you still be using it after 20 years, eh?http://homepage.mac.com/danielturekhttp://www.webhelper.com/wholeearthYahoo v GoogleIt's great to have alternative search engines so that if you don't find something in Google you can try, say, Yahoo. The problem is that you will get many, if not most, of the same results. So wouldn't it be great if there was a search tool that would skip the duplications and just give you what you want? Jux2 is a metasearch engine, currently being beta-tested, that could do that job in a convenient way. At the moment, it only covers three engines - Google, Yahoo and Ask Jeeves - and the results seem very repetitive. But one day it could be really good.www.jux2.comURL infoAnyone who wants to find out about any website, or improve their own, should bookmark Michael Fagan's URL Info. The top of the page has a space to enter an internet address plus 11 tabs, from General to Misc. Each tab offers links to several popular services, and URL Info simply enters the address and fetches the results. The links include   Whois and PageRank, translation services, and many other features such as Textalyser, Spell Online, Speed Report, and Keyword Analyzer.www.faganfinder.com/urlinfoHover botherMost Online readers take blogging for granted, but the news of how easy it us to run a daily journal seems to have been lost on Robert Hodson from Godalming, Surrey. This is a pity because Hodson is stuck in Terre Haute, Indiana, with a skirt problem on Wings of the Dawn, the customised two-ton Griffon 450 TD Mk II hovercraft he is driving across the US. Making the longest hovercraft trip in history should provide lots of things to write about, but the entry for August 18 has just three words: "Replacing skirt segments", and a photo. Worse, his online journal had no entries from May 3 to August 17, and the photo gallery has only four images in total. Hodson would have generated more interest if, instead of having a proper website, he'd used a camera phone and signed up with Blogger.  &lt;BRwww.hover-adventure.comwww.griffonhovercraft.comhttp://bdb.co.za/shackle/articles/hovercraft.htmRent a peasant"Rent A Peasant is primarily an association of two people. Our remit is to provide an insight into everyday aspects of rural life in the past. Farming is fundamental to our presentations, hence our subtitle - Living History with Livestock," says the site. These peasants with university degrees can cover events from the Romans to the Victorians, but you have to be within livestock travelling range of Durham.www.rentapeasant.fsnet.co.ukOddly enoughNibs, short for "news in brief", are the best bits of many publications. Sad to say, you don't see too many of them on the web, because screen-based layouts don't have odd corners to fill with snippets. Still, there is something as good or better in Yahoo's Oddly Enough news section. This picks up stories from Reuters' Oddly Enough, AP's Strange News, and similar sources. Stories include: Blazing Bunny Spreads Fire at Cricket Club (it happened in Devizes, Wilts); Sexually Frustrated Chimp Takes Up Smoking; and "Boots" Takes Gold at the Ferret Olympics.http://news.yahoo.com/news?tmpl=index&amp;cid=757New &amp; notedCopyright Issues in Digital Mediahttp://www.cbo.govBook Center reboundwww.lili.org/icbOpen source PRhttp://www.thenewpr.com/wiki/pmwiki.phpFarscape trailerwww.apple.com/trailers/independent/farscapeSix of the best:News for kidsCBBC newsroundhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnewsYahooligans! Newshttp://yahooligans.yahoo.com/content/newsOur Kids Sportswww.ourkidsports.comScience News For Kidswww.sciencenewsforkids.orgUS and world newswww.kidsnewsroom.orgHeadlinespot linkswww.headlinespot.com/for/kids
Once seen as purely the preserve of adolescent boys, videogaming is now entering the 21st century with a new breadth and diversity. This is thanks to the increasing role of women as both consumers and developers, claims Chicks and Joysticks, a new white paper launched yesterday at the European Developer's Forum by the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa).The paper, written by games journalist and Online contributor Aleks Krotoski, looks at the history of women in gaming and their place in its future.Women were among the pioneers of computing technology: Ada Lovelace was credited as being the first computer programmer, while Grace Hopper made the first program compiler. Despite this - and the fact that some of the first computer games such as Pong were marketed as "family" entertainment - women have rarely featured in the minds of games developers and advertisers, apart from as virtual damsels in distress or voluptuous hyper-sexed totty.But, as the paper explains, the games industry's concentration on the traditional 15 to 25-year-old male demographic is now outweighing demand from that sector and publishers are looking for ways to bolster   their figures. That means looking towards a broader audience. So, with the word "mainstreaming" on the lips of practically every games publisher, the industry is setting forth with renewed vigour to capture the hearts, minds and purses of women.In some ways the industry lags behind the reality, certainly in the UK where female gamers already make up 27.2% of players. Chicks and Joysticks goes on to reveal that our female gamers spend more than &#163;250 per year on gaming appliances and software, plus they spend on average 7.2 hours per week playing games - mainly on the PlayStation, the PS2 and the PC.Whereas UK men manage to clock up a leisurely 10.78 hours of gaming every week on a wide array of titles, women's gaming choices tend to reflect their time limitations and the need to balance this with socialising, personal care and the dreaded housework. Games of choice include those that are easy to pick up and play, such as Tetris, the Sims and Gran Turismo. Women tend to gravitate towards what Sims creator Will Wright describes as "interstitial" titles - where they can get a good gaming experience between other activities, regardless of the time they put in.Online gaming is also an attractive area for female gamers, worth an estimated &#163;230m last year. Popular female formats go all the way from basic card games up to adventure behemoths such as EverQuest.However, although the UK has the highest number of game studios in Europe, women only make up 16% of the entire development workforce. The majority of those, according to UK games recruitment agency Aardvark Swift, are in PR and marketing. "Games are still perceived as a boys-run-for-boys business," explains Mary Margaret Walker ofwww.mary-margaret.com, a games industry recruiter in the US."It takes a brave woman to want to get into the games industry. Once in, we have found game developers to be incredibly tolerant and welcoming, not really caring about gender, sexual orientation, race, religion or any personality traits. It's getting through that initial wall that is hard."The diminishing difference between titles that attract both men and women is encouraging, as is the fact that so many adult females are taking up interactive entertainment as a viable pastime. Although we are still a long way off seeing games reviews in Cosmopolitan, the paper concludes that "diversity in gaming can only be positive, for everyone". Ada and Grace would be very proud.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Health sourceThe National Health Service is trying a two-platform desktop strategy for its National Programme for IT. While awaiting clearance from the Treasury on a licensing deal with Microsoft for Windows, the NHS has purchased 5,000 licences for Sun Microsystems' Java Desktop System (JDS). This includes the Gnome desktop environment, Sun's StarOffice office suite, Ximian's Evolution email and calendaring application, and the Mozilla web browser. It is paying Sun on a subscription basis, which covers the elements that are not open source, and includes indemnification against possible legal problems. Licensing JDS does not mean the NHS is rushing into open source software, but is taking a chance to evaluate alternatives to Microsoft.wwws.sun.com/software/javadesktopsystemWi-JackAruba Wireless Networks has launched the Wi-Jack (right), which it claims is "the world's first centrally configured, wall mounted Wi-Fi outlet". Basically, it adds a Wi-Fi wireless access point to a standard Ethernet wall socket. Aruba reckons it reduces the cost of deploying a wireless access point from &#163;550-1,700 to less than &#163;170. Configuration and control is done via the Aruba 5100 WLan switching system, which was announced at the same time.www.arubanetworks.com/newsBoys in BluetoothLeeds University and Imperial College London are helping police with their   inquiries into Bluetooth as a tracking medium. The students are developing a system to measure the time taken for Bluetooth signals to pass from one device to another. A central tracking console is used to sound an alarm if the time interval changes, indicating that a device has been moved. By mapping and triangulating the signals, the police feel the system would be able to detect and, therefore, deter thefts of equipment from building sites, offices and warehouses. The system could also be used to locate fire fighters in smoky buildings.http://www.arubanetworks.comHigher Wi-FiIntel has extended the capabilities of its Centrino wireless system for notebook computers with a tri-mode wireless chip that supports the 802.11 a, b and g network standards. It has also upgraded the supporting software, adding the Intel Smart Wireless Solution program. This offers profile management to make it easier for users to switch between different Wi-Fi networks while in the office, at home, or on the road.Doctors' ordersBooking an appointment with the doctor online could soon be a reality with new software being delivered to 4,500 medical practices across England. EMIS, a Leeds company that supplies software to 55% of the country's GPs, claims that the new application, EMIS Access, will save the NHS &#163;4m this year. The program publishes a doctor's timetable so that patients can book or cancel appointments on the practice's website or through the Patient UK portal. Marple Cottage Surgery in Stockport, one of the original 150 test sites, reports that 15% of its patients have been using the system. This figure is expected to increase.www.emis-online.comBus stopGFI is locking down USB ports to prevent the theft of information or the introduction of viruses using removable storage devices. LANguard Portable Storage Control is a network security product designed to prevent the connection of USB devices, including Flash drives, iPods, smartphones, digital cameras and PDAs. The software can also block access to floppy drives and CD/DVD drives and hard disks connected through USB or FireWire ports. Control of rights to access devices can be assigned centrally using Windows' Active Directory. GFI admits that devices can be controlled through settings on the PC, but knowledgeable users can easily reset these.www.gfi.com/lanpscEmail saverWigan council is complying with the Freedom of Information Act 2000 by improving its email recovery systems. The council has bought 5,000 seat licences of Connected ArchiveStore/ EM to enable staff to find any relevant messages relating to a citizen's enquiry. Before installing ArchiveStore, the council found that many of its emails were stored on individual desktop PCs. Connected's software captures emails at the mail server in real time, compresses the data and stores it. Apart from fulfilling the citizen's right to information access, the software is used for corporate governance. In the case of an internal dispute, the human resources department can bring together any relevant correspondence between specific individuals.www.connected.com/solution
As email becomes more important, and more and more messages arrive in our inboxes, it is getting harder to manage the flood. For many business users, that means a daily struggle with Outlook, the personal information manager that comes as part of Microsoft Office. But remember, it's not just a program, it's a platform: its failings are an invitation for third parties to add enhancements and plug the gaps.For example, Outlook 2003 has Search Folders that let you set up rules for classifying messages without actually moving them out of your inbox, so one piece of email can show up in as many Search Folders as you want. That's useful, but Outlook doesn't keep the contents of all your search folders up to date: if you haven't looked at a Search Folder in a while, you have to wait for Outlook to find the relevant items, and its search is pretty slow.The solution is to use the Lookout add-in instead. It takes about half an hour to build an index and then produces results so fast it's like having a virtual folder. It can also search documents on your hard drive, attachments, contacts, tasks, notes and calendar appointments as well as messages. After you install it,   pick Options from the Lookout toolbar, then choose which email folders and document directories you want to index: that can include mapped drives on your network, too.With Lookout, you can sort the search results by date, folder, size, sender, recipient, subject, file type, or how good a match it is. You can restrict results to emails, contacts or files or pick only messages with attachments. For more complicated searches and filters, there's a dialog box that lets you build a query based on any field in the message.Lookout - based on open source technology from the Apache web server project - is so good that Microsoft bought the company. It is now expected to contribute to MSN Search, and there are rumours it will be combined with search technology developed by Microsoft Research to provide the fast email and document searching promised for the next version of Windows, code-named Longhorn. You can download Lookout now, and it's free.Confusingly, there's another Outlook add-on called LookOut!, which you have to pay for. It lets you match incoming emails to a database of contacts (as long as they're stored in Microsoft Access or SQL Server). You can see whatever ID you've assigned to a contact inside Outlook,   so it's obvious when you get urgent email from a key client. You can also spot email from co-workers or people who aren't in your database, and who might, therefore, be potential customers.LookOut! also monitors outgoing messages, so you can use it to check you're not making embarrassing mistakes. For example, if you've received a blind carbon copy (bcc:) of an email, only the sender knows you've seen it, but if you use Reply to All, it's obvious you got a secret copy. LookOut! will warn you if you use Reply to All in such a case, and if you don't use Reply to All when the original message was sent to several people.LookOut! can also warn you if you send a particularly large message, if you leave out the subject or the email signature, if you include the word "attach" but forget to attach files, or say anything you're likely to regret.It's easy to take email messages personally and to reply in the kind of language you wouldn't use to someone's face - and there's no way to cancel it once the message has gone. LookOut! can be a useful way of getting a second chance. It can also warn you against using cheesy cliches.You Software - set up by Craig   Barnes, who made a career out of selling add-ons for Adobe Photoshop and Quark XPress - has been founded to build add-ons for Microsoft applications such as PowerPoint and Project, and it has started with Outlook. You Perform adds 15 tools to Outlook, from adding all new email addresses to Contacts and automatically saving attachments to a specific folder to scheduling regular emails you need to send. It also tries to catch missing attachments, too.Getting Things Done is a popular time management system - it swept through Microsoft last year - and as so many of the things we need to do arrive by email these days, there's an Outlook add-in designed to help implement the system.The idea is that when anything arrives you deal with it immediately, either doing it, delegating it or putting it into a system you trust. When an email arrives, you decide whether you can delete it, delegate it, file it for reference or hang on to it in case you can do something about it later (like signing up for a course on time management).If you can delegate it, you create a task to remind you that you're waiting for someone else. If you can do something and it will take less than two minutes, you do it straight   away. If it will take longer, you either decide when you're going to do it or add it to your To Do list.This add-in formalises the kind of system that many people devise for themselves. However, having the toolbar reminds you to deal with things as they arrive, and the tools combine several steps you'd have to remember to do yourself. You're less likely to forget any of the steps when they are all done from the same dialog box.Alternatively, rather than customising Outlook, you can replace it, with something such as FranklinCovey's Tablet Planner. This is designed to implement a time management system, and was programmed to run on a Tablet PC, so you write your appointments in something that looks like a paper diary using something that looks like pen and paper. But underneath, Tablet Planner connects to a Microsoft Exchange server and gives you the tasks, appointments and contacts you'd see in Outlook.Not many people will want to make such a radical change to their way of working, but if you do nothing else, install Lookout. It will save you hours of opening and closing files and messages, and unlock the useful information in your old emails and documents.Useful linksOffice Online: Outlookhttp://office.microsoft.com/en-gb/FX010857931033.aspxLookoutwww.microsoft.com/downloadsSSW LookOut! for Outlookwww.ssw.com.au/SSW/LookOutGetting Things Donewww.davidco.comTablet Plannerwww.franklincovey.com/tabletplanner
Is the computer integral to the Sparks' studio set-up?Russell:We have one of the 2GHz Apple Mac G5s - of course, they've just brought out the 2.5GHz so every week you're obsolete! The one we have was reputed to be the fastest computer ... up until two weeks ago obviously! We useDigital Performeras the backbone because it handles the Midi and digital audio recording together ... effectively, we're using Digital Performer more as a means of capturing the actual performances instead of a tape recorder.So is the G5 as good as we are told it is?Russell:For digital audio, it's really great because it's powerful enough to give you more tracks or plug-ins, and everything's still smoother. It is by no means perfect because it still crashes, which is frustrating given that Apple assures us it is the fastest computer available. The other side of that is that it is miles beyond the computers we've had previously.How do you feel about the move towards downloadable music?Ron:Aside from the issues of music being stolen, one thing that worries me is this idea of people being able to select whatever they want from what you present ... like iniTunes. Even if listeners skip over tracks, I want them to have to accept the entire work I'm presenting as an album.Any other concerns?Russell:It's also completely eliminating the tangible aspect of what's cool about pop music, such as the album artwork. If your whole life is centred around iTunes or its equivalent, then you see a 1 inch by 1 inch digital representation of some artwork, and that's it. There's no back cover or liner notes. I've heard authors say the same of ebooks and downloads, that there's just something about a tangible book ... the feel of it, the smell ... and you can't replace that no matter how convenient it is to have in your Palm Pilot or music in your iPod. Technologically, that is all quite cool but you can't replace that experience of opening a new CD. I was on iTunes for a look around and was disappointed because it's just an interface, and there's no real background to the artists and nobody's really got a visual statement to help you figure out the sensibility of the group. That's a shame.How about the ringtone phenomenon?Ron:That's bizarre ... they're not even downloading the whole song, just the main hook. It sounds almost Japanese - like slicing things up into razor-thin segments so that nothing is ever really complete, and everything is taken out of context. It's not enough that there isn't time to go through a whole album - there isn't even time to go through a whole song! Once you've got that ringtone, that may be amusing to yourself but it tends to be quite irritating to anyone sitting next to you on public transport. They're becoming very intrusive in cinemas, too.Visit:www.allsparks.comwww.kaicurryservices.com/peacecandywww.whitehouse.org/news/2004/070704.aspwww.rathergood.comwww.badgerbadgerbadger.com&3149; Lil Beethoven - Sparks Live in Stockholm (DVD) is out this week.
"In basic terms, Microsoft Corp's new digital music store comes down to this: Download songs for 99 cents each, then listen to them on a computer, burn them to a CD or transfer them to a portable music player. If that sounds like a familiar tune, it's because the company's MSN Music service follows essentially the same financial model, down to the penny, used by most existing download services -- including Apple Computer's dominant iTunes Music Store," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer."But as Microsoft gets into the music download business today, releasing a preliminary version of the MSN Music service, the company is looking to separate itself from the rest of the field with a deeper music catalog, higher-quality music encoding, an easier process of finding and downloading songs and a slate of additional features and services."The catalogue includes "a number of popular artists not on the iTunes service, such as the Dave Matthews Band, Metallica, Radiohead and the Red Hot Chili Peppers."SPI adds: "Microsoft today also plans to release a new version of its PC multimedia software, Windows Media Player 10, which provides access to the MSN Music service and competing services, including Napster and MusicNow, through a section of the player Microsoft calls the 'Digital Media Mall'."Comment:This is a US-based beta (preview) service athttp://beta.music.msn.com.Owen Gibson at New Media Guardian has pulled the various Microsoft launches together inMicrosoft gears up brave new world, including the 200 movies in Microsoft's CinemaNow download area.
"Digital entertainment mainstay Creative today announced the commercial availability of its Zen Portable Media Center (PMC), the first device to hit shelves based on Microsoft's Portable Media Center platform. Featuring a 3.8" colour display as well as audio and video playback capabilities, the new device has beat upcoming offerings from Samsung and iRiver to the punch," reportsInfosync World."As Creative's top model in its Zen series, which also comprises other products, the Zen PMC offers a sizeable 20 GB HDD, which Creative claims is capable of storing up to 85 hours of video. The device, which claims up to 7 hours of video playback and up to 22 hours of audio playback courtesy of its exchangeable and rechargeable battery, also features USB 2.0 and is capable of viewing pictures."Comment:this isn't the first "video iPod" type of machine, not even counting things like Pocket PCs that can also play music and videos. It is just the first to use Microsoft's PMC software.
"WHAT is the next stage in the evolution of internet search engines? AltaVista demonstrated that indexing the entire world wide web was feasible. Google's success stems from its uncanny ability to sort useful web pages from dross. But the real prize will surely go to whoever can use the web to deliver a straight answer to a straight question. AndEric Brill, a researcher at Microsoft, intends that his firm will be the first to do that," reportsThe Economist.Dr Brill's initial crack at the problem is a system called Ask MSR (MSR stands for Microsoft Research). This program uses information on web pages to respond to questions to which the answer is a single word or phrase—such as 'When was Marilyn Monroe born?' Ask MSR starts by manipulating the question in various ways: by identifying the verb, for example, and then changing its tense or moving it into different positions in the sentence ('Marilyn was Monroe born', 'Marilyn Monroe was born' and so on). The resulting phrases are then fed into a search engine, and documents containing matching strings of words are retrieved. It sounds a promiscuous strategy, but gibberish phrases produce few matches, so, as Dr Brill puts it, 'being wrong is very cheap'."Comment:I can't see anywhere to try this, which is a bit of a waste. There is an academic paperhere.
If you lift up your telephone receiver and listen very carefully, you will hear the quiet but increasing rumble of technological inevitability. The telephone network is, without doubt, moving to the internet. It will be a huge change, and one that will result in many casualties - perhaps even bringing down BT itself. Here's why.Online has devoted a great deal of space to the subject of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) in the past few months. This is the technique of sending telephone calls over the internet instead of the specialist phone network, and it has grown rapidly in the past few years. Whereas it was once a crackly joke, today it provides call quality as good as - if not better than - your existing landline connection.With VoIP and the nifty stuff that comes with it becoming more and more common both at school and in the workplace, increased demand for domestic facilities seems inevitable. When we are at home, why can't we have cheap-as-free telephone calls, video conferencing or voicemail that follows us around? Why can't we have telephones that know - like VoIP phones do now - when we are busy on our computers and cannot be disturbed? Why can't we have telephones that tell us it is not worth calling Aunt Mildred because she is already on the line to somebody else, but that she'd prefer an instant message instead?Last month BT announced the start of major new trials of its so-called 21st Century Network, testing a dedicated VoIP as a precursor to a massive migration of its existing network from 2006.But while BT is converting the entire phone network into VoIP, other companies are using the internet to provide the same services. Tiny start-ups such as Gossiptel can already provide customers with VoIP telephones, the associated cool features, and call charges around 50% lower than BT. The only thing required is for the customer to have a broadband internet connection.Previously, that caveat would have disguised a whole series of drawbacks: broadband connections needing an existing telephone line, for which you would be paying line rental, and from which you could not move your number. Moving to VoIP is, of course, less attractive if you need to tell everyone a new telephone number, and loses its lustre almost entirely if you have to continue to pay for your old phone anyway.But things may be about to change. Ofcom are reviewing recommendations that  British customers should be able to buy "naked DSL". This means the broadband connection no longer requires the payment of a telephone line rental.Furthermore, in a rather controversial move, you will also be able to transfer your existing landline telephone number to your VoIP provider. At the moment, a Gossiptel number starts with an 0870 prefix, but from next month the company says it will be able to transfer your existing number. All the company requires is five days to complete the transfer and you will be free from the yoke of line rental forever.Of course, BT says there is a major difference between telephone calls made over a dedicated network and those over the common internet. "We want to be absolutely clear that using IP technology in our network   for our premium-quality voice services is a gulf apart from the new budget voice over the internet services being launched almost daily by a wide range of providers," says Paul Reynolds, the chief executive of BT Wholesale.Fine words, but the question for the average consumer is "so what?" Given that internet-based VoIP is proving increasingly adequate for the job, will customers care enough for any advantages that BT's enormous investment in a dedicated network will bring?Whether or not customers migrate to internet-based VoIP or stick with existing providers, it represents a challenge for BT. The latest figures show that the company is suffering a net loss of 100,000 customers a month. To make the situation worse, the company was recently forced to slash the amount it charges to internet service providers for broadband connections in a bid to prevent Ofcom from breaking the company   up. And it is these very connections that allow VoIP companies to threaten BT's incumbency.The one remaining reason behind the reluctance to switch to independent VoIP - power supply - is also becoming less relevant in the face of new technology. Many rivals have asked loudly what happens to VoIP devices, which require a separate electricity supply, if there is a power cut.What if you need to call the fire brigade or an ambulance and you find your telephone is dead? BT and other national carriers are bound by law to make sure the service remains in operation exactly for this purpose. Independent VoIP operators,however, are not. So wouldn't people die if this situation took hold? Don't be silly, say the VoIP vendors, it is not a case of either/or - you would use your mobile instead.This increasingly pragmatic view is part of the general trend of installing one large internet connection and   running everything on top of it. Many modern housing developments in Sweden, Japan and the US are pioneering this approach, with telephones, broadband internet, cable television and home automation controls all run over a single wire into the home.It is both cheaper and more future-proof than putting in separate systems for everything. Indeed, given a clean slate and no existing infrastructure to worry about, VoIP seems the most sensible choice. The company behind Gossiptel, for example, used its know-how for the installation of the phone network for the new government of Afghanistan.An irresistable digression: the Afghan government's telephone network obviously needed to have outside lines and, being VoIP, these could be connected anywhere in the world. They ended up as numbers with a Northampton dial code, and for a few confusing weeks, the Afghan foreign ministry's   number in Kabul was one digit off a Northamptonshire butcher's shop. You can imagine the ensuing consequences until, tiring of the continual orders for sausages, the ministry insisted on a number change.Meat products aside, corporations - like governments - depend on their internal phone networks. In the corporate world, too, VoIP is becoming inevitable - if for slightly banal reasons. Of course, VoIP offers a number of attractive features to those large companies using it for work purposes - conference calling, intelligent voice mail, and so on - but as the technology matures, other reasons become more apparent.The first reason is technological support. According to Mitel, one of the world's biggest corporate VoIP equipment suppliers, half the telephone equipment in use in offices today is "orphaned". This means the manufacturers either no longer produce or support that model, or have left the market altogether. Installation of the technology, specific supplier aside, is quickly being a fait accompli.Second, there has been a lot of comment about the low cost of VoIP. For corporate users, this runs two ways. Yes, internal phone calls are routed over the internet and are, therefore, free. Mitel says the average customer will see a switch to VoIP pay for itself in between six to nine months - one UK customer, a major high-street chain, took only four months and saved &#163;80,000 per store.But what is increasingly important is that the cost of installation and management is also greatly reduced. Whereas ordinary phone systems   require engineers to arrive before a new employee can be connected, these days you can put a new VoIP phone in the post and have the recipients do the less-than-technical task of plugging it in and turning it on themselves.These cost savings are not to be sniffed at. Mitel says it won one major order on the basis that its equipment only needed one plug, while its competitor's required two. One plug meant the office manager could install it; two meant a man in the van had to be sent round to put in a new socket. On such seemingly minute details does a billion-pound industry revolve.But, as with any major technological shift, the move to a completely VoIP world is not without growing pains. Number changes are carried out via a web interface and not, as before, by a man with a screwdriver in the basement. This is a huge cost saving for the customer, but telephone equipment resellers are finding they need fewer engineers.Nor can they make money on adding people to, and moving them around, existing customer networks. Usually, they would send an engineer and charge a fee, but now - in a metaphor for the entire telephone industry - neither the cost nor the specialist engineers can be justified, and both are being done away with.When telephony becomes just another internet service, what future is there for such an expensive dedication? A happy transition for customers could become incredibly painful for the small resellers. And if it is likely to hurt the smaller companies, just imagine the agony for a company the size of BT.
As theargument ragesover the new iMac, it's made me wonder what I really want to see in a computer. What would really blow me away? Here are a few things I'd like to see becoming more common:Portability: it's great to have a nice-looking desktop computer, but imagine lifting your flatMac off its stand and being able to use it as atablet. That's difficult when the iMac weighs a substantial amount. Laptops manage to be much lighter. I'd like to see more computers bridging the gap between desk and lap; docking your machine on a stand when you want to use it at your desk, taking it away when you need it elsewhere.Peripherals: These days keyboards often feel bigger than the computers they service - particularly with laptops. How do we reduce that? While I'm not too keen onprojection keyboards, how about something made offabricor foam and wirelessly connected to your desktop?Death to the mouse: or the trackpad, or the touchpad. At home I use a pen, which is more natural (particularly if you're going to be using tablet-style computing) and - since you can hold it how you please - is far less likely to give you RSI.Those are just a few initial thoughts. Any ideas of what you'd really like to see in the future?
A key plank of the British record industry's response to the increasing popularity of music downloading was put in place last night with the introduction of the first "official" chart to measure tracks bought on the internet.The countdown, broadcast on BBC Radio 1, is an attempt to take account of the thousands of tracks that are bought legally from online sites such as iTunes and Napster. But if supporters of online music were hoping it would herald a break in the dominance of the music industry majors, they were disappointed: Westlife took the number 1 spot and all the the tracks in the top 20 were released by the big five record companies: BMG, Warner, Sony, EMI and Universal.There has been an increase in legal downloading in the past year: more than two million tracks accessed since January.Last month music fans downloaded 500,000 tracks, making music downloading a serious rival to CDs as a platform for distributing singles.A number of high profile artists, including Westlife, released their singles exclusively on the internet last week in an attempt to top the new chart. Maroon 5 took three of the 20 places, their success being attributed to the fact that they are currently on tour.Scott Mills, the Radio 1 DJ who presented the first count down at 6pm last night, told Radio 5 Live earlier: "What we have found - especially with Radio 1 listeners, who are primarily aged 15 to 24 - is that young fans of bands like Snow Patrol and Starsailor live with computers every day of their lives."Downloading music is not alien to them. It is just another way of buying music."The colonisation of the chart by the big record companies is an indication of the seriousness with which they have em braced the internet, albeit belatedly. Carolyne LaSala, manager of iTunes Europe, said: "I think it's a great jump in legitimising digital music, and will be a key indicator for the industry going forward."Napster launched its own chart at the weekend on Virgin Radio, but the Radio 1 chart also takes into account other sites, such as iTunes, OD2 and mycokemusic.com.Eventually, as legal downloading grows in popularity, it is expected that the download   chart will be merged into the conventional singles chart to give an accurate picture of the most popular tracks. Both are compiled by the Official UK Charts Company for the BPI, which represents the British record industry.Sales of singles in traditional formats are in steady decline, although the record industry was keen to jump on the first piece of good news for years recently: a modest increase in singles in the second quarter of this year.Download chart1Flying without wings (live), Westlife2Blazin Day, Balzing Squad3She Will Be Loved, Maroon 54Lola's Theme, Shapeshifters5American Idiot, Green Day6This Love, Maroon 57Dry Your Eyes, The Streets8Bedshaped, Keane9Laura, Scissor Sisters10Apocalypse Please, MuseOfficial singles chart1Thunderbirds/3am, Busted2Dry Your Eyes, The Streets3Lola's Theme, Shapeshifters4How Come, D-125Some Girls, Rachel Stevens6Tipsy, J-Kwon7Burn, Usher8Dragostea Din Tei, O-Zone9Everytime, Britney Spears10See It In A Boy's Eyes, Jamelia
What is Apple trying to tempt us with this time? A glamorous new wireless desktop computer as skinny as a catwalk model, as minimal as a John Pawson flat, that's what. For those of you working at home, the iMac G5, launched in a whirl of dry-ice publicity in Paris this week, will allow you to say farewell to dog/cat/toddler-trips-over-cable misery as you hurry to meet deadlines. Or it might be used to impress green-faced office colleagues stuck in front of antique Anglepoise-style iMac computers dating all the way back to 2002. As for those still cranking out their work on the first generation of multi-coloured translucent iMacs of 1998: they are dismissed to the outer realms of the electronic ether.The latest iMac, designed by Apple's relentlessly award-winning Jonathan Ive in his Silicon Valley studio, is not just good-looking, with every accessory you could possibly need packed inside its two-inch-deep, 17 or 20-inch wide screen; it has a memory approximately a million times greater than the very first generation of home computers beginning with the MITS Altair 8800 that went on sale in the US, in kit form, priced $395, in January 1975.That machine looked like a leftover from the BBC Radiophonic Workshop, the sort of anonymous box of electronics that you find dumped in canals. But, it could be used at home - a giant leap for the computer - and was tiny compared to the cabinet-sized IBM machines that looked like giant tape-recorders.Steve Wozniak's Apple 1 made its tenuous debut at the Homebrew Computer Club in Palo Alto, California in April 1976. It represented a revolution-in-the-making, but, clad in timber, looked like a component from a 1930s telephone exchange, and made a Louis XV chair look positively hi-tech. Teamed up the following year with Steve Jobs on the prototype Apple II, Wozniak approached Jim Warren at the first of his West Coast Computer Fairs. Housed in a beige plastic case, Apple II boasted such highly desirable refinements as a built-in keyboard and coloured graphics. When the two Steves offered a sceptical Warren a share in their new company for space at the fair, he shook his head. That headshake cost Warren a fortune.Apple blossomed. Its 1984 Macintosh became a darling of the design and publishing industry. Beige, upright and boxy, and very, very slow compared to the Apples and PCs we are used to now, it marked the beginning of the clear-cut divide between Apple and the rest.Increasingly aware of the marketing power of chic, as opposed to purely practical design, Apple had Ridley Scott direct its TV and cinema ads that year, and then, bit by megabyte, began to shape a new generation of machines calculated to appeal to graphic designers, product designers, architects and, ultimately, to the design-conscious chattering classes as a whole.The British-born Ive brought real excitement to the design of desktop computers with the 1998 iMac. Brightly coloured and wired up for the internet, it adorned the desks of cooing designers and their groupies. In his book Electric Dreams: Designing for the Digital Age (V&amp;A Publications, 2004), David Redhead notes that even as Business Week magazine greeted the iMac as "illustrating the company's gradual slide into irrelevance", Apple sold 150,000 of the colourful computers on the first weekend they went on sale.Computers had finally adopted the sleek and even sensual styling of the best hi-fi systems and cameras. What had looked like inscrutable components from hard-worked laboratories or early Moog synthesisers were now consumer goods, lifestyle accessories, desktop fetishes to preen over and show off.Most PC users see their computers as hugely useful tools: they will tell you how many more functions, or how many zillion more gigabytes of processing power, their latest laptop has compared with an iMac G5. This, though, misses the point. Simplicity of operation aside, Apples relies on sheer style to sell, at a premium, in a hugely competitive market. Even though products such as the iMac and iPod have widened the appeal of Apple and boosted sales to new heights, the company has just 3% of the global PC market, down from 5% five years ago. As Jobs told Time magazine in 2000: "Victory in our industry is survival."Ive and his team are already well advanced on the design of the next generation of Apple computers. How they will look is, inevitably, a closely guarded secret. They could, of course, look like anything. Why not abandon minimalist, silver-sheen chic and produce a desktop that can be packaged and repackaged in any number of styles to suit fans of Gothic, Greek, Bauhaus, or deconstructivist styles? Office managers would have a fit, of course, because theirs, for the most part, is a world of the IBM-style neatness of 40 years ago.This is the very world the miniature computer has helped so many people escape, to set up on their own, to gain control over their own destinies, and perhaps why Apple has made a design fetish out of its desktop and laptop computers. Not only can they look good at home but, plugged into the world, with your choice of music, you feel, if only fleetingly, master or mistress of your universe.Apple's computers are an attempt to create a little piece of perfection in an imperfect world. It can never win, of course, and gradgrind PCs will continue to dominate the market, but as the latest iMac shows, Apple simply can't help but keep trying to lead us into electronic temptation.
Apple looked to the past to find the future of its iconic iMac desktop computer, the latest version of which was unveiled on Tuesday in Paris.With the clean white lines of the screen also containing the computer's innards, all supported by a sculpted aluminium arm, the new design takes its cues from the all-in-one box concept of the first, revolutionary iMac of 1998 - and even the first Macintosh of 1984.But beyond the initial concept, the machine bears few similarities to those earlier models: it radically remixes their classic looks with help from a flat panel display - rather than a bulky cathode-ray tube screen - more compact internals and wireless technologies such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.The new look ends the two-and-a-half-year reign of the second-generation iMac, with its domed base, rectangular screen and chrome connecting arm. That incarnation received a cautious welcome in 2002 and sales had been slowing. Apple was forced to run stocks down from June after news of imminent new models leaked out.The new iMac brings Apple fans the machine many had hoped for in 2002, with electronics and optical drives tucked unobtrusively behind the screen. Specifications for the processor and other hardware elements are not remarkable - 1.6 or 1.8GHz processors, 80 or 160GB hard drives - but sheer performance has never been what iMacs have been about.As a piece of design, the machine is spectacular, with the entire computer as thin as some normal flat panel displays. Users can make it even sleeker by investing in the optional Bluetooth wireless keyboard and mouse, or a wireless internet connection powered by AirPort base stations. For reasons both aesthetic and commercial, Apple is clearly keen that customers preserve its machine's clean, uncluttered lines.Phil Schiller, Apple's head of worldwide marketing, says the new design "makes it simpler, much easier to use... the i/o &#91;input/output plugs&#93; are easier to reach along the left-hand side... it really makes the whole computer disappear, so that you can just focus on the work you need to do, and how you want it to work for you."I think that's the ultimate expression of an all in one; it has the components you need to interact with it, display, keyboard, mouse, and everything else becomes minimal and gets out of your way."Schiller says the new machine presented a number of challenges on the drawing board. Indeed, mounting a    DVD-writing optical drive at such an angle inside the machine would have been impossible when the second-generation iMac was launched. "There were many things - airflow, cooling, how you're able to get all the components in there in an even smaller package, how you get a slot-  loaded drive mounted vertically and, of course, not just vertically, but at an angle which you can adjust ... We've done a lot of engineering work on all those things," he says.He is not, he says, concerned by previous unsuccessful attempts to sell similar designs. "For some reason, we've been the only ones who either understand how to make that work really well, or have the design talent to make it work well. It's not easy; it's easier to have just a system unit and a separate display, and not have to solve these problems. But that's typical of Apple. We take on the challenges others might be afraid to take on."Such marketing hyperbole goes down well with Mac fans, who gave the new machine - and Schiller - a noticeably warmer reception than a San Francisco audience handed the previous version in 2002. If crowd responses indicate future sales, the new iMac could quickly be outselling its predecessor.&#183;The 1.6GHz iMac, with 17-inch widescreen display, 256MB Ram and 80GB drive, will sell for &#163;919 inc VAT.&#183;The 1.8GHz iMac, which adds a DVD-burning SuperDrive, will sell for &#163;1,049, inc VAT.&#183;The 20-inch, 1.8GHz iMac, which also has a 160GB hard drive, will cost &#163;1,349 inc VAT.New feeds for TigerApple has also been revealing details of its updated OSX operating system, codenamed Tiger, slated for launch in the first half of next year. New features will include:&#183;Far better searching of hard drives.&#183;iChat instant messaging will now allow three-way video conferencing and 10-way audio conferencing.&#183;Dashboard: useful "widgets" can be summoned at the touch of a key.&#183;Automator: a "visual scripting" application to automate repetitive tasks.&#183;Safari with RSS: Apple will build in the ability to read webpage "feeds" encoded in the RSS format. RSS is popular among webloggers and is increasingly being adopted by larger online publishers, making it easier for news junkies to scan headlines from many sites.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.www.apple.com/uk
The sign in reception has changed to "Cabinet Office E-government Unit": the Office of the e-Envoy has been abolished. And as offices change, so does the personnel. Outgoing e-envoy Andrew Pinder has spent four years in the job. Now, he is ready to talk about it.After 18 years at the Inland Revenue and time in the private sector, Pinder became e-envoy in 2000. Part of his job was to convince civil servants of the importance of the government's target of placing all services online by the end of next year. In 2001, he compared the civil service to a supertanker, taking a long time to turn round. Three years on, has it changed direction? "It's never completed, is it?" he says. "You've got tides pushing against you all the time."He recalls meeting a group of permanent secretaries in 2002. "The level of scepticism then, and of people showing willingness but not really understanding the topic, was really quite high. Now, it's not. I think the civil service has got it on the use of information technology, and using it for transactional services."Pinder says around 95% of the 600 services tracked will be fully online by the deadline. A handful will not, either because large-scale implementations such as e-voting require legislative changes, or because they are used by only a few people, such as for burial at sea.A few years ago, some online services, such as the Inland Revenue's online tax return system, seemed doomed to low usage. So in 2002, increased use of key services was added to the e-envoy's targets.Pinder now says that his old employer is an e-government success story, with usage doubling each year, to the point where around one in seven tax returns are completed on the internet. But surely it compares badly with countries such as Australia, where a third of individual tax returns are filed online? "The pretty unusual thing - it's not quite unique - about the Inland Revenue is that, on the whole, we do people's tax returns for them through Pay As You   Earn. The minority who fill in returns have the most complex finances, and are generally older. Therefore, it's a miracle that any of them are filed electronically."Pinder was also charged with making the UK the best environment for e-commerce. In April, the Economist Intelligence Unit and IBM placed the UK second in the world for e-readiness. "Five years ago, we were way down in the middle," he says.Perhaps Pinder's biggest change   involved closing the UKOnline portal site, which aimed to help users find the right state sector website, and replacing it with Directgov, which is intended to provide what users want at the one site.Pinder says Directgov uses the concept of franchised sections. So, for example, the Department of Work and Pensions runs the disabled people section of the site, coordinating with other organisations, such as the Department for Transport on dis abled driving licences. Then the DWP produces its section under strict editorial guidelines. Of 32 franchises planned, three are running in full and seven are working on a small scale. "We're a tenth of the way there," says Pinder. "When you ask, 'Is Directgov doing what I want it to do?' of course it's not. But it will do."With hindsight, is there anything he would have done differently? "I would have worked earlier on trying to get government departments to work together more. We didn't really get on to that until a year or so into my job. It turned out that the key was getting government departments to look after something across government."Does he have a favourite gov.uk site? "The one I should be looking at at the moment is Worktrain," jokes Pinder, referring to the jobs and training courses site, adding that the Foreign Office and the Department of Transport are doing well online.What about blogging? "I have one myself," says Pinder, but it isn't public. He has used the technique for internal communications: "Rather than doing the usual letter from management, I sit down occasionally and tap out a few thoughts. People can have a look and give us feedback on them. It's great as an internal tool."Pinder is planning some consultancy work and taking on a few company directorships. But what advice will he offer his successor, Ian Watmore, whose job title will be head of e-government? "He'd be well advised not to listen to &#91;my advice&#93;. You've got to make your own mark and do your own thing."&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
EBay, the online marketplace, yesterday continued its push across the globe with a $530m (&#163;296m) offer to take full control of its South Korean affiliate, Internet Auction Co.EBay is locked in a battle with Yahoo! to become the number one online auction brand in Asia. It grabbed the early lead in China in 2001 with an investment in EachNet, for which it paid $150m last year. In June, eBay agreed a $50m deal to buy India's biggest site,Baazee.com.The company's one black eye has been Japan, from which it withdrew in 2002.The South Korean market offers huge potential. South Korea has the highest penetration of broadband internet access in the world, some 11m people out of a population of 48m. It is also Asia's second-biggest online auction market.Internet Auction claims to have 9.9m users and at the end of June offered 2.5m items for sale online.EBay said it had agreed to pay some institutional shareholders in the company $325m to raise its stake from 62% to 86%. It will pursue a tender offer to buy the remaining shares at the same price in the next few days, bringing its total offer to $530m.Jay Park, an analyst at Samsung Securities, said the offer was consistent with eBay's strategy. "EBay wants all of Internet Auction, to take it off the market and make it a private company. That has been their policy globally in order to allow aggressive and speedy decision making," he said.Shares in eBay, which have been one of the few success stories from the internet boom, were trading 60 cents higher yesterday at $87.14.Ebay is now in 29 countries and the overseas operations are playing an increasingly important role.In the company's second quarter, revenues from the US site increased 36% to $450m. Revenues from transactions on international sites increased on the previous year by 82% to $324m.That means international operations now account for 42% of total turnover.EBay has driven overseas growth through a combination of acquiring local operators which have copied its model and building new sites from scratch.It continues to enjoy rapid growth. In the second quarter, eBay recorded total revenues of $773.4m, up 52% on the same period last year. Operating profits of $254m were 108% higher than the same quarter in 2003.
Westminster City Council spends a staggering &#163;32m a year on keeping its streets clean, more than any other UK local council. But it gets its money's worth thanks to global positioning systems and mobile technology.When it awarded a new waste management contract to Onyx last September, the council insisted the company buy new trucks and equip them with satellite global positioning systems (GPS) and general packet radio services (GPRS) modems for mobile data.Today, GPS cards plugged into small wireless computers in 90 Onyx trucks and 10 cage vehicles work out the location of each vehicle every 45 seconds, using a signal from the nearest satellite. This data is sent wirelessly over O2's mobile network into a database at Westminster."Using this information, Westminster City Council can see where every van is and compare that with the times it is scheduled to collect rubbish - or bottles, plastics or paper for recycling," says Westminster's network director, Andrew Snellgrove.There are two main reasons why Westminster wants this information. First, it wants to ensure that Onyx is meeting the terms of its contract.Second, it wants data to make improvements. It plans, for example, to work out a typical quantity of recyclable waste per street, to encourage underperforming streets to recycle more, particularly as EU regulations on the proportion of waste that must be recycled get tougher."Year on year, the cost of waste   disposal is increasing," says Dave Pettitt, project manager for the mobile data project. "There are big European targets we have to start meeting. And landfill sites are going to become harder to find, so we need to recycle as much as possible."Each refuse and recycling truck has load scales on it, accurate to 50 kilos. Every time a bag is added, the van's weight goes up. In the next six weeks, this data will also be transmitted wirelessly to Westminster via GPRS."We don't just want to know that a van is in the right street," says Pettitt. "We also want to know it is actually collecting rubbish."We will be using a rules-based system that works out how many stops a van will make on a typical street, so we can see if the van is making all the collections it should be."Other data can be added to the computers. For example, Onyx added the dates and times of last weekend's Notting Hill Carnival, and which streets would be closed to refuse vans. Drivers can also add information on obstacles, so Westminster's call centre knows what to tell callers.More efficient refuse collection means that on-street environmental managers do not have to spend as much time reporting on missed collections and instead can focus on other aspects of their work.They previously used a forerunner of the current mobile system, carrying personal digital assistants connected to the O2 network. Some employees liked the system, but others felt it dictated the way they worked. The system is no longer in use.Nevertheless, Pettit says: "It is definitely part of our plan to provide mobile access on smartphones   to the system for our street staff."Back in the office, the van location data is displayed using a property and land database called UNI-form from ESRI (UK), a company whose modules are used in about 200 local councils in the UK, though not in the same way Westminster is using them. The GPS map coordinates are translated into the position of a van on a Westminster street.The waste management monitoring system seems to be working well. Rubbish collection is frequent, and overflowing bins are scarce in the Westminster Council area, where I live. Up to three large items a year, such as broken washing machines, are collected free by the council within seven days of the request.And if I leave blue recycling bags containing glass, plastic or card outside my front door on a Tuesday morning, they are gone by the time I get home.Nor is the system expensive. Although Onyx bought its vans, Westminster and Onyx share technology costs. Snellgrove says that the GPRS data networking costs just &#163;8 a month per van to transmit the location data to the database.The cost is low partly because Westminster has a fixed telecoms link to O2. This means that although location data travels wirelessly, its onward journey to Westminster's offices is over the cheaper fixed link.Snellgrove hopes to lower costs for using mobile data applications in Westminster even further, by using combined GPRS and Wi-Fi cards in mobile devices. This would mean that wherever the council has installed Wi-Fi wireless networks, data transmission will be free.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
My dear prime minister, thank you for inviting me to take over as head of e-government following the unexpected election of the previous appointee, Ian Watmore, as president of Iraq. Perhaps it was a mistake to test e-voting technology in such a volatile environment as Baghdad. None the less, Ian will relish the challenge of sorting out the Middle East.As my computer does not have PowerPoint, I was unable to read Ian's briefing material. In any case, I thought some  a priori propositions might be welcome. Here are some early thoughts.First, we should halve the number of websites run by central government. My office will take a lead by amalgamating two web portals,    Directgov and Government Gateway, together with the Cabinet Office's own site, at the single addresswww.direct.gov.uk.This would prepare the way for a campaign to drive up usage. The current strategy, relying on the site's indeterminate nationality to attract hits from every English-speaking country, is having limited success. We should immediately activate phase two and display a small EU flag on the home page. The resulting furore should increase the number of unique visitors.Across government, we should implement Sir Peter Gershon's efficiency review suggestions for increasing the take-up of online transactions. Car tax renewals and company VAT returns are an obvious place to start. Both services need to stop pussy-footing around with pilots and soft launches, even   if back-office systems still leave much to be desired.Companies could be encouraged to file their VAT returns electronically with a small discount. I suggest 5%. Car owners likewise. Electorally, these measures would do you no harm in two crucial constituencies.Important as the efficiency drive is, it should not be allowed to dominate the e-government programme. Apart from anything else, there is still little evidence for a connection between the two. Rather, I suggest that e-government be considered as an enabler in two other policy themes: new localism and freedom of information.Local authorities should have the option of offering residents access to central e-services. This is a reversal of the current policy of assuming that citizens will sign on for local government through   a Whitehall-run portal. Councils working this way would, of course, receive a share of the money they save central government.As for freedom of information, it should be policy that every document produced by government should be posted on the deep web, unless there is a good reason not to. Documents withheld should be publicly identified with a reference number and the reason for secrecy.First, however, we need to shed a millstone. The target of e-enabling every single service by the end of 2005 has served its purpose. We should abandon it as superseded, replacing it with "priority outcomes", along the lines of those handed down to local authorities. A grown-up government should not be afraid to admit changing its mind in the light of developments. We are a grown-up government, aren't we?&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Navigating local council departments can often be a nightmare. If you are applying for planning permission to build a loft extension, or if you're a business concerned that you might be in breach of health and safety regulations, you often face a bureaucratic obstacle course. Even when you find the right department, decisions are rarely as fast as you would like.To try to improve this situation, the government has launched a national e-government project called Parsol - planning and regulatory services online. Run by a consortium of local authorities led by Wandsworth Borough Council, the project is developing a range of guidelines and software products to help local authorities build such systems effectively online.Parsol aims to do all the groundwork for local authorities, and offers products free of charge so they can provide faster services based on real-time online transactions. The national project board is confident online systems that allow the tracking of applications will also improve the openness of these procedures, therefore building public confidence in them."We have tried to identify where there are gaps in services to citizens and tried to build products that will plug those gaps," explains Parsol's programme manager, Stuart Melvin. "For example, at the moment there is really only general advice available on whether you need planning permission for a household extension. Our new systems will allow users to use the internet to ask that specific question, and they will get an answer they can print off."For the enforcement of planning regulations, Parsol has developed   systems that will enable citizens to report infringements and track the responses to their complaints.In a bid to make life easier for businesses, Parsol has developed a web-based application that companies can use to assess if they have a complaint about regulations, such as those covering food and health safety. A number of these products are being piloted by local authorities, who are set to demonstrate them to others in their regions to promote wider take-up. Rochdale Metropolitan Borough council, for example, is piloting Parsol's new online licensing software for the submission and processing of a range of licensing applications."Parsol has done all the leg work for us. It's a self-contained product that lets you link to your own third-party software," says Ken Usman-Smith, principal technology manager for Rochdale's planning and regulatory services. "We can use it as a platform to build our services on and make sure it's broadly compatible with other authorities."While Parsol is offering the software free, there is an implementation cost because councils have to ensure it is integrated with existing systems. According to the project team, 13 councils have implemented one or more of Parsol's products. Take-up is   crucial to the success of the project. In October, a series of workshops are being held to promote the products.Parsol is developing a central electronic exchange with seven local authorities and the Environment Agency. It is being used for planning applications in order that documents and data can instantly be made available online to external agencies that need to be consulted. "For the exchange to work, we need to build up the membership of the service. That is not going to happen overnight," says Melvin.One of the project's key ambitions is to establish a more joined-up approach to initiating and tracking regulation and licensing applications. Andy Waren, the chair of the project, hopes to help standardise the approaches of local authorities to make dealings with local and central government easier. "We hope Parsol can offer an improvement on the existing systems," says Waren. "I think it is going to be a question of take-up by local authorities."The Parsol project runs until March and has received more than &#163;4.5m to achieve its objectives. The majority of national e-government projects have toolkits, but Parsol's software development work is a lot more advanced than many. More councils need to adopt the software and their staff need to appreciate the benefits of this new way of working. Furthermore, these new systems have to be communicated effectively to the public.Clearly, some of the pilot councils are grateful for the support they are receiving. However, there is a long way to go before these processes are widely available online.www.parsol.gov.uk
With Service Pack 2 for Windows XP - essentially XP2 - now shipping in volume, Jim Allchin, the Microsoft executive in charge of Windows, can finally turn his attention to the next version: Longhorn.Allchin decides what Microsoft can ship, and when, then makes it happen. And while we don't know what he is thinking, several things emerged in a press release last week. The first was a broad target date of 2006, which we hope means the calendar year rather than Microsoft's fiscal year. The second was that Longhorn will not include the new "future storage" system, WinFS.Making the date will be tough for Microsoft, since it is expected   to produce operating systems that will also run on hundreds of millions of existing PCs. Many of these have been assembled with little or no reference to Microsoft, and sometimes with little in the way of quality control. This necessitates a very large beta test, which is likely to take at least a year, and makes it almost impossible for Microsoft to include any surprises.However, the finances of hundreds of thousands of suppliers will be critically affected by the result. The important ones are computer manufacturers and software developers - Microsoft's main customers - who depend on having new hardware and upgraded applications to sell. Whether it will make much difference to users is another matter, but customers vote with their wallets: if Microsoft can't come up with   a compelling upgrade, it costs users nothing to keep their hands in their pockets.It could be a struggle. Longhorn was once intended to be a blockbuster upgrade: one independent analyst even compared it to the shift from MS-DOS to Windows. Delaying WinFS removes one of the main planks supporting that idea.Microsoft also removed two other planks last week: Avalon, the graphics subsystem, and Indigo, the web services platform. These have not been dropped. However, rather than using them to make Longhorn more compelling, Microsoft has decided to make them available for Windows XP as well.As a result, Allchin will find that what he can actually ship in 2006 is much less of an advance on XP2 than he must have hoped.This is great news for XP users.   First, they will have had five years of operating system use for their money, from 2001 to 2006-07, with the real limit being the useful life of the hardware. Second, they will have had a string of useful updates including Microsoft.net and web services support, new graphics subsystems, new media players, improved Wi-Fi and Bluetooth software, and much else besides, while paying not a penny extra.It's also great news for Windows developers, who will have a much larger market for software that exploits Avalon and Indigo.It's hard to see why a commercial company should not have packaged all this stuff differently and, like Apple, tried to sell us all a couple of expensive upgrades. On the other hand, I don't think anyone would argue that Microsoft actually needs the money.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Useful linksMicrosoft Announces 2006 Target Date for Broad Availability Of Windows 'Longhorn' Client Operating Systemwww.microsoft.com/presspassLonghorn development centrehttp://msdn.microsoft.com/longhornLonghorn FAQwww.winsupersite.com/faq/longhorn.aspLonghornblogswww.longhornblogs.com
