Previous troubled economic climates have spawned technology bellwethers from Hewlett Packard and Cisco to Google and the current downturn is already creating a new breed of technology entrepreneur – with British geeks right in the thick of it – going into 2010.The new "digerati" are taking advantage of two recent and connected changes in the technology industry, especially the fast-moving sector of mobile communications. First there is the move to "open", rather than proprietary, software platforms, which has led to the second major change – the explosion in the use of web and mobile phone applications.The current generation of websites such as Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn are all open to third-party developers; in techno-speak, they all have "application programming interfaces" (APIs), which means that almost anyone with some programming skill can create applications that "piggy-back" on sites that have millions of users. Playfish, one of the first British companies to take advantage of the openness of social networking sites, was last month snapped up by videogame giant Electronic Arts for $275m (£172m). Just two years old, the company has made a name for itself creating games such as "Who Has the Biggest Brain?", which Facebook users can add to their profiles. Turning games into social networks has also seen London-based Mind Candy, founded by Michael Smith, score a global hit with its Moshi Monsters game, which lets kids adopt their own pet monster.The openness of Twitter's real-time feed of 140-character "tweets" has spawned an entire ecosystem of application developers and, again, British start-ups are heavily involved. Fav.or.it, based in the University of Reading's enterprise hub, has created Tweetmeme, which has become the standard tool for many Twitterers looking to discover the most keenly watched topics on the micro-blogging site. Such services are a hot property going into 2010 as both Google and Microsoft's Bing search engine are becoming interested in the potential of allowing people to search for events and topics being discussed right now, rather than relying on search engines to index the web and then make results available hours, or often days, after the event. Just last month, both companies did deals with Twitter to increase the relevance of their search results.British geeks have also been particularly successful in creating applications for the next big boom area: mobile phones. In the year and a half since Apple threw open the iPhone – and iPod Touch – to third-party "apps" developers, well over 2 billion apps have been downloaded and some of the most successful have been created by Brits. Crucially, developers do not need massive infrastructure to get their creation to market: Apple takes care of distribution and the market, from day one, is huge.The success of the iPhone has also led other handset manufacturers, such as Nokia, Samsung and RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, to develop their own "app stores", while Google's new open mobile-phone platform, Android, also allows developers to create a host of downloadable widgets. Faced with such a potentially mammoth audience, existing brands are clamouring to get their own apps out there, creating work for innovative British designers such as London-based Golden Gekko and Salford's 2ergo.With Google poised to release the first mobile phone over which it has had complete control in early 2010, designed to compete head-on with the iPhone, the mobile applications market is set for even greater growth and British app start-ups will benefit. For instance, Dundee-based games developer Digital Goldfish, which sprung out of founder David Hamilton's degree project at the city's university, has already scored a massive success on the iPhone: Its Bloons series of games pit a pixellated monkey, armed with a dart, against armies of balloons.
'Twas the day after Christmas and all through the Guardian, not a creature was stirring ...  except Charles Arthur, Bobbie Johnson, Robert Andrews and Susi Weaser, who were there to dissect the year's technology highlights.Join us as we talk about the year of content, who's been offering alternatives to the ubiquitous iPhone and what the government has been doing to get us all online. And, there's a chance for a bit of self-marking, as Bobbie and Charles review the predictions they made last year - who'll be teacher's pet and who'll be sent to the corner in disgrace?Merry Christmas to all!Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
In a lot of ways, it still feels like we're living out in the ripples of 2008. It was, after all, just a year ago. But it was a year of major turbulence, largely the result of financial misadventures - the sub-prime mortgage crash in America turned into a full-blown crisis, and the resulting recession has hit every manjack among us in one way or another.Once you factor out the bitter, deflated meringue that was the economy, among the big technology companies, there was much of the same: Google continued expanding, Apple released a new version of its iPhone, Microsoft started trying to put the problems of Vista right - byannouncing the imminent launch of Windows 7.A few icons died in 2008, including SF legendArthur C Clarke, Last Lecture authorRandy Pauschand Dungeons and Dragons creatorGary Gygax.But for the Guardian's technology team, it was an interesting year. TheFree Our Datacampaign, which had kicked off in 2006 with a crusading articleGive us back our crown jewelsstarted making serious headway. I ran theGameCampevent (great fun, and we should have more news on that front soon) and moved to San Francisco to be the Guardian's first full-time correspondent in Silicon Valley.Anyway. Let's crack on look at how we saw it.2008&bull; OK, let's get the horrible stuff over with first. There weremassive job cuts all over the technology world, including thousands of jobs gone atYahoo,SonyandSiemens. For a while, the big companies tried to act as if nothing was happening. A little cheeky, perhaps, given thatsoftware was sort of to blame for the crisis anyway.&bull; In the midst of all the crap,Microsoftfound the time and money to launchan audacious $45bn bid to buy Yahoo. The saga, which went on forever, includedrejection,mooted tie-ups with Google,hostility,revolt,agreements,more rejections,disappointmentand then - after all of that -the decision by Yahoo boss Jerry Yang to step down. Crikey. Oh, and somewhere during all of that,Bill Gates found time to retire.&bull; Once upon a time there had been a game calledGrand Theft Auto, which sent lots of anti-gamers running for the hills andeven got a bit saucy. In 2008, however, it became a genuine mainstream phenomenonwhen GTA IV launched. The usual questions came up -will it turn us into killers?;can games be art?;is it any good?- but this time all the right boxes seemed to get ticked. Yeah, there had been big games before -Halo 3 in 2007. But GTA IV may have been the first game thateverybodytook seriously.&bull; In September, scientists completed thebiggest machine the world has ever seen, a 17-mile long particle accelerator hidden under the Swiss mountains. The idea of aBig Bang Machine, ready to show physicists the secrets of the beginning of the universe gaveplenty of people the willies. However, the world didn't end when it got started... but given that it broke down almost immediately, there's still time.&bull; Last but by no means least, a certainBarack Obamaproved the power of the web as hesurged to victory  in the US presidential elections, and therefore into the White House, in November. If every electoral contest of the past 10 years has tried to claim the title of "the election won by the internet" thenperhaps this was the first time one genuinely deserved it. Obama raisedhundreds of millions online, leading what seemed to be a groundswell of grassroots sentiment after eight years of George Bush. Is that a good thing? Maybe, maybe not - but money is the way the game is played.Next week we'll take a look at 2009. In the meantime, enjoy Christmas.
The Christmas edition of Chatterbox. Happy Christmas!
&bull; Fans ofApplewon't be the only ones sent into a spinby the news that the companycould be making a product announcement in late January. Rumours were fuelled by thenews that the company has hiredthe Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco for a January 26th event. The venue is slap-bang next to the Moscone Center, where Apple has traditionally held its Macworld keynote, and iswhere we saw new iPods launched in September. Expect other manufacturers to try ramping up their own announcements at the Consumer Electronics Show, as a way of fighting the Apple hype machine.&bull; After surprising everyone bymaking money,Twittercaught people off-guard again byannouncingthat it had purchasedMixer Labs, a geo-location software company. It's not the first purchase the startup has made, having previously sucked in search serviceSummizeandValues of N. Expect more geo features soon.&bull; And that's it from us. Enjoy the break (if you've got one) and we'll be back with more next week. Merry Christmas!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
You have probably seen asuccession of puffsfrom Amazon about how the Kindle is its "best-selling item" - but without any numbers to back up its claims. The company's secrecy isn't surprising, but it's problematic for several reasons - not least because people are now starting to make major bets on the future of their businesses based on those claims.That thought process is what led me to write a piece about that secrecy, andhow Amazon's refusal to talk about sales figures could cause a number of problems.In addition to the people quoted in the article, I just spoke by email with James McQuivey, an analyst with Forrester who keeps track of the electronic book market, to get his view.Amazon doesn't reveal sales figures because it's the market leader, he says."It's hard to argue that Amazon hasn't been successful in its business, so correspondingly it's hard to pinpoint any way in which Amazon's secrecy has hurt it," he said. "They know that to lead requires marshalling all your resources to beat everybody else even to obvious strategies. To do that, you often have to keep your lips sealed."The big question - how many Kindles are being sold right now - remains slightly elusive. But according to Forrester's analysis, the market will keep growing during 2010 in a way that suggests it will have an "iPod moment" (between 2003 and 2004, iPod sales rose by nearly 500%)."We estimate that by the end of 2010 there will be 4 million ereaders in the US, with more than half of them Kindles, probably close to 2.5m or so."He admits that even those numbers make the Kindle a long way from being mainstream, however."Even at 2.5m possible Kindles in the market, that's less than 1 for every 100 people in the US - so while there's a lot of room to grow, it means that very few of the people around you at any given moment are likely to be Kindle owners. Plus, given that people do most of their reading at home – only 5% of the population travels regularly for business, an obvious Kindle target customer – it's unlikely that we'll see Kindles reach the public visibility that iPods and their white headphones had back in 2003."And there's the extra difficulty in divining what Amazon means when it says the Kindle is the biggest selling item on its site: it feels that the hype is a bit off base because, while I've seen people reading chart-topping books on the bus and train, I have yet to see a Kindle in the wild.Paul Biba from Teleread.orgtold me that he's seen them being used."Yes, not "lots' but more than I expected," he said. |I have seen them at airports and at shopping malls. At the malls they seem to be used by men who seem to be waiting while their wives are shopping."But have you?
Though Apple's attendance at Macworld is but a distant - well, year-ago - memory (the conference itself is now being held in February, rather than January) the Cupertino company seems to find it hard to give up the habit of making announcements in January, in a manner that will steal the glory from the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas (which Apple doesn't attend).Used to be that Apple would, on the week before CES, announce various scene-stealing objects of desire - the Titanium Powerbook, MacBook Air and the iPhone being three classic examples.This year though with CES early in the year, Apple is keeping people waiting. According to the FT, Apple has rented a stage at theYerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Franciscofor several days in late January. (Unfortunately we can't check quite when on therental formas it's "being updated".)The FT is also specifying 26 January, a Tuesday (Apple announcements are almost always on Tuesdays), as the day when it will do it. Apple used the same location last year to launch its refreshed range of iPods.According to theFT's Tech blog,Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster today speculated that an event was imminent. "We believe there is a 75 per cent likelihood that Apple will have an event in January and a 50 per cent chance that it will be held to launch the Apple Tablet," he wrote in a new research note. "If Apple announced the Tablet in January, it would likely ship later in the March quarter."Silicon Alley Insider is suggestingthat particular developers have been asked to develop apps at "full-screen resolution", rather than the iPhone's 320x480 screen.The suggestion is that this will be a demo, and the device itself will go on sale in March, giving developers time to re-develop for larger (or resolution-independent) screens.There are alsorumours that the tablet will be coming in 7-inch flavoursrather than, as most people have been assuming (on what evidence?) a 10-inch version. Which is rather like arguing over whether the angels dancing on the head of the pin will be dressed in white or gold, but it gives an extra bit of non-data to argue about. (Would you buy a 7" tablet? Or would you rather have a 10" tablet? You can be sure the price delta would be rather more than 42% between them.)
In recent months Amazon has been keen to trumpet "record-breaking" sales of its electronic book reader, the Kindle. But the company's extreme secrecy means that nobody is sure quite how popular the device really is.In November Amazon boasted that the gadget was its "most wished for, most gifted and number one best-selling product", and last week it said December was already the Kindle's best month yet. But it has refused to say exactly how many have been sold since the 2007 launch."Amazon has always been a secretive company. Companies like Amazon think that giving out information will help competitors," said Paul Biba, editor ofTeleread, which tracks the electronic book industry.Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst with Collins Stewart in New York who has tracked the Kindle's performance, believes that across both models – the paperback-sized Kindle 2 and larger-screened DX – Amazon may be on target to have sold a little over 500,000 units by the end of the year. That would lag behind the pace set by Apple's iPod, which sold 376,000 in its first year on the market, in 2002, and almost 1m in its second year.Even at that point, the iPod's dominance of the music market was not yet obvious. It was only in 2004, after Apple launched the iTunes download store in several countries, that sales began to increase dramatically. The company has now sold around 230m iPods worldwide.There is no suggestion that Amazon's blockbuster descriptions of popularity are false, but a clearer picture of the truth may lie between the lines of its carefully chosen language. For example, the company says the Kindle is the "number one best-selling" product on Amazon.com. But because all worldwide sales of the gadget are routed through the company's US site, the chances are high that it will rank among these best-selling items.Furthermore, Amazon is the only outlet through which the Kindle is available – unlike rival devices from the likes of Sony and others, which are sold through a variety of shops and websites.An Amazon spokeswoman told the Guardian that Kindle sales were "not a figure Amazon discloses". Nor does it divulge data about the Kindle-compatible books it sells, even screening figures from the publishing industry's main monitoring group, Nielsen BookScan."Unfortunately, we do not currently capture ebook sales in our BookScan US system," said Nielsen's Dennis Halby. "Ebook data remains a major priority for us and we're currently working towards our goal of adding this data to our physical book sales data."Without figures, it is hard for publishing companies and rival ebook makers to accurately gauge how popular is the market for their products. Last month the US book retailer Barnes &amp; Noble launched its own Kindle competitor, the Nook."The Nook has sold out, much to the embarrassment of Barnes &amp; Noble," said Teleread's Biba. "If Amazon had released its sales figures then maybe Barnes &amp; Noble could have used these to plan better when ordering its first shipment of Nooks. Always keep the competition guessing."
It offers pictures with up to six times more detail than standard DVDs, and should be the ideal way to view films on the high-definition TVs now reckoned to be in nearly 50% of households. But although big-name releases – such as Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and Star Trek XI – are expected to boost sales of blu-ray players and discs this Christmas, the format has not been the hit that many expected.Two years ago, Sony was brimming with confidence: in April 2007 it produced an internal presentation of sales projections which reckoned that by the end of 2009, 27m players would be in use, and 85m discs sold.Blu-ray player sales have grown rapidly this year , but they still make up less than 12% of DVD player sales in western Europe, according to data released recently by the analysis company GfK Group."Sales have been disappointing for the industry," said Richard Cooper, senior video analyst at the media analysis company Screen Digest. "They were expecting that it would be adopted more quickly. But you wouldn't choose to launch a premium upgrade product in the middle of a recession."Blu-ray is a high-end product – it is difficult to persuade people to upgrade to more expensive, premium products when they are surrounded with "good enough" cheaper ones. DVD was able to supplant VHS video because it offered direct access to any point on the disc, was more robust than tape, and had extras such as deleted scenes, commentaries and multiple languages. Even so, it took just over 10 years  for DVD to completely kill off VHS sales.Another problem was that like VHS, which outlasted Betamax, Blu-ray began in a format war with Toshiba's HD DVD format, another high definition video format. Although HD DVD bowed out of competition in early 2008, it had left people wary of committing to the new format.The way seemed to be open. The difference is, instead of just one challenger, Blu-ray now faces many challenges in the fight for attention, including HD television and, particularly, the internet, where the iPlayer and YouTube - which both also offer high-definition versions - can be piped into TV sets via games consoles including the Wii, Xbox 360 and PS3. And there are also legal and illegal downloads in growing numbers, plus Sky and Virgin offering what are effectively video-on-demand services in standard and high definition.In 2005 Bill Gates commented that Blu-ray would be"the last physical format there will ever be"because in the future, "everything's going to be streamed directly or on a hard disk".And now the film industry is moving to embrace a future of content delivered over the internet. Warner Brothers has launched a Europe-wide video on demand service that sees titles available to cable customers in some countries the same day they are released on DVD.Apple, meanwhile, is reportedly sounding out leading US broadcasters with a view to launching subscription TV through it's online store iTunes. And in the UK, media companies offering video on demand, such as BT and Virgin, continue to expand their services.But it is too early to read the last rites of Blu-ray. "There's a huge number of channels on TV, and it's easier to go to video-on-demand than it was before. Yet people still buy content in a package," said Cooper. Blu-ray can offer the complete package - discs, extras and, with newer machines, links to online extras, he explained.Mike O'Mahoney, general sales manager at the consumer electronics company Pioneer GB, admits that take-up has been "fairly slow" but says that this year sales have been up 150-fold on 2008, helped by falling prices of players and discs.One challenge has been that people can buy an "upscaling" DVD player - which  will make an ordinary DVD played on a high-definition TV appear to fill the screen. Such upscaling players typically cost no more than £100, and the apparent improvement in quality over a normal DVD player (though using the same disc) is enough for many viewers.But there are other problems. Ben Rose, an internet analyst, said: "The main issue is content. Most of the movie archive doesn't have an HD digital transfer and therefore can't be released on Blu-ray. Blockbusters like those from George Lucas or Spielberg are going to capture the public on the new format and they just aren't here yet."Even among illegal downloaders, the preference is still for standard quality over HD, Rose notes, pointing to statistics from one of the largest "torrent" sites which shows that there were 12,500 "standard" downloads of the latest Doctor Who episode, The Waters of Mars, against 2,500 of the HD version. The same applies for Top Gear, also popular with downloaders, where only 1 in 3 went for the HD version.GfK still expects Blu-ray players to be "one of the top-selling products this Christmas" – and adds that the sales are underestimated because every PS3 sold is also a Blu-ray player. So far, 2.5m have been sold in the UK. It may be that Blu-ray is simply sidling into peoples' homes – but whether it will be the success that was dreamed of in 2007 is quite another matter.
So Keith *may* be blogging next week - Keith? - but otherwise this is the last  gamesblog post until 2010. We'll have a Chatterbox up tomorrow which will be the "live" version for a week before the next one goes up on the 30th Dec. But that's it until we come back full time on the 4th Jan. Have a great Christmas break - and feel free to moan about/enthuse over your gaming gifts in the comments below.
When hostages defend their kidnappers, it is known as "Stockholm syndrome". Something similar happens to iPhone users, according to the Danish analystStrand Consult, when they fall so in love with the device that it blinds them to its defects such as a poor camera, lousy battery life for heavy users and no Bluetooth facility that can transmit photos.This provoked a predictably outraged response from iPhonistas, but the truth is that a kind of Stockholm syndrome happens not just with iPhones but with most examples of new technology where the owners' desire to be seen at the cutting edge irrationally blinds them to admit any faults.A few weeks ago I had a meeting at the British Library withCoPilotthe highly successful maker of iPhone apps for navigation. At the beginning I declared an interest – that no sat-nav device I had tested during the past few years had worked speedily first time or in heavily built-up areas though they were usually brilliant in open country when you didn't need them so much.Throughout our long and entertaining discussion the CoPilot iPhone app failed completely to find our location. To be fair, as soon as we got outside when it picked up a satellite signal (inside it was restricted to Wi-Fi and mobile phone triangulation) we got an instant fix on the map which pointed me along the route I wanted to go). Last week a taxi driver was raving to me about how good sat-nav was, but when I asked him why he wasn't using it that night (when he had taken me in the wrong direction) he said it wasn't so good in heavily built-up areas.Stockholm syndrome also happens with other smart phones with an added variant for reviewers: the fear that not being able to make some of the functions work may be due to your own stupidity or the temporary defects of a pre-production model.I have just finished trialling two rivals to the iPhone – Nokia's flagship N900 (running on aMaemoopen source operating system) and Samsung's Galaxy (running on Google's Android operating system, also open source). Both of them come with five megapixel cameras and online stores for selling applications of a kind that have been such a runaway success for the iPhone.First, the upside. Both are technologically superior to the iPhone in terms of the quality of photos and video. The N900 is beautifully engineered. It has a slide-out keypad which will be popular with those who have smaller fingers than me but also results in it being heavier than the iPhone whose lack of moving parts means the screen can, unlike the Galaxy, fill the whole of one side of the device.Curiously, the N900, unlike the Galaxy, doesn't have a single key to press to make a telephone call (yes, some people still do that). You have to manoeuvre back to the right screen from wherever you are.I presume it was just the device I had but nearly a third of the photos on the N900 I thought I had taken didn't make the photo gallery and this also happened when I asked a friend to do it. Oh dear, another thing: the Maemo app store hadn't opened so I couldn't test what I most wanted to – the biggest phone company in the world's response to the  growing threat from the iPhone. Oh well, what's the hurry.On the plus side, sending photos by Bluetooth (short distance wireless) only took two to three clicks instead of five to six on earlier models. But, after trying for the best part of an hour to Bluetooth snaps from the Galaxy I gave up presuming they had, foolishly, omitted this service (as the iPhone has also).By contrast, Samsung's app store – called a market – was impressive and Google mail worked like a dream. I downloaded half a dozen free apps – from Spotify to an unofficial Guardian app – which proved a seamless experience despite the Galaxy not having the latest version of Android. This indicates the huge potential there is to rival the iPhone at some stage in the future, though at the moment there is still some way to go. I speak as someone with more than 80 apps on my iPod Touch, many of which I use very regularly.There are at least two morals from all this. One is that Nokia, whose rags to riches story has made it one of my favourite companies anywhere, had better get its act together. It is still thinking too much like a phone company. Maybe all its top executives should have their sleek company smartphones taken away from them and forced to experience the usability of the iPhone which can be summed up as: "Two clicks bad, one click good."The second is that, as of now, it looks as though Google's Android is going to get stronger and stronger especially when Google brings its own, much rumoured phone out next year that could run all Google's apps from gmail, maps and search to free turn-by-turn navigation seamlessly. It must be questionable in these circumstances whether Google should be allowed to purchase AdMob which would give it at a stroke30 to 40% of the mobile advertising marketand parallel their dominance of online advertising. Others say it would be more than 40%.I love Google and am locked into using many of its services simply because they are good and easy to use. It is arguably the most interesting company on the planet, but for its own good it must be stopped from monopolising too many areas.One can understand why Google wants to buy AdMob, since rivals such as Microsoft have done similar, smaller deals. But why can't Google, Microsoft and Yahoo develop their own mobile services to compete with AdMob? Surely the global market ought to sustain at least four big players without creating the conditions for Google's eventual dominance. The trouble is this purchase might be allowed through on the nod simply because we are all so in awe of Google's amazing success that we are blind to its faults. Stockholm syndrome again.twitter.com/vickeegan
The nativity story itself may be sadly deficient of list features, but harried journalists faced with unreasonable deadlines and rapidly diminishing attention spans have been making up for it ever since. The videogame blogosphere is, of course, awash with these traffic-baiting features all year round, but the Yuletide season provides a busy climax to the listing year.So, if you're short of easily digestible reading matter over the Christmas weekend, here are ten current examples, all of them worth a glimpse in those quiet moments between festive family arguments.Top Ten VideogamesA vanilla list to start with, but this one from Time Magazine has been one of the most talked about this season - mostly thanks to its inclusion of iPhone title Geo-Defense Swarm at number six. Four places above Uncharted 2 - a serious game of the decade contender.Ten sweet iPhone gamesJust a simple selection of really good iPhone and iPod Touch titles, selected by Derek Yu at the excellent Independent Gaming Source.Top ten best Android applications of 2009Not strictly a game list as there are other sorts of apps on here, but Pocket Gamer's selection is an interesting reminder that App Store doesn't have all the best stuff.The seven best videogame manuals of all timeAn unusual and enjoyably nostalgic take on the listing genre from Ashley Davis atDestructoid. If the feature had been compiled in the UK it would doubtless have included 8bit classics, Lords of Midnight and Deus Ex Machina.Top ten overlooked games of 2009An interesting addition to Gamasutra's 'Best of 2009' onslaught (which also includes the top fivedevelopersandcompaniesfor your further delectation). Not heard ofCryostasisorUniWar? Shame on you.Top ten indie gamesOkay, so this is part of the Gamasutra thing, but it's compiled by the chaps at IndieGames.com, so gets a separate entry. All of them are worth a play, especially my personal faves,CanabaltandMachinarium.Gamesindustry.biz: top ten news stories of 2009Essential UK news siteGamesindustry.bizprovides its top ten news issues of the year, beginning with the perennial issue of game ratings and taking in everything from motion control to studio closures en route to the biggest story of the year.Venture Beat: top ten news stories of 2009A more US-centric take on the year from the respected tech analysis site. Dean Takahashi's comprehensive list has all the big business stories, including the incredible rise of FarmVille and the disappointing realisation that videogames are, in fact, NOT recession proof. Dammit.IndustryGamer: top 20 of news stories of 2009And one more news one, this time from fresh-faced industry blog,IndustryGamers.The worst box art of 2009Games Radaris a master of novelty lists and this is a fun example. These are all NTSC releases, but the catastrophic acts of design vandalism on offer here are grimly compelling nonetheless.Spotted any other entertaining new examples? Share the links below!
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
After a whirlwind2006, you could be forgiven for thinking that 2007 would be a little quieter. Wrong: certainly in terms of technology, the year started with a bang and just kept going.Behind the scenes at Guardian HQ, 2007 saw a few changes. We relaunched the technology website, moving from theclassic Neville Brody designto one that brought the site and the newspaper closer together in feeling (and one that we're still using, as of 2009).We also started theTech Weekly podcastin December - you can stilllisten to that first episodeif you want.Anyway, as we near the end of our look back over a decade of stories - and the way the Guardian reported them - we come across a series of major successes and dismal failures. There were plenty of stories we had to leave out, but here are five of the big ones.2007&bull; Pretty much the first thing that happenedwas when Steve Jobs confirmed a swelter of speculation by announcing that it was planning to launch a mobile, the iPhone. The device had been hyped up in advance, with plenty of speculation that Apple was planning to do something in the phone market. But the handset itself looked like something we hadn't seen before, andwhen it went on sale in the USpeople queued for days to get one.Not everybody thought it would be a hit, but by November, British customers could get their hands on it too -and O2 said it sold tens of thousandsin a weekend.&bull; A few weeks afterMicrosoftfinally made its latest operating system, Windows Vista, available worldwide. The first obstacle to overcome wasthe confusing array of packages, but after a series ofdriver problemsthat left people nonplussed, the impact was more damp squib than fireworks. By the summer, the rot had truly set in, andthe computer industry pronounced its disappointment with the product.&bull;Cyberwarsuddenly became a buzzword, with a number of incidents that appeared to up the ante global online warfare. After apolitical tussle involving a war memorial, the highly-wired state ofEstonia was hit by cyberattackthat left it reeling. That was followed, later in the year, by astring of strikes on western government targetsthat opened up a wide range of issues.&bull; One of the big stories of the year in British circles was the sale of music serviceLast.fm, whichwent for $280m to US media group CBS. We had a long history of following the company (literally right back to the very beginning) and had tipped in an article the previous year aboutwhether UK entrepreneurs could produce a web success like YouTube. Maybe Last wasn't the same scale deal, but it was a significant boost for the country's startup stars.&bull; And after plenty offits and starts, theBBC iPlayersuddenly got an injection of excitement in 2007. First off, amildly depressing download servicehit the scene in the summer - but then, after a rapid retooling, the streaming service that we're all familiar withwas pushed out in December. The rest, as they say...
&bull; The failure ofMicrosoftto overturn a rulingthat Word infringed another company's patenthas left the software leviathan in a tricky situation. While it had gotan injunction stopping sales lifted, the company will now tweak Word so that it isn't breaking the law.&bull; After last week's reports thatGoogle was considering purchasing local reviews site Yelp, the deal apparently fell apart. Most have suggested that it was Yelp that scuppered the sale, but the New York Times has an interesting take on the affairsuggesting that it was Google that killed the acquisitionbecause of issues over 'transparency'.&bull; If you're interested in a bit of a read, what with it being a bit quieter in the run-up to Christmas, may I suggest thisWired piece on the failure of Duke Nukem Forever. Clive Thompson, always a great writer, explains exactly what turned the development of the game from an exciting possibility, to a complete shambles and finally into one of the great pieces of vapourware in history.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The FBI is investigating the activities of a notorious Russian internet gang amid accusations that it stole tens of millions of dollars from US banks.The hackers, known as the Russian Business Network, had been quiet for two years after masterminding a string of hi-tech crimes including identity theft, fraud, spam and child pornography.But the gang could be back in action, according to areport in the Wall Street Journalwhich suggested that Citigroup was the focus of a federal investigation linked to the Russian group. It claimed that an attack believed to have been orchestrated by the network netted large sums of money after targeting Citigroup's computer systems.Reports of the cyber attack came as the White House today named its head of cyber security as Howard Schmidt, who had a similar role for several years under George W Bush. He will co-ordinate US government, military and intelligence efforts to repel hackers.There has been a string of reports about hacking attacks on the US government in recent months, as well as the theft of more than £5m from systems belonging to the Royal Bank of Scotland. The threats led President Obama to declare that defence against internet attacks was a "national security priority" – a shift which culminated in Schmidt's appointment.Citigroup, the world's largest financial services company, has rejected suggestions that the FBI is investigating an incident at the bank, and denied that a raid of such proportions had taken place."We had no breach of the system and there were no losses, no customer losses, no bank losses," said Joe Petro, managing director of Citigroup's security and investigative services. "Any allegation that the FBI is working a case at Citigroup involving tens of millions of losses is just not true."Instead, a spokesman said, the company is aware of one customer whose account was drained of more than $1m after being hacked.While the nature of the attack remains contested, the reports mark a significant comeback for one of the internet's most high-profile crime groups. The organisationdisappeared from view in 2007after moving its operations from St Petersburg to China.The extended absence had left some wondering whether it had disbanded, but experts familiar with the network's activities suggested that its influence on organised crime was still strong."All signs point to a dramatic rise in cyber crime," said Anton Chuvakin, a computer security expert based in San Jose. "The strategy is pretty much the 'blue ocean' one, with a lot of unexplored opportunity and a low barrier to entry."It would not be the first time that Citigroup, which is based in New York, or its customers had been targeted by computer criminals. Earlier this yearAlbert Gonzalez, a 28-year-old hacker from Florida, was charged by US prosecutors with being the mastermind behind a series of computer attacks that netted millions over the course of several years. Citibank was among the groups targeted by the strikes, which also hit computers belonging to payment processing company Heartland and resulted in more than 45m credit card numbers being stolen from the retailer TJX.Gonzalez, who faces 15 to 25 years in prison, was once linked to another well-known group of internet gangsters known as Shadowcrew.In the US, the announcement of Schmidt's appointment came as the final step in a much-criticised seven-month search for a candidate. The continuing lack of an appointment had caused some concern in Washington – while officials said that delays in making an appointment were merely part of the process, reports suggested a number of candidates had turned the job down.Last weekend, it emerged that the Russian military had been meeting Washington officials to discuss potential collaboration over internet security and cyber defence. Such a move would mark a breakthrough in the often frosty relations between the two countries over their activities online.Rod Beckstrom, the former director of the US Cyber Security Centre, told the Guardian that he had met with Russian officials too – and had encouraged such collaborations while working for the government. "We do see international collaboration improving," he said. "We are pleased to hear superpowers such as Russia and the US addressing these topics."
The constant chime of criticism about Twitter - aside from the accusation that it is pointless and frivolous - is that it has no way of making money.Hours of discussion about the company's business model, or apparent lack of it, have agonised internet buffs far and wide (onthesepages).So when it emerged overnight thatthe company could be profitable, it's no surprise that more than a few people were left scratching their heads. What? How did a company that looked to be so ephemeral suddenly produce so much revenue? Did everybody get it wrong?Not exactly - and here's why.The reports suggesting that Twitter is profitable are based on the fact that the San Francisco startup signed lucrative deals with Microsoft and Google, in which the two technology megacorps get access to its data for use in their search engines. Bloomberg's sourcessuggestGoogle is paying $15m for the privilege, while Microsoft is forking out around $10m. (Facebook also has a similar deal in place, though it is not clear how much money is changing hands there).A couple of weeks ago,when Google unveiled what it calls "real-time search" facilities, there were questions about the monetary terms of the deal, but all parties were tight-lipped.Putting aside the question ofwhether Twitter is charging enough for its data, there's no doubt that it's a positive step for the startup. $25m is hardly small change.But while such sums may make Twitter profitable today, when it is still relatively small, that doesn't mean it's enough in the longer term.In the past Twitter has tried to be frugal and played down the traditional image of high-spending startup culture. For example,when it took a cash injection of $100m, the claim was that it was money in the bank.When I interviewed him earlier this year, co-founder Biz Stone questioned whether the company would ever grow very large."Do we need to be a company of thousands? Maybe not," he said. "Maybe we can be a company of hundreds and still bring Twitter to a huge number of people around the world."But that doesn't mean $25m is enough. Right now Twitter employs around 100 people, meaning that its wage bill probably comes in around the $10m range each year. It has shifted to new offices in downtown San Francisco. It has brought on former Google executive Dick Costolo to manage operations, and is likely to bring in more senior staff in the coming months. It has hired like barmy (doubling in size every six months so far) and, given the amount of traffic it now serves, must be spending significant amounts on infrastructure.True, there is money coming in - and that is good in a dotcom world so often built from flimsy, insubstantial businesses. But as the site grows, that money will be used up. And Twitter's investors (like all venture capitalists) don't want small, safe returns on their money: they want serious cash. Most successful dotcoms grow fast, invest heavily and then try to cash out.So the fact that $25m is enough to make the company profitable leaves me pondering two possible conclusions: that its price tag is vastly inflated, or that it will need to find a lot more Googles and Microsofts to keep the bottom line looking healthy.
The technology may have changed, but tech-savvy consumers still watch their favourite TV shows on mobile phones at the same times as they used to watch TV, with a healthy dose taking the BBC iPlayer to bed at weekends.The BBC, which has provided a revealing snapshot into how consumers are using BBC iPlayer on their mobiles to watch TV, found that peak time viewing is about 9.30pm.The prime time period for evening mobile viewing runs from about 7.30pm to 11pm across the week, a similar pattern to the viewing habits of people watching on a television. The BBC is keen to learn more about the trend and is contemplating research into the pattern. The corporation also found that mobile TV watching is lower on Friday and Saturday evenings when the younger people are likely to be out socialising.Weekend mornings, when users are having a lie-in, have also proved to be a hit for the iPlayer on mobiles with a significant bump in viewing between 7am and 10am. The BBC said that, overall, Sunday is the most popular day for watching catch-up TV on mobiles.The BBC did not provide any figures on how many shows are being viewed by mobile. Numbers are thought to be relatively small, but growth is expected to be high as the iPlayer has jumped from being available on four to 22 devices in a year.The BBC also revealed that Top Gear was the most watched TV programme of the year on the BBC iPlayer, based on figures to 13 December. Viewers used the device on computers, on Virgin Media's TV service and on the PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Wii. There were a record 1.67m views of the first episode of the 13th series of the hit BBC2 show on the iPlayer. Of the top 20 TV shows it is notable that BNP leader Nick Griffin's appearance on Question Time prompted huge catch-up viewing. It ranked fourth with almost 1 million views.The second day of the fifth Test of England's gripping Ashes win over Australia at the Oval, broadcast by 5 Live's Test Match Special, was the most popular radio show online. The show was listened to 183,000 times on the radio catch-up service.
Apologies to any of you who've seen this before - a clip from a American shopping channel where the presenter does an admirable job of retaining his composure after breaking the item he's trying to sell.I've actually never managed to break a television -  a SNES joypad is the most significant item I've ever managed to damage, hurled at a wall in a fit of 10-year-old pique after losing at Street Fighter 2. The L button was never the same after that.Since it's pretty slow around these parts for gaming news at the moment, why not furnish us with your own tales of video game hardware damage (be it rage or clumsiness induced). I promise I won't judge.Finally, a word of warning from us at the Games blog - enjoy yourself over the holiday season, but remember to take care of your consoles. A Wii is for life, not just for Christmas.
Having swept America and conquered Europe, social networking site Facebook is now spreading rapidly through Africa.From the deserts of Libya to the plains of Tanzania•Facebook is fast becoming the continent's most visited mobile site as Africans use their phones to access the internet, according to a new report.Even micro-blogging phenomenon Twitter is making an impact, appearing as the ninth most visited mobile internet site in South Africa and Kenya, according to a study by Oslo-based mobile software developer Opera of the top ten 'mobile web' countries in Africa.The most popular African destination on the mobile web, is Facebook. The social networking site is visited by users of Opera's mobile web browser in six out of the 10 countries surveyed by the company . Google is either number one or two in every African state except Kenya where Yahoo dominates.Email services such as Hotmail and Gmail are also popular  as is YouTube. The online video site has its highest rankings in Egypt, at number three, and Libya, at number four.Among news sources, the BBC figures strongly in the top ten most visited sites in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Tanzania, Namibia and Zambia. CNN features prominently in the top ten in Nigeria, Ghana and Zambia. They are the only two western news sources among the most popular mobile internet destinations across the ten African countries analysed by the Opera survey.Sport features strongly with French sports newspaper L'Équipe the sixth most visited mobile web site in Ivory Coast. Egyptian mobile phone users flock to Arabic language sports portal Filgoal.com and Libyans prefer rival Koora.com.Mobile usage is ballooning across the continent and the African mobile phone market – at more than 400 million subscribers – is now larger than in North America. Some countries, such as South Africa, have 'mobile penetration levels' - the number of handsets compared with size of population – close to those of Western Europe.For many people in Africa, mobile telephones are the only way that they will ever get access to the internet because of the poor quality, and often complete lack, of fixed-line networks. Fierce competition has pushed mobile prices down for consumers while many of the latest crop of handsets available in Africa allow easy access to the mobile internet. Web browsers can also be installed on older phones.The mobile web browser developed by Opera is the most popular in Africa, accounting for more than half the market, and in its latestState of the Mobile Web report, Opera estimates that the number of handsets using its browser across the top ten African states has leapt 177% in the past year. The report looks at South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Egypt, Ghana, Libya, Ivory Coast, Zambia, Tanzania and Namibia. Opera refuses to give overall customer numbers for Africa, but in its largest market – South Africa – it had 1.5 million 'unique users' in October.Internet-enabled handsets are being used to access ever more mobile web sites, with page views shooting up 374% between November 2008 and last month. In some countries such as Kenya and Zambia, hundreds of pages are being accessed each month as handsets are often used by more than one person to get online. Across the continent roadside kiosks proliferate where people 'rent out' mobile phones. At first the devices were little more than a replacement for public phone boxes, allowing people to call friends and family, but increasingly they are being hired out as computers, allowing those who cannot afford a device of their own, to access the internet on a regular basis.Opera's mobile phone internet browser is the most popular worldwide, used by almost 27% of all mobile internet users. The iPhone is in second place with Nokia's web browser in third, between them the top three account for nearly 70% of the market,according to data from StatCounter. Opera estimates that it has more than 41.7 million users worldwide, up from about 16.4 million in November last year, helped in part by the pre-installed browser in many recent models of smartphones.
BT has announced itsfive millionth broadband customer: chip shop worker Elizabeth Patterson of East Kilbride, Glasgow. She has won "a luxury trip to Vancouver to watch the Winter Olympics," says BT. The company reckons there are more than 14m ADSL broadband customers in the UK, and says it is spending £1.5bn to lay fibre past 10m homes – covering 40% of the UK population – by 2012.BT chief executive Ian Livingston said the fibre roll-out was six months ahead of schedule and would pass 4m homes by the end of 2010. This means more homes should have access to faster broadband for the London Olympics, for which BT is the "official communications partner". However, he pointed out that this was without any support from the UK government. He said:"If you look around the world, several governments are proactively supporting the roll out of fibre broadband. There's still a debate in the UK - which is fine - but we need our politicians to decide how much of a priority fibre broadband is. BT is the only company currently planning to invest large sums in this area but we can only go so far with our shareholder's money."As I never tire of pointing out, the need for fibre to the home (FTTH) has been obvious for at least two decades -- Ian Mackintosh made the case, and analysed the economic implications, in his book, Sunrise Europe, published in 1986. BT and several clueless governments have been making the right mouth movements but doing nothing effective ever since.Presumably there's action now because BT is coming under pressure from Virgin Media, which has been installing fibre optic cables to the street, if not the home. However,Ofcom's latest market update, for this year's second quarter, says: "BT remained the largest residential and SME broadband supplier in Q2 2009, with its market share increasing by 0.2 percentage points to 26.6%, its highest level since 2001."Another incentive is the need to support the rapidly growing market for internet video, which in the UK is being driven by the BBC's iPlayer.BT's larger problem is the loss of fixed lines, which fell to less than 20m in Q3, more than 10m below the peak in 2002, according to Ofcom. But at least converting phone lines to ADSL and fibre broadband connections increases the revenue per line.
As a longtimeFootball Manager/Champ Man addict, I was heartened to see the game's strong showing in the Gamesblog Best of the Noughties list. It was the only excuse I needed to run some tips for newcomers, or veterans looking to maximise their management potential in the early part of the game.So then, here we have a 'first eleven' of brilliant purchases, selected by Miles Jacobson, the Studio Director at FM creator,Sports Interactive. These are all available at the start of FM 2010 for less than £500k, and are perfect options if you're starting out - as you really ought to - with a League One or Two side. According to Miles, these were all tested with Bury, with only the English league activated and a medium database size. "All have EU nationality, so no problems with work permits," he concludes.If you're looking to get in some modest FM sessions over Christmas, this should help you cobble together a skillful and competitive side quite quickly, leaving plenty of free time to work your way up the league...GoalkeeperCarl Ikeme: 23-year-old 'keeper, currently playing for Wolves.DefendersSalvatore Fresi (DC/DMC): 36-year-old central defender with bags of Serie A experience. Playing with Battipagliese at the opening of FM 2010.Alejandro Cichero (DC): Venezuelan defender with international experience, plying his FM 2010 trade at Chinese club, Shandong FC. He's 32 so has a couple of seasons left in him.Jean Ferrari (DC/DMC): 33-year-old currently running out for Peruvian club FBC Melgar as a midfielder.Allan K Jepsen (DL): 32-year-old left-sided defender with brief international experience. Currently playing for Danish Superliga side, Randers.MidfieldElbekay Bouchiba (ML): Dutch-Moroccan midfielder, 30, previously with FC Twente and Sparta Rotterdam. Now with Qatar side, Al Wakra.Dare Vrsic (AMC): Slovenian international, now playing for FC Timisoara in the Romanian top flight. Just 25 in the game, so could be a good long-term buy.Marian Aliuta (AMC) - In real-life, a well-traveled Romanian midfielder, voted the best player in Divizia A at the close of the 2002/3 season. In FM 2010, you'll find the 31-year-old playing for Azerbaijan side, Neftchi Baku.StrikersFrancois Zoko: 25-year-old Ivory Coast striker, available on a free transfer at the opening of FM 2010. Has been called, 'probably the best striker willing to come to League Two' by one FM player at fansite, The Dugout.Andrei Cristea: Pacy Romanian striker, with international experience. He's currently playing for Dinamo Bucharest, and at 25 is another decent long-term investment.Marcin Robak: 26-year-old Polish striker currently with Widzew Łódź.Feel free to add your own suggestions - make sure you include the player's age, current side, transfer status and preferred positions!
With Christmas lurking around the corner like a particularly camp stalker, here is (probably) the last Best of for 2009. Umboros is the culprit, and this may well be the last time he edits your ramblings into a neat essay, so savour this compact and bijou take on the week.Highlight? Spoilers, homemade booze and the best rap lyrics of all time.Don't push us, we're close to the edge...Best Of Chatterbox 7th-11th December 2009By UmborosAs the holiday approaches our Chatterbox of two weeks ago seems a strangely distant memory. And yet much of the chat therein is strangely relevant. Pro Evolution Modern Warfare blog has a lot of leg left in it yet.Whilst these two games have accounted for most of the chat on the blog since MW2's release, it's not all about n00b pwnge or deciding if you prefer a red-dot sight to a holographic one for your sniper rifle; not in NAN games anyway! On Monday, Chair of Rust was quick to remind Shadowmind of the weekend's exploits:"Rather than facing the wroth of my pea shooter you promptly walked off the edge and fell into the abyss. It's a water tight escape plan. I salute you soldier."A faux pas on my own part left me with my keyboard in my mouth as my unmissable spoiler regarding Saturday's Thick of It had various bloggers annoyed at my lack of subtlety. We actually managed to turn this into a brief conversation about spoilers, and Simian had seen the worst:"I remember being very, very pissed off when I was queuing to go watch the Usual Suspects and seeing a movie poster where some one had written Keyser Soze written on it with an arrow.…"Much of our chatter involves drinking stories, and there's rarely a day goes by on Chatterbox without at least one of our number suffering a hangover. Connoisseurs of the finer things in life, Chatterboxers have had many conversations about our favourite tipples. It seemed appropriate however that it was TonyHayers who introduced the informative topic of homemade booze when he announced he has some Sloe Gin on the go. We soon had tips on brewing your own beer and ginger beer, which I fancy giving a try myself.The day was dramatically ended by Chabab who may have been a touch inebriated. "WHO HERE THINKS RAYMAN 1 IS THE BEST GAME IN THE WORLD I DO" he shouted, to no-one in particular, just after the stroke of midnight. Was there a full moon?Tuesday saw the 'Box revert to form - Ruzz was corrected on his slightly-off Gandalf quote by more than two bloggers before most of us even started. Chubster began a more serious debate on the ratings system employed in the UK, after a documentary suggested the game to get your kids for Christmas was 'Box favourite Modern Warfare 2. If anything annoys us bloggers it's children laughing down their headsets when killing us on the latest 18-rated game. Makar summed up the issue perfectly:"Some games seem to be exempt from ratings as long as they are popular - MW2 is a perfect example."As a bunch of internet recluses, it was quite a surprise to see Cameroon start a discussion on strange flatmates. One of his used to leave post-it notes about his father round the house. It didn't surprise anyone who had read this that he has since been charged with stalking[Who? Cameroon or the other guy? I'm confused - Keef]. CBPodge also has some rather strange acquaintances, one of whom had a to-do list for himself which included "Consider resetting iPod". RustyJames saw out the afternoon setting a new blog record of a quadruple post!On Wednesday we turned our attentions to Transformers 2. Cripsycrumb used the equation "Terminator Salvation &gt; Transformers 2" (with no praise for the Terminator film intended), however most of us feel "Megan Fox running in slow motion &gt; Terminator Salvation". In the end we agreed that the original Transformers cartoon movie was the best. Predictably, this line of chat deteriorated into a list of favourite '80s cartoons… every single cartoon ever shown in the '80s. Truly outrageous.Given the wide variety of dialects on our fair isle, it was intriguing to see the conversation turn to pronunciation. High tea favourites, scones (Scown or the fastest cake in the world?) were a focal point, with no-one able to say which pronunciation was posher. OfficePest also gave our transatlantic cousins a point over the Queen's English:"I had a lengthy discussion with my missus over why I thought the American pronunciation of tomato is the right one. Succinctly put - you don't say 'pot-ah-to', do you?"The theme of language carried into Thursday, with Fantomex asking us for our own colloquialisms, which quickly saw the blog deteriorate (again!) into a poor man's Profanisaurus. Dylillama has had some problems since locating to the UK:"As it turns out, 'dogging' doesn't mean the same thing here as it does in Australia. If I said some one 'dogged' me in a meeting at home, the consensus would be that I meant someone had 'stabbed me in the back' or been a bit sly. Here the consensus was a fair few raised eyebrows."The afternoon had a rap battle face off, with everyone quoting their favourite rap lyrics at each other. It's a shame none of the bloggers tried the lyrical assaults of traditional rap battles, as it would have made for far more interesting reading. Who had the best rap debut? Strong shouts for Wu Tang Clan, NWA and Public Enemy.Friday saw the Facebook campaign to see Rage Against The Machine get the number one slot for Christmas pick up in earnest. Whilst the fact that Rage are signed to the same record label as the X Factor winners meant Sony were laughing all the way to the bank, Fantomex wasn't concerned:"I for one figure it would be a good day for music again. A lever that starts the rolling rock of change."We rounded the week off with an analysis of the self service checkout and its symbolism and repercussions in capitalist Britain. Why is one of them always broken? Why will they not let you use your own bags? Why is there never a member of staff around to confirm that you are 18 when buying wine? I guess the answer to that one is self explanatory. Percino summed up my thoughts succinctly:"As far as I'm concerned the self-checkout tills in Sainsbury's are the most dehumanising experience I've ever had."Quotes of the week:"I got an unexpected windfall this week, so I'm to the brim, would be more than happy to get you a few in, you can pay me back with a lapdance at the awards."Fantomex scares the life out of us with his Chubster chasing antics."Plus Leonard Nimoy voices Unicron as well I think... Legend"CairofRust was shot down in flames of nerd rage for mistaking Spock for Orson Wells.
Barack Obama is due to name a senior adviser to take control of America's cybersecurity efforts, nearly seven months after first declaring that protecting the country from internet attacks was a "national security priority".Reports suggest that Howard Schmidt, a government veteran who previously served as an adviser to President Bush, will be named as the White House's cybersecurity coordinator on Tuesday - with responsibility for overseeing the online defences provided by the Pentagon and intelligence agencies.The job of bringing together the disparate groups is seen by some as an impossible task - particularly since the various agencies often battle against each other for political gain - but some Obama administration officials see it as a vital role.The announcement is likely to head off criticism that the White House has failed to follow through on its own plans to establish a new office to deal with cybersecurity, which were announced in the summer.In one of his earliest acts on taking office, President Obamaordered a lightning review of US internet security. When theresults were published in May, the president urged a major revision of the way American defence, security and intelligence agencies worked to protect the country's computer systems, calling hacking a "weapon of mass disruption"."Cyberspace is real, and so is the risk that comes with it," he said, adding that it is "one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face".The issue became even more pressing after a series of reports suggested that a string of major attacks on US institutions had taken place - including the country's electricity grid and computers containing information on the Joint Strike Fighter programme, a $300bn project being conducted by the Pentagon and other governments around the world.The continuing lack of an appointment to the posthad caused some concern in Washington- but while officials said that delays in making an appointment were merely part of the process,reports suggested a number of candidates had turned the job down.As a result, the appointment of Schmidt is seen by many as a decision to put the task in safe - if familiar - hands.Schmidt, who worked for eBay and Microsoft after retiring from government in 2003, previously held the role of special adviser on cyberspace security for two years during George W Bush's first term in office.His career has given him significant pull in the technology community, but some elements - including a controversially delayed scheme to introduce new ID cards for federal employees - have been criticised in the past.He may find the winds in his favour, however. Last weekend it emerged thatRussian and American officials had been meetingto discuss potential collaboration over internet security and cyberdefence - a move which could mark a significant breakthrough in the often-frosty relations between the two countries online.Rod Beckstrom, the former director of the US Cybersecurity Center, told the Guardian that he had met with Russian officials too - and had encouraged such collaborations while working to a brief that is similar to Schmidt's."We do see international collaboration improving," said Beckstrom, who now runs the internet administration body Icann. "We are pleased to hear that superpowers such as Russia and the US are addressing these topics."
We're closing in on the end of our review of the decade's technology stories, and how the Guardian reported them, and today's year of choice is a doozy.In the wider world, there was a lot of big news: bird flu panic swept the planet, Israel and Palestine were constantly in the headlines, England didn't win the World Cup and Saddam Hussein was executed (among other things).In technology, there was an awful lot of action - both at the hands-on consumer end of the spectrum and at the high-faluting, blue sky side of things: Blu-ray was launched; the PlayStation 3 came out; the latest Mars orbiter reached the red planet; Warren Buffett donated some $30bn to the Gates Foundation.But what else was happening?2006&bull; Flush with profits from its ever-growing internet advertising empire,Googlewas on a bit of a rampage as the year wore on. It launched a ream of products - though whetherBase,Google Finance,Videoandartificial intelligencewere successful is up for debate. The company did make at least one major breakthrough, however, when it splashed out$1.65bn to purchase YouTubein October.&bull; Google also brought another big issue into the spotlight in 2006: internet censorship inChina. Just weeks after it wastargeted by the authorities, Google decided to launcha censored version of its index. The backlash was significant, and by early 2007 the company admitted it haddamaged its reputation(though it continues to provide the censored version to this day). Google wasn't alone, though: Microsoft caught flak forclosing down a blog criticising the government in Beijing, while most notoriously of all Yahoo - which had been complicit in the jailing of dissident journalist Shi Tao -began to find itself the subject of legal action. In 2007, itapologised for its actions. He is still in prison.&bull; Closer to home, theBBCmade waves by announcing what we called"radical plans to rebuild its website around user-generated content, including blogs and home videos". One cornerstone of the concept? A rebranded video service called iPlayer - but also the idea of a sort of public service MySpace, which then-BBC digital boss said would let users "create your own space and build bbc.co.uk around you... [to] exploit the functionality and usability of services such as Flickr, YouTube, Technorati and Wikipedia". Looks like somebody swallowed the Web 2.0 dictionary.&bull; With all that in mind, 2006 was clearly the year thatsocial networkingfirst hit the mainstream in a big way. MySpace was already in Rupert Murdoch's hands, but it turned out that a little-known site called Bebowas already proving more popular in Britain. Facebook, meanwhile, took one radical step - introducing its "news feed" of your friend's activities,which caused great concernand then (just weeks later)opening the site to anyone in the world, not just students.&bull; Picking out other major stories and trends was tough, but surely it's worth pointing out a landmark in digital music, as Gnarls Barkley became thefirst act to reach No1 on the basis of downloads alone. Little more than a month after digital sales were allowed to count towards the top 40 charts, Crazy - which was heard up and down the country all summer - hit the top spot... and unleashed a new sort of music buying behaviour into the wild.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The headline news this morning is thatTwitter- yes, Twitter - is profitable. What? Well, while it has often seemed that the startup du jour was operating with a business plan cribbed from theunderpant gnomes, it seems that itsrecent deals with Microsoft and Google have netted income of a reported $25m. Tasty, though I suspect it's still a long way from justifying the $150m+ investment pumped into the company.&bull; It's hard to move these days without bumping into somebody spouting "open" as their favourite buzzword. Open source. Open platforms. Open standards. Open bars. (Well, the last one doesn't happen as often as I'd like, but I can still hope). The one thing I know whenever a big company says it believes in "being open" is to try and find out exactly what it thinks that means. That'sGoogleappears to be considering that question as it sees it. In along and rather dense blog post, senior executive Jonathan Rosenberg outlines what "the meaning of open" is at Googleplex. The company's motivation is "not altruistic" he admits - and glosses over the more secretive aspects of its activities - but he suggests that open source, open standards and open internet access are all vital for its future.&bull; And if that was a bit heavy, here's something to much about with while the office is quiet. If you play online games at all, you've probably tried your hand at one basketball simulation or another - butthis basketball game takes things furtherby adding a multiplayer element. It updates after each shot to show you how you compare to other players around the world. That turns a brief dalliance into something very addictive.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
There is probably no more critical biographical data about Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin than their dates of birth – 1972 and 1973. Had they been born 15 years earlier, they'd have arrived in the Microsoft age of computers, and users who were barely connected. Had they arrived 15 years later, someone else would already have figured out how to make sense of the internet.Brin and Page came just in time to bring their key insight to the critical problem  created by the internet: search and discovery – or, in the words of New York University's  Professor Clay Shirky, "filter failure".At the advent of the web, Yahoo quaintly believed it could use editors to catalogue all the content online, but quickly learned that that wouldn't scale, as we say these days. Google's founders realised they had to automate the task algorithmically, and they made a profoundly democratic decision to do that  by listening to us, to our clicks and links, to find relevance.Page and Brin are engineers – both PhD  candidates in computer science who  suspended their studies at Stanford to start Google – and so they approached the opportunity as scientists: first, find a problem and then seek solutions in data. That is how they run their company. Employees are told never to approach them without the data to support a recommendation.Indeed, Brin and Page have made life for all of us more fact-based. Recall our habits before the search engine. How many questions were worth a trip to the library? Now, we expect  answers on any subject – any need, curiosity, or conversation – in 0.3 seconds.The ambition of the Google founders'  mission – "to organise the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful" – is exceeded in scope only by the profound impact they have had on our world: on how we think, interact, manage and govern; on media, retail, education and the economy.Media was the first industry to feel Google's impact because it is closest to the internet (both serve information and entertainment) and because the business model Google  stumbled upon happens to be media's lifeblood: advertising.Page and Brin also changed the laws of  media by giving birth to the link economy, which replaces the content economy, in force for 570 years, since Guttenberg. In the link economy, value is made not only by those who create content but also by those who  create a public for it: the aggregators and  curators, such as Google itself, whom Rupert  Murdoch and his team label as "parasites," "content kleptomaniacs", and "tech tapeworms in the intestines of the internet". They refuse to understand that Google's links are gifts.But just as the media have suffered trying to adapt to the Google age, so will almost every industry and sector of society. They must  remake themselves for a new reality that Google understands because Page and Brin helped create it.Google demands openness (even though its own algorithms and business deals are opaque). If you want to be found, you must be searchable. It also rewards specialisation: if you are the best at what you do, you will rise in search results over the mass of  commodified mediocrity. That specialisation also creates efficiency. Do what you do best and link to the rest.Contrary to common perception, Google does not own the world or want to. It only wants to organise it. Old industries and  institutions were built around the notion of control and scarcity. Google is founded  instead on belief in abundance. It is a  platform upon which countless enterprises can succeed, using Google's content, promotion, functionality, features, and revenue.As models for modern business managers, Brin and Page made their own rules. They decreed that engineers should spend 20% of their time innovating. They put applicants through a grind of interviews to select those who will fit the culture, who will seek unusual solutions to problems. They release products as betas, which is a remarkable statement  of humility and humanity, for it says to  customers that this service is unfinished and imperfect; the beta label is necessarily an  invitation to collaborate.And, of course, Google's founders famously issued their edict to do no evil, although they have explained that this is less a commandment from the mountain-top than a licence to employees to question what the company does; to hold Google true to its mission. We can only wish that these words – don't be  evil – had been etched atop the doors of  Wall Street and that just a few more people there had felt empowered to question what they saw.Google has its sins and errors: its censorship of search results in China; its often hypocritical opaqueness; its occasional failure to recognise its own size and power – no matter how benevolent – as in its book scanning. And it has its virtues: Page and Brin devote 1% of the company's equity and profits to philanthropic causes, including clean and cheap power (which will also benefit power-hungry Google's bottom line).Some ask whether Page and Brin are one-trick ponies (well, two tricks: search and advertising). Others wonder whether Google might lose battles for the social web to Facebook, the live web to Twitter, and the mobile web to Apple.Don't bet against them. To understand the power of Brin's and Page's focus, go to Google's home page now and type "weather in Ed" and stop there. Google will not only understand you want weather in Edinburgh but will give you the forecast right there in the search box; it will answer your question before you've even asked it. Google's true holy grail is understanding, anticipating, and serving our intent.When we're using Google devices with Google operating systems and Google browsers and Google software to ask Google questions in text or voice or even pictures and Google gives us each the  personal answers we need from any source – no, the best source – in the world, in the context of the moment and our needs, that will be the culmination of the Google age. Google's next frontier is not to organise the world's information, but our lives.
When you buy a netbook, you expect to compromise on performance, but the Asus 1201N makes the compromise acceptable. It's noticeably nippy when running Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium, and it runs videos full screen without stuttering.In most situations, you'd think you were running a decent notebook PC, apart from the lack of a DVD drive. When the 1201N appears early next year (15 January in the US), it should be the most powerful netbook ever.The 1201N has two secrets. First, it's using an nVidia Ion (ie GeForce 9400M) graphics chip, like the one in new MacBooks. Second, it has a 1.66GHz dual core Intel Atom N330 processor, instead of the usual N270 or N280, and 2GB of memory.Windows 7 sees the N330 as four processors, and it makes a big difference to the system's general snappiness, especially with Windows 7's more pointless sliding and fading effects turned off. I found the dual core Atom a lot more responsive than a single-core CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) chip.When it comes to the hardware, the 1201N is recognisably a new-style thin Asus. It has a good quality 12in screen and a full-sized isolated keyboard of the sort common on much more expensive Sony and Apple laptops. The review sample had a very glossy black top that looked terrific, though it does show fingerprints. At 3.1lbs, it's also a fraction lighter than some rivals.The 1201N has a good set of connections including three USB ports, an RJ-45 Ethernet port, an SD card slot, and two ports for monitors – one of those is, of course, HDMI. The six-cell battery is removable, and you should get about five hours in everyday use. The hard drive is a reasonable size (250GB) and you also get Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, so the only thing that lets it down is the 0.3 megapixel webcam.The screen resolution is 1366 x 768 pixels, which is the format that has become standard on notebooks with 13.3in screens. On a 12.1in screen, text is smaller than I'd like, but I have below-average eyesight.The 1201N's Windows Experience Index rating is 3.1, which is the score for the processor. The gaming graphics score is 5.0 and the hard drive 5.7. It's obviously not a gaming rig, but it's impressive for a netbook, and online games shouldn't be a problem.The main thing I didn't like about the system was the keyboard layout. Like some systems from Asus and other manufacturers, the 1201N has a vertical column of six keys (Home, Page Up, Page Down etc) to the right of the Enter and Delete keys. One day I might adjust but at the moment I still hit Home almost every time I want a backspace. Which is often. A bigger Enter key would be nice, too.Quite how well the 1201N will do is another matter. It's an inbetween machine, at the top end of the netbook market, and at the bottom end of the ultraportables based on power-efficient Intel CULV Core 2 Duo processors. In other words, it's a lot better than an Asus 1008HA netbook, which has a 10in screen and an Atom N280 processor, but it's not as good as Asus UL30a, which has a 13.3in screen and an Intel Core 2 Duo.So, does it offer the best of both worlds, or does it fall between two stools?It depends on the price where you live – £399 or less in the UK and $499.99 in the US – and how the "street price" compares with other options. If the price is close to the UL30a, it's not such a good buy. If it's closer to the 1008HA netbook, the 1201N should be a hit.Pros:Much more power and performance than other netbooks; Windows 7; full-size keyboard; HDMI port; bigger screen than a 10 inch netbook.Cons:Less power and performance and a smaller screen than a 13.3 inch CULV notebook; low-res webcam; annoying keyboard layout.asus.co.uk
When you think about it, it's a bit strange that of all the music games the Guitar Hero and Rock Band franchises were the ones that broke out and became an international phenomenon.I'd imagine only a small percentage of those who have wielded the small, plastic axe are really that into rock – let alone have heard of the likes of Slayer. That so many have bought and played with a product so seemingly ill-suited to them suggests that the demand for these "party" games is huge. And this is where Just Dance steps in. A party game, with pop music, that requires no instructions or fiddling beyond waving your Wiimote. Great idea, right?Unfortunately, what Ubisoft failed to realise in releasing this title is that the Guitar Band games were successful not because people will put up with any old tat as long as it gets them prancing around in their living rooms, but because the games themselves were fun, beautifully presented and flawlessly executed.Sadly, Just Dance fails on all these counts. For starters, the Wiimote only sporadically recognises your moves, which makes the experience of waving your arms around as frustrating as it is embarrassing. And as dancing tends to involve more foot movements than anything else, a game that responds solely to you moving a wand in your hand seems somewhat counter-intuitive. Dance games need dance mats, not Wiimotes.The game itself is wafer thin, offering a few different multiplayer modes but nothing for a single player. It looks awful, too: a garish bar marking your score and an eerie dancing silhouette on a flat, black background are all you have to guide your efforts. There are at least a decent amount of songs on offer, almost all of which I'd heard of – I'd imagine this is where most of the game's production budget went.The problem with these sorts of games is that you can't really judge them by conventional means. Sure, it's shabbily presented, and sure, the Wiimote doesn't work too well; but, despite all this, I can see groups of people (probably groups of people who have been drinking) having fun with it. While it's no Pop-Up Pirate, if I whipped it out at a party I think people would just about manage to have a good time. And, ultimately that would make Just Dance a success.A lazy, ugly, success. Which doesn't work properly. But a success nevertheless.
A small design company in America has filed a lawsuit against Microsoft, alleging that it is unfairly using the Bing name for its search engine.Bing! Information Design, based in St Louis, Missouri, launched a legal action last week in a local court - alleging that the multibillion-dollar software corporation "had knowledge of the mark" and "intentionally interfered" when itrelaunched its search engine with a new name earlier this year.Lawyers for the Missouri firm said that the action damaged the smaller company's business, and would seek punitive damages to "punish" Microsoft and deter other companies from acting in a similar manner."For nearly 10 years my client has been using the Bing! mark," said lawyer Anthony Simon in a statement. "My client selected this unique mark to distinguish itself in the marketplace and invested substantial time and effort promoting its business using Bing!.""Microsoft's use of the identical mark and its aggressive advertising have gutted all of my client's efforts to distinguish its business and created confusion that must be remedied."The situation may not be clear cut. The company says it has been using the name since at least 2000, and an application for the trademark outlines the use of the name Bing! for advertising and services for the advertising industry.However, a trademark application for the name wasnot filed until May- when rumours about Microsoft's new product had already spread widely across the internet.Microsoft, meanwhile,filed its own trademark applicationsfor the name in March - for a variety of uses, including search engine software, interface software, advertising, telecoms and for "providing a website and website links to geographic information, map images and trip routing".In addition, two other companies are also taking action against Microsoft over what they say are trademark infringements:a web-based shopping service called BongoBingand software companyTerabyte, which has a product called BootIt Next Generation, or Bing for short.Microsoft lawyer Kevin Kutz said that he believed the case would be dismissed because there was little confusion between his company's business and the St Louis firm."We believe this suit to be without merit and we do not believe there is any confusion in the marketplace with regard to the complainants offerings and Microsoft's Bing," hetold the Register. "We respect trademarks and other people's intellectual property, and look forward to the next steps in the judicial process."That assertion, however, may ring hollow for some - coming after a difficult week for the Seattle-based software company in which itadmit having stolen computer code from a Canadian internet startup.After allegations that a site developed by MSN China had lifted code from messaging website Plurk, Microsoft apologised for the transgression and said it was the fault of an independent contractor."It was never our intent to have a site that was not respectful of the work that others in the industry have done," the company said.Plurk responded by saying it isstill considering whether to take legal action.
On FridayKeith askedwhat games you may be playing this Christmas, but for me this time of year is all about gaming nostalgia. Yup, it's time for your festive gaming memories. Mine are centred around the C64 and the N64.  First up was getting the Commodore 64 for Christmas and then having to wait after lunch while the likes of Chiller, Hunchback 2 andDaley Thompson's Decathlonloaded up.  A real '80s Christmas classic. More recently it was playingOcarina of Timeon the N64 at Christmas 1998. Gathering everyone round to wow at the graphics – remember this was when Nintendo was at the cutting edge (ish) of graphics as well as gameplay – before they all disappeared leaving me to experience the gaming heaven that wasHyrule Field.  Actually Nintendo first party games seem to always crop up when I think of Christmas gaming. This yearSpirit Trackswill definitely be figuring. Anyway, go on then, it's only a few days to go. So what are your favourite Christmas gaming memories?
With just a few days to go until Christmas, we're continuing our countdown of the technology stories of the decade - and how the Guardian reported them.Having done thefirstfiveyearslastweek, we're now into the last five years.As these things go, 2005 saw quite a lot of major changes behind the scenes at Guardian Towers. In September werelaunched the Guardian entirely, changing format and turning what had been called "Online" for the past 11 years into Technology Guardian. That brought in a succession of other changes, too: after 40 years of incredible service, our editor, Vic Keegan, retired (though of course, he's remained a columnist). Meanwhile, I moved from working on the weekly section to being the Guardian's technology correspondent, and we were joined by Charles Arthur, who took over running the supplement.With all that happening in the background, there were lots of exciting happenings throughout 2005. The shifts in the media landscape started to become more noticeable - blogging was becoming influential, and a series of big money acquisitions officially ended the dotcom bust. Web 2.0 - officially coined the previous year by publisher and technology magnate Tim O'Reilly - was here.2005&bull; Apple continued making great strides inonline music, as people started flocking en masse to the iTunes store. In January, figures confirmed thatmore than 200m tracks had been downloaded in the past 12 months, while various companies eyedmobile phones as a challenger to the iPod. They had good reason to think consumers might make the switch: in February,European regulators looked into the question of high pricing in Britain.&bull; It was a year that blogging really started to have an impact on mainstream culture, not least researcsuggesting that a new blog was being born every second. The idea ofcitizen journalism, orreallynew media came into its own on the grisly morning of July 7, when London was struck by a series of bombings - detailed through cameraphone pictures,blog postings. Not everyoneliked the idea, but technology played its part in therescue efforts, too.&bull; Mergers and acquisitions began gathering pace early in the year, when Yahoo bought the hotly-tipped photo sharing website Flickr. We interviewed the site's co-founder,Stewart Butterfield, in March and then, later in the yearwhen Yahoo also bought Delicious, we interviewed theexecutive who had pushed through both buyouts. His explanation: Yahoo was moving into social search. (these days, of course, Yahoo isnot a search company).&bull; In July,Rupert Murdochsurprised everyone bystumping up $580m for MySpace- which went through despiteattempts to block the deal. The move followed apowwow between Murdoch and his lieutenants in Februaryin which they thrashed out an internet strategy - with the benefit of hindsight (and given MySpace's troubles) they might rue the day.&bull; And to make it a trifecta of major buys,eBaydipped into its pockets to fish out $4.1bn tobuy the loss-making internet telephony service Skype. Early reports had put the priceat between $2bn and £3bn- a tag that eBay would probably have been happier with, given that two years later itwrote off $1.4bnand then earlier this year it fought a legal battle against the company's foundersamid plans to spin it off.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; We'll start off this post-weekend, pre-Christmas briefing by pointing out thatGooglehas been criticised after it emerged that thecompany's UK arm did not pay a penny of corporation tax in the UK last year- an entirely legal avoidance that means the exchequer missed out on as much as £450m for 2008. The company says ""It would be wrong to think of Google's revenues from UK advertisers as solely the result of operations carried out locally" - despite the fact that Googlespecifically breaks out its earnings in Britain, which came to some £470m in its last quarterly results alone.&bull; Reports suggest that the voice over internet operatorJajah, which started in Austria and Israel, could be on the verge of a $200m sale to O2 according tothis report in TheMarker.com(the report is in Hebrew,here's an automated English translation. Interesting purchase if it's true; we'vetalkedaboutregularlyover the past few years, and their investors include Deutsche Telekom and Intel.&bull; And after a weekend of being unable to escape people's opinions of James Cameron's new movie,Avatar, perhaps it's worth revisiting preciselywhat the director did to achieve his claimthat the film is an unrivalled technofest that takes special effects to the next level. Personally, the idea leaves me cold. But did you see it? What did you think?You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google, which has an estimated 90% market share of UK internet searches, last year used a cross-border network of subsidiary companies to ensure it did not pay a penny in corporation tax on its £1.6bn advertising revenues in Britain.The international corporate structure enables Google to avoid paying what could otherwise have been a corporation tax bill in the UK of as much as £450m.Recently filed accounts for subsidiary company Google UK Limited show none of the search engine's advertising revenues from British customers were accounted for in the business, despite operations in London and Manchester incurring "administrative expenses" of £177m last year, including a wage bill of £70m.While much of the costs linked to the running of Google's British operations are recognised for tax purposes in the UK; revenues from customers in Britain, however, are diverted to another Google company in Ireland, where the corporation tax rate is between 10% and 25%. British corporation tax is levied at between 28% and 30%.The accounts for Google UK describe its principal activity as "the provision of marketing services to Google Ireland Limited and the provision of research and development services to [US parent company] Google Inc".As a result Google UK reports turnover of £150m and a pretax loss of £26m. By contrast, Google Inc's annual report showed 14% of the company's $21.8bn (£13.5bn) revenues came from the UK, making it the largest market outside of the US.Multinational companies engaged in so-called "transfer pricing" – where expenses are booked in high tax jurisdictions and earnings in low tax areas — are seen by many anti-avoidance campaigners as presenting one of the biggest challenges to the already strained exchequer.Such transfer pricing arrangements must have the agreement of tax authorities in the UK and are entirely legal. They are commonplace in many industries other than advertising, from pharmaceuticals to bananas. Multinationals with significant intellectual property – such as Google and Microsoft – are particular well placed to transfer revenues to the most advantageous tax regimes because they are able to charge inter-group companies significant royalty payments.Tax expert and anti-avoidance campaigner Richard Murphy said: "This indicates a pattern of tax avoidance by Google suggesting they are dedicated to minimising corporation tax on profits arising outside of the US."Over the weekend, Vince Cable, deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats, urged Google to pay "its fair share" and warned that it risked damage to its reputation. "Avoidance like this is hard to stomach at the best of times, but when the country is in recession and everyone is feeling the pain, it really sticks in the throat – it means higher taxes for the rest of us".Google, which was built on a motto "don't be evil", said: "It would be wrong to think of Google's revenues from UK advertisers as solely the result of operations carried out locally. We invest in R&amp;D, data centres and other infrastructure on a global basis, and that then helps generate revenue in different countries."A spokesman pointed out that Google employs more than 800 staff in the UK, making a "substantial contribution" through payroll and other taxes. He added that Dublin was Google's European headquarters, pooling revenues from across the continent, not just the UK. He said the competitive tax environment was just one reason why Google, like many other multinationals, had chosen Dublin for its European base.The smallprint of the 2008 annual report for Google Inc, which is registered in Delaware, reveals that despite the search engine's international reach, its two major tax jurisdictions are the US and Ireland. "We and our subsidiaries are routinely examined by various taxing authorities," it states, confirming Irish officials are examining tax years 2002 to 2008.
PEUGEOT 3008£17,495MILES PER GALLON: 55.4CO2PER KM: 137 GRAMSGOOD FOR: HIGH FLYERSBAD FOR: GROUND CREWSHere's something you may not know you needed: a car which can launch a glider. At long last, I hear you sigh. Having indulged in a bit of blue-sky thinking (literally), Peugeot's press office hatched the demonstration in order to graphically show that their "Softy Walter" two-wheel drive 3008 could achieve the same levels of grip and traction on a slippery surface as a brutish "Dennis the Menace" four-wheel drive off-roader. The last time a PR department attempted a plane-pulling stunt was a couple of years ago, when VW used its massive V10 Touareg to tow a jumbo. So – pulling a glider? They're only made of spit and sticky paper, aren't they?However, a little ignorance goes a long way. Normally a 500kg glider is catapulted into the air with the help of a machine called a Sky Launch – a huge, superfast winch powered by a 7.2-litre 360bhp engine. Peugeot's 3008 is powered by a 1.6-litre 150bhp engine.The Peugeot backed up towards the glider and a line was attached to the rear hook – a hook which would normally be used for towing caravans and small trailers. The experienced pilot climbed into the aircraft while Kevin, from the press office, donned hisTop Gunsunglasses and climbed into the car. He gunned the engine, turned the grip control system to the "off-road" setting – ideal for mud and wet grass – hit the gas and blasted off across a bumpy field dragging the glider behind him. At about 50mph the glider inched  off the ground before quickly soaring into the sky, while Kevin slammed on the brakes to stop him hurtling into the hedge. Ta-dah!The 3008's grip control has five settings: standard, snow, off-road, sand and ESP off. Clearly few will be launching gliders, but it does prove that whether it's mud, snow or sand you are dealing with, the 3008 is master of its environment. But the real advantage of a two-wheel drive car comes when you see your fuel bill at the end of the month.The 3008 is Peugeot's contribution to what's called the "crossover" market. It's a car that aims to be all things to all drivers – part hatchback, part SUV and part MPV. If you were feeling unkind you'd say it was a Jack of all trades, master of none, but spending a week with the 3008 persuaded me that it is in fact a bit of an all-rounder. A Freddie Flintoff in the making. It has the road manners and usability of a hatchback, the modularity and load-carrying ability of an MPV, and it can put any SUV through its paces.The cabin is light and airy. The makers have aimed for a cockpit feel. The centre console is high and the driver sits facing a bank of toggle switches which all add to that aircraft aesthetic – there is even a head-up information screen that rises out of the dashboard like the target ring on a fighter jet. The 3008 is jammed with cubbies and storage bins, and the boot has a useful split-tailgate that makes loading easy – and made quite a good rainy-day picnic table, too. The car also comes with a panoramic roof, at a reasonable £350 extra, which creates a vast glass ceiling. Ideal for keeping an eye on that glider.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
HOW DO YOU predict whether a given patient is likely to die from a heart attack? Conventional medical wisdom would base a risk assessment on factors such as the person's age, whether they were smokers and/or diabetic plus the results of cardiac ultrasound and various blood tests. It may be that a better predictor is a computer program that analyses the patient's electrocardiogram looking for subtle features within the data provided by the instrument.A team of researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Michigan analysed a large data-set of 24-hour electrocardiogram recordings collected at a Boston hospital as part of a clinical trial for a new drug. Employing a number of computational techniques involving algorithms for signal processing, data mining and machine learning, the researchers developed a way to analyse how the shape of the electrical waveform varies, a measure they dubbed morphological variability. At the heart of the approach are mathematical techniques used in speech recognition and genome analysis which allow researchers to compare individual beats. "We compute the differences for every pair of beats," reported one of the researchers. "If there is lots of variability, that patient is in bad shape."The team then applied their algorithm to a second set of electrocardiogram recordings and found that patients with the highest morphological variability were six to eight times more likely to die from a heart attack than those with low variability. They concluded that it consistently predicted as well or better than the indicators commonly used by physicians.In the same week, researchers at the Sanger Institute in Cambridge revealed that they had reconstructed the biological history of two types of cancer in a piece of research that, according to theGuardianreport, "promises to transform medical treatment of the disease". The research exposed every genetic mutation the patients have acquired over their lifetimes, including the ones that eventually caused healthy cells in their bodies to turn into tumours.One of the diseases studied was lung cancer. The research revealed 23,000 mutations that were exclusive to the diseased cells. Almost all were caused by the 60 or so chemicals in cigarette smoke that stick to DNA and deform it. "We can say that one mutation is fixed in the genome for every 15 cigarettes smoked," said Peter Campbell, the scientist who led the lung cancer part of the study. "That is frightening because many people smoke a packet of 20 a day."Although these stories are reports about medical research, they are really about computing – in the sense that neither would have been possible without the application of serious computer power to masses of data. In that way they reflect a new – but so far unacknowledged – reality; that in many important fields leading-edge scientific research cannot be done without access to vast computational and data-handling facilities, with sophisticated software for analysing huge data-sets.In many significant areas, advanced research is no longer done by individuals looking through microscopes or telescopes, but by computers enabling investigators to collate, visualise and analyse the torrents of data produced by arrays of instruments such as theAustralian Square Kilometre radio Telescopeor theLarge Hadron Collider.The man who did most to alert the world to the urgent need to take "computational science" seriously was Jim Gray, a much-loved visionary who worked for Microsoft Research. Towards the end of his life, Gray argued that we had moved into what he called "the Fourth Paradigm" of scientific research, which he dubbed "data-intensive scientific discovery". In 2007 he went sailing off the Californian coast – and simply disappeared. Neither he nor his boat was ever found, despite an intensive conventional search butressed by a huge online effort by volunteers who scanned satellite images of the maritime area where the boat was estimated to be.Last week, in a touching tribute to a lost colleague, Microsoft Research published a handsome book of essays in his memory. It's entitledThe Fourth Paradigm: data-intensive scientific discoveryand is available as a free download. In it are 30 thoughtful essays on four areas which were central to Jim Gray's vision – environment, health, scientific infrastructure and scholarly communication. This book should be required reading for every policymaker responsible for science and technology to remind them that we now have to provide the resources to fund the IT infrastructure. If we don't give them these tools, then we cannot expect them to finish the job.
Scribblenauts, Nintendo DsSolve problems by writing down whatever you think you need – from a ladder and rope to a bazooka or God – to be snapped into existence and help you acquire the game's elusive pieces of Starite.Battlefield 1943, PC, PS3, Xbox 360Battlefield 1943A long way from the po-faced drudgery of Medal Of Honor and Call Of Duty: World At War, Battlefield 1943 has a colourful, knockabout multiplayer take on the deadliest conflict in human history. Easy to pick up, its availability by download makes it a perennial impulse buy.Uncharted 2, PS3Uncharted 2The continuing story of Nathan Drake makes for some of the best adventuring currently made available by technology. Scaling ancient monuments in the best style of Prince Of Persia and gawping at its gorgeous scenery, is naturally underpinned by plenty of gunplay.Street Fighter IV, PC, PS3, Xbox 360Streetfighter IVThe fighting game that can lay claim to starting it all returns, not re-invented but pumped up in every conceivable dimension to make it more easily accessible to dabblers, while retaining the Byzantine complexity that makes it a favourite of the true hardcore. It's the world's best beat-'em-up.Left 4 Dead 2, PC, Xbox 360Left 4 Dead 2The zombie apocalypse, always a rich vein for game- and film-makers, is this time used to expose your essential humanity, as you and three friends make a break for the last chopper to freedom. Will you take the last health pack? Steal the grenade launcher? Get locked outside the safe room by former friends?Assassin's Creed 2, PC, PS3, Xbox 360Assassin's Creed 2Free-running Renaissance arse-kickery as Leonardo Da Vinci upgrades your assassin's tools and the Medicis need a good stabbing to keep them in check. Uproariously entertaining and expansive in its scope, there's a lot to like in chases across ancient Italian rooftops.Forza Motorsport 3, Xbox 360Forza Motorsport 3In the absence of Gran Turismo 5, which has been in development throughout living memory, Forza Motorsport 3 is the devoted armchair petrol-head's answer to not being able to afford a Ferrari Enzo. Precision racing at its finest.Mario &amp; Sonic at the Winter Olympic Games, Nintendo WiiMario & Sonic At The Winter Olympic GamesIf you've got Wii Fit, this is your big chance to have some actual fun with your balance board, previously only used for slightly worthy yoga-style exercises. Its 20-odd mini-games offer a pleasing variety of mock-athletic challenges.Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Nintendo DSMario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside StorySucked, along with the Princess, into Bowser's innards, Mario &amp; Luigi help their former arch nemesis in their mutual quest to get rid of Fawful, a baddie who has usurped Bowser's castle and traditional role as would-be kidnapper of royalty.Halo Wars, Xbox 360Halo WarsHalo's familiar characters, vehicles and guns are miniaturised and viewed from above in this console-friendly take on real time strategy, a genre normally associated with mouse and keyboard. Not the work of genius its pedigree might suggest, it's still an exceptionally playable strategy game..
ComScore has released the results of a survey of the US market under the headline:Android: Crashing the Smartphone Party. It says:Among the report's key findings is that consumer awareness of Google's Android is growing rapidly, due in large part to the Verizon Droid ad campaign. Further, of those American consumers in the market for a smartphone, 17% are considering the purchase of an android-supported device in next three months, compared to 20% indicating they plan to purchase an iPhone.What ComScore's press release fails to mention, strangely, is that three of the top four mobile phones in its table of "Intended Smartphone Purchasers" are all from Research in Motion (RIM). The BlackBerry Pearl (18%) is beating the Apple iPhone 3GS (14%) while the BlackBerry Storm (13%) and Curve (11%) are not far behind.With the BlackBerry Bold (4%) and Tour (3%) also making the Top 10, RIM's BlackBerry system is the choice of more than half (51%) of those planning a purchase in the next three months. This is more than iPhone (20%) and Android (17%) added together.RIM's improved performance is supported by its latest financial results. As my colleagueRichard Wray reported earlier this afternoon, profits in the three months to the end of November were $628.4m compared with $396.3m in the same quarter last year, a 59% increase. Rick's story says:RIM shipped a record-breaking 10 million smartphones, better than investors had expected, and said it expected to shift even more in the last three months of its financial year as its push into the consumer market continues to pay off.To be specific, it expects to ship between 10.6 and 11.2 million mobiles at an ASP (average selling price) of $320.The BlackBerry has long been popular for business email and amongcelebritiesbut it's now attracting consumers, including teens who use it for instant messaging.There's still plenty of room for all the companies in the smartphone market to grow, for two reasons. First, the major handsets are still not available across the globe. In RIM's case, only 35% of its subscribers are overseas, but this could change rapidly now RIM hassigned deals with China Mobile and Digital China Holdings Ltd. Second, there's a shift from ordinary mobiles to smartphones, which means that smartphone sales can continue to grow as existing phone users upgrade.There are reasons for thinking that Android will do particularly well, because it can easily be adopted by local suppliers and networks: there's no need to wait for Apple or RIM to design new handsets or set up operations in hundreds of different countries. Microsoft Windows enjoyed a similar advantage over the Mac. This time, however, it looks as though it will be Android that benefits, rather than Windows Mobile.
Google is in talks to acquire the popular reviews website Yelp, as it looks to bolster its presence in local listings.Reports suggestthat the search engine is prepared to pay as much as $500m (£309m) for the San Francisco startup, which provides user-generated reviews of shops, restaurants and other businesses across the US.The two companies have held discussions in the past, but serious talks about a deal are believed to have started several months ago.Yelp - which is based in San Francisco - is one of the most popular user-generated review sites in the US, with more than 8 million reviews covering businesses all around the country.In the past year it has made a determined effort to expand elsewhere, in particularlaunching in Britain last spring. The company has raised more than $30m from investors but, like most advertising-based businesses, it has found money harder to come by during the recession.Google, for its part, has been increasingly turning to local search results and business listings it expands its ever-growing business. It has already become a major player in the sector, but is widely seen to have struggled to dominate in the same way it does in the wider web search market.Yelp is expected to generate between $30m and $50m in revenues this year, and could provide the Silicon Valley giant with a new - and more social - way of providing information to people about their local area.A spokeswoman for Yelp told the Guardian that the company does not comment on rumour or speculation.If the deal goes through, it will mark the latest a flurry of activity for the world's most influential technology company. It has garnered a reputation for big money acquisitions in recent years by purchasing a string of high-profile web services, but had slowed down the number of buys it was making over the past year.That came partially and the urging of chief executive Eric Schmidt, who has been closing down some as a way to get staff to focus more clearly on its core businesses.The company has conducted a series of takeovers since early November, however - most notablybuying the mobile advertising service AdMob for $750m.As news of the potential deal spread around the web, experts suggested might be positive news for both companies."If the deal happens, then it's a good move for Yelp and its backers, who are selling at what I think is the top of the market,"said Om Malik, the founder of Silicon Valley blog GigaOm."In the near term, the deal is good for Google as well, since it gives it a fighting chance to build a decent enough local business, something it's struggled with in the recent past."
Aren't we due another Brain Training? As the game that eased many a commute – and helped sell several thousand DS systems to the older generation – it must be about time for more of Doctor Kawashima's synapse-firing exercises.In the meantime, of course, the older gamer isn't short of options when it comes to flexing the grey cells. This latest effort from Nintendo may not have the quirky appeal or originality of a Professor Layton adventure (or, indeed, the variety), but as entertainment for public transport, on holiday or in the smallest room? It's a pretty solid collection.It is, as the title suggests, a collection of crosswords. There are no cryptic ones – which begs the question "why not?" – but the game features more than 1,000 straightforward crosswords. At the Easy setting, clues such as "striped large cat" for five letters, or "move through water" for four won't trouble the majority of those playing. The "Medium" setting, however, mixes things up a little – some plain sailing, some stumpers – while the Hard setting does pretty much what it says on the tin. It is, in effect, like carrying several hundred Weekend crosswords in one handy games console.The interface is so straightforward that the tutorials are unnecessary. Tap on a square, the DS zooms in so you can write your letter on the right-hand screen. It then moves up or down depending on whether you're solving an across or down clue.If you're completely stumped, there are a few options to help beyond phoning a friend or hitting Google. There's a "cheat" setting that tells you when you've written an incorrect letter or, should you wish to keep the challenge a little more cerebral, you can purchase a handful of extra clues per puzzle.Once you've exhausted / got bored with the crossword element, there are also Wordsearch and Anagram puzzles to be solved. The former is a surprisingly addictive pocket version of those books they sell at airports, the latter is a neatly challenging Countdown-style puzzle.Graphically, there's nothing here that's beyond the functional but actually that's all you need. The important thing is playability and, for those who like this sort of thing (and I was surprised to discover that included me) this is a sensibly priced, well put together crowd-pleaser.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I have become completely obsessed with my iPhone. Before I acquired this about two months ago I had the oldest, saddest cellphone you've ever seen – it was kind of a life-changer. I'm totally in love with it, it's like a member of my family.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Well it's hard to keep my hands off it. I try to when I'm travelling, because it's so expensive to use it. But I last used it last night updating my Facebook status.What additional features would you add if you could?I am a little jealous that a friend of mine has an actual vocal instruction GPS map system on her phone. I do love the maps feature though.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Of course – 10 years? That's like eons in tech time. We'll all have little microchips in our heads and we'll be thinking each others thoughts instead of phoning.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Probably the scary, not quite real or trustworthy nature of storing things in bits and bytes. I shot a quick, short film last week and lost half the footage because I stored it to card instead of tape. I always wonder if I'm going to have enough backups of my backups.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I remember back in the days of when people were still trying to figure out data storage, and there was a lot of removable data storage. I still have all of these things stored on obsolete formats – zip drives and so on. There was a device called the Psyquest drive. And there were optical storage drives.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?What I always do if I'm trying to work out how to use a new piece of technology is to make friends with geeks – have one great computer geek in your life. It saves a lot of time.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Somewhere in between. It would be much more useful if I were a real nerd, but I'm not quite there – thus, geeks are my friends.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my laptop – my Mac Powerbook.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, completely – because I'm a filmmaker and love Final Cut Pro. But even beyond that I'm a sucker for their design. And I find the way they interact quite comforting – I hate Windows.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I never really bought DVDs, I always rented those. But I always had a soft spot for independent music stores. So I do download music, but I do sometimes like to go and buy a CD. I think the last DVD I bought wasThe Guatamalan Handshake, by Todd Rohal.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?An excellent idea. In my head, anyway – I don't know about the real ones.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Probably a device that would sleep for me, like a mobile sleep bank. So I could stay up all night, and still get up at 7am and think clearly.•Lynn Shelton's latest film,Humpday, is now on release across the UK
Apologies to those who don't get the week off between Christmas and New Year, but for me, this is a time for catching up on games that I've managed not to play for the rest of the year; you know, because of all the... work... I do... playing... games... Erm...Anyways, with all the titles released every year, there are lots I don't get to look at 'professionally', especially those that Greg or Jack have grabbed to talk about on the blog.But what about you? Do you have a selection of titles you're gearing up to tackle as you tuck into mince pies, cheese balls and After Eight mints? While the rest of the family is trying to decide between the Strictly Come Dancing Christmas Special or On Her Majesty's Secret Service will you be elsewhere with a glass of snowball playing your import copy of Demon's Souls?And do you have any games on your Christmas list?Come on, Christmas is a time of sharing, so let us know - just in case we get the same game and fancy a bit of Merry Christmas multiplayer...
Veteran British publisherElite Systemshas spent the last ten years porting its cabal of retro licenses on to an array of handheld platforms, and here's its latest venture - an iPhone version of classic coin-op, Paperboy. Launching on App Store today, the game offers a faithful isometric version, or a 3D update.Originally released in 1984, Paperboy is one of my favourite arcade games of all time. In its day, it was deceptively innovative, not just in its everyday setting (as opposed to space wars or kung fu tussles), it also had loads of little extras - or 'easter eggs if you will - for players to discover, like knocking over bins with errant paper throws. It was one of the first games where actively flouting the rules and purposefully 'doing the wrong thing', i.e. smashing windows, was pleasurable and rewarding - well, to a teenage boy in a grimy Stockport amusement arcade, anyway.Elite also holds rights to other old skool faves including Chuckie Egg, Ikari Warriors and Double Dragon, all of which must surely be heading over the platform soon.
DRM - digital rights management - is usually criticised because the "rights" that get conferred are those you'd expect on an analogue product, but which are somehow withheld to be endowed by whoever is in charge of the DRM. (Such as Apple's "Fairplay" system, which will limit the number of computers that a digital product can be played on.)Sometimes though it's the "management" bit which gets messed up. Such as happened with the owners of Office 2003 documents who found, after enabling protection of the documents using Microsoft's Rights Management System (RMS), that nobody could open them. Including the creator.The reason? According to anembarrassed Microsoft blog post, because a certificate had expired. Which meant of course that the server didn't like any request made to it to access the document.Though there'snow a hotfixfor Office, Word Viewer and Excel Viewer (not apparently Powerpoint Viewer - is there one? - or Outlook?). But it's still something that shouldn't have happened.Now put yourself in the place of the people who listened to the Microsoft salespeople in 2002 or so when they were extolling the virtues of RMS. "And it's online, so you can enable just who you like to read the document, wherever they are in the world!" Sounds great; in practice, liable to central failure like this.In its way, this is very similar to the experience of people who've signed up for server-based DRM. Cory Doctorow has warned about this in the past: as he puts it, "Don't fall for the Potemkin scam". Given that that piece was written in 2007, it's worth revisiting, because its fundamental truth remains:The DRM business model is the urinary tract infection of media experiences: all of the uses that used to come in an easy gush now come in a mingy, painful dribble - a few pennies out of your pocket every time you want to watch a show again, hit the pause button, or rewind.Or of course open those documents.And ask yourself: if you had been bitten by this bug, would you have hurried to upgrade? Knowing that the bug exists, do you want to use that DRM?(Thanks toDaniweb for the pointer.)
The"Twitter hack" by the "Iranian Cyber Army"turns out not to have been a hack of Twitter itself: instead they took aim at the DNS records for the site itself (though Twitter itselfsays in a blog postthat API services - which contact the servers directly - were unaffected.)The hackers also appear to have hacked mowjcamp.org, an advocacy site for Iranian protesters against the re-elected President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.I tried to contact the "Iranian Cyber Army" at the given (Gmail) address on the website: it bounced as undeliverable.Rik Ferguson, a security analyst at Trend Micro, said: "This kind of DNS hijacking usually involves compromising the registrar responsible for the DNS records of the victim company. The attackers then make unauthorised changes to the DNS records. These changes mean that when you or I type a web site address into our browsers, we are directed not to the real web site but to a second site, set up by the hackers, in this case the 'Iranian Cyber Army'. This has the net effect of making it look like, in this example, servers belonging to Twitter were compromised when in reality that was not the case."Similar misdirections have happened in the past by accident when "root servers" which route queries for domain lookups have been misprogrammed.Pakistan was blamed for making YouTube inaccessible to the world in February 2008. The government ordered ISPs to set up theirDNSservers to reroute any queries inside the country for the site to an "inaccessible" message - but that block was then passed on toDNSservers around the world. (Update:altered to try to clarify that the Pakistan/YouTube incident was about routing tables, not DNS.)However security experts know that DNS servers are a major source of weakness in the internet: because they determined how traffic is routed, control of them gives hackers the ability to send people where they like. In July 2008researchers had to race to fix a flaw discovered in the DNS setupbefore hackers could exploit it.Ferguson added: "These sorts of attacks are usually limited to hacktivism activities like this one today, but imagine the potential to criminals if they could pull this off against any site requiring log in credentials, such as PayPal, eBay, MSN, Facebook. One has to wonder how quickly the attack would be noted if the dummy site was an exact replica of the victim and was simply there to harvest credentials and redirect the user then into the real site."Such attacks, called "pharming", presently happen on individual PCs that have been silently taken over by malware, not DNS compromises. But, warns Ferguson, "the potential is demonstrably there. If attacks like this can be said to serve any purpose at all, then perhaps they can serve as a reminder that we all need to absolutely ensure that our business partners meet our own high security standards, and that stands in both the on- and offline worlds."Update:a translation of some of the text has been provided: "the red text says "Peace be with you. Ya Hossein!" (Hossein being the third imam in the Shia Islam hierarchy, this phrase is used as an exclamation, a bit like we might say 'Oh my god!')'.'The lower text says "If the leader orders us to, we will attack and if he wants us to, we will lose our heads. If he wants us to have patience and wait, we shall sit down and put up with it."'(We still don't know what the top part, in blue, says: that's Arabic not Farsi/Iranian, apparently.)Intriguingly this site's content (the pic is from mowjcamp.org) is different from what was allegedly put on the Twitter misdirection: "U.S.A. Think They Controlling And Managing Internet By Their Access, But They Don't, We Control And Manage Internet By Our Power, So Do Not Try To Stimulation Iranian Peoples To…. NOW WHICH COUNTRY IN EMBARGO LIST? IRAN? USA? WE PUSH THEM IN EMBARGO LIST ;) Take Care."
A few readers have asked for this, so as an epilogue to an interesting week of discussion, here are the top 100 games that made up our Gamesblog Games of the Noughties list. As you'll see, plenty of favourites were bubbling just below the top 50, although still no room for Dwarf Fortress!1. Half-Life 22. World of Warcraft3. Fallout 34. Portal5. GTA: San Andreas6. GTA: Vice City7. Resident Evil 48. Bioshock9. Call of Duty Modern Warfare10. Civilization 411. Deus Ex12. Pro Evo Soccer13. Baldur's Gate 214. Halo15. Super Mario Galaxy16. Elder Scrolls Oblivion17. Ico18. Shadow of the Colossus19. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic20. Football Manager21. GTA 422. Elder Scrolls: Morrorwind23. GTA 324. Mass Effect25. Metroid Prime26. Left 4 Dead27. Rome Total War28. Uncharted 229. Guitar Hero30. Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker31. Advance Wars32. Mario Kart Wii33. Wii Sports34. Gears of War35. Metal Gear Solid 336. Okami37. God of War38. Medieval Total War39. Prince of Persia: Sands of Time40. Rock Band41. Halo 342. LittleBigPlanet43. Zelda Twilight Princess44. Bejeweled45. Final Fantasy XII46. Gran Turismo 347. Metal Gear Solid 248. Team Fortress 249. Timesplitters 250. Call of Duty51. Final Fantasy X52. Diablo 253. Eternal Darkness54. Halo 255. Jet Set Radio56. Mario Kart Double Dash57. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots58. Battlefield 194259. Silent Hill 260. SSX Tricky61. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 262. Demon Souls63. Fable II64. Gran Turismo 465. Killzone 266. Operation Flashpoint67. Perfect Dark68. Psychonauts69. Shenmue70. Sims71. Super Monkey Ball72. Batman Arkham Asylum73. Dead Rising74. Lego Star Wars75. Rez76. Street Fighter IV77. Battlefield Bad Company78. Beyond Good and Evil79. Braid80. Championship Manager81. Counterstrike82. Crackdown83. Far Cry 284. FIFA 1085. Gears of War 286. Katamari Damacy87. Animal Crossing88. Assassin's Creed 289. Burnout 3 Takedown90. Crazy Taxi91. Dead Space92. Dragon Age Origins93. Fable94. Fahrenheit95. Far Cry96. God of War 297. Max Payne98. Mirror's Edge99. New Super Mario Brothers100. Quake III Arena
Popular online messaging service Twitter was left reeling overnight, after Iranian hackers appeared to break into the site and deface it.The strike left the site completely unavailable for several hours in the early hours of Friday morning, with the site's estimated 30m users unable to access the service or send messages to each other online.The incident took place some time around 6am in the UK, when the main Twitter page suddenly seemed to disappear – instead replaced with a stark black and red screen featuring an image of a flag.The page, which carried a mixture of English and Farsi slogans, appeared to name the group behind the attack and offer a call to arms."This site has been hacked by the Iranian Cyber Army," said the message."The USA thinks they control and manage internet access, but they don't. We control and manage the internet with our power, so do not try to the incite Iranian people."The site returned to normal functions around two hours later, with staff telling users that it had suffered from "unplanned downtime".Although early reports suggested the site itself had been breached by attackers, it now seems that the strike was actually a crude form of assault known as a DNS hijack.The DNS, or Domain Name System, is effectively a telephone directory of the internet – connecting the name of a website, such as twitter.com or guardian.co.uk, to the web servers that hold its contents.In hijacking cases, computer criminals effectively redirect the traffic intended for a particular website, sending users to a page of their own choice rather than the planned destination.Around two and half hours after the outage occurred, Twitter staff issued a short statement on the company's blog confirming the style of the attack it had suffered."Twitter's DNS records were temporarily compromised but have now been fixed,"said the post. "We are looking into the underlying cause and will update with more information soon."It is not the first time that Twitter has found itself subject to attention due to its links with Iranian activists.During the uprising that followed the elections in June this year, in which incumbent president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad eventually triumphed, the US state departmenturged the site to remain onlineto allow more information about the protests to spread online.Little is known, however, about the group who appeared to claim responsibility for hacking Twitter. But the nature of the messages they left appears somewhat confusing.Though the text left by the hackers appeared to be anti-American, they also used the image of a green flag – the colour connected to the election protesters, and to Mir-Hossein Mousavi, the main challenger to President Ahmadinejad.
