Volvo C30&pound;16,795Miles per gallon: 57.6Seats: 4Good for: SaintsBad for: Sinners'Fun' and 'Volvo' are two words which don't often rub shoulders in the same sentence. On the one hand we have hands-in-the-air merriment, on the other the vehicular equivalent of an online tax return. For decades, the Swedish car company has steadily stripped away all joy from their cars, leaving them safe, reliable and robust. But not exactly a bundle of laughs. The closest Volvo has come to cracking a smile was last summer, when they decided to fit an incongruous folding roof on to one of their sturdy family saloons. The result was certainly funny, but not for any of the right reasons. Now, seemingly from nowhere, those deadpan designers have come over all frivolous and produced the perky, lovable and irresistibly charming C30.So why is the C30 so different? For a start, it only has two doors. Big deal, you may think, but it's an overt statement that this car is not aimed at the usual Volvo market (family man, harassed wife, snot-nosed kids and drooling Lab). It is instead hoping to lure the young, urban, design-literate, first-time Volvo buyer into its leathery embrace.It is still a Volvo, though, so don't go thinking they've been at the laughing gas. As you would expect, it has four sensible seats. It is roomy. It is well built - it boasts all the four-square solidity of an Anderson shelter. It comes with enough airbags to make a bouncy castle envious. It has seat-belt pre-tensioners and a galaxy of passive safety features. But the makers are clearly expecting such an upturn in the levels of driver enjoyment that they have taken the precaution of installing an Intelligent Driver Information System (IDIS). This continuously monitors the car's progress and if it decides you too are busy dealing with a tricky hairpin, say, or braking savagely to foil a speed camera, it will delay all other non-essential alerts from being flashed at you. After all, do you really need to know that your oil change is due in 12,000 miles right now?Volvo is keen on its acronyms. There's the familiar Side-Impact Protection System (SIPS); the Whiplash Protection System (WHIPS) and also the Blind Spot Information System (BLIS) - though Sips, Whips and Blis does sound like a destination club on Manchester's Canal Street. Party time...From the front, the C30 looks, unfortunately, much like the rest of its Volvo siblings, and features the usual pit-bull nose. From the back, though, the C30 has been jollied up. Rather than Volvo's regular train-buffer bumpers and no-nonsense lights, the car has an elegantly curved glass door which swoops into its sporty haunches. It's a real eye catcher.Eight different engines are on offer, the top performer being the 2.4i. I, however, opted for the frugal 1.6-litre diesel, which produces an ethically pleasing 58 miles to the gallon. Sensation, it seems, but good sense, too.Stylistically, the C30 takes much of its inspiration from the iconic Volvo P1800 which you may remember Roger Moore driving in The Saint in the Sixties. So, fun... and cool. Now that really is a U-turn.martin.love@observer.co.uk
"Nigerian schoolchildren who received laptops from a U.S. aid organization have used them to explore pornographic sites on the Internet, the official News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)," saysReuters, putting the story in its fun section, Oddly Enough.Someone from the One Laptop Per Child project says they'll now fit the computers with filters ... though you have to wonder why they didn't do that in the first place. It really would be a shock if there wasn't at least one person from MIT who knew there wasporn on the net..... (Well, you already sawthis one, didn't you?)
Microsoft's revenues are now around $1 billion a week, with the company totting up sales of $51.12 billion (up 15%) in itslatest financial results, for Fiscal Year 2007. Annual profits were more than $14 billion, and the company returned $31 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends.Revenue for the fourth quarter was $13.4 billion (up 13%), with profits of $3.04 billion (up 7%) after taking a $1 billion charge for Xbox 360 warranties. Without that, profits would have been up 26%.Over the year, the money rolled in from client software ($15 billion), Server and Tools ($11.2 billion), the Microsoft Business Divison, which includes Office ($16.4 billion), the Entertainment and Devices Division ($6.1 billion) and the Online Services Business ($2.5 billion). The last two lost money. Online Services lost $732 million as Microsoft invested in data centres and rolled out Windows Live. Entertainment and Devices lost $1.9 billion after its write-off. Microsoft says:EDD operating loss increased primarily due to the $1.06 billion Xbox 360 charge and Zune launch-related expenses. The increase in operating loss was partially offset by increased Xbox 360 platform sales and decreased Xbox 360 console manufacturing costs. Headcount-related costs increased 15%, driven by a 9% increase in headcount and an increase in salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expense.The Business Divison increased its annualoperating profitby 13% to $10.8 billion, and the Server and Tools business by 29% to $3.9 billion, in spite of their major competitors being free.
The latest quarterly financial results don't make pleasant reading for AMD.Intelhas just declared revenues of $8.7 billion (up 8%) with net profits of $1.3 billion (up 44%).AMDhas declared revenues of $1.4 billion (up 12%) but made a net loss of $600 million.AMD says its processor shipments grew by 22% compared to last year's second quarter, and its losses include charges associated with taking over ATI, but it doesn't look good."While we made solid progress in the second quarter across a number of fronts, we must improve our financial results," said Robert Rivet, AMD's Chief Financial Officer.
For the past week's blog entries on one page, clickhereHot topics include:Swede shows off 40 Gig broadband connectionCan 'platooning' cars save fuel?The iPhone's top 50 flawsPeter Moore quits as Xbox bossCan we design gadgets that age?Orange gives free laptops to broadband customersWhat would you like from a European iPhone?
Scarface: The World Is YoursNintendo WiiScarface the game starts where the film ends, with Tony Montana laying waste to Sosa's henchmen using his "little friend", only this time you help Cuba's most famous fictional political prisoner survive and continue his reign of drug-fuelled mayhem. That and the voluble swearing make this the Wii's first grown-ups only game, no doubt a selling proposition not lost on marketing.Following last year's release on PS2, Xbox and PC, the Wii version suffers badly from lack of a conventional joypad with aiming and just about everything else feeling uncompromisingly clunky, making its Grand Theft Auto-lite play mechanics even less fun. Although not as awful as most film licensed games and with some amusing dialogue and a voice actor who does a very passable Al Pacino, Scarface is a crude simulacrum of Rockstar's classic series.&#183;Vivendi, &pound;40Tom Clancy's Rainbow SixPS3Like ordering a coffee-style beverage from Starbucks, when playing a Rainbow Six game, you know what to expect, which is a wafer-thin plot about terrorists; a small team of Special Forces soldiers at your mildly tactical command; and a difficulty level keen to mete out death at every turn.Vegas has one key difference: you'll live an awful lot longer thanks to its munificently forgiving health system that requires you to find some cover after you've been hit. A few seconds later you're ready to rejoin the global war on terror. The absurdly clumsy under-door camera and slightly dowdy visuals aside, this is without doubt the most accessible and balanced Rainbow Six outing yet, even if it's not quite up to the standard of its verbosely entitled Ubisoft stable mate game, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;40Harry Potter And The Order Of The PhoenixNintendo DSEveryone's favourite speccy wizard is back again in his ongoing campaign to off Voldemort and survive school. In videogame terms this translates to a lot of traipsing around the appropriately labyrinthine corridors of Hogwarts interspersed with magic lessons, wand-based fights with fellow pupils and various mini-games, none of which you'd seek out as a game on its own.Trying too hard to mimic its console big brothers' exploration heavy gameplay ends in a mess of fake-3D environments and fixed camera angles, which, along with a uniquely irritating (but vital) pointing hand that's supposed to tell you where you're going, make for an unfocused and dreary experience from the start. The plot is barely sketched in, lessons are mostly unrewarding and the whole thing is patronisingly easy, which combine to make this feel more like a boring but very straightforward set of chores than entertainment.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;30
Price:&#163;7,990-&#163;13,015Top speed:118mphAcceleration:0-62 in 10.1 secondsConsumption:40.9mpg (combined)Emissions:165g/kmEco rating:6/10At the wheel:Paul PottsTop gadget:Bag retainer in bootIn a word:SweetThe first thing to clarify about the new Skoda Fabia is that it isn't actually a cake. The notable television advertising campaign for this reworked supermini shows resourceful bakers constructing one from sponge, biscuit and marzipan while Julie Andrews sings gaily of her favourite things. Be assured, however, that the real Fabia is formed from the usual range of metals and plastics, and contains no nuts, cream filling or jelly, and that, accordingly, breaking a bit off the dashboard, in a pang of hunger on longer journeys, is not an option.Incidentally, in the interests of transparency and the continuing integrity of Guardian Weekend's motoring page, I feel obliged to declare, MP-style, a gift from Skoda, mailed out with some advance publicity for the Fabia, of a large, square, silver cake tin, of good quality, and the basic ingredients for a jam sponge, not including eggs (which don't post well).I didn't make the sponge (and therefore, it follows logically, I did not apply the pre-moulded, marzipan car shapes Skoda had supplied by way of decoration), reckoning that this would be an act of collusion too far for a newspaper as proudly independent as this one. I did, however, put the silver tin in the cupboard, on the principle that it would be bound to come in handy sometime.Let me be clear that I feel comfortable in my own conscience that not returning this unsolicited - and still, at the time of writing, unused - gift did not affect in any way the performance of my duties when it came to driving and assessing the car, some weeks later.Some unvarnished truths about the Fabia. It came out seven years ago. It's the family hatchback that rescued Skoda from seemingly terminal joke status, automatically, in the process, stripping the world of stand-up comedy of 70% of its car-based material. It was well planned, well made, not at all ridiculous.In its new form, it gets some squarer edges, a flatter roof and some mildly funky black pillars for that wraparound-shades look. It still feels tightly bolted, properly finished and reassuringly firm. It was already roomy and they have made it roomier, which is rarely a bad idea. And not only is it cosmically cheap, it is also endearingly easy to buy. Not for Skoda the confusing and embarrassing code names by which other companies separate their models - "Elegance", "Comfort", "Dynamique", etc. Skoda simply numbers its Fabias from 1 to 3. Press 1 for the basic package. Press 2 for extra knobs. Press 3 for knobs, bells and buzzers.The high-profile advertising could have its disadvantages, of course. A friend's son said, "There's the cake car." Is this how any car wants to be known? But in a crowded market, it's good to be noticed at all.Next up, a car built from bright copper kettles and warm woollen mittens. Note to Skoda's PR department: in this event, please send no kettles or mittens. A crisp apple strudel, on the other hand...
When your computer fails, it's like being returned instantly to the 70s. Post Offices, record players and board games become important again.You then have three options: the first is to buy a new computer; the second is to embrace a preindustrial lifestyle; the third is to attempt to fix it. Of the three the last is the most expensive, most stressful and least likely to succeed.The most effective way to fix a computer is to restart it. This is the technical equivalent of a detox weekend. It's important to switch the power right off, and that doesn't mean pushing only the button on the front, it means shutting down the power to the whole street.One of the main causes of breakdown is that computers and printers hate each other. The causes of conflict are: computer won't talk to printer; printer ignores computer; computer has never heard of printer; printer doesn't take computer seriously; computer recognises other printers you don't have.Losing your internet connection is the big fear of all computer users. Fortunately there are lots of online help sites that will give you all the information you need to get back online. That's as helpful as having drive-through car repair centres.If you can't get online, you may have to speak to a computer expert. Sadly, computer experts aren't usually good at speaking, especially not to other human beings.Technical support lines will ask you to restart your computer and, when that fails, they will talk you through every stage of taking your computer apart and welding in a few new bits. When you have your computer in 17 bits on the carpet, the phone helpline will go dead.That's why a vital accessory to any computer is a friendly techie. Techies know that as long as your machine is down, you are in their power. They will use this brief window of popularity to make impossible demands such as pizza, coffee and marriage. A techie's first question is always, "Have you backed up your data?" This is to highlight the fact that they automatically back up their own data every 30 seconds. It's also to warn you that the resuscitation technique they're about to employ will wipe everything from your computer for ever.
MondayGamesblog WikiGame update: Week TwoYie Ar XboxRubbish gossip clogging the blogosphereTuesdayBig games you hateBBC looking for "Dangerous" boysDesign competition: win tickets to dConstruct BrightonThe five most important people in the virtual worldWednesdayIs Moore the fall guy?Lend your voice to GTAIranian game counters US shooterIntroducing... the slap-'em-upThursdayReviews and The DarknessMUD, PLATO and the dawn of MMORPGsAre there really no B games?Nu community policyFridayViral game desiging for dummies
Yesterday'sNewsbytesincluded a snippet about People Staff Co, a temp agency in Japan, renting out 1-meter-tall Wakamaru humanoid robots as receptionists in offices and hospitals. Of course, it's not as much fun without the photo, above.Another question is whether it's affordable. According toForbes magazine:Required salary: 120,000 yen ($981) per day or about 3 million yen ($24,525) for a year's service. The robot's day-rate is pricey, but the yearly charge is equivalent to the annual salary of a human employee.It's a great gimmick, but I can't really see any firm entrusting reception duties solely to robots, can you? There are just too many unexpected and probably unscriptable interactions at a typical reception desk.
If your experience confined you to the virtual plains of the blogosphere, you could be forgiven for thinking that Andrew Keen was one of the most unpopular people on the planet. One blogger - on Keen's own website - recently described him as "a professional mental prostitute of the establishment". New media guru and Guardian columnist Jeff Jarvis has called him "a mastodon growling against the warm wind of change". Keen recently introduced himself on the Today programme as "the antichrist of Silicon Valley". So what has he done?He's written a book, The Cult of the Amateur, with the no-messing-about subtitle "How Today's Internet is Killing Our Culture and Assaulting Our Economy". It may sound like a technophobe's bible, but Keen himself is no Luddite. He has his own blog and his own podcast programme,AfterTV.com. He was one of the pioneering entrepreneurs of the first internet boom, with his own start-up, Audiocafe.com, and one of the first to go bust when the bubble burst (to hear him tell it, he actually went bust before the bubble burst). To internet enthusiasts Keen isn't just a heretic; he's an apostate.The Cult of the Amateur is a broadside attack on Web 2.0, a term we may hastily define here as that growing sector of the internet which serves mainly as a platform for user-generated content, including sites such as MySpace, Facebook, Typepad, Blogger and YouTube. The main thrust of his argument is that all this home-made content - blogs, podcasts, amateur videos and music - is an inadequate replacement for mainstream media. It may be a harmless, even occasionally enriching addition, but we can't have both, because the former is swiftly killing off the latter. Thanks to Web 2.0, newspapers, record companies, movie studios and traditional publishers are on the verge of extinction, he says. Along the way he also finds time to bash Second Life, online gambling, copyright theft and porn.His attack even encompasses one of the web's more widely admired experiments - Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia written and edited by anyone who wants to have a go, on the principle that the crowd possesses an aggregate wisdom all of its own. "To my mind Wikipedia is not wise," says Keen. "It's dumb. Not necessarily because all its contributors are dumb, but because if you don't have an editor in charge, and you don't have singular voices, then the intellectual quality of what the crowd produces is very low."Until recently the Wikipedia entry for Andrew Keen informed readers that, in addition to coming from Golders Green, London, having an academic background and being an outspoken critic of Web 2.0, he was also "a child actor who found fame in a series of soup commercials". This isn't true; the sentence was inserted deliberately by the host of a Radio 3 show prior to an appearance by Keen, to show how easily the accuracy of Wikipedia can be undermined. This bit of factual vandalism remained for 12 days before it was removed - 11 days longer than an emendation from June 5, which replaced the entire first paragraph with the words "Andrew Keen IS a dumb motherfucker".So it goes with Keen and the people he sometimes calls "the denizens of the cyberswamp"; he baits them and they rise. He belittles the contributions of Amazon reviewers, and they give his book one resentful star out of five. He compares bloggers to a million monkeys at a million typewriters, and they respond with reams of invective. He criticises Wikipedia for its vulnerability, for its excessive faith in the wisdom of the crowd, and some anonymous user - as if to prove the point - defaces his entry.Keen has a particular knack for phrasing his criticisms in a way that allows every blogger to feel personally slighted. Part of this stems from his use of the word "amateur", which seems to dismiss the contribution of anyone who isn't getting paid for their trouble."I think that's probably a fair criticism," he says. "I'm sure there is some quite good writing on the internet, written by people who don't care about making money out of it, and who have something interesting to say."At the same time he remains "very uncomfortable with the radical altruism - in some ways it's a legacy of the hippy culture - that lies at the heart of Web 2.0; the idea that we're all happy to give it away. I don't think that's the case. I think the majority of us need to work for money."Keen claims he isn't really going after the bloggers so much as the influential idealists who actually run Web 2.0. "My real targets are what I would call the libertarians on the right and the left," he says. To Keen, the "democratised" web is actually a form of oligarchy, the product of an unholy alliance between old counterculturalists ("fat guys with beards, basically") and free-market fundamentalists (he offers Chris Anderson, author of The Long Tail, as an example). The former group, he says, reject "all forms of external authority"; the latter believe "that if you just leave everything alone it will work itself out".One inviolable tenet of this twin-track libertarian ethos, according to Keen, is a misplaced faith in the integrity of the amateur - the citizen journalist, the self-published author, the mash-up musician - and a generic distrust of expertise. One does indeed find this attitude mirrored all over the net, where people frequently post sayings such as "Amateurs built the ark; professionals built the Titanic". Mainstream media is seen as corrupt, compromised, lazy and fearful, while Web 2.0's army of amateur content-generators is dynamic, honest, worthy and wise. In Keen's estimation this idea isn't just absurd - it's dangerous. "For these Generation Y utopians," he writes, "every posting is just another person's version of the truth; every fiction is just another person's version of the facts."Keen's argument strikes a chord with certain professions, particularly librarians, editors and educators. Keen's critics, on the other hand, see him as defending a largely abandoned redoubt: old media, with its outmoded "gatekeepers" and structural hierarchies. Others see him as a man embittered by the failure of his start-up company, who resents the subsequent success of the Web 2.0 pioneers. When he gave a talk at the ICA last month, someone stood up and accused him of writing "an extended whine about why people like you are no longer in charge of this culture". This remark drew applause, but Keen says the hostile reception was nothing like as bad as he gets in America.Is he surprised by the strength of feeling?"No, I expect it."Does it ever bother him?"Everybody, I guess, wants to be loved," he says, laughing. But Keen is so ready to make provocative statements, even when they might undermine his overall argument, that his blogger-baiting begins to look like a marketing strategy. "I don't know if it necessarily sells books," he says, "because I don't think bloggers read." Another statement, you might think, to launch a thousand outraged paragraphs.In fact, the book, he insists, isn't really about the internet. It's more about personal responsibility: "It's not against technology. It's simply saying that we make technology and we need to control it. When we look at the internet we're looking at ourselves."Keen concedes that he made some mistakes in setting out his case which probably haven't helped win over the opposition. "I think I idealised mainstream media ... I concentrated on the good things. I didn't write about the Sun newspaper. I didn't write about Fox." His opponents have been able to pick holes in his arguments - indeed there is a website devoted to doing so - but he says the book is a polemic primarily designed to start the conversation, and in that respect it has been a success. "Even my biggest enemies agree that there is a need to have this discussion."He also accepts that the clock cannot be turned back, that user-generated content will continue to dominate the web, not because it's noble or truthful or authentic, but because it's free. "No one pays for content any more," he says. And if no one is willing to pay for content, then it simply becomes a publicity tool, another form of promotional giveaway. "That's what's going to happen with books," says Keen, "and even with movies. In a funny kind of way you could argue that that's what my book is. It's a way to build my brand so that people will pay me to make speeches."And with that he goes off to tell an audience of internet advertisers that they've got it all wrong. His talk is entitled "The message is dead: how Web 2.0 is reducing all marketing to spam".&middot; The Cult Of The Amateurby Andrew Keen is published by Nicholas Brealey, price &pound;12.99. To order a copy for &pound;11.99 with free UK p&amp;p go toguardian.co.uk/bookshopor call 0870 836 0875
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Long-term game designerJon Radoffhas written an excellent prescriptive feature forGamasutraon how to make sure a game becomes popular. It has nothing to do with the graphics, and indeed very little to do with the plot; he takes his lessons from viral games which spread, as the name suggests, like contagious, air-borne disease through overcrowded urban transport.All of his suggestions, from supporting player-created content to designing games with fan sites in mind, reek of the steps taken by massively multiplayer online games to ensure followings. And gosh, look at their trajectories. And the dedications of paying subscribers. And the tipping point, long tail-like accumulation of players.His argument is particularly that the most viral games (titles like Magic the Gathering) are communal experiences, whereas:Most computer games are played in solitary, either on a console or your personal computer, without anyone else around. However, if computer games can be designed such that some aspects of gameplay are made visible to other players, it can translate into a huge amount of awareness.Thus, he recommends introducing mobile functionality or web capabilities.Mobile I can understand; there are legions of potential gamers out there who would probably happily level something up in the time it takes to wait for the bus. The online component I'm not so sure about; few people are willing to log onto a server, relinquishing their "real lives" behind them.So. To pose a question, then. What have, in your opinion, been the most successful viral games? Which are the games you've played not because you've read about them from some third party, but because you heard about them from a friend. We're talking little to no marketing budget. No ads in the Underground. No, not seasonal Flash games; what are the game memes that have captured your imaginations?I'll propose one, unsurprising, contribution:Samorost. Flash, yes. Viral, yes. Hours lost: loads.
Google last night shocked investors with lower-than-expected profits after spending more than planned on new hires and staff bonuses.In after-hours trading, the company's share price fell by nearly $40 to $509.53 (&#163;248), a drop of more than 7%, even though profits rose and sales beat estimates.Shareholders, who have grown used to stellar results, reacted badly to its net profit of $2.93 a share, which was 3 cents a share less than analysts thought it would report.This is only the second time in 11 quarters as a public company that Google had failed to match estimates.Gene Munster, analyst at Piper Jaffray &amp; Co, said the company has missed Wall Street's profits target because it is "spending money to build the business, and earnings can't always go up exponentially".The company is still growing fast, with net profits up 8% to $925.1m from $721.1m a year earlier, sales rising 63% to $2.72bn. While total expenses rose slightly, Google's research spending soared 88% last quarter to $532.1m from $282.6m a year earlier. This included the cost of opening a new research centre in Tel Aviv, Israel, in June.Sales and marketing costs rose 81% to $355.6m and during the quarter Google added 1,548 jobs, many in sales and marketing, bringing its total headcount to 13,786. Chief executive Eric Schmidt said in a conference call that Google would keep a closer eye on its rapidly expanding headcount in the future although he said the hires were necessary to facilitate the company's growth.Stock-based bonus compensation was $58m higher than the first quarter and one analyst attributed that to the profit shortfall. "Google could have handily beat forecasts if not for the adjustments in bonus accruals. When investors examine that, they'll feel comfort and it won't appear as if investments are running amok," said Marianne Wolk, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group.International revenues were $1.84bn, or 48% of total revenues, in the second quarter, compared with 42% in the same period last year. The UK contributed $600m or 15% to revenues, the same percentage level as last year.
Life as a Virgin Broadband customer can be a suspenseful one. Paula Hughes, for instance, can never be certain that she will be permitted into cyberspace, but at least she has always been able to make free calls to technical support to find out what has gone wrong. Until now, that is. Virgin has suddenly announced that its free 151 helpline will be changed to a premium-rate line, which will cost 10p to connect a call and 25p a minute thereafter. This is, of course, a brilliant business strategy. The more unreliable Virgin's service is, the more customers will spend ringing up to complain."If I bought a faulty item from a shop or by mail order, I wouldn't have to pay to return it," says Hughes. "Why should a broadband service be different to any other purchased item?"Actually, the law does not care what service providers charge for support, provided they make their charges clear and don't abuse premium-rate regulations. Virgin explains that half the calls to its technical support team are general inquiries and that customers with genuine problems can still use free email support and a "status line", where a recorded message informs callers of any general problems in their area. Moreover, Virgin points out, premium-rate regulations mean that calls cannot last longer than 20 minutes, after which time Virgin will ring back for free so customers will never shell out more than a fiver. If the problem turns out to be Virgin's fault, customers may get call costs refunded - but only if the technical support operative is in good humour. "Our staff can offer refunds at their discretion," says a spokeswoman.Virgin's new policy has turned its support line into one of the most expensive offered by the big broadband providers. BT charges 4p a minute after a 3p set-up charge, and Orange and Tiscali charge the national rate of under 10p a minute.&#183;Send your consumer grievances to Dear Anna, Shopping, 3rd Floor, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER emailconsumer@guardian.co.uk
After saying that they didn't want to sell the iPhonebecause Apple were taking too much of the profit, Vodafone are now saying that they were concerned about the lack of 3G.According tothis Reuters story, Voda boss Arun Sarin said that the lack of high speed net access was a problem:"It's clearly a good, software-driven device, but we're concerned about wideband area coverage so that 3G (third-generation) or HSDPA (upgraded 3G) connectivity with the iPhone is something that we look forward to."Every product, every alterative, every choice here has a price and we just have to be conscious of what it is that we're doing for our customers and our shareholders," Sarin told a conference call.OK, Sarin's stating the obvious. There seems little point in having a 2.5G iPhone in Europe, and the rise of flate rate internet plans is making life easier for 3G browsing.But given that the European iPhone - set for this Christmas, apparently - is a chance to upgrade a few functions or add some new stuff in, what would you like to see?I think I'd quite like a good calendaring application that works across different platforms, but aside from that I can certainly think of one idea that I couldn't care less about. It's the same one that Wired's Adario Strange seemed very enthusiastic abouta couple of weeks ago.The one feature missing from the iPhone that would be the obvious "true" game changer is Apple's video iChat. The phone does Internet and video, so there's no good reason video iChat isn't in the first generation iPhone (other than to use the feature as a value-added treat in later versions). Still, the idea of using video iChat on your iPhone is so exciting it's actually understandable that Steve Jobs might want to hold off on that feature and make a separate event.That strikes me as somebody as who's never seen phone video chat in operation (well, for a start you'd need a camera on the front of the handset) or hasn't realised that it's been around on plenty of phones for a long time - and still nobody uses it.But come on, there must be other features that Apple should plug in.
"Pure Digital, the market leading manufacturer of DAB radios, has released its first DAB+ upgradeable receiver, called the Siesta, which is, rather boringly, a clock radio with an RRP of £50. The software upgrade -- via the USB socket on the back of the product -- will probably cost a further 10 to 15 Euros* when it is made available, which will be later this year," writes Steven Green atDigitalRadioTech.co.uk.Pure isn't trumpeting the upgrade path, which is in keeping with the British radio industry's desire to keep quiet about DAB+. Officially, the UK has no plans ever to move from the low-quality MP2-based version of DAB the manufacturers are currently trying hard to flog.* The source has been corrected from pounds to euros.
Fayandra Foley is tireless. As one of the organisers of the forthcoming Second Life's Relay for Life, she and the participants of the virtual race have managed to whip up almost $90,000 (&pound;44,175) - that's real US dollars - in donations from residents in the virtual world. That means the American Cancer Society's third annual online run, one of the first and most successful integrations of a charity in this digital space, has already earned more than twice what was donated last year, and 200 times more than the inaugural Second Life Relay for Life in 2005.Foley and her inspirational team are in charge of the 24-hour race taking place on July 27. They've helped to orchestrate the 20+ teams (from the Guardian to the in-world Furs for a Cure), have designed the track and have canvassed a massive crew of performers, business people and content providers to supply entertainment and charity commerce throughout the day.The Guardian's involvement is web 2.0 at work. After I made a flippant remark in a column about running a race in a panda outfit, "Mr Cod", a Gamesblog regular, challenged me to put my money where my words were. So not only do community members make up our international team, they've decided which panda avatar I'll be wearing (a lovely little number by Artemis Fate) and everyone who's donated also gets a patch on my virtual fur. But as a participant, I've been getting substantial ribbing from my non-gaming friends who have accused me of not being fit enough to run a real-life race. Well, they're right. I'm not. But the efforts of the folks taking part shouldn't be undermined. People shave their heads for cash; how is that more credible than a 24-hour online endurance run?The organisers' efforts also stand in stark contrast to the criticism that gamers ignore real-world problems and are hopelessly lost in escapist fantasies. The $90,000 says that people do participate in public good deeds. We're doing it next week. And this isn't an isolated event, either. Disasters like Hurricane Katrina, the tsunami and other more personal tragedies have also inspired incredible outpourings of financial support everywhere there's a game economy exchangeable for real-world money. There are also several games industry charities, like the ESC and Child's Play, which donate substantial amounts to kids' needs.So while I don't imagine Team Guardian will do much sweating on the virtual track next week, we will be logging on and doing something. Yeah, it's virtual. Yeah, it's a bit silly. But you know what? It's fun. And more importantly, it's miles better than doing nothing.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm sitting in Paris and some butterflies are fluttering towards me. Loads of them, perfectly clearly. I could allow one to land on my hand, or catch one of the rose petals being blown towards me - except I can't, because they're not real. They're images on a TV in high definition - and in perfect 3D. They look life-sized and real, and I'm not wearing any silly spectacles other than the ones I wear all the time.People have been working on convincing 3D without the glasses for a long time and the demo is breathtaking. It's on a prototype Philips TV, which won't be available for a while; it would cost &pound;10,000 at the moment, but that's expected to be vastly lower when it reaches the mass market. Philips isn't the only company investigating the possibilities; Luxembourg-based SeeReal has also made technological developments in the area with its Viewing Window Technology, aiming to reduce the amount of pixels you need before 3D works.Orange has emerged as an unexpected early player in the market, and I'm watching the demo in its offices. It believes 3D TV will be key to the services it will be able to deliver to people's homes once its 100Mbps fibre-optic internet service being trialled in Paris takes off; hence its interest. The display moves to a beer advert that looks as though you could lift it off the screen, and then there's a demo of a computer game in genuine 3D with bullets flying at you. Four professionally cynical journalists are silenced for once. Later Orange takes a 3D photo of us and shows it to us on a handheld camera, with the hint that phones will do this one day.The technology works by throwing a different image to each eye and angling them so that one eye picks up one and the other picks up the other. There are in fact eight separate images, the technologists having added more after early users reported feelings of nausea and dizziness. "All of us have heard of 3D for games, for example, but it's not really 3D," says Philippe Delbary, head of 3D services for Orange. "It's just an attempt to represent depth."The new technology shows actual 3D and it's impressive. It's not totally natural; if the camera has focused on the foreground, it's not possible to focus on the background as there is no clear image there for your eye to pick up. Once you're used to that it looks perfect. But how quickly will the market embrace it?One key inhibitor Orange acknowledges is the availability of 3D material. Just two 3D-only films are in production - one by James Cameron and the other by Steven Spielberg - for release in 2009. And two movies, no matter how big, don't amount to a hill of beans when you're trying to establish a new standard.Laurence Meyer, European Digital Home Analyst for Jupiter Research, regards this as a major drawback. "It will be a long process to have enough content," she says. Orange maintains that within 10 years we will all be watching 3D and demanding existing shows and films be upgraded to look the same. "When people have discovered 3D, they will no longer watch 2D," Delbary says.But historically, things haven't moved so quickly. Jupiter's Meyer points out that high-definition TV is taking off at the moment, although sluggishly, and there is confusion in the market as to what sort of TV you need to buy: "HD was first demonstrated almost 20 years ago; that's how long it takes," she says. There is a lot for customers to understand about television at the moment, what with high definition, digital switchover and IP (internet) TV all jostling for our attention. "Digital TV is more transparent to the viewer," she says. "They tend to buy a package rather than a technology. But [the example of] HD suggests take-up [of 3D] will be slower than 10 years."Another precedent is the move a couple of decades ago to "colourise" everything. The vested interests in the late 1980s insisted that audiences would demand coloured versions of old black and white films and wouldn't watch monochrome any more. This turned out to be wrong, and it would be foolish not to acknowledge the possibility that the same will be true of 3D as applied to existing movies. (After all, 3D cinema has been tried more than once before, and is a long way from dominating the multiplexes.) Steve Knibbs, chief operating officer of Vue cinemas, says the declaration of the death of 2D is more than slightly premature. "Great films will continue to be made and enjoyed by millions of moviegoers in 2D," he says. "There is no evidence to suggest otherwise."Vue has, however, shown a number of films converted to 3D and enjoyed positive feedback. Using current technology it costs around &pound;2,000 to upgrade a cinema; the company will let market forces decide how many more cinemas to equip. "I can't say how many we will have by the end of the decade, but if the films get produced in 3D then it will run into the hundreds most likely," says Knibbs. "The audiences we have had for Chicken Little, Monster House, Nightmare Before Christmas and Meet the Robinsons [all in 3D] have all been positive. People have really enjoyed something different."Movie and video directors with existing work are understandably cautious. Oscar Wright has directed primarily pop videos, including Charlotte Hatherley's Believe and Cold Cut's ETUC. If he were to direct a short film or something else that would get more of a name check than a pop video he'd expect to be consulted before anyone did anything radical to it. "I haven't seen [3D TV] but I'm quite intrigued by it," he says. "As long as the old version is still available it's fine. George Lucas revamped his original Star Wars films and deleted the originals from the public domain; once people were over the 'wow' factor they wanted the originals back, so he was browbeaten into releasing them again. That's a perfect illustration of how this could go."Orange's claim that 3D TV will take over in a decade is ambitious and, in advance of mass availability of receiving equipment or content, it's difficult to predict its accuracy. The quality is excellent and the TVs will cost only around 20% more than a high-def TV. The idea that everything's going to be replaced by 3D, however, flies in the face of history: radio didn't wipe out theatre, television didn't wipe out radio and cinema and colour didn't preclude watching old black and white movies. The 3D demos in Paris looked excellent; once the rest of the pieces are in place it will undoubtedly find its niche.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dear Guardian Unlimited blog commenters and Talk users,Since we launched the Guardian Unlimited network of sites seven years ago, one of our aims has been to encourage as much discourse and openness as possible across the site to stimulate debate and to enrich our journalism. Although not always trouble free, I am still intensely proud of our community's engagement through our site and their own online activities.One of our challenges as an 'old media' company learning about engagement is how to make the public spaces on the site interesting and inclusive. We are constantly reviewing and changing how we handle all types of contribution on the site and, as part of a wider review of our community policy, we have revised ourtalk and posting guidelines into a clear policywhich I would encourage all of you to read.Familiarity with our policy means that people who want to contribute to the site are fully aware of the rules of engagement and therefore know what is acceptable and what is not. As I said, please read the standards, which will help the site become a better place for everyone to exchange thoughts and opinions.If you'd like to discuss the new policies, please see the posts onNewsblogandComment is Free.
Dear Guardian Unlimited blog commenters and Talk users,Since we launched the Guardian Unlimited network of sites seven years ago, one of our aims has been to encourage as much discourse and openness as possible across the site to stimulate debate and to enrich our journalism. Although not always trouble free, I am still intensely proud of our community's engagement through our site and their own online activities.One of our challenges as an 'old media' company learning about engagement is how to make the public spaces on the site interesting and inclusive. We are constantly reviewing and changing how we handle all types of contribution on the site and, as part of a wider review of our community policy, we have revised ourtalk and posting guidelines into a clear policywhich I would encourage all of you to read.Familiarity with our policy means that people who want to contribute to the site are fully aware of the rules of engagement and therefore know what is acceptable and what is not. As I said, please read the standards, which will help the site become a better place for everyone to exchange thoughts and opinions.If you'd like to discuss the new policies, please see the posts onNewsblogandComment is Free.
Dear Guardian Unlimited blog commenters and Talk users,Since we launched the Guardian Unlimited network of sites seven years ago, one of our aims has been to encourage as much discourse andopenness as possible across the site to stimulate debate and to enrich our journalism. Although not always trouble free, I am still intensely proud of our community's engagement through our site and their ownonline activities.One of our challenges as an 'old media' company learning about engagement is how to make the public spaces on the site interesting and inclusive. We are constantly reviewing and changing how we handle all types of contribution on the site and, as part of a wider review of our community policy, we have revised ourtalk and posting guidelines into a clear policywhich I would encourage all of you to read.Familiarity with our policy means that people who want to contribute to the site are fully aware of the rules of engagement and therefore know what is acceptable and what is not. As I said, please read the standards, which will help the site become a better place for everyone to exchange thoughts and opinions.If you'd like to discuss the new policies, please see the posts onNewsblogandComment is Free.
You may have noticed the question posed earlier this week by Wired.com columnist, Clive Thompson. In his piece entitled'These Games Are So Bad, It's Not Funny', he asks, why are there no B games - "a game so bad it's good?"."Certainly, the phenomenon exists in every other form of entertainment. Everyone loves B movies - films that are so atrociously acted and scripted that they become perversely enjoyable. There's also plenty of B television. (For two seasons I religiously followed Pam Anderson's show V.I.P., mostly for the odd joy of tallying up the clichés and acting so wooden it was nearly Brechtian.) The pleasure of B entertainment is pure, narcotic-level irony - the peculiar joy that comes from seeing something that is trying to be good but failing on every level."I'm not sure I agree. For a start, there's a problem in the terminology here. Thompson uses B movie as a synonym for crap movie - but the terms aren't quite interchangeable like this. Technically, the term B movie evolved out of the Hollywood studio system of the thirties and forties, and these films had a specific purpose: to provide cheaper accompaniment to main features back when US cinemas offered double bills to cash-strapped punters. They were cheap, but they weren't by definition crap. Some of the great genre flicks - including key westerns and Film Noir thrillers - were B movies.In this sense, he's right - the big publishers generally don't produce titlesintendedto be secondary to the big releases. There are lower budget games, of course, but few of these are experimental - they'll usually be kids titles or lesser tie-ins. We've often wondered why funds aren't put aside from Triple A big sellers to put small teams on offbeat products - but this isn't a 'B movie' model - it's more akin to, say, Fox's indie flavoured Searchlight division. And that's a whole different subject.So, if we're talking about crap games - is it true they can't be entertaining? Thompson says, "What I'm getting at, really, is that play is a curiously all-or-nothing affair. You're either having fun or you're not."But you often have to make allowances for a fatal flaw or two. The Resident Evil titles for example, have managed to build the terrible voice acting and world's worst control system into the mythology of the series - now it's part of the fun that running out of a room is so bloody difficult - and that people say things like "you were almost a Jill sandwich!" and expect to be taken seriously.We've talked enough on this blog about 'guilty pleasures' to know there are some games that don't deserve out attention, but still get it. Lots of people love Daikatana. There are even apologists for Driv3r and Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness."You're either having fun or you're not"? No. Fun is analogue.
Lindsay Block of Oklahoma City with an i-Limb. She's been using prosthetics since she was six months old.Edinburgh-basedTouch Bionicshas launchedi-Limb, the "world's first commercially available bionic hand".The hand is controlled via a myolectric electrode attached to the patient's skin, which picks up electrical signals from tiny muscle movements. Each finger has its own motor to provide lifelife movements.The Touch Bionics site has a terrificpicture galleryshowing early users with their bionic hands.The i-Limb is being unveiled at the12th World Congressof the International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics in Vancouver on 29 July.Touch Bionics is a spin-off from the NHS.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gartner has just released the latest iteration of its "hype cycle" - a graph which charts how technologies are built up and adopted. The idea is that technologies follow a basic path of adoption - going from a trigger point, through overblown hype and then cynicism, before finally becoming more mainstream and accepted.So what's at the top of the curve right now? Convergent telephones, ultramobile devices and "portable personality" are heading up to the "peak of inflated expectations" while IPTV, mobile TV and broadband video on demand are racing towards the bottom.Interestingly, this year's chart bears little relation tolast year's emerging technologies cycle(maybe they just haven't emerged). It's certainly more narrowly focused, and very heavily focused on technology that's pretty much out there - certainly, there's nothing that it considers to be more than 10 years away from adoption.I'm not sure I agree with the different things and where they're placed on the cycle - but then I might have a different perspective.
The National Legal &amp; Policy Center (NLPC) has just released its secondTop 50 listof "potentially copyright infringing movies and other programs hosted on Google Video."Two new theatrical releases, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Live Free, Die Hard, were discovered on Google Video yesterday afternoon," says the not-for-profit organisation."Everyday we are finding dozens of new movies on Google Video," said NLPC's Chairman Ken Boehm. "What's remarkable is that Google Video is apparently not just hosting movies produced here in the US, but hundreds of foreign films from India, Russia, the Middle East and Asia, as well as US produced blockbusters that have been dubbed into foreign languages for an international audience. While we reiterate that it's difficult to know for sure whether all of the content is being hosted in violation of copyright laws, it doesn't take a Google mathematician to know that much of this content is being hosted without the copyright owner's knowledge or permission."Well, it's possible that Sony Pictures uploaded Hollow Man II and doesn't care if it's available free, but it doesn't seem likely, does it? It's also possible that Google hasn't noticed it's there, or that it's had an impressive 625,978 views, consuming a significant amount of expensive bandwidth.Some of this stuff has been on Google Video for a long time, with Ministry of Sound, 2006 Annual topping the list at 476 days.The NLPC's list doesn't include links, but there's probably a table somewhere, giving the posted, as opposed to the real names of movies.Another question that Google's own mathematicians must have pondered is: How many users simultaneously uploading and downloading pirate copies of Goblet of Fire would it take to bring down Google? And will the final answer be technical, financial, or legal?
Predictive technologies are big business these days - massive, in fact. Taking data about the behaviour of groups and using it to determine is something that is proving popular for everything from supermarket shopping to governmental decisions, from yourlistening habitsto traffic calming.One of the article's in today's Technology Guardianexplores the predictive industry, and highlights some of the problems that a number of experts have said are arising. In essence, they are worried that taking statistical indications of group behaviour will always ignore the outlying results.Author Christine Evans-Pughe points out an example regarding sex offenders. Standard estimates produced using one leading piece of software suggest that 36% of offenders will re-offend within 15 years (based on 95% confidence of results falling within the range of 28% and 45%) - but across the same confidence spread the individual range is from 3% to 91%. Imagine the consequences if, for example, you are that 3% offender but treated like a 36% offender. It might actually increase your chance of reoffending."The statistical issue of the difference between precision of estimates in a group against that for an individual is not peculiar to psychology and it is not because psychological variables are less reliable. It's to do with inherent variability in human beings," says Cooke, professor of forensic clinical psychology at the Douglas Inch Centre and Glasgow Caledonian University.Cooke has also looked at medical literature on predicting the probability of heart attacks, cancer and other conditions that rely on physical measurements and found the same large error margins. "You can get a good model statistically that fits well for a group but it doesn't predict well for individuals, " he says.The problem isn't really with the numbers per se, but the way their indications are applied. This was a subject picked up by our Bad Science columnist Ben Goldacre in a column last December:It's not so easy to predict murder - do the maths. But what's the solution? Less prediction? More intelligent mathematical modelling? Or just better statistical education?
Over in the comments section of my'Five most important people in the virtual world'post, Richard Bartle has been answering a reader's suggestion that MUD was not, in fact, the first online RPG and that the original multi-user games actually ran on the University of Illinois'PLATOsystem - generallyregardedas the birthplace of the 'online community' concept.UPDATE:Richard has pointed out that I've mis-represented the nature of the debate. He was answering this specific reader comment:"It is unfortunate that the media continues to mistakenly identify Richard Bartle as the creator or co-creator of the first MUD. It's not true. The first MUDs were created on the PLATO system several years earlier"He'd also like to point out:"PLATO made major contributions to computer science, and I wouldn't want to give the impression I didn't think so."Anyway, Bartle's response to the reader's point, also posted in the comments section was too interesting to leave there, so I've pasted it on the front page. He's right about how, in almost all areas of science and culture, working out who's 'first' is a tricky business..."The PLATO system did have some games on it which could be regarded as proto virtual worlds. Whether you want to count them as actual virtual worlds depends on how far you want to stretch your definition: personally, I don't think they had the persistence to qualify, but pro-PLATO advocates think they do."The thing is, though, that even if the likes of Oubliette did count as a virtual world, they had pretty well zero effect on the development of today's virtual worlds. Follow the audit trail back from World of Warcraft, and you wind up at MUD. The only major exceptions are Dark Age of Camelot, which comes from Aradath, and the up-coming Hero's Journey, which has its roots ultimately in Sceptre of Goth. I think possibly Furcadia might have a PLATO origin, but that's about it..."Did you know golf was invented in China? The Dongxuan Records relate that a game called chuiwan ("hitting ball") was played as early as 945. Did you also know golf was invented in France? There's a picture of it illustrating the September page of a prayerbook, "Les Heures de la Duchesse de Bourgogne". Did you, in addition, know that golf was invented in Ancient Rome (paganica), England (cambuca), Ireland (camanachd) and the Netherlands (kolf)? That's excluding the pictorial evidence that it came from Ancient Greece and Ancient Egypt (although the same pictures have been used to say that those civilisations invented hockey)."The idea of hitting a ball into a hole with a stick is OBVIOUS. It was invented MANY TIMES. Nevertheless, if you track back from the US Masters or any other golf tournament today, you'll find that modern golf is entirely the product of Scotland. It's the same for virtual worlds. Having a computer simulate an imaginary world is an OBVIOUS idea. Virtual worlds have been independently invented at least 7 times: MUD, Sceptre of Goth, Avatar, Island of Kesmai, Aradath, Habitat, Monster. None of the people who wrote those virtual worlds had any idea of the existence of the others: they really did invent them separately. Creating MUD - or any of the others - was not an act of genius, we were always going to get them."As for which was chronologically first, OK, well from the above list that would be MUD. As a PLATO advocate, you might want to claim I should have said Oubliette rather than Avatar, to give PLATO the title of "first". Go ahead, I can't stop you. I can, however, point out that "first" does not mean "progenitor", and that even if you do relax the definition of "virtual world" sufficiently to include such games, that won't alter the fact that they had just about zero influence on the development of today's virtual worlds. They might as well have been invented on a different planet."Today's golf came from Scotland; that's just how it happened. Today's virtual worlds came from MUD; that's also just how it happened. PLATO was responsible for many innovations and inventions that had major influence on today's software applications; unfortunately for PLATO fans, virtual worlds are not among those applications."
A group of prominent technology bloggers last month found themselves in hot water after they agreed to lend their words and names to Microsoft's "People Ready" marketing campaign. The bloggers, all associated with the Federated Media advertising network, wrote brief statements describing how their own businesses became "people ready". The statements appeared in Microsoft ads on their blogs and were also collected on a site promoting the software company.In Silicon Valley, shilling for Microsoft falls somewhere between worshipping Satan and torturing small animals on the scale of human depravity, so the bloggers came in for some heavy criticism. Some of them quickly disassociated themselves from the campaign. Om Malik on GigaOM (gigaom.com), apologised and ordered Federated Media to stop running the controversial ads on his site. Paul Kedrosky, of the blog Infectious Greed (paul.kedrosky.com), wrote: "I wish I hadn't been sucked in by the silly idea."But some of the other writers defended their participation. TechCrunch's Michael Arrington, perhaps the most influential of today's technology bloggers, dismissed the fuss as inconsequential. "We do these all the time," he wrote of the advertisements, explaining that Federated Media typically "suggests some language and we approve or tweak it to make it less lame. The ads go up, we get paid. This has been going on for months."Arrington was right about the prevalence of such campaigns. Federated Media had earlier incorporated its bloggers' names and words into promotional programs for Cisco, the networking giant, and Hakia, a new search engine. Indeed, Federated promotes the practice as a cutting-edge example of what has come to be called "conversational marketing". The news media of the future, explains Federated executive Neil Chase, will involve "three-way conversations" among writers, readers and marketers.Even in traditional media, the line dividing marketing and editorial content has long been a blurry one. Many newspapers and magazines publish in their pages advertorials written by companies, even though they know that many readers don't distinguish the paid content from the articles written by journalists. But with the rise of conversational marketing on the web, the confusion of marketing and media is reaching new heights - or depths.The trend extends far beyond the blogosphere. Look, for instance, at MySpace, the leading social network. Corporations can pay to create personal pages for their products on the site, making their brands part of the "community". At last count, Toyota's recently introduced Yaris subcompact model had been "friended" by more than 74,000 MySpacers, many of whom have scrawled love notes to the car on the Toyota page. The online community, says Technology Review's Wade Roush, "is devolving from a friends' network into a marketing madhouse".Video sites like YouTube frequently feature films that members have created to promote commercial products. Companies like Pepsi, Heinz and Chrysler have launched contests encouraging user-generated advertising. The idea isn't to save money on production costs - the New York Times has reported that companies often spend more to collect amateur advertisements than they would have spent on professional ads - but rather to turn marketing into a form of popular entertainment. The consumer becomes the advertiser.It has long been assumed that the internet, by democratising media, would level the playing field, shifting power away from corporations and to individuals. A lone person, using a computer and a web connection, could broadcast his opinion about a company or a product to the entire world. There's truth in that, but it's not the whole truth. As the line between media and marketing blurs further, corporations are finding that the web may give them more power to influence what people see and do. In the end, conversational marketing is more about marketing than about conversation.&#183;Nicholas Carr's next book will be The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I downloaded Adaware, but when I scan my PC I get Error 6000.Harry BayneSearching theLavasoft support site* reveals that other people have had the same problem since March if not earlier, and I can't see a suggested fix. Uninstall Adaware and install Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and/or AVG Anti-Spyware Free Edition instead.* using the site: command in Google to search as follows site:lavasoftsupport.com "error 6000"
The reviews are in the paper this week. I had a look at the appropriately titledMore Brain Training, which does exactly what it says on the cart. Owners of the original will lap this up and I'm a fan too. The number memorising challenge does me in every time though. Next up isHour of Victory, the tepid Call of Duty clone for the 360. How many more Nazis do gamers have to shoot - can we have a WW1 game please? There's a good attempt at one in the other review -The Darkness. This terrific story based shooter has been my summer gaming highlight - it has a warped WW1 section, just in case you haven't played - and is recommended to anyone who likes a bit of brain with their 360 brawn. If there is a more powerful gaming moment this year than the orphanage scene then I can't wait to see it. And there was me thinking it was just brain dead comic book FPS. Anyone else been pleasantly surprised by The Darkness?
My home page was transferred from NTL to a Virgin one and worked well. I now get a report, HTTP Status 500, which tells me that the server has encountered an internal error and refers me to Apache Tomcat 5.0.28.Mike MatthewsThe error message means it's a server problem and the server doesn't have a clue what it is. It's not a problem with your PC. You'll have to persuade Virgin to fix it.
I downloaded Adaware, but when I scan my PC I get Error 6000.Harry BayneJS:Searching theLavasoft support sitereveals that other people have had the same problem since March if not earlier, and I can't see a suggested fix. Uninstall Adaware and install Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and/or AVG Anti-Spyware Free Edition instead.
Would the original Napster, for peer-to-peer music file sharing, have been a success if it had demanded 50% of your computer's processing power? Somehow I don't think so; the genius of the program was that it did only what it needed to, which was to set up a link to another computer and download a file - often very, very slowly - from it. CPU hogging just wasn't in it. The limitation was bandwidth: most people were on 56k dialup. And this was 1999, when we salivated at the prospect of 1GHz processors.But the new generation of P2P services, specifically P2P TV, hasn't learnt that lesson. Partly because it can't: TV requires rapid transmission and a lot of processing, even now, while everything else - available disk space, RAM, bandwidth - keeps growing by about 50% annually. A recentOECD report, (a 319-page PDF) suggests broadband speeds are growing by between 20% and 30% every year, while the price falls by about 20% (which equates to a 50% improvement for a given price). Yes, I know that Moore's Law still holds: the number of transistors on a chip keeps doubling every 18 months, and with it, processing power (roughly). The trouble for P2P TV, though, is that it needs a lot of that CPU - which is the one thing that's a scarce resource locally. If you need more disk space you can either burn some unused data off to a DVD or copy it to your backup hard drive (which you use at least weekly, yes?). RAM is dirt cheap. More bandwidth? It's actually quite hard to saturate even a 2MB connection with conventional web applications: two or three people can surf around YouTube without troubling it, and your email will still come through in the meantime. But how do you quickly add in processing power?That's what I think will remain the unbeatable constraint for some time. I can forgive local applications or web pages that take a while to load as long as they leave the rest of my machine free; if a web page locks up for whatever reason, I'll do something else - email, writing, reading newsfeeds. But pages or applications that suck up all of my available CPU (which I keep track of via a graphical readout all the time) face the chop. I can't add extra processing power to my laptop except by buying a new one. Which in turn is why I think that peer-to-peer television services such as Joost face a real challenge. The reason: they're CPU-intensive. That's fine if you're prepared to give over your machine to watching TV, but isn't there usually a box in the corner of the room dedicated to doing that? Peer-to-peer doesn't have to be CPU-intensive; the original Napster would never have taken off if it had sucked the life out of peoples' machines in 1999. And BitTorrent clients, reckoned to transfer vast amounts of illicit video every day, are similarly designed to be non-urgent; it comes when it comes.TV, though - that's a different game. Television has to transfer in near-enough real time. That's just about feasible using hefty servers and big bandwidth, as BT tries to do with its BT Vision product (does anyone use it?). But P2P requires cooperation, and a certain sacrifice; in the case of Joost, of your CPU. Search on "Joost CPU" and you quickly find that people have been noticing this too. "97% CPU usage," complains one poster on theJoost forums. One blogger simplynoted"even on my reasonably powerful laptop, the memory, CPU and network usage went through the roof. Yup. Uninstall.". Do I have something against Joost? Absolutely not. True, the testers' results might be limited because comparatively few people have the application, so it has to work extra hard. It's just that P2P is a terrific business model as long as users don't need something right now. Its problem comes when it tries to use something that's scarce, or supply-constrained - such as my CPU.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Do you recommend a refurbished Xbox 360 Core system or a new one?No name suppliedThere's not enough information to say. A refurbished Xbox 360 that has never gone wrong might be a good bet, but I'd be wary about getting one that had already suffered a "red ring" failure. Some people who have had one of those seem to have received refurbished machines that also failed.Ask the retailer what sort of guarantee and support you can expect from them, not just from Microsoft.Otherwise, your best bet is the more expensive black Xbox 360 Elite, which seems to be far less likely to fail. It's due in the UK on August 24. Give it plenty of air. And save the original packaging!
Musical pacemakerYamaha will launch BodiBeat, an MP3 player with a heartrate monitor that synchronises music to your workout.bodibeat.comDell for yoursDell has launched the Vostro range of PCs specially designed for small businesses; it's Latin for "yours".smartbusinessit.co.ukdell.com/vostroHome Servers comingMicrosoft has released the code for Windows Home Servers to six manufacturers including Fujitsu Siemens, HP and LaCie.forbes.comHello robotsPeople Staff Co, a temp agency in Japan, has started renting out Wakamaru humanoid robots as receptionists in offices and hospitals, reports Forbes.forbes.comChip for gamersIntel has announced the X7800, its first Core 2 Extreme dual-core processor for notebooks, plus five desktop chips at prices from $163 to $999.intel.comGoogle cookiesIn response to privacy concerns, Google will set cookies that expire after two years instead of in 2038.googleblog.blogspot.comWireless earphonesEtymotic Research has introduced Ety8, the first in-ear Bluetooth earphones. They cost &pound;200 online from Apple.etymotic.comFree online gameSouth Korea's Nexon is launching a European version of MapleStory, a free online game with 67m users.mapleeurope.com
British industry leaders have called for urgent government intervention over the failure to deal with escalating online crime.The UK's largest corporations are being told to report multimillion pound international cybercrime incidents to their local police stations.The Confederation of British Industry said that the situation is a shambles. "The CBI is calling for a national debate to raise awareness of this issue and who will be responsible for dealing with it, and that will need to be backed by the prime minister," said Dr Jeremy Beale of the CBI's e-business group.According to Beale, the debate should be determine the core of a National Information Security Strategy to deal with all aspects of e-crime.The CBI is not alone in expressing dissatisfaction. Influential figures in the British computer industry added their voices to the growing chorus of concern over the failure to prevent or detect e-crime.Apacs, which speaks for the clearing banks, has publicly expressed its frustration that no one appears to have taken over the duties of the UK's former e-crime fighting squad, the National High Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU), which was absorbed last year into the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (The shambles over cybercrime, July 5). Now IT leaders have called for the re-establishment of the NHTCU."A lot of trust was built up between large businesses and the NHTCU, and that took a lot of time to develop," says Ollie Ross, head of research at the Corporate IT Forum. "Just when that structure seemed to have reached fruition, it was taken away and nothing has filled its place. There is no reporting mechanism now."Businesses say they feel marooned and angry at what they perceive as a lack of interest from the police.As cybercrime attacks can be large and costly, businesses feel that they should be met with a big response - the virtual equivalent of bobbies on the beat. But that has not been happening.Instead figures for the UK, which mainly deal with business losses, have shown the sort of steady increase that would not be tolerated on the high street.Last year, 84% of large companies surveyed by researchers for accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers that they had suffered a malicious attack on their computers between 2004 and 2006.According to the report, the average loss for businesses was between &pound;65,000 and &pound;130,000, with the largest companies reporting losses of around &pound;1m.As David Lacey of the Jericho Forum says, one of the other invaluable functions of the NHTCU was its superb outreach. "It is not there any longer to educate the public and it was very good at that. The NHTCU was very good at communicating. Now there's nowhere to go and that needs to be fixed."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Xbox done and dustedI had the "three red lights of death" (Where the Xbox 360 went wrong, July 12). I took apart my 360 and looked at the motherboard. I just saw some dust, so I took a can of air and blew it all off so I could get a better look. Still nothing wrong ... no hot parts that melted, no snaps anywhere, nothing. So I put it back together. Eventually I tried to turn the system back on again. I was simply astonished that it was working again perfectly! I just had to stop and think of the only thing I truly did to my machine ... used a can of air.Draken Stark, via emailBlurred pictureDear BBC and Channel 4: I am a Mac user (TV on demand, July 12). I believe you are in breach of your public service broadcast remit in supplying TV on demand only to Internet Explorer users, and that this also breaks European law. I am therefore suspending payment of the licence fee. I hope other Mac users will follow my example.Chris Rigby, Uffculme&middot;It seems ridiculous that all the UK broadcasters are busy deploying DRM-enabled download services (which are only available to Windows XP users) when they all openly broadcast all the same content over DVB-T unencrypted and at higher quality and which anyone with a DVB-T card in their PC can record that content free of DRM. Why would anyone pay for a DRM'd copy of a programme at lower quality that times out after so many days or views? Am I missing something here?Andrew Herron, Chelmsford&middot;The Open Source Consortium was very unhappy with the initial proposal by the BBC to take two years to introduce a platform-neutral solution for the iPlayer. There are those that might say that "we would be, wouldn't we?" Your article makes our case as effectively as we could have done. If we have read your article correctly, we didn't understand the half of it. BBC iPlayer can never be made platform neutral because there are no plans for the underlying technology. In which case perhaps the BBC Trust and others need to revisit the original assertions made by the BBC and the basis for giving the go-ahead for the launch of iPlayer. If DRM is what the BBC wants, we have the technology to support the development of a solution.Mark Taylor, President, The Open Source Consortium, Weybridge&middot;There's an additional issue that I found with Sky Anytime and that is the DRM is tied to the CPU, so make sure that you install it on a Windows XP PC that you don't intend to upgrade to Vista. I upgraded my laptop, but even after uninstalling the software (which no longer worked) I couldn't reinstall on another PC because my account was still tied to the laptop!crispyj2.blogspot.comTrain of thoughtYes, Duncan Henry, mentioning National Rail's direct number does allow us to make our own decision about the usefulness of the website (Letters and blogs, July 12). It's a premium rate number and allows National Rail to earn money from the long delays answering the phone. It hardly incentivises you to improve customer service, does it?Philip Cunningham, London&middot;I too use thetrainline.com a lot but what I really need is a TIMETABLE. Surely not a lot to ask.Bill Harvey, ExeterBehind the maskI wouldn't mind finding out how often the internet tough guy turns out to be a meek middle manager (Removing anonymity won't stop flame wars, July 12).v7n.com/forumsFaithless JaneI was frankly shocked when I read the article about Jane's carrying on (Technobile, July 12). I thought she was faithful to me. I am now forced to accept that she spreads her favours far and wide.Mike Tombs, Halesowen
Can a statistical model reliably predict that you will buy the latest Harry Potter book, or add organic brie to your virtual shopping trolley this week? What about whether you might become violent in the next 15 years, or your unborn child grow up to be a delinquent?The growing use of computerised techniques for forecasting what we might buy or do on the basis of how our data matches up to some statistical model would suggest that they are well proven. But a landmark paper recently published in the British Journal of Psychiatry has cast doubt on whether such techniques should be used for making decisions about anything beyond the trivial.Personalised recommendationsThe personalised recommendations and special offers that pop up when you order books or groceries online, and even the specific sequence of questions an insurance call centre asks about your claim, are all generated by computerised predictive algorithms derived from analysing patterns, links and associations in large sets of data.By classifying types of people and their behaviours on this basis, shops try to increase their profits by automatically targeting those of us in their databases that seem most likely to buy certain items. Insurance companies use similar methods to reduce fraud by investigating the claims of those whom the software decides are most likely to be lying.But the government is adopting such techniques for more serious matters. Software at the Department of Work and Pensions, for instance, is beginning to try to detect fraudsters by analysing the voices of people who ring its call centres - so if you ask the wrong kind of questions, or perhaps ask the right kind of questions in the wrong way, the software could decide you're not strictly kosher.The Cabinet Office's Social Exclusion Unit's Action Plan on Social Exclusion has risk prediction as its first guiding principle. The idea is to predict life outcomes and trigger early human interventions before things go wrong - in the case of the Nurse Family Partnership scheme, even before birth. In this scheme, the unborn child of a pregnant mother might be categorised as at high risk of future criminality based on factors such as the mother's age, her poor educational achievements, drug use and her own family background. The mother is then visited regularly at home by a nurse and helped with parenting.In the criminal justice system too, risk prediction instruments assess the probability of adults and young people re-offending, along with a battery of other actuarial tests for predicting future sexual and violent crime. Such techniques, which are not automated in these cases, also play a central role in evaluations to determine whether a person should be committed indefinitely as a dangerous person with severe personality disorder or whether these people, once committed, are ready for release.The Department of Health has even developed a series of predictive algorithms for scoring those patients with long-term conditions who are at most risk of re-hospitalisation. The idea is to intervene early to minimise admissions.The Surveillance Society report from the Information Commissioner's Office outlined worries about predictive social sorting on the grounds that it could amount to discrimination, create new underclasses and that by the totting up of negative indicators from health, school and other records, a predictive model could make its own worst predictions come true. "For instance, if your parents both have criminal records or you have a bad school attendance record because of poor health, even if you are the best-behaved kid in class, you will find that every teacher is likely to treat you with suspicion," explains Jonathan Bamford, assistant information commissioner.Now a team of British and American researchers has flagged up a more fundamental danger with these predictive models. When applied to individuals the margins of error are so high as to render any results meaningless.The study published in May in theBritish Journal of Psychiatryby forensic clinical psychologists Stephen Hart and David Cooke and statistician Christine Michie takes as its example two popular actuarial risk assessment tools used to predict violence (STATIC-99 and VRAG). But the team has studied many other widely used tools such as Risk Matrix-2000 (for predicting sexual offending), and found the same high margins of error across the board.For groups of people flagged up as high risk by Risk Matrix-2000, for example, the standard estimate is that 36% will re-offend sexually in the next 15 years. The team found that the true value of that estimate for a group lies between 28% and 45%, 95% of the time - ie, the 95% confidence interval. For an individual, they found the true value of the estimate was between 3% and 91%, 95% of the time. For STATIC-99, VRAG and other tools, the results were much the same."The statistical issue of the difference between precision of estimates in a group against that for an individual is not peculiar to psychology and it is not because psychological variables are less reliable. It's to do with inherent variability in human beings," says Cooke, professor of forensic clinical psychology at the Douglas Inch Centre and Glasgow Caledonian University. Cooke has also looked at medical literature on predicting the probability of heart attacks, cancer and other conditions that rely on physical measurements and found the same large error margins. "You can get a good model statistically that fits well for a group but it doesn't predict well for individuals, " he says.Uncertain conditionsNo-one can argue with statistically based procedures for making complex decisions under conditions of uncertainty, so long as successes and failures are aggregated across cases and the cost of errors is low, says Stephen Hart, a professor in the Department of Psychology at Simon Fraser University in Canada and a leading authority on assessing the risk of violent offending. "A life insurance company doesn't care whether it makes a 'mistake' estimating the lifespan of a given individual - it could be wrong about every single person it insures - but as long as the pattern of life spans is predictable on average, then it can still make good money."But if one is interested in individual cases or if the cost of decision errors is high, then these techniques are problematic. "Families of victims who are killed by patients and offenders released improperly, and those whose civil rights are infringed when they are held improperly, are not satisfied knowing that despite the errors I made in their cases, I am still right more often than I am wrong," says Hart, who has considerable experience as an expert witness in US courts defending people who have been incarcerated on the basis of actuarial risk predictions.Hart highlights a further problem with predictive assessments that compounds the effects of these error margins. In cases of uncertainty, humans will tend to anchor on the first substantial piece of information they get and any new information that contradicts this initial idea is given less attention than it merits. This is the theory of anchoring bias.If for example a predictive model says that a frail 85-year-old man with heart problems is a high-risk sex-offender and 52% likely to re-offend over the next 15 years, anchoring bias means that if the assessor is told the score is wrong, they will simply adjust it to 50% or 48%. "It is probably zero. But the 52% poisons the assessor's judgment," says Hart.Predictive models are attractive because they represent an apparently scientific and rigorous yet simple approach to targeting resources and making decisions about complex human problems. But this latest study adds to concerns that such techniques are insufficiently accurate to make important decisions about individuals.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have a blue and white Mac G3 tower running OS X. However, I cannot use Second Life, which tells me that I need a G4 processor. Macs are expensive and I don't want to have to buy a new computer just for that.Andy BrownYou can probably swap out the G3 for a G4 processor. This is a relatively simple process as it uses a ZIF (zero insertion force) socket. However, you may also need to update your Mac's firmware. The XLR8 (accelerate) Your Mac site hasinstructions.The problem is that although you should then be able to play Second Life, you won't get a very good experience. The G3 is practically an antique. Second Life is a game and benefits from game-style levels of computer power, including fast graphics. You might well be amazed at the difference a £2,000 (plus monitor) Mac Pro tower with an ATI Radeon X1900 XT card would make!Brent Linden from the developer, Linden Lab, has offered "some suggestions to make your Second Life experience a little more bearable on a Mac". These include setting the draw distance to 64 (so you can't see as far), and turning down options in Graphics Detail. He says: "If you're using a MacBook or Mac mini, try setting Terrain Detail to Low, and using only the sun and moon lighting options." These tips should also help iMac and PC users who also have Intel graphics chips built into the motherboard instead of a separate graphics card. For more comprehensive tips, consult Help:Lag on the Second Life wiki (http://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/Help:Lag).Ultimately, of course, Second Life is limited by the speed of your broadband, no matter how fast your computer is.
On your recommendation, I downloaded CCleaner. On July 12, Sophos Anti-Virus told me ccleaner.exe belongs to virus Mal/VB-K. Is this likely to be true?Brian HazeldineNo, it's a false alarm. Graham Cluley from Sophos says: "It was present in Sophos's product for about four hours and was fixed in the early hours of July 12." If you have updated your virus protection, the warning should have gone away.You should also try to use the latest CCleaner as that is frequently updated, too.
Hour of Victory wants to be Call of Duty 3 so bad it hurts. Well, it isn't. Much of the same second world war challenges are there, and the variety of levels and mission types is encouraging at first. But it's not a well balanced game; the enemy is tough but dumb and the levels are striking but hardly push the Unreal 3 engine past second gear. Furthermore, despite three characters to choose from, it's clear the tough Commando is best suited to the majority of missions. However, it's playable and quality wargames are not exactly flooding in for the 360, making it worth a look.
This innovative first-person shooter casts you as Jackie Estacado, a New York Mob hitman who finds himself the target of his erstwhile boss, Uncle Paulie, on his 21st birthday, which is also the day he discovers that he is possessed by an utterly evil but handily powerful entity called The Darkness. As Jackie moves from escaping Uncle Paulie's clutches to extracting increasingly bloody revenge, his Darkness powers grow. Eventually he can send a snake-like appendage up walls and along ceilings, summon four types of gargoyle-like darklings (including kamikaze ones which blow up and gunners who light cigarettes when they have nobody to shoot) and create temporary black holes. Considering there's so much going on, The Darkness does well to avoid becoming confusing and, indeed, to remain utterly believable. The voice acting and lip-synching are brilliant, the gunplay is beautifully balanced (you can set the amount of "snap" to enemies, which is unusual) and the missions become increasingly convoluted and involving, forcing you to make maximum use of Darkness powers. Essential for Xbox 360 and PS3 owners (the latter version will arrive in a few weeks).
Here is a new bout of mental gymnastics for DS owners. Working in the same way as the original, players get to test their "brain age" by doing three challenges on a daily basis. Usually involving number, word or memory tests, these new efforts will challenge even veterans of the first title. Highlights include an infuriating yet addictive word scrambler and an innovative piano-based recital challenge. A stack of Sudoku puzzles is included too, just in case you get tired of the daily mental workout. Handwriting recognition is still an issue, and, like the original, you'll need to have a bit of privacy to experience all the puzzles (you specify at the start whether you can speak or not). But like anything that's good for you, More Brain Training is worth the effort.
Because it hasn't been on sale long enough over here, and it's the wrong time of year, says Sony. Despite the $100 price cut (that is, 17%) on the PS3 in the US, the UK hasn't followed suit. Why?David Reeves, president of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, told the Guardian: "We've only been on the [UK] market for three and a bit months. We're actually not doing too badly - we're not selling as well as [Nintendo's] Wii or DS, but seasonality-wise, compared to, say, the PlayStation 2 at the same time we launched it in 2001, we're doing quite well on a regional level. We thought if we reduced the price, we'd annoy a lot of people. In the US, they've been going for more than six months, so they took the decision that going down in price was a better thing to do."And if you drop the price in the summer, the sales rate goes up for a couple of weeks, but because there's not much demand out there, the sales rate comes down again until you get to the end of September, the beginning of October, and it all starts to heat up."True, summer is traditionally a fallow sales period for the games industry. But with the Value Pack that Sony announced for the UK, you can now get a 60GB PS3, with two games and a second Sixaxis controller, for &pound;425. In the US, a bog-standard 60GB PS3 (until that is phased out in favour of the new 80GB version) costs just &pound;250.Reeves argues that, in real terms, we're still getting value for money over here."The added value in there is &pound;120 to &pound;125. We know that most people anyway are going to buy two to two-and-half games. So when you do the maths, you have $499, which is &pound;250, plus two games and a Sixaxis controller. Which is going to come up to &pound;380 to &pound;390."But there's VAT in Europe, so you have to take 15% off, and there's GST [sales tax] in the US, and the average sales tax is 8.5%. So when we did the maths, and this is the case in Australia as well, they are exactly the same."But retailers, before Sony announced the UK Value Pack, were already selling PS3s with a game thrown in for &pound;399.Play.comwill sell you a PS3 right now, with three games and an HDMI cable for &pound;399.99. "The situation in the UK is unique - it is so competitive. People are going to come out at &pound;399 with a game, to get people into the store to buy another game and another game. That's the name of the game."All this talk about now not being the right time for a price cut does strongly hint at one arriving before Christmas. So, when? "Our plans are in place - we know exactly what we're going to do and when we're going to do it. I'm not going to answer your question, because that would get me into tremendous hot water. But we have a plan and we're going to stick to it. We are confident but not arrogant about reaching a very, very good installed base on PS3, and having the same momentum that we had with the PS2."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"What's your memorable address?" my bank asked me the other day. "Um ..." I tried to think. What address did I give them 17 years ago when I opened the account? That security question hasn't come up for at least five years. What address did I think would be memorable in 1990? So I guessed. Fortunately, I guessed right.The situation is much worse with my US American Express card, which I've had since 1977, long enough for a lot of things to change. In those 30 years I've lived in four countries at seven addresses. It used to be cute and quirky that Amex always had my phone number wrong.It's less so now. I called the other day to try to discuss a disputed bill. The call-centre droid asked me, in the interests of security, to give a former address. I gave three. Apparently they were all wrong and in Amex's reality I used to live in Iowa.These are two different problems. With my bank, you set up your security questions when you open your account and never review them. You can change your answers at any time - but who does? The problem therefore is your memory. This is exacerbated by my tendency to make stuff up in order to stymie would-be identity thieves who might have found out the real answers with a little bit of research.So I have to guess which movie character's last name I might have picked for my mother's maiden name, or which friend's birthdate I chose as the basis for a memorable date or Pin. Who did I like in 1991?With Amex, we're talking about 30 years of compound database errors, which works out kind of like compound interest. The company tells me (via the online message centre, which is the only way I can contact them such that they'll believe it's me) that it uses information taken from public records to verify what I tell them. I'm not sure which public records they're looking at - perhaps those of the other Wendy Grossman, who is also a journalist. In which case, I guess I must live in Houston, Texas.This is the kind of thing that opponents of the ID card keep warning against. Your whole life could become inaccessible to you if there is enough difference between your version of your life and the government's.The happy news is that the message centre respondents are really trying to help. They're letting me give them my real phone number, which, if I call from it, will verify via caller ID that it's really me.Or at least, that it's the person using my website account. I wonder what their memorable address is?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In a move that has pleased free data campaigners in many countries, the New Zealand government has announced as part of its 2007 Budget that it is removing charges from a raft of statistical data that it collects and making it free, with the specific intention of stimulating the business and nonprofit sectors of the economy.The announcement, made in May, will cost about NZ$1.4m (&pound;541,000). It won't cover everything, though the department reckons it will mean that 90% of the current requests for information will be free. And, it adds, "detailed information about industries or small geographic areas, for example, will not be freely available on this website as this information is subject to quality and confidentiality checks".Valuable analysisIt's a stratagem that could have come straight from Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign: by making impersonal government-collected data free to private business, you'll expand the business sector, which will generate taxes that will offset lost revenue from making the data free.But one thing is missing from the New Zealand government's announcement: any analysis of how the economy there is expected to benefit in the medium term, to compensate for the fall in government income from charging for the data. Nor indeed is there any data on likely administrative savings from not processing and chasing payments.Such an analysis would be valuable to the UK, where the government has said that it will carry out just such a study - first recommended in 2000 as part of the Treasury's Cross-Cutting Review, and again by the Power Of Information report written for the Cabinet Office. The study is due to report before the end of the year.The decision by the NZ government was widely welcomed by business and nonprofit organisations. "Groups like The Salvation Army, which are involved in social policy issues and research, as well as the provision of social services, will have another source of information to draw upon," said Campbell Roberts, its Social Policy and Parliamentary Unit director. "Many of the statistics are currently prohibitively expensive for non-profit groups, so removing the charges will make available a wealth of information otherwise inaccessible."But why did the government there do it? Statistics New Zealand portrays it as a simple policy decision: "This information is being made accessible to ensure that all participants in our society and economy can get full value from the investment that taxpayers make in official statistics."Further inquiries suggest that the move was approved by New Zealand's Cabinet - including its Treasury - without a rigorous cost-benefit justification. This could be seen as encouraging: if a government is willing to forego millions in order to take on an emerging practice, that must be encouraging for the UK, which is trying to build an "information economy". But how willingly would a government headed by Gordon Brown accede to an approach without demonstrated overall economic benefits?Anne Hannah ofStatistics NZ, told the Guardian that the emphasis of its government's approach was on "creating benefits to the business and community through increasing access to, and use of, official statistics, rather than on exclusively financial considerations". She explained: "As part of this process we therefore reviewed overseas practice in Denmark and Australia where we found that making information freely available had resulted in significant increases in usage. We examined our datasets and looked at those offering the highest value to users and constructed this initiative around making free highly used datasets and costed the initiative accordingly."The data being made available is not basic map data per se (administered by Land Information New Zealand, which is the equivalent of the UK's Ordnance Survey, Hydrographic Office and Land Registry combined), but is starting with "digital boundaries" and similar data (stats.govt.nz). Used in a geographical information system (GIS), these will show information delineated by boundaries that can be as small as a suburb.These in turn are valuable for businesses trying to understand where to focus their efforts. "Visualising information in map form is becoming a common way of understanding such things as market concentrations, catchments for setting franchise areas, potential market and competition, and for purposes such as choosing outlet locations," Hannah explained.Stephen Summers, economist for Business NZ, the lobbying group for businesses, said the move followed longstanding lobbying: "Business New Zealand has been lobbying for some time to free up data that would normally involve a charge, and is part of a wider and very useful relationship that Business NZ have had with Stats NZ in terms of identifying ways in which the business community can increase the use of official statistics as part of their day-to-day operations."So is a cost-benefit analysis of freeing the data held somewhere in Business NZ, Statistics NZ or the New Zealand Treasury? Despite Hannah's assuring us that costs and benefits had been investigated, she could not offer any documentary evidence. After some investigation, Summers said he too had drawn a blank at the Treasury: "There doesn't appear to be a cost-benefit model put together." Government contacts said - and he agreed - that to do so would be "rather difficult as the pay-off periods would most likely be quite a fair way into the future".In line with neighboursOne commenter on the Free Our Data blog suggested that Hans Rosling, whose Gapminder site has previously featured in the campaign (Uncovering global inequalities through innovative statistics, January 11), lobbied for the change. "He asked them on the day of his talk at Govis 2007," the commenter suggested. However, Statistics NZ said it had no knowledge of Rosling having influenced the change.Summers added: "Anecdotally, the business community had wanted more data to be freely available for some time, especially considering the compliance issues where many businesses fill in Stats NZ surveys, and wish to get something useful back in return."New Zealand's decision suggests that by making this data free it is bringing itself into line with geographical neighbours such as Australia - which implies that the free data model may carry a domino effect: when one country begins to use it, businesses find it attractive, which acts as an investment incentive - so others need to follow. Will the UK?&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Disaster struck Oxford's undergraduates this week when students were fined for end-of-term hijinks. Caught on camera performing the ancient final-exam ritual of "trashing", they face disciplinary hearings and fines for their bad behaviour. But it was the students themselves who provided the evidence - proctors simply perused the community site Facebook and collected pictures of wrongdoing.So how do you stop your pictures being seen by everybody? Many new users are unaware that Facebook provides a number of privacy settings: in fact, you can be very specific about who can see your information. Using the button marked "privacy", you can make sure that some people can see your phone number, while others are restricted to reading your sandwich preferences. You can even change it so that people can't see your chosen profile picture until you're sure who they are.Although the system is fairly secure, there are glitches. "Poking" loved ones and strangers on Facebook might be a popular way of saying hello, but lots of users don't realise that your pokee will also be able to see your profile for a full week - whether you become their "friend" or not.Similarly, while you can control your own pictures - or request that other people's pictures "tagged" with your name will not be attached to your own profile - you cannot stop anyone else from having their images of you on public display.At the rate Facebook is growing - it has doubled in size over the past six months to more than 30 million users - privacy is becoming an increasingly complex question. If in doubt, the rule is always the same: if there's something you would rather people didn't know, the world wide web is probably not the best place to put it.
I think browser games have just reached their creative zenith. InRose and Camelia, you play a young woman whose rich husband dies, leaving her to battle it out with his family for a fair share of the inheritance. And by battle, I mean slap.Yes, in this wonderfully crafted game by Japanese studio Nigoro, you engage in a series of face-stinging confrontations with spiteful ladies, swiping your mouse across the screen to affect the most vicious slap you can, while also defending against incoming attacks.The fraught baroque soundtrack and luscious settings take you straight into the realm of the sunday afternoon costume drama - and believe me, once you're in it's very difficult to get out again. As the game progresses your opponents get tougher, able to dish out more punishment, while demanding greater accuracy from your own strikes.Please, someone commission a DS version![ViaIndependant Gaming Source]
