The FBI's reputation, already tarnished by a series of well-publicised errors, reached a new low yesterday after the news that 449 guns and 184 laptop computers had been lost or stolen from the bureau.The stolen guns included rifles and machine guns. One of them was later used in a murder, and at least one of the missing laptops contained classified information about spy investigations by the FBI.The losses came to light as a result of a detailed inventory of FBI equipment ordered by the justice department after a string of bungles and embarrassments, and have added to the impression of disarray inside the bureau.The news broke as the Senate was holding hearings on the state of the FBI's management following the nomination of a new director, Robert Mueller.Senator Patrick Leahy, the Democratic chairman of the judiciary committee said: "There are some very serious management problems at the FBI." Orrin Hatch, the committee's top Republican, said: "This is simply inexcusable."In recent months, the FBI has suffered one humiliation after another. Two months ago, it discovered evidence from its investigation into the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, which should have been handed to lawyers for Timothy McVeigh at his trial four years ago. The belated discovery led to a month-long postponement of his execution.Earlier this year, the bureau unearthed a spy in its counter-intelligence section, Robert Hanssen, who turned out to have been selling secrets to Moscow since 1979. The FBI has also been accused of over-zealous prosecution and racial bias in the case of Wen Ho Lee, a Taiwanese-American nuclear scientist at the Los Alamos laboratories who was accused of stealing weapons secrets. However, the prosecution case against him quickly collapsed in court for lack of evidence.The FBI inventory found that 184 guns were stolen from the cars and homes of agents. Officials said one of the stolen guns was later used in a murder in a southern city, but gave no other details. Another 265 weapons were classified as unaccounted for.Of the 184 missing laptops, 13 are reported to have been stolen, including one which contained details of two completed FBI investigations into espionage cases. FBI sources said that another three missing computers might contain secret files.
What computer do you use?I have five Macintoshes! My main one is a G4 desktop and I have G4 and G3 laptops as well. I can runPro-Tools,LogicorCubasedepending on what is required. I see the computer as a very powerful tool, like another musical instrument, but you should still keep the core of what you're doing simple and only use the technology to generate things that wouldn't be possible before.Besides music, what do you use your computer for ?I like usingPhotoshopand also an amazing 3D animation package calledLightWave. It is the software they used on Titanic. I am fascinated with the way that computers have brought such professional technology into the hands of amateurs. That's what happened to music about 15 years ago and the same is happening with film and video now.How do you feel about file-sharing software?It has affected me directly but it's the same as when I taped my friend's records as a kid - all of which I later bought anyway! You're never going to have the relationship with a file that you have with a CD. With Radiohead's Kid A in America, a lot of people heard, and then bought it because of Napster. I don't think that the subscription Napster will work, as people won't pay for something so ephemeral.Do you see broadband revolutionising communications?It could be fantastic, people will be trying to run TV stations from their living room... I hope! I don't know if the technology or the bandwidth is truly available at the moment. People talk about the net breaking down barriers and that's when it all starts to get exciting.Are you a fan of gadgets?I had aPalm Pilotbut I still find the best way for me to organise myself is with a pen and paper. I have aSony DCR-PC100E DV cameraand a Panasonic digital still camera. When Radiohead were getting ideas for their cover artwork I took a digital photo of a six foot painted canvas, put it into LightWave and turned it into a landscape you could actually fly around! I like it when technology allows you to do stuff that isn't traditionally what you're used to doing.Any favourite websites?www.irational.org/sic/radio/shows you how to forget the net and set up a real pirate radio station! AlsoStanley Donwood's homepage,the Dome's movements,www.dropthedebt.org/andan EMS synths sitewith pictures of some "must have" Dr Who-style accessories.
Forget football and women - if you really want to bond with a man in his mid-twenties or older, simply mention the words Manic Miner to him.For some of us, Manic Miner, Jet Set Willy or Gauntlet evoke memories from circa 1987: sitting around a small TV hooked up to a computer with the processing power of an abacus waiting for anything up to half an hour to load a game made up of about eight colours and a single moving dot. But these memories can easily be restored to reality.With the recent stampede for the PlayStation 2 followed by Microsoft's much-vaunted Xbox games PC/console already on the horizon, and the latest news that Sony executives have already signed up technology partners for the next PlayStation, you might think we would be keen to consign to history the days of the 48k Spectrum and Commodore 64. Not so.The power of the home PC nowadays means that it is possible to recreate the workings of the hardware of a machine such as the Commodore 64 or even more recent machines such as the original PlayStation console, within the software of a PC using an emulator program. An old Spectrum game is typically no larger than 50- 70K, smaller than the average web page. As such, the internet is perfectly suited to shuttle these games around, even on a 56k connection.Sites such asdavesclassics.comhave hundreds of emulated games to download free from various different PCs/consoles, while fans of Clive Sinclair's rubber-keyed wonder, the Spectrum, can visit sites such asspeccymagic.co.ukandvoid.jump.orgto get their games. Just load up an emulator program and then start looking for the games you want to revisit.But Dan Tyerman, the 24-year-old owner of Speccymagic, says: "There is little point in emulating Play Station or Nintendo64 games, as people can get hold of these easily. Why use an emulator to do it?"The Spectrum is a worldwide phenomenon too... I get emails from people in Portugal, Spain and Italy, as well as a few from Russia and the Baltic states."One of the most popular downloads is a program called Mame (multi-arcade machine emulator). This software can emulate hundreds of old arcade games played on ageing cartridge-driven consoles such as the Nintendo SNES, and can be downloaded from sites such asclassicgaming.com."To be honest," says Robert Voase, a 24-year-old marketing executive and self-confessed console junkie, "while the games on my PlayStation 2 look amazing, they can't really compete on playability with the old-school games of the Spectrum or Amiga."Since Voase is exactly the type of young, affluent consumer that Sony targets, it is easy to see why electronics companies feel threatened by the idea of people playing its legacy consoles and classic games free.So why are these antiquated games and hardware so popular? "There's an element of pure nostalgia," says Voase, a veteran games-player since he owned a C64 in the 1980s. "But there is also a sense of amazement at seeing how far the games have come in just a decade."It is also in part because of the games - they really do not make games as furiously addictive as Manic Miner any more. In fact, a common complaint about console games for fabulously powerful machines like the PS2 is that the programmers have become carried away with the graphics and forgotten the gameplay.Just to give a sense of perspective; the processor at the heart of a Spectrum computer was running at 3.5MHz, whereas the latest Intel Pentium 4 is running at around 1.8GHz - around 400 times quicker. Fancy graphics were never an option for coders of early machines like the Spectrum or its rival Commodore 64. If the challenge of the gameplay itself did not keep you up until 2am, bleary-eyed, utterly hooked, it was a failure.There is also recent history to be charted in the evolution from Manic Miner to Lara Croft in remarkably few moves. After Sinclair gave way to the Commodore 64 and the Amiga, Commodore's first 16-bit machine, it was the turn of Nintendo and Sega to duel it out, before Sony came along with the all-conquering PlayStation."I wanted to try to create a site that would enable people to relive a bit of their childhood... and it is fair to say that these machines started it all off, right through to the PlayStation we have today," says Tyerman. "People used to enjoy playing them years ago, and the games still hold up today."As with nearly all the emulator sites, Tyerman runs his for free, not charging the thousands of visitors his site attracts to download the games or the Spectrum emulator program you need to begin with.Despite abandoning the Spectrum years ago in favour of his Commodore 64, Tyerman says: "I thought about putting some Commodore games up on the site, but I feared there might be a backlash."After all these years, it is good to know that gamers can still hold a grudge.
Born freeDouglas Rushkoff says "so far, no traditional US publisher has dared to make an offer on a book that will be released, for free, online before it is released in print," (Second Sight, 12 July) but this is actually fairly common for programming books.For example, Phil Greenspun's online book atwww.arsdigita.com/books/panda/was then published as Database-Backed Websites.And one that just came out was C++ In Action, available online atwww.relisoft.com/book/, now published by Addison-Wesley. I just bought this one, after being impressed by the website. I have seen a few others, too.But it is not just technical books. Phil Greenspun also created a website called Travels with Samantha (www.photo.net/samantha/), which has since been published.There have been novels that pulled it off, too, but I do not remember the details.Generally, publishers seem quite willing to publish books that have proven themselves online.Dennis Petersondennis.peterson@agiml.netVirus freeHardly a week goes by without your Ask Jack column having some unfortunate writer with a problem attributable to a virus infection. This, and my own experience, suggests that very many computer users live in a fool's paradise without virus protection until they are struck. The fault lies in the industry, which makes little attempt to warn, or still better, protect users.My very first PC (a TiKo) came with Norton Anti-virus installed and I have never been without an up-to-date copy of this program and its virus definitions in subsequent machines. I have lost count of the number of times it has intercepted floppy disks and emails bearing nasty infections. If manufacturers followed TiKo's example and supplied an anti-virus program as one of the "goodies" with the machine, rather than masses of software which the user may or may not want, it should go a long way towards reducing the spread of viruses and in educating beginners of the need to install such a program.Harold Sternharold.stern@virgin.netWrong keySo the software sellers you spoke to, Microsoft, Intuit, and Sage have been ready for the euro for years. But when are our humble keyboards going to sport the euro symbol?Currently, Shift + Option+ 2 rather awkwardly gives me the euro symbol on a Mac. Maybe our friends in Euroland already have it on their keyboards?Michael Farringdonjandmf@aol.comOnline adds:And the euro symbol is only available with that keystroke in some fonts...Taxi bluesCongratulations on your article about Dublin e-taxis. I am now looking for awards for which I could put it forward. For a start it is (unintentionally) hilarious.But much more importantly, it is a metaphor for the entire dot.com collapse. One of the lessons of that collapse was that no matter how well an e-commerce website was designed, it was absolutely useless if what was on show was not, in every sense, delivered.So it is with your article, which completely fails to mention the practical problems of taxis in Dublin: (lack of) supply and the chronic traffic they have to wade through, absolutely none of which will be "cured" by text messages on mobile phones, however wonderful that technology is.What consolation would it be to wait for a (non-existent?) taxi even if you knew for certain your e-message did get through and got a (text) response?Frank Desmondfrank.d@ireland.com
Virtual Ritchie Benaudwww.cricket4.com/tv/richie.htmlStats heavenwww.crickinfo.comLive audio commentarywww.ecb.co.ukThe historywww.334notout.comGuardian coveragesport.guardian.co.uk/cricketView down underaustraliacricket.rivals.net
On songTomorrow sees the start of the 107th season of the Proms. Those who cannot get to the Royal Albert Hall will be able to listen and, for the first time, watch concerts on the    web. The BBC claims that every performance will be online this year, and the first and last night of the Proms (plus three nights in-between) will be steamed with accompanying video (www.bbc.co.uk/proms).Elsewhere, the Prommers' Orchestra, the unofficial band that has given a concert outside the Hall since 1994, can be found atwww.prommers-orchor.org.uk, and there is a decent unofficial site atwww.promenaders.freeserve.co.ukThe Guardian's coverage can be found at our website's new daily art pages atwww.guardian.co.uk/artslatest.From the hipThe Lomo is a basic, but functional, camera manufactured in St Petersburg. You can buy one over the web and take part in a growing community of photographers who practise their own style of taking pictures spontaneously. "Lomographers" shoot from the hip and see the use of the viewfinder as being very uncool. The Lomo is not the most brilliant camera, and at &#163;95 it is not cheap. Devotees say the price includes entry to a kind of international club, which include events and competitions.www.lomo.comFree MP3sBritain's record companies seem to be taking advantage of Napster's silence by promoting their artists via free MP3s. Bristolian rapper,Trickymarks his comeback with free MP3s and streamed interviews and songs from his new album, Blowback.Bjorkanticipates the release of her new album, Vespertine, with the release of a new single and video weeks before it is due in the shops. Leftfield dance act, Bent, has gone even further and re-released its latest album, Programmed to Love - rebrandedDownloaded for Love- free on MP3.Brighton rocksWebwatch's favourite online record label, Brighton's BN1 Recordings, has had its first success from its online A&amp;R page. Groove Deluxe from an Anglo-Japanese act has now signed to the label after emailing in a track, apparently after reading this column.www.BN1Recordings.com.Up my StrasseLast week,multimap.combegan providing city maps to 12 different European countries. You can now access street maps from most major cities between Sweden and Portugal. Please note, unlike the UK service, the European maps only feature major streets.Give it upOxfamwants to bring new life to old mobiles: it is asking people to donate their old handsets. The plan is to recycle the phones and sell them on. The charity says that, on average, each donated handset is worth &#163;5 to Oxfam. Some, such as the Nokia 5110, can be worth as much as 24 school desks in Kenya.Take creditIt's taken over a year to get to market, but last week finally saw the release ofSmartcreds, pay-as-you-go credit cards for people who can't get credit cards. The idea is that you can top-up your Smartcred card at any of the 8,400 PayPoints in the UK, many of which are in local shops. Under 18s are the target audience, but the card might also appeal to the millions who are denied credit, yet want to buy online.Atavar's artMichael Atavar, a former digital artist in residence at the Guardian, has returned with a new online work:.sciis&#91;sensitive cumulative intelligent immersive systems&#93;. It consists of 10 virtual, and highly abstract, environments which the user explores using a VRML (virtual reality) browser plug-in. The software does take a lot of getting used to but, with a work as beautiful as this one, perseverance brings rewards.New &amp; noted&#149; Many online golf games; only one as simple and beautiful aswww.electrotank.com/lab/minigolf.html.&#149; The desktop wallpaper atwww.thatcherweb.com/wallpapers is not, repeat not, a parody.&#149; Actor Woody Harrelson has a new site to promote environmentally friendly lifestyles:www.voiceyourself.com.&#149; Buy net art, or look at it for free atwww.artcart.de.&#149; Delight Disney fans: tell them aboutwww.disneyseek.com.• This article was amended on Thursday 19 March 2009. We have removed material from this article to protect the privacy of a person originally named in the story.
Cops keep the PS1 alive and kickingWorld's Scariest Police ChasesPlayStation &#163;29.99 Activision *****Could this be one of the biggest surprises of the year? As a PlayStation game based on the US television show World's Scariest Police Chases, anticipation levels for this release were low. But Activision has pulled out a winner from the unlikeliest of sources, with a pursuit and shoot game that achieves much more than the sum of its parts.Taking your pick from a number of vehicles, your aim is to apprehend criminals by indulging in numerous high-speed car chases. Each mission involves a different approach: on some a brief siren wail will suffice, while others require you to ram or fire at the escaping vehicle.Obviously the latter two offer the greatest scope for thrills with the use of weaponry differentiating this from lesser driving titles. Chasing a baddie through crowded streets while trying to shoot on target, makes for PlayStation excitement unmatched this year. It is even better in the two-player mode, which allows one person to drive and the other to pull the trigger. Graphically it is a blatant copy of Driver, with the cars even coming apart in the same manner.In this case, though, the plagiarism matters little, with the atmospheric voice-overs and TV-style presentation leaving little doubt that this is high-adrenaline entertainment rather than a moody gangster effort. Of course, the graphics are archaic, with wobbly scenery and ugly pixellation. Also, the assailants display similar evasion techniques that make them easier to catch when their pattern is learnt.Yet somehow these flaws do not overly detract from a game that is unashamedly enjoyable. The PlayStation is six years old but a success like this shows it is not ready for retirement quite yet.Greg HowsonGran Turismo is better in the driving seatGran Turismo 3: A-specPlayStation 2	&#163;40 Sony *****Gran Turismo 3 is one of those very rare things: a game that surpasses its hype. What makes it special is its amazingly realism. That much is obvious from the photorealistic graphics, of   course, and the attention to details such as wind and road noise. But what really matters is the new physics engine: it really does makes you feel as though you are driving a particular car, even if you have no idea what it should feel like.The graphics are roughly in the same class as a high-end PC or Xbox, but GT3 is a reminder that measuring the paint and canvas doesn't say anything about the skill of the artist.In GT3, the cars and tracks just seem more naturalistic than, say, Colin McRae Rally 2 on a PC, and they fit together better. The Firing Squad movies atfiringsquad.gamers.com/games/gt3/gallery.aspgive a good idea of the sensation.The basic game is much the same. You qualify (optional but recommended), you race, you win money, you improve your car, you race again. There are three levels, with leagues for beginners, amateurs and professionals, so all skill levels are catered for. In GT3, you start with not much money and a car that drives like a brick, but at least you can feel the difference when you soup it up. There is also an arcade mode that lets two people play on a split screen. Buy three copies of the game, link three PS2s together and up to six can play.Fortunately, there are limits to GT3's realism. You can still bump past cars that will not get out of the way, and continue to race after bouncing off tyre walls, though such excursions usually cost you two or three places and the race. But this is, after all, a game, and it is great fun to play.Jack SchofieldHave we been in this Half-Life before?Half-Life: BlueshiftPC CD-Rom &#163;29.99 Sierra Studios/Gearbox Software *****I will not bore you with another lyrical paean to Half-Life. Quite simply, it was a great first-person shooter, and its reputation has generally been enhanced, rather than undermined, by the various add-ons that have appeared since: Counterstrike, Team Fortress, Opposing Force.With Blueshift, however, Sierra is beginning to push its luck. Sure, there is new stuff: you play a new character, security guard Barney Calhoun; the visuals are much crisper, and, in a neat touch, there's a patch that will also upgrade the graphics on the original Half-Life. There are new puzzles to solve; and the bad guys seem a little less tactically naive this time, occasionally trying strategies other than charging into the muzzle of your gun.What is disappointing is the amount that has not changed. The action is once again set in the Black Mesa Research Facility, meaning that the backgrounds and characters are, a few polygons notwithstanding, the same as before. There are no new weapons, no new monsters, no new controls, and no new gadgets to manipulate.Worst of all, the game is way too short. The box loudly proclaims itself as "the new standalone episode in the Half-Life universe"; "trailer for a new episode" would be a more accurate description. The fact that it's bundled with the multiplayer code for Opposing Force will be scant consolation to the hardcore solo player.Fun - if you don't mind forking out 30 quid for a brief spell of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu.Andy Bodle
The FBI faces an angry grilling from a Senate committee today after admitting it has lost more than 180 laptop computers - at least one containing classified data - as well as 449 handguns and submachine guns over the last decade.FBI officials discovered the missing equipment during an inventory undertaken at the request of the justice department. The investigation also revealed that one of the missing guns had been used in a homicide. The bureau said yesterday that it tracks lost weapons, but this was the first time a serious effort has been mounted to try to get an account of missing equipment from all FBI field offices.The scale of losses and thefts emerged as the Senate judiciary committee prepared to bring in FBI officials for questions on the agency's management. Today's hearing is likely be laced with senatorial outrage over the loss of so much dangerous equipment by the nation's premier law enforcement agency."To have laptops missing that could have national security information on them would be atrocious," said republican senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, a long-time FBI critic. "For the FBI to have lost firearms and failed to account for them is inexcusable."Senator Charles Schumer, a New York democrat, added: "The fact that, with computers with classified information and with weapons like machine guns, the FBI had such lax procedures is damning, especially for what has been regarded as the premier law enforcement agency in the world."The FBI has been under fire for mistakes going back years, including the failure to provide thousands of documents to Timothy McVeigh's lawyers, the Robert Hanssen spy case, the bloody Branch Davidian and Ruby Ridge standoffs and the botched investigation into the former nuclear scientist Wen Ho Lee."Large FBI foul-ups used to be extraordinary events, yet now they appear to be deteriorating into regular occurrences," said the House of Representatives judiciary committee chairman, James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin republican.Senators have complained for weeks that the FBI has a culture of covering up its mistakes and have offered several bills to reform the agency, including provisions for outside reviews and more power for agency watchdogs such as the inspector general's office.Besides the theft of 184 FBI weapons, 265 were lost, said FBI and justice department officials, discussing the problem on condition of anonymity. Most of the missing weapons are handguns, officials said, but submachine guns are also included.A total of 184 laptops are missing, including 13 which are believed to have been stolen, officials said. They said that in addition to one computer known to have contained classified information, three other missing machines might have housed classified material.After the FBI reported the missing hardware, the attorney general, John Ashcroft, asked the justice department's inspector general to do a department-wide review of inventory controls over guns and other law enforcement equipment.Useful linksFBISenate Judiciary CommitteeAttorney general's office
The battered internet sports sector is expected to receive a much-needed fillip today whenSports.comconfirms that it has closed a &#163;9.3m funding round.Existing investors, including financier George Soros, sports marketing agency IMG and Nasdaq-listedSportsline.com, have agreed to put up the cash despite difficult market conditions and concerns about the long-term financial viability of sports-driven dot.coms.Sports.com, which claims to be Europe's most visited sports website, believes that the cash will carry it through to the profitability forecast by the middle of next year.Sport was expected to be an enduring favourite with internet users, generating significant revenues for companies with exclusive content that could offer advertisers a large audience of affluent young males.Gavin Chittick, chief financial officer of Sports.com, said the opportunities remained plentiful despite the recent difficulties experienced by rival Sportal and the share price decline of 365 Corporation."When you look at who has put money into us, they're not exactly mugs," Mr Chittick said. "These people have put up hard cash in an uncertain economic environment because they know enough about our plan and our progress to have liked what they have seen."Ramez Sousou, managing partner of Soros Private Equity Partners, said: "Sports.com has built great content, spent carefully and partnered wisely to become Europe's clear leader in sports media and betting."Sports.com raised $52.5m (&#163;37.5m) in January last year and now generates about 120m page views per month. It has considered a stock market flotation but market conditions argue against it.The new funds will be used to expand Sports.com's nascent betting service and develop services for next-generation mobile phones."Wireless remains a huge opportunity for us," Mr Chittick added. Vodafone is seen as a likely partner.Sports.com has cut about 70 people from its 270 staff over the past few months but says that present advertising revenues are "healthy" and appear to be up on the previous quarter.
1. Despite all the recent, well-publicisedIT disastersin government, it is increasingly possible to access public services online.2. At this point, most of what is available from thegovernmentis simply information, and the most useful thing the websites offer is the ability to print out forms you would previously have to send away for.3. The good news is that some departments, such as the Inland Revenue, do offer transactional services.Tameside council'sgroundbreaking website even offers local residents the chance to check their council tax status and pay their parking fines online.4. The bad news is that Tameside is the only council out of 442 to have produced a fully transactional website, despite the government'sdeadlineof 2005 for all public services to be delivered electronically.5. Many transactional services will require the technology to deliver a totally securedigital signatureso that citizens can put their names on forms or request official documents. It remains to be seen whether the government can put that together by 2005.6. That's not to say that the information on offer is not useful. For example, theForeign Officehas been promoting its excellent travel advice section for holidaymakers.7. Apparently charities are not doing much better at offering online services to the public. A study from theFuture Foundationfound that only a third of charities thought they were making the most of the internet, and just over half had a strategic plan for making use of the web.8. One exception is services for homeless people, which have been forging ahead online in joint initiatives between charities and the government.The Resource Information Serviceis a charity that pulls together information for people in need due to disability, homelessness, poverty or unemployment. And the London mayor, Ken Livingstone, has committed himself to providing a website for rough sleepers by November.9. Some local authorities have already set up outdoor internetkiosksthat give residents access to local council information and free email.10.Online democracygroups, in government and the voluntary and private sectors, are also seeking to change public services by using the internet to give people a greater voice in public service provision.
Barry Diller, the former Paramount studio chief, yesterday paid &#163;1.1bn for a controlling stake in Expedia, the successful online travel agency.Mr Diller's media group USA Networks is paying Microsoft $40 a share for the 75% stake it holds in Expedia. The online firm is the seventh largest travel agency in the US and one of the few business-to-consumer sites which has managed to break even.Mr Diller said the acquisition would establish a bridgehead in the travel market. USA Networks yesterday also agreed to buy online cruise and package holiday operator National Leisure Group and announced plans to launch the USA Travel Channel on television."For some time we have believed travel to be a key building block in offering goods and services in interactive formats," he said.The two acquisitions, the TV travel channel and USA Networks' existing stake in Hotel Reservations Network will be combined to create USA Travel Group, which is expected to generate $4bn of bookings this year. The group aims to exploit cross-media opportunities within the division and said bookings would grow by 40% next year. USA Network's other online properties include Ticketmaster.com, Citysearch, and HSN.com, the online version of Mr Diller's Home Shopping Network on TV.Expedia was launched in 1996 as a unit of Microsoft and gained its own stock market listing in 1999. Microsoft will retain a stake of between 3-5% in Expedia. The acquisitions will expand USA Networks' share of retail transactions conducted over the internet and via TV in the US from 5% to 9%.
The term "digitally homeless" is sometimes used in high-tech circles to describe those who resist the internet onslaught. To the literally homeless, the term must sound fatuous at the very least.The plethora of bodies offering services to the homeless (1,600 in London at the last count) tend to concentrate on the most pressing needs: accommodation, healthcare, training and work advice. But giving their clients access to information about what's available is recognised by all as a critical issue.And increasingly, the weapon being brought to deal with the problem is the internet - exploding the myth that only the comfortably-off are electronically able and aware.The internet has been used for some time to link agencies that work with the homeless. The Resource Information Service established homeless pages, a website that brings together all the key resources for those working with the homeless.It was also involved in the development of the rough sleeping register, commissioned by the government's rough sleepers unit and managed by the Housing Services Agency. Designed to circumvent the problem of dealing consistently with people who drift in and out of contact with different agencies, the register is a password protected web-based system where caseworkers record up-to-date information on clients, with actions and outcomes.The notion of providing online services directly for the homeless is a relatively new concept. But its proponents - including London mayor Ken Livingstone - are hoping it will prove an effective tool in getting people off the streets.A website for homeless people is one of the core components of the mayor's rough sleepers strategy launched in March. The strategy makes the commitment that a dedicated website for London's homeless will be up and running in November. The tender is due to go out in the next few weeks.GLA director of homelessness projects Atul Hatwal says the service will provide an online community, not just information. It will have a users' forum, where people can post messages and communicate with each other across London.And in recognition of the immediacy of the problems its users face, the first access into the site will be via a map, where people can click on their exact location and find out where the closest bed, food, healthcare and other services are."It's something that's not been done before, and there are two reasons for the geographical approach," says Mr Hatwal. "It's a very quick way for people to find out what's directly relevant to them, now. But it will also make it very easy for us to spot where there are gaps in the services provided."A graphic that allows people to locate themselves on screen will also help break down barriers for those unfamiliar with the internet, he adds.But people with little more to their name than a sleeping bag aren't likely to have laptops, and the obvious question is how and where homeless people will get access to the website.Touch-screen kiosks are likely to play a part says Mr Hatwal, but the extent to which they will be used is yet to be decided. There is a strong desire not to duplicate efforts by other agencies, and where possible, to piggyback on other e-developments that can reach the homeless.Already, the Homeless Network is running its own information site for homeless people called On The Right Tracks, which is available through six touch-screen kiosks in main London rail stations.The Persula Foundation, which funded the project, is one of the agencies the Greater London Authority (GLA) is in discussion with. Many London councils are also looking at touch-screen technology, which could have partnership potential, Mr Hatwal says.But with the tight deadline of a November launch, the project has been broken into phases and links to local authority services won't be introduced until stage two. The immediate priority is getting something useable online for rough sleepers in five months - and with 1,600 London bodies with a registered interest in helping homeless people, there's a lot of co-ordination to do.Homeless charity Shelter is on the verge on launching its ShelterNet website - aimed at members of the public, including those at risk of homelessness. With comprehensive information on legal rights and security of tenure, the site is envisaged to complement ShelterLine, the charity's 24-hour telephone advice service.Design and language are critical in getting the message across, says Shelter housing services support manager David Garner. Throughout development there was a constant awareness that those mainly outside the traditional client group would access the site.But making that assumption in the site's content risks alienating homeless people who do use the site to find help. And designing an information-heavy site in such a way that it looks appealing and non-threatening without heavy graphics was a delicate balancing act."Once it's launched we will do some thorough usability tests. We're treating this very much as phase one of a three-year plan," Mr Garner says. Promoting the service directly to homeless people is on the agenda, with one option being to provide Shelter content for other sites and electronic services - including, potentially, touch-screen kiosks.The Big Issue foundation has provided IT training to homeless people for years and many of its regional offices provide internet access. Foundation chief executive Lucy Russell says increasing internet training is a key priority - stemming largely from what they have observed on the ground."The interesting thing about the internet is that there is a digital divide, and it can be hard to get access to, but it's actually very equalising for the people we work with. They don't need to have a home, can access it at any time, and it's anonymous. It has definitely enhanced the skills and knowledge base of homeless people," says Ms Russell.Older clients need more help using the internet than younger ones - which echoes the pattern in the non-homeless population, she adds. "It also acts as a carrot. Once they come in and have access to all this equipment we can say 'what skills do you have and what do you want to learn?'"Clients are enormously receptive to new technology, says Big Issue south east regional manager, Fiona Kirkman. In partnership with the Sussex community internet project (SCIP), the foundation runs a computer drop-in centre where homeless people get access to terminals for surfing and email, and training in web design and video skills.Funded by the DfEE and national lottery, the centre started off with SCIP workers bringing laptops into the Big Issue office to "just give people a go". Now a video made by Big Issue vendors is streamed on SCIP's See Life website about Brighton and their "introduction to vending" video was shown in the recent Brighton Virtual Festival.The more access to technology and electronic services are provided for homeless people, the more they will move from being consumers to creators, says Ms Russell. "And if you have information there that comes from people just like them, it rings bells. That creates a very positive circle."
When Demon Internet's lawyers emerged from the high court last Tuesday, they took away a ruling that could change the face of British internet law. The presiding judge, Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, had ruled that internet service providers would not be held responsible if their users revealed the whereabouts or new identities of Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, who murdered James Bulger in 1993.Butler-Sloss, who is responsible for the injunction which protects Venables and Thompson, said that her original judgment was inappropriate as regards the internet, and that ISPs were protected if contemptuous material was posted on web pages - as long as they took "all reasonable steps" to prevent the publication of such material.When Bulger's killers were paroled last month, Butler-Sloss set up the media injunction to protect their identities. The move was meant to protect the boys, especially after James's mother, Denise Fergus, had caused controversy by saying: "No matter where they go, someone out there is waiting."The ruling makes it illegal for any details of Venables and Thompson's new lives to be published in the British media. But the internet, Butler-Sloss said after Demon lobbied the high court, is a different case. ISPs could not be held accountable for the actions of those who use their services.The situation is complicated by the multinational nature of the web, and several sites hosted outside the UK had already threatened to publish details about Venables and Thompson.Because these sites exist outside British jurisdiction they are immune from the injunction. But the new ruling sets a precedent in British law, recognising the inability of ISPs to control content they host - which turns previous internet judgments on their head.Before last week's decision, the idea was that ISPs had a duty of care to prevent sites they hosted from breaking the law. As the publishers of a site, the host could be held responsible if its users broke the law - just as the publisher of a newspaper is accountable for its contents.     Demon was involved in one of the key cases which resulted in this interpretation. In a high-profile dispute two years ago, scientist Laurence Godfrey sued the company over defamatory statements posted on a newsgroup which Demon hosted. Godfrey, who had already pursued similar actions in Canada, New Zealand and the US, said that Demon had failed to take down the offending statements when asked. An out-of-court settlement and legal costs set the ISP back £500,000.Now ISPs will be liable for prosecution only if they are told about an illegal site and fail to remove it. Yaman Akdeniz, who leads pressure group Cyber-rights and Cyber-liberties, believes the amendment is a step in the right direction. "ISPs cannot be expected to patrol or police their own servers," he says. "As ever, the ISPs are seen as the usual  suspects when it comes to content regulation."Demon agrees. "We are grateful to the court," it said, "for making the position clear with regards to the responsibility of internet service providers in this matter." Michael Tugendhat QC, Demon's lawyer, refused to say that he was pleased with the ruling, stating: "Happy would not be the word, but we have all signed it.""It could have been worse if the judgment applied to the ISPs as it applies to newspapers," says  Akdeniz. "An understanding of the way in which ISPs are not equal to newspapers and written publications is crucial for dealing with these issues. We cannot expect the ISPs to have editorial control and the law needs to recognise this clearly."And yet even Demon recognises that there is a need to take a pro-active approach to policing content. In February, Thus - which owns Demon - announced it would be taking down sites and newsgroups with illegal paedophile content. As part of a move by the Internet Watch Foundation, an organisation of ISPs, Demon said it had discovered and removed nearly 700 articles from its servers."While it is impossible for ISPs to stop all illegal content from being published on newsgroups, I believe that there is much that can be done to police what is currently out there," said Keith Monserrat, the director of regulation at Thus. Its aim in removing paedophile content, he continued, was "to protect the vulnerable and to increase our vigilance".And yet the same vigilance may not be applied in the Bulger case. Online law is still finding its feet, and the global nature of the internet means it is difficult to come to a solution that crosses national boundaries. The Council of Europe Cyber-Crime Convention covers child pornography and recent proposals extend it to hate speech, but in the case of injunctions there is little international agreement.     The battle for online rights is being fought every day. Yahoo! is currently at loggerheads with the French government over its auction portals. It allows the sale of Nazi memorabilia - illegal under French law. The government has demanded that Yahoo! remove memorabilia sales not only from its French site, but also from any other national sites that French users can access. The French ruling is being challenged in the Californian courts in one of the most contentious internet law cases yet seen.So who takes responsibility for illegal material on the web? Those who create and post the content are of course the real lawbreakers, but the anonymity of the internet is such that it can be almost impossible to trace offending parties. It is easy to hide behind a false name and address, and hosts have no way of checking a user's details.As individuals hide from the law, and ISPs claim new protection from prosecution, we are left with a conspiracy of silence which could mean that ultimately nobody is responsible.
What's the point of online newspapers? Are they supposed to be comprehensive enough so that people calling them up on screen can do without the printed article? Should they be "tasters" for the real thing? Or provide that little something extra, expanding on what's in that day's paper?No one really thinks that - at least for the foreseeable future - the online version should supplant the paper itself because that would be counterproductive. At present, papers sold across the counter or delivered to the home provide the only source of revenue, advertising and cover price, to ensure reasonable profits.It is accepted that the web paper should therefore enhance its inky parent. The central task, as Brigid Callaghan, editor of the online Times, rightly points out, is to "deliver the newspaper in different ways".Fine, but to whom? The regular reader? The potential reader? The reader of a rival paper? The nostalgic expat dreaming of home at his computer in Singapore? The jet-setting businesswoman stuck in a hotel in Kansas City and wondering what's going on in London?The straight answer is, of course, all of them. It's estimated that half the regular users of the Guardian's website are not Guardian or Observer readers and some of them don't buy any paper at all. Similarly, the Sun's online editor, Pete Picton, says one of biggest pluses for his paper is that the website places it in front of people - many of them in the 18-24 age bracket - who aren't traditional Sun readers. "We are a marketing tool of the paper," he says, "so we hope we can convert people who find us on the internet to buy the Sun".The Guardian's director of digital publishing, Simon Waldman, also believes that attracting people to the newsprint paper is one of the key functions of a website, although he sees the online and printed versions as entirely complementary, with each one providing a different service.He says: "The online paper can act as an ambassador, but that isn't its only use. We know there are thousands of people who buy the paper and also dip in and out of the website during the day for specific things, whether it's for breaking news or cinema listings."Although the dedicated posse of people who run online newspapers   have been working in the dark for years, it is obvious that, week by week, they are making discoveries about their audience.They are certainly more realistic than they were a couple of years back when dot.com fever, largely stimulated by misguided financial analysts, persuaded otherwise rational entrepreneurs to invest crazy sums in a revolution they didn't understand. But realism, and the reflection it has engendered, hasn't solved the greatest puzzle of all: what is the future for web papers? As Kim Fletcher, editorial director of Hollinger Telegraph new media, candidly admits: "We still have no idea of the destination."Instead, in this new and more sensible phase of the revolution, with its scaled-down resources, what he and most of the other online editorial pioneers are doing is feeling their way. Aware that they can't afford to abandon their websites and return solely to printed pages, just in case rivals suddenly discover the crock of gold at the end of the global highway, they must maintain a presence and gauge - by that old-fashioned method of trial-and-error - what people want and what they can be enticed to believe they want.Fletcher believes that there are three possible areas of benefit, although all of them are somewhat intangible. First, there is what might be called the marketing advantage or, to use the jargon, "brand enhancement". Simply maintaining the paper's visibility on the web ensures some sense of continuing recognition.Second, there is the service to readers. Offering them the added value of extra information in the web paper guarantees their loyalty to the paper itself. The revamped Telegraph site has just caught up with the Guardian by offering surfers the chance to read up-to-date breaking stories during the day. Thus far, there hasn't been the slightest evidence of readers deserting the paper in favour of the website.As the latest audited circulation figures for newspapers show, the Guardian and Observer enjoyed healthy year-on-year sales rises at the same time as the website recorded more than 30m page impressions.Fletcher's third point is about jam tomorrow. There is a belief that there will be increasing revenues from the internet in the future, although how and when has caused doubt and confusion. Overoptimistic forecasts   about banner advertising and sponsorship are looking even more misguided since the general downturn in advertising. It is also clear that though classified recruitment advertisers may like their ads to appear on the web, they also prefer to see them in a paper too.Some papers are still rejecting the web. The Daily Mail has been slow to bother, though its new femail site is entertaining. The Daily Express has virtually given up: its site on Friday showed an out-of-date front page. Nor are there any clues about whether this lack of online activity has the least effect on readership since the Mail continues to add readers, while the Express goes on losing them at the fastest rate in its history. Its latest ABC results are shocking, with the daily down by more than 11% year on year and the Sunday down a further 7%. How envious the editors of those titles must be of Peter Hill, editor of the Daily Star, who recorded another giant increase, up almost 15% on a year ago.If Express-owner Richard Desmond has a headache then Trinity-Mirror's chief executive Philip Graf must be suffering from flu. His three London-based titles - Mirror, Sunday Mirror and Sunday People - are having a terrible time, while his Scottish duo, the Daily Record and Sunday Mail, are shedding buyers by the week. It is impossible to see any strategy to reverse that trend either. Could it be, as so many soothsayers said at the time (though not me), that a regional newspaper group did not have the nous to run national papers? Or is it a fact that no national group has ever prospered when run by a company which sees profit as its sole motive?Lord Thomson, whom Graf rightly venerates, couldn't make it work because he was hamstrung by the print unions. But he came close to succeeding because he believed in making massive investments in his papers. If the Mirror goes on declining at its current rate it will have precious little to celebrate when it reaches its 100th anniversary in two years' time. I even had a call last week from a man who asked whether Trinity might consider selling some or all of its Mirror titles because he has an interested potential buyer.By contrast, one man who can afford to open the champagne is Roger Alton, editor of the Observer. His 8.95% year-on-year rise was the best broadsheet result by far last month. It is now selling more than twice as many as the Independent on Sunday.
GeoffreyChamberlain has joined the fallen hi-tech heroes' club. Last week Durlacher Corporation, the company he chairs, warned that it expects to make a 'substantial trading loss' in the wake of the technology slump.Durlacher - banker, broker and investor to a host of formerly 'hot' internet start-ups - has been so deeply involved in the new economy that its present misfortune hardly comes as a shock. Chamberlain's warning last week had no effect on the company's share price, which at 4.75p can hardly fall any further.What may be more surprising is how little Chamberlain and his fellow shareholders have to show for the internet boom. Unlike many erstwhile champions of the new economy, they cannot console themselves with a fortune netted from timely share sales.The company was valued at less than &#163;1 million when it floated in 1996, but soared at one stage last year to &#163;2 billion. More than 30 employees became paper millionaires. They will be glad they did not give up their day jobs.And what about the major shareholders? Chamberlain's 14 per cent stake was worth &#163;300m at the peak of the market, but now stands at just above &#163;3m. He has made about &#163;4.5m from share disposals. A comparable stake is held by Akram Shakhashir, a Kuwaiti businessman, who has cashed about &#163;2.5m recently. Graham Chamberlain, finance director of Durlacher and brother of Geoffrey, has made about &#163;1m.These are hardly trifling sums, and it is only fair to add that Durlacher's shareholders were often contractually hindered from selling their stakes. But others in the dotcom business have undeniably done better.Autonomy founder Mike Lynch, for example, cashed in shares worth a total of &#163;73m when his internet software company floated last year. His remaining stake stands at a tiny fraction of the &#163;900m value it achieved at the peak of the market, but with his bulging bank account, Lynch can afford to be philosophical.According to one Durlacher source, Chamberlain has not found the sight of his own paper fortune evaporating too traumatic. A rather austere personality, his organisation has always represented the hard-nosed, business-suited end of the hi-tech industry. And last week he signalled what may prove to be a return to the company's conservative roots.Chamberlain bought into Durlacher in 1993 and set about transforming it from a small stockbroker into a specialist investment banking group focusing on the technology sector. For a long time, Durlacher's investment portfolio swelled in value as internet stocks soared.That portfolio has now shrunk, and Chamberlain seems to think Durlacher should focus on corporate   finance, stockbroking and other more reliable sources of of revenue. The decision hardly seems a favourable comment on the future of the hi-tech market, but Chamberlain insists: 'I believe in technology companies, because the pace of change is such that it is not going away.'Durlacher still has stakes in about 30 companies, including software firm K-Vault and online broker Nothingventured.com, as well as a number that have been wound up. But Chamberlain is likely to offload many of these investments. And he admitted 'we haven't invested in anything new for four or five months'. A rumour that the group could be broken into separate banking and venture capital businesses has been allowed to persist.Whether Durlacher's more traditional business activities represent money-making havens is another matter. Its corporate finance and research operations have been hit by a lack of mergers, acquisitions or flotations in the sector, and its stockbrokers have not been busy since private investors fled the market.Durlacher, which made a profit of &#163;8m last year, seems likely to report a significant loss this time. Chamberlain unveiled one piece of good news last week: the company has favourably renegotiated &#163;15m of convertible deben tures it signed with a group of investors last year.But Chamberlain, who declined further interviews after last week's announcement, has not been forthcoming with many other items of reassurance.He said Durlacher had funding for at least the next year, raising the question of what happens after that. Chamberlain, his backers and his employees must be hoping for a favourable wind to blow the sector upwards again.
Napster, the music website that has been forced to suspend its file-swapping operation, yesterday settled its legal dispute with rock band Metallica and rap artist Dr Dre.Terms of the settlement were not disclosed but Napster is expected to pay the musicians a small cash fee, covering the costs of the litigation and infringement liabilities. It has agreed to filter out unauthorised works from the artists.The settlement came as the company filed an emergency appeal against an order this week from a US district court judge, Marilyn Hall Patel, to shut down its service until it can guarantee that its systems can filter out all specific copyrighted material.Napster has been working under a self-imposed shutdown this month to try to resolve technical glitches that prevent it from complying with the judge's order. The company says it can filter out 99.4% of unauthorised work.Metallica and Dr Dre were rare among artists in filing individual lawsuits against Napster 18 months ago.Howard King, a lawyer acting for both, told Hollywood Reporter: "Napster is on   the way to dying but that was never what my clients were trying to accomplish. &#91;They&#93; wanted to bring public awareness to the rights of artists and stop people like Napster from trading on their property without their consent."The musicians have said they will work with Napster on a legal subscription service. Napster is working to unveil such a service this summer. Hank Barry, its interim chief executive, offered an apology to Dr Dre: "We regret that we were not more sensitive to his concerns in the past."Napster gained a huge following after its free service began in 1999. Legal woes started when it was accused of copyright infringement in a lawsuit brought by the Recording Industry Association of America.
Cult science fiction hero Dr Who made a comeback on the BBC website today, battling the evil Daleks in a new audio drama called Death Comes To Time.The half-hour programme - the first BBC drama to be broadcast over the internet - saw Sylvester McCoy reprise his role as the time travelling doctor.The programme was available from noon today as six Real Audio files on the BBC's officialDoctor Who website. The audio drama will be accompanied by images from the programme.In the programme, the doctor enlists the help of a mysterious Timelord, played by Stephen Fry, to battle an alien warlord, played by John Sessions.Mr McCoy said: "These are good original drama stories, which is rare these days. I think the fans will be delighted with this project, but they will never be fully satisfied until the doctor is back on TV."Chuck Foster, a spokesman for the Doctor Who Appreciation Society (DWAS), said: "We welcome any new BBC initiative for new Doctor Who. Broadcasting on the net will enable fans throughout the world to hear an original episode - for the first time enjoying the experience simultaneously with us in the UK."Interactive listeners will also have the opportunity to review the drama and vote on whether they want the Timelord to return for more internet instalments.Doctor Who is the longest running science-fiction series in the world with several actors playing the role over the decades, including William Hartnell, Patrick Troughton, Jon Pertwee and Tom Baker.Useful linksThe Doctor Who Appreciation SocietyDoctor Who websiteListen toJon Pertwee, the third Doctor Who
New Mexico unexpectedly broke with the federal government and 17 other states yesterday and resolved antitrust charges against Microsoft.The deal provided momentum for additional settlements in the historic four-year court case against the software giant.Microsoft will pay the state's legal costs. New Mexico will share in any future result in the case, which is still in a federal court.The development came one day after Microsoft's announcement that it would change the way it licenses its Windows operating system to computer makers. The changes address concerns raised by the courts about anti-competitive practices.New Mexico's attorney general, Patricia Madrid, said: "I was encouraged that Microsoft made some concessions yesterday. That was a very good first step."Vivek Varma, a Microsoft spokesman, said he "was pleased to have this matter resolved". Mr Varma added that Microsoft was committed to working with other government officials to resolve the remaining issues in the case.Gina Talamona, a justice department spokeswoman, said the department had  no comment.According to Ms Madrid, any penalties and remedies imposed in the continuing federal antitrust case will be applied to New Mexico. "My job is to do what I think best serves the interests of New Mexico consumers and businesses," she said in a statement."An important element of this settlement between New Mexico and Microsoft is that my state will receive the benefit of any and all remedies imposed upon Microsoft in the resolution of this lawsuit with any and all of the remaining litigating states and the US department of justice," she said.Two weeks ago, a federal appeals court ruled that Microsoft had operated as an illegal monopoly and hurt competitors. But the court reversed the trial judge's order breaking up the company, and sent the case back to a different lower court judge to decide a new penalty.Shortly after the ruling, both sides hinted a settlement was possible.Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut's attorney general, said the other states had no advance warning of Madrid's decision and that it was an uncommon turn of events.Related articles30.06.2001: Buoyant Gates ready to settle case29.06.2001: Windows court ruling: version 2.029.06.2001: The day the gods smiled on Gates28.06.2001: US court reverses Microsoft break-upThe issue explainedMicrosoft on trialUseful linksMicrosoft networkMicrosoft defence siteBoycott Microsoft campaign
Troubled internet security firm Baltimore Technologies was yesterday caught up in a farcical takeover approach which was in effect dismissed out of hand.Privately owned encryption specialist Chantilley Corporation issued a press release saying it had submitted a written takeover bid. The letter had been mistakenly sent to Baltimore's old office in Dublin, and the first the company knew   about it was when journalists rang asking for comment.Executives had to track down London-based Chantilley, which emailed to confirm that it had wanted to meet and discuss an "all paper" offer.Although Chantilley later admitted it did not know how much it was prepared to offer and did not have an investment bank advising it, the email was enough to prompt a stock exchange announcement.Baltimore said it did not believe the emails constituted an   offer for the company. It added that it was not prepared to meet Chantilley until a formal bid had been received."I think they're being extremely myopic, to say the least," said Mike Downey, the man behind the emails and managing director of Chantilley's biggest investor, Cavendish Management Resources. "We're deadly serious and it's a shame we're having to resort to megaphone diplomacy."Accounts filed at Companies House show Chantilley has not   generated any revenues in the last two years, had &#163;2,500 cash in the bank and a further &#163;36,000 in shareholder funds. Baltimore is valued at &#163;133m, despite the 98% fall of its share price from its peak.Mr Downey claimed Chantilley's patented encryption technology is more advanced than Baltimore's. "There is no question that Baltimore's shareholders would benefit greatly from being part of a new age technology, not something that is 25 years old."The approach follows a Baltimore share price slump, a strategic review and the recent departure of chief executive Fran Rooney. Analysts believe all this has left the company vulnerable to a takeover.Chantilley, which is said to have been considering a &#163;600m flotation on Nasdaq this year, was founded by Bill Hawthorne, a leading mathematician who has worked with the government on security issues. It has offices in London, Bournemouth and Dartmouth.
The internet is for amateurs. No, that's not an insult, but high praise. "Amateurs," by definition, do what they do for the love of it. Because it's fun, social, enriching, transformational, evolutionary or even just beautiful. Now that the investors see the net as more of a lame duck than a cash cow, the only ones left out here (or the only ones that should be) are us amateurs.How dare I raise myself to the same level as amateurs? I get paid for most of what I do online. Doesn't this make me a lowly professional? I say "no." The point is to do what we do online because we love it - whether or not someone agrees to pay us. Anything done in this very transparent medium for any other reason gets exposed. It's as if the more active mindset we use to navigate the internet allows us to detect the intentions of its many posters and publishers. If there's no real passion for anything but revenue, we know it. We can smell it.But maybe some of us have our BS detectors on too high. So much of the online space is basically a business plan of sorts, that we don't expect any "professional" effort to have amateur roots. This is a shame. And I've gotten a taste of it, first-hand.I'm in the process of releasing my book, Exit Strategy, online as an open source novel. (It's already been published in print as Bull in the UK.) It's going up onYahoo Internet Life'swebsite  in 14   weekly installments. The story I wrote is merely the start of what I hope will be a lively online interaction.The premise is that the entire text was written in present day, but then hidden online and only discovered 200 years from now. Because society has changed so much, an anthropologist has annotated the text for his 23rd century contemporaries. They are no longer familiar with notions such as venture capital or advertising, much less Microsoft or Nasdaq.The project is "open source" in that all the online participants can add footnotes to anything in the book. It's a way of speculating on how people in the future will relate to our current obsessions. Instead of describing that future, though, we can suggest what it will be like by highlighting the facts and ideas that future readers "won't" understand.Then next year, I'll release an open source edition of the text - an e-book and print-on-demand - with 100 of the most compelling footnotes added by readers. I'll buy the authors copies of the book, and throw a party for them in New York.But how do you feel right now reading about this? Are you thinking, "Rushkoff's got a good idea, there," or are you thinking "how dare Rushkoff promote his online scam in his column!" And there's the problem. It's why I wrote the book, actually, and it's the challenge I'm facing in talking about it with the press.The journalists who have interviewed me about the open source project, with very few exceptions, can't see it as anything but a covert business plan. They find it hard to believe that no one is paying me for the web project, or that people will really be able to read the entire book, online, for free. They think there must be a catch. Why would a successful author bother to distribute his work online for free when he could get real money for it in print? Even Stephen King charged money for his online works (and then quit before he was done).It's precisely because I'm a successful author that I can release a book for free. I've got a roof over my head and another proposal under my arm. I can make a living even   if I give away a book or two along the way. And, if we really want to play "name my business plan," my guess is that the final print-on-demand version of the open source book will do just fine, thank you (even though, so far, no traditional US publisher has dared to make an offer on a book that will be released, for free, online before it is released in print.)So, if you need a market justification for what I'm doing - with my book or with this column - use that one. But you'll be missing the point of both.The interactive mediaspace is offering us something so much more precious than profit, and more authentic than authorship. It's an opportunity to play and collaborate. That's the theme of my book, the reason it's going online, and the reason I'm telling you about it here: because people are so trained to associate the internet with business plans that they can't think of the internet any other way, even though the speculators have all set sail. Alas, it's a troubling legacy they've left in their wake.We've forgotten what made this medium so truly sexy to begin with. But don't worry, we still have it in our power to be reborn as unqualified amateurs. Then we can fall in love all over again.&#149;  Comments toonline.feedback @guardian.co.uk
Michael PortilloSites:www.michaelportillo.co.uk|www.electportillo.co.ukMichael Portillo's main site has been up for a long time. It is almost creepily smooth. The scrolling timelines look like they were designed by CNN; the black and white portrait like it was taken by Snowdon.In terms of bells and whistles, this is certainly the best of the bunch. But the popup lists of articles and speeches are already looking overcrowded. And the flashing technicolour link entitled Out and about in Kensington and Chelsea" doesn't work - presumably because he isn't - but it would probably be better not to advertise the fact.Portillo's special election site is less exciting. Everything - text, background and monochrome pictures - is one shade of blue or another. Almost everything is also blurred. The pin-sharp pictures of the other site are replaced with shots which would shame the lowliest webcam.There are approving quotes and articles from the right-of-centre press and the Independent (presumably nothing could be found in the notoriously Labour-supporting Guardian).All told, it would have been better to expand the original Portillo site - which was at least crisp and colourful - than to have created a new one which gives users the uncanny feeling of navigating through a haze of ganja smoke. Or maybe that's the idea.Design:Lewisfield Design Consultants and Politico's design, respectivelyRating:7 and 4 respectivelyIain Duncan SmithSite:www.voteids.comWeb-literate Duncan Smithophiles can relax at last. His site is up, and it's not bad. Surprisingly, it's designed by the  people who made such a pig's ear out of Portillo's leadership site.Here, they use more than one colour, nice big text and proper pictures. Perhaps there's a conspiracy. It gives an overall impression of being well maintained - there's a handy list of MPs who've declared their support, and results of the latest ballot, along with the usual approving quotes and pictures of the candidate in shirtsleeves.The only disappointment is the "Events" section, which, even after the party's ballot process has begun, says only "We shall provide details of our upcoming events shortly." This conveys a nagging impression of inactivity amidst all the electoral excitement. Surely somebody could organise a coffee morning or something.Design:Politico's designRating:8David DavisSite:www.modernconservatives.comThis was one of the first sites to go up. Hardly anything moves, and there are bits of layout which overlap clumsily. But it does all the basics quite competently. It has also been bolstered by plenty of new articles since it was first put up.The strong resemblance to the official Tory website,conservatives.com, may be an effort to show that the dark horse candidate is really a mainstream choice.The same could be true of the site's name. Or it could just be because the name he really wanted, daviddavis.com, is already owned by a sunglass-wearing Floridan who has devoted his pages to the transformation of an attractive American house into a 1980s mock-Baroque nightmare.Like Portillo, Davis suffers from people's annoying tendency to ask "who is he?" With Portillo, this is because people have seen too many different versions of him (and his two different websites do little to help). With Davis, it's because they've never even heard of him. Given this, it's doubtful that the picture in the biography section of the site, in which he looks exactly like Martin McGuinness, will help his cause. But at least he hasn't got two websites.Design:No credit - looks like an inside jobRating:6Michael AncramSite:www.ancram.comIn his June 21 announcement that he was to run for Tory leader, Michael Ancram warned against hasty action". It took him until June 26 to get a partial site up and running, but this almost counts as hasty in this context - Michael Portillo was the only contender to be seen anywhere on the web until recently.As if in direct challenge to the dominance of Portillo's image on his site, a 16-millimetre picture of Ancram peeps out from the corner of each page here - and is everywhere dwarfed by approving quotes and pictures of famous supporters.The number of pictures and endorsements has grown considerably since the site went up.  As with the other sites, there are press cuttings, contact details, and a biography.Design:sieved.comRating:7Kenneth ClarkeSite:www.kennethclarke.netKenneth Clarke has a robust approach to gimmicks. For the first few days of the campaign, the question was whether he had dismissed the web as one. kennethclarke.com, org and co.uk led nowhere. A Google search only brought up a Canadian dentist of the same name.But the Clarke team promised a new site which would reflect Clarke's personality, with "no shockwave animations or any other flashy gimmicks". True to their word, kennethclarke.net looks very simple. There's a two-line statement from the big man, and a section of latest news, and that's it.Unless you click on the picture or the text, you never find out that there's a proper site lurking behind all this. Goodness knows why the designers at NetInfo didn't put a proper menu or even an "enter site" button on the front page.However, once you get there, the site is excellent. It's clear and well set out, and there's even a search feature (which works properly). Careful attention has been paid to the possible liability of Clarke's appearance. I counted 13 pictures of him beautifying the site: in only four was his paunch visible; in every single one he wore a tie, and in only one was it crooked; and in only one picture can a pair of brown suede Hush Puppies be seen. Well done.Design:NetInfoRating:6 (loses 3 points for the front page)
SamsungSamsung is transforming the humble MP3 player into a multi-media player. The &#163;450 handheld Yepp Plus (right) sports a 1.8inch colour screen which can display both MPEG4 video, and JPEG files. Still images can be shot and transferred to the unit from its accompanying external 850k pixel digital camera. The Yepp Plus is also compatible with the major digital audio formats, with files saved on the unit's accompanying 64MB SmartMedia card. It will go on sale in August. Samsung has also come up with the first ever VCR/DVD combi player, the SV-DVD1. The &#163;400 unit's trump card is that it will let you watch a DVD movie while simultaneously recording programmes from your TV. The DVD player is Dolby Digital sur  round sound compatible, will spin CD-Roms with MP3 files as well as standard audio CDs, and sports a pair of Scart sockets. The VCR side has a long play option and a basic tape library system, although strangely does not feature the VideoPlus+ easy programming system. The SV-DVD1 is on sale now.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukDVD recordsThe champions of DVD+RW, the re-writable DVD format, have lined up an autumn/winter blitz on the UK and US markets. Philips has confirmed that its first DVD+RW video recorder for the home will go    on sale in August with a DVD+RW PC drive following in October. The home deck, the DVDR1000, offers four different recording quality levels, which enable the unit to archive up to four hours of video on to a 4.7GB disk. According to Philips, disks created by the DVD+RW recorder will play back in all existing DVD players and DVD-Rom drives. The DVDR1000 is expected to retail for around &#163;1,300. French manufacturer Thomson has also slated autumn for a launch of its DVD+RW home deck. Hewlett-Packard will almost certainly be first to market with a DVD+RW PC drive. It has plans to launch an $800 unit in late summer in the US with a UK version available by the end of 2001. HP Pavilion PCs with DVD+RW drives will be on sale by the end of the year.  US PC giant Dell is also promising that its first PCs with integrated DVD+RW drives will be in the stores by the end of 2001. The DVD+RW camp faces fierce competition from two other DVD rewritable formats - DVD-RAM and DVD-RW. Panasonic will launch a DVD-RAM home video recorder in the last quarter of 2001, while Pioneer is expected to bring a DVD-RW home deck to the UK in the autumn.Digital snapsFancy taking a tiny digital camera with you on your travels this summer?  The INC35i from Hitachi is small enough to fit in the palm of your hand, yet thanks to its 8 megabytes of memory it can store up to 107 low resolution 318,000 pixel images. It comes with a case and a USB connector. It retails for around &#163;115 fromwww.unbeatable.co.ukBritish company Kiiro is offering the &#163;160 CJ-100, another pocket-sized digital image snapper. In addition to its camera facilities, it stores up to 127 35,000 pixel resolution images on its internal flash memory. The CJ-100 can also be used as a webcam.www.kiiro.co.ukFlat keyLogitech's new keyboards are set to fly in the face of fashion - they are flat. The first Internet and Multimedia Navigation keyboard will be out at the end of this month for &#163;24.95. More expensive ultra-flat cordless models will follow in August. The keyboards are just part of a huge raft of PC peripherals that the Swiss company will roll out this summer. They include mice, trackballs, game controllers, QuickCam webcams, headsets and loudspeakers. Logitech is also moving into the console market, and its GT Force force-feedback steering wheel is being bundled in a special edition with Gran Turismo 3 on the PlayStation 2, out at the end of the summer.Open for .NetThe free software movement plans to clone some of Microsoft's .Net software.    Richard Stallman's Free Software Foundation has announced support for two projects: Mono and DotGNU. Mono will develop a GNU/ Linux-based version of the .Net platform, including a C# compiler. (C# or C Sharp is a new object oriented language intended to replace Sun's Java.) DotGNU will develop software to support decentralised services and authentication, where Microsoft's main offering is the Passport service used for Hotmail. The websites for these community developments arewww.go-mono.netand http://savannah.gnu.org.  Microsoft is already helping Corel to produce a version of .Net for the FreeBSD version of Unix. It is also taking the underpinnings of .Net, including C#, to open standards bodies to encourage other people to produce implementations for different operating systems. However, the GNU development will test whether .Net is really as open as Microsoft claims.
I have never been caught in gun battle before, or an avalanche, but then, I suppose there is a first time for everything. Twice last week as I ran for my life, the first time with bullets whizzing past me and the second with thundering snow threatening to engulf me, I wondered how I had contrived so many ways to test my mortality within such a short space of time.This was meant to be after all just another week at the office.Three months ago my friend, Mark Lewis the co-founder of expedition company World Summits, invited me to come with him to Pakistan to climb Broad Peak and K2. At the time I dismissed the idea as too remote a possibility, too dangerous, too incredible. How could I possibly take two months away from my business? But the seed began to grow. What if I could go but still work? Wild Day.com's main office and warehousing is in Inverness but my office is based in Glasgow. I work remotely by phone and email every day. So if I can work "remotely" from Glasgow why couldn't I from K2 base camp? And so it began.Now here I am working away at 4,100m on the side of Nanga Parbat. We have just escaped an avalanche that nearly killed us we descended from camp one at 5,800m. It is amazing really how easy it is, once you stop running for your life, to switch into work mode. I seem to be so conditioned by the sound of my laptop booting up, that the minute I hear it whirring my mind gets down to business, regardless of whether I am on a glacier, in a mountain village, or by the side of the river Indus. And I do have a lot of work to do.My business partner has just told me enthusiastically over the satellite phone that   we have just had a record week in sales. Sales and traffic had levelled over the last five months and despite various marketing initiatives, the figures stayed steady. However, in May traffic and sales more than doubled and have continued to rise since then.It can be very difficult to predict when the response to different marketing initiatives will occur. As a result my business partner and I have been dealing with the classic problems of rapid growth, server and bandwidth capacity, staff shortages and training issues which has the resulting knock-on effect on   customer service and order fulfillment.Despite my attempts at diligence there are distractions. On Wednesday we arrived at the town of Gilgit, the capital of northern Pakistan. It was unusually quiet but as we approached the centre we saw that a large crowd of people had gathered in front of a municipal building. My instincts were screaming that something was wrong.Suddenly we heard the sound of machine gun fire. The town erupted, people started scattering everywhere. The gunfire intensified and bullets sprayed the wall of the cafe we were in. Then the explosions started. We managed to escape by racing back along the street, diving into shops until we reached our jeep. By this time the army were swarming past us. As we tore out of town we could still hear sporadic gunfire behind us.We found out later that the local government had recently arrested the spiritual leader of the Sunni Muslims and were holding him in jail. Believe it or not I was chatting to my lawyer on the sat phone when the shooting began.As I log on to Actinic Business, the e-commerce software we use, the sales log confirms the figures my business partner quoted. I have done this a thousand times before but this time a semi-circle of amazed faces surrounds me. Fifteen pairs of eyes are staring at me in wonder. The porters' fascination was quite distracting at first but I quickly got used to it. They live in villages with no electricity, never mind satellite phones and computers. They are the toughest people I have ever met in my life. Men that would be drawing a pension in Britain leap over glacial rivers carrying 30kg packs on their backs like   gazelles. Surrounded by solar panels, sat phones and laptops I feel as I've just been beamed in from space. But despite the technological wonders we are often made to feel helpless.Last Friday as we were breaking camp, the porters brought a 16-year-old boy over to us. He raised his arm and we saw a long deep black gash on his wrist. It transpired that he had cut it on a rock and, in an attempt to stem the profuse bleeding he had clogged it up with dirt! Luckily Mark is a trained medic, but after cleaning and dressing the wound Mark was still very concerned and told him that he would need to   come back in four hours.But the boy returned to his village and we did not see him until two days later. By this time the wound had become septic and would soon turn gangrenous.We knew he would not go by himself, and if it were not treated properly the poison would continue to spread. So we stopped our trek to take him on a two-day journey to the nearest military   hospital. I felt that was more important than finishing my sales analysis.We have just returned and been told he will probably lose his hand. I don't feel like working right now. This has been a rather stressful week at work and I feel very tired but I know I won't sleep tonight. I'll just lie awake gazing at the mountains and watch the satellites shooting past the stars.&#149; Michael Jackson will be writing further updates from the Himalayas. Find out more about his trip atwww.wildday.co.uk.
Beyond KoreaThe world's biggest online gaming event will be held in Seoul, South Korea, from December 5-9. The first World Cyber Games conference is expected to attract more than 500 professional gamers from 25 countries, with a cash prize fund of about $300,000. The games is co-sponsored by Korea's Ministry of Culture and Tourism. For details, seewww.worldcybergames.orgHot dateYou can get a hot date with Mr Medallion or Blonde Bombshell, but you will have to wait until autumn. Electronic Arts says a Hot Date Expansion Pack will be the next add on for its people simulation, The Sims, which has sold more than four million copies and spawned an online version,http://thesimsonline.ea.comTerminatorYet more movie rights: Infogrames has just bought worldwide exclusive rights to produce games based on the old hits Terminator and Terminator 2: Judgement Day. The first title is expected in spring. Terminator 3: The Rise of the Machines, is still in pre-production.More LaraYou have played the game, seen the film and next year, you will be able to enjoy the ride. Unfortunately, you will have to go to Kings Island in Cincinnati, Ohio, where Paramount Parks is building Tomb Raider: The Ride using props and scenes from the film.Life sizeWhat would you do with a life-sizehand-painted model of Lara Croft? Think of a plausible answer and she could be yours. The &#163;700 mannequin is up for grabs in a competition on Gamestreet's website atwww.gamesstreet.infront.co.uk/features/laracroft
Hailing a cab in Dublin will soon be as easy as pressing Send on your mobile. A new fleet of 1,000 Mercedes-Benz E-Taxis - summoned by sending an SMS (short messaging service) text message via mobile phone - is due to hit Irish streets later this month.Called E-Taxi, the new service is a joint venture between City Cabs, a Dublin cab company, and Bellstream, a start-up that creates wireless applications.Noel Ebbs, the chief executive of City Cabs, and Colin Hayes, the chief executive of Bellstream and E-Taxi, say they will be operating a virtual company with a fully computerised dispatch system."He's the e-man and I'm the t-man (taxi-man)," says Ebbs. "He'll operate the venture in the air, so to speak,   and I'll run the venture on the ground."To hail a cab, a customer texts E-Taxi for a car. The SMS message is automatically routed to cab drivers who are closest to the pick-up point, and the driver who takes the fare phones the customer to confirm by mobile.The GSM-based system uses triangulation to locate the closest cabs by pinpointing which mobile phone mast a mobile is receiving its connection signal from. This locates a mobile user with up to several metres' accuracy.The cabs will also carry a wireless modem swipe-card terminal in the back that will allow customers to make electronic payments by credit or debit card, initially to top up prepaid mobile phone accounts.The service, operated for E-Taxi by the electronic arm of the Irish national postal    service, will enable E-Taxi to earn a cut of each purchase as the vendor of mobile minutes. In Ireland, some 65% of Irish mobiles are prepaid, creating a market for phone credit worth Irish &#163;600m annually,   said Hayes. But Hayes and Ebbs are looking beyond prepaid mobiles, and eventually intend to offer theatre and cinema tickets, a smartcard loyalty scheme, and taxi charge cards.E-Taxi is also planning a combined web and SMS portal to link customers to online and real world events, and is working with the sports wear company Adidas as a sponsor.E-Taxi is betting that the SMS-crazy Irish will jump at the chance to text for a taxi. The Irish are said to have one of the highest rates of SMS messaging in the world.Stephen Brewer, the chief executive of the Irish mobile phone company Eircell (recently purchased by Vodafone), notes that 14% of Eircell's revenue comes from texting, as opposed to 8% of Vodafone's. With nearly seven in 10 people in Ireland carrying mobiles, E-Taxi and City Cabs figure the market is big enough to support their service.The E-Taxiservice will be the first of its kind in the world, says Hayes, although the two are looking at other markets as well for the service. Hayes has been in initial talks with a cab company in Singapore, which has 11,000 taxis. "We want to show the industry what we can do," says Ebbs.
Some Windows programs are like untidy guests and leave old files scattered about the place. Others clean up after themselves but their good intentions may be interrupted by system crashes. Either way, after a few months, your C: drive may contain so much litter it is worth cleaning up.Before you go any further, make sure you have back-up   copies of essential files, restart your PC, and do not run any programs. Programs often create files and/or write to the hard drive, which may interfere with some of the following routines.1)Windows 98/Me includes a clean-up utility, so use it. Go to Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools and select Disk Cleanup. Click OK to clean up the C: drive. A tabbed dialogue box will appear (below).2)Tick the directories you want the program to empty. Temporary Internet Files and the Recycle Bin are the main ones. Click OK to do it, and Yes to confirm.3)Disk Cleanup removes temporary files from the Temp folder, but there may be hundreds or even thousands stashed elsewhere. To find them, go to Start|Find|Files or Folders and search the root C: drive. Type *.tmp in the Named box and click the button for Find Now. &#91;Note, if you cannot see any .tmp extensions, open Windows Explorer, select View|Folder Options, click on the View tab, and select the radio button that says Show all files. Also make sure there is no tick in the box that says Hide file extensions for known file types.&#93;4)The Find utility will now show a list of all the temporary *.tmp files on C. Select all the ones you want to delete   and press the delete key. (Look carefully: there may be some you want to keep.) Close the Find utility (above).5)Run Internet Explorer, select Tools|Internet Options, and click the middle button, Delete Files. This will clear out the Temporary Internet Files folder. Also tick the check box for Delete all offline content if you want to remove stored pages. Click OK twice and close the browser.6)You might suppose that by now the C:\Windows\ Temporary Internet Files folder would be empty. Well, you have deleted its contents twice. Check it manually (below left) or by right-clicking it and selecting Properties and you will find this is not the case. It will probably contain dozens or hundreds of "cookies", the visiting cards left by websites; an index.dat file; and copies of any number of files you have downloaded. There could be a few megabytes or even hundreds of megabytes of stuff. You can select and delete some of these files manually, but Windows will not let you delete files it considers are still in use. However, you can delete them from the underlying disk operating system, MS-DOS.7)If there is anything in the Recycle Bin, empty it now.8)Select Start|Shut Down, select Restart in MS-DOS mode, and click OK. When your PC restarts, the screen should now be black with a cursor showing the C: \WINDOWS&gt; prompt.Carefully type the following (it includes a tilde which may be the key to the left of 1): deltree tempor~1Press Enter and then Y to confirm. If there were lots of files in the temporary Internet Files folder, this will take a long time. When it has finished deleting, switch off your PC and restart it.   Windows will notice that some essential files and folders are missing, and will create new ones.9)To check that all is well, go to Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools, select Scandisk, and click the Start button. This utility will check all your files and folders and deal with any errors.10)Now you have cleared out a lot of rubbish, there will be gaps in the data scattered all over your hard drive. To put it in order, go back to the System Tools directory and select Disk Defragmenter. Click OK to start it on your C: drive. If you want to watch it in action, click the button marked Show Details.Each coloured block represents a disk sector, and clicking Legend   provides a key. Do not do anything with your PC until it has finished.
During this Parliament, there will almost certainly be a referendum on the euro.   The political ramifications are either swingeing or minimal, depending on who you're talking to. But equally important for technology are the results. Because the financial system - whether a huge financial analysis engine at a corporation or the till at your local supermarket - is going to need upgrading. And it is not going to be like just any other currency you can use on your PC.Our currency is not yet 30 years old; we had another of the same name that operated entirely differently until 1972. But, unlike the last time, in which the system changed overnight, there is likely to be a phase in which sterling and the euro run concurrently.The euro is possibly unique in that it has been introduced gradually. So the Irish punt, the French franc etc no longer exist in their own right but as denominations of the euro.In practical terms this means there are no direct translations between the pound and the Euroland sovereign currencies. Instead, through a process called triangulation, the pound translates to euros, which then translate to the target currency. If the UK enters the euro system, we will probably - although not definitely - go through a similar phase.If that sounds confusing, then it need not be. Financial software is designed to hide the trickier side of the financials from you, so there is a reasonable chance you have been using triangulation without realising it.All of the software sellers we spoke to - including Microsoft with its Money software, Intuit with Quicken (the two most common personal financial organisers) and Sage, which sells to more small and medium businesses than most, confirmed its products had been euro-compatible for years.So, as long as your version is reasonably current, you'll be OK. If you're unsure, check the box for certification from BASDA - the Business and Accounting Software Developers Association - which awards kitemarks for euro compliance.  All this is fine as long as your accounting system works in isolation and doesn't connect to anything else. "We spend a lot of time helping customers to understand all of the legislation and compliance issues around the euro," says Guy Letts, research and development director at Sage. These issues include the formats the banks will adopt in exporting data to accounting systems, which a lot do at the moment, and in accepting information and orders from customers.If you have an e-commerce website that is fully euro compliant during the transitional time but your customer is still ordering in sterling, there could be a problem; sadly the answer of simply opening another bank account is a non-starter, as Philip Taylor, deputy chair of accounting system company SquareSum, points out."If 4m businesses with bank accounts turn round and demand another account tomorrow, the banks won't wear it - the first few will get in, but no more than that."The impetus to change for the small trader doesn't appear to be there. Colin Charlton, director of Connect Internet Solutions, says they "simply won't contemplate it until they feel the waves   lapping at their toes"."That is the nature of the beast. If it doesn't affect sales and profits today then it's something to think about later."Business is one thing. Other areas in which there appears to be no small amount of inertia include local government. Chris Buckham, marketing director of computer services company Sanderson, points out that entry or otherwise is a government issue.But as there has been no government directive, the local authorities have been reluctant to move. "Nobody's done anything about council tax systems yet, and it's not going to be as simple as   flicking a switch."Ian Keeton, support   manager at Lynx Financial Systems, is equally succinct. "Software developers have been reluctant to invest heavily in changing their systems in preparation for an event where the rules are unclear, and which might not happen anyway."  The technology is one thing. In January 2002, the physical euro will make its debut as well. This is easy in theory but, as accounting system specialist Exchequer's managing director Eduardo Loigorri points out, it brings its own practicalities for his Irish customers."Shops will need to accept payments in punts and give change in euros. If the tills don't have enough compartments for the coins, that's not going to be easy."  And it's not the only thing. People needing to complete self-assessment forms or accounts for business will need to ascertain exactly when to change to euro accounts completely during any transition period.Exchequer's Loigorri sums up much of the software industry's dilemma well. "A couple of years ago we got through the Year 2000 issue without any real problem, but we really didn't do ourselves any favours. Everyone is going to assume the euro will be as easy, but it might not."
Members of the public made a record number of complaints about online privacy and the security of their personal information last year, according to a report out yesterday from the information commissioner.The commission received 8,875 data protection complaints during the year to March. A decade earlier, in the 1991/92 reporting period, only 1,747 complaints were received.Independent research conducted for the commission found that three quarters of people are "very or quite concerned" about the amount of information that organisations store about them, in particular most were found to be worried about the collection of financial and medical details.Half of those questioned did not know they have the right to see information held on them. The information commissioner, Elizabeth France, said she wants to see people develop a greater understanding of their rights under the Data Protection Act.Ms France said that a lack of transparency by data collectors and a rash of high-profile security breaches - such as a recent credit card leak on the Which? website - led to high level of distrust among member of the public."There is a lack of confidence, which if not addressed will limit the ability to exploit new media. People won't play if they're not confident," Ms France said.The majority of complaints received by the commission over the past year dealt with accuracy of credit and financial information collected by companies such as Equifax and Experian. The police national computer system also came in for harsh criticism due to inaccurate data.Today's report reads: "The situation is becoming critical due to the establishment of the criminal records bureau, which will issue criminal record certificates to employers. There is a real risk that details of actual convictions may not appear on certificates and that successful appeals may not be taken into account."Ms France added that the most worrying criminal trend had been people obtaining information by deception and then using it for illegal purposes, such as passing it on to debt collection agencies or using it in divorce proceedings.Useful linksInformation commissionAnnual report of the information commissionExperianEquifax
When dating becomes dangerousDangerous Data JuniorAdam Lury and Simon Gibson	&#163;9.99Bantam	*****A verb has entered the lexicon of the New York singles scene recently: "google". You meet someone, swap numbers, fix a date, then Google them through 1,346,966,000 web pages. Maybe their name will crop up as a Nobel prize nominee. Or maybe on a sex offenders' register in Arizona.But suppose you want to take it further. Would youwant to see their police file? Their medical records? Would you want to know who they phone or which corners of the internet they visit at night? Or how often they bought condoms last month?Arthur C Dogg, the narrator of Adam Lury and Simon Gibson's debut novel, is a data detective. Using the weapons of the hacker, he can access and cross-reference information from at least 200 different databases.Employed by a mysterious client to investigate an address, the scraps of data hegathers join up like a huge game of dot-to-dot. The emerging picture reveals a frighteningly detailed, sordid scene of infidelity, drugs, dark secrets and suspicious deaths.Dogg is a new breed of gumshoe, and Dangerous Data is a new breed of thriller. It is suitably gripping, told cleverly on alternating pages - Dogg's notes fill the left: bald "facts" pulled from databases and credit card transactions occupy the right. And it is terrifyingly convincing.Data detectives really are out there, presumably usingthese precise illegal methods. Professional ad-men Lury and Gibson are not paranoid young conspiracy nuts, either. Lury sits on the government's thinktank on data protection.It is much more interesting than a straightforward panic attack about the end of privacy. Dogg is not only a detective, he is also a philosopher of the information revolution. Drawing on ideas from Bentham and McLuhan, and cultural reference points as varied as Shakespeare and Courtney Love, he sketches a morality for the post-privacyera. "It is the desire to know that makes us human," he posits. "And unhappy."The answer, he suggests, is to worry less about the desire to keep information free, as "it isn't privacy that protects ... it's trust that protects".Our society has yet to recognise that "data protection" is an oxymoron. If this novel helps awaken us to that truth, then it has to be welcomed. I doubt there will be a more important novel published this year.Ally Fogg
Quiet pleaseThe amount of noise my PC generates is really beginning to bug me. Part of the problem is that my work involves developing audio algorithms. Is there is an easy way to determine how noisy a new PC is likely to be? When Apple released the Cube, a big deal was made out of the fact that no internal cooling fans meant virtually silent operation, but I want to run Windows 2000.Chris Dunncdjob@hotmail.comJack Schofield replies:PCs are generally not built to a noise level and individual machines - indeed, individual components - may be too variable for this to be affordable. You can, of course, try to replace noisy components with quiet ones, as Tomas Risberg, from Sweden, has done. Details are on his Silent PC page athttp://home.swipnet.se/tr/silence.html.QuietPC.comsupplies parts such as new power supplies and ultra-quiet fans.A simpler alternative would be to buy a notebook computer. However, notebooks are slower than desktops, cost more for a similar specification, and usually seem to have mediocre sound hardware.Both the Cube and the iMac are quiet because neither has a cooling fan. However, Apple has stopped making Cubes because sales have been dismal, and some iMacs seem to generate a great deal of heat.Read sourceDo you know how to change the default editor used to View Source in Internet Explorer 5.0? I know about Tools|Options|Programs| HTML editor, but that doesn't affect the editor used for viewing the source code in web pages. It is very   frustrating to be stuck with Notepad.Graham Maddersgraham@m-magic.comJS:I did not think it was possible, but it is: seewww.godel.com/lila/html/ievse.htmNot fullIs there a maximum number of files you can have on a floppy? I thought I had a hardware problem when I could not save files to a particular disk, but when I copied the files to another disk I got the same problem, and also when I tried another PC.Seamus O'Connellseamus.oconnell@sevimara.demon.co.ukJS:Many files will fit on a floppy, but they cannot all be in the root directory. There is only a limited amount of space for the file index, so the number varies according to how you name them. If all the filenames are in DOS format (eight capitals and a three letter extension) then I think you can get 224 on. If they are all Windows long filenames, the number falls to about 74. The solution: move some files into subdirectories.DelistedMicrosoft's wonderful, free Listbot email list manager   system is closing in a couple of weeks and re-launching as ListBuilder, a commercial service. We use Listbot daily to send industry news free to many thousands of people in the documentary film and television world. Do you know of any free or reasonably priced alternatives, preferably as much like Listbot as possible?John Marshalljohn.marshall@docos.comJS:The two rivals I usually recommend both appear to have vanished, but you could try Topica. At least it seems to want you. Seewww.topica.com/services/listbot.htmlTV linkI have a new PC with a GeForce 3 card and DVD drive. The card does not have TV-out. Is it possible to fit a second (cheap?) card with TV-out to play DVD movies on my TV?Ronnie HopeJ46UAR@aol.comJS:So many graphics cards have TV sockets nowadays there is not much of a market for different approaches. However, the Trust Televiewer For PC, an external box, will connect any PC to a standard (PAL) TV set with S-Video or phono (composite video) sockets. It supports resolutions up to 1024 by 768    pixels. Special Reserve sells it (seehttp://serverpool.reserve.co.uk/listings/extrainfo.php?code=gg9560, or seewww.newsearching.com/video_conferencing/Trust_TeleViewer.html. You may find other outlets.Alternatively, Maplin Electronics offers an old 8-bit ISA card that does 640 by 480 pixels (VGA) for about half the price (&#163;29.99). It is called the VGA 2 PAL Gamer and the order number is PQ99H. Seewww.maplin.co.ukSave itCould you tell me how to transfer a picture (BMP or TIFF) from Outlook Express into Word or some other program where I might manipulate it? Is there a way of saving it as an independent item?Michael Muskettmichaelmuskett@beeb.netJS:If you can see the picture, right-click on the image and select Save Picture As from the pop-up menu. If not, double-click the message so that it appears in a separate window, and select Save Attachments from the File menu. To get it into Word or another program, right-click the image and select Copy from the pop- up menu, then switch to your document, right-click again, and select Paste.Readers writeI missed a couple of things last week in answering a question about opening web pages in new windows with Internet Explorer, as Euan RobertsonERobertson@featherbrooksbank.co.ukwas first to point out. Go to Tools|Internet Options, click on the Advanced tab, and look under Browsing. There is a check box that says: Reuse windows for launching shortcuts. Untick it.&#183;Sam Gibsonadds that holding down the shift key when you click on a link makes IE open links in a new window.&#183;Finally,Colin O'Brienhas a tip that provides access to files without going through Windows Explorer. Right-click the My Computer icon on the desktop and create a shortcut. Drag the shortcut to the Task bar, to turn it into a toolbar. Compress this so that it only shows "My Computer &gt;&gt;". Clicking on this will provide a cascading menu of the file system. You can perform this trick with a shortcut to any folder.
Just how free is China's cyber-world today, and are the Chinese walls against the open flow of information holding up?The young graduate chatting in a Shanghai park does not have a problem. Careless of who may be listening, she explains to some less sophisticated web users how proxy servers can be useful."It's the way to read foreign websites that the authorities have blocked," she tells them. "I spend an hour or so doing it from home every evening."Liu Weifang would tell a different story if his voice could be heard. He was sentenced last month to three years in jail for "inciting subversion" by posting articles on bulletin boards that "attacked and slandered the Communist party."Anyone tempted to search for the banned Falun Gong sect from home or an internet cafe may risk instant detection, if the authorities' claim of new all-powerful technology is to be believed.Yet unorthodox arguments can still be made on the web that would bring in the censors if published in print.Editors at two popular newspapers were sacked for printing expos&eacute;s of corruption in the countryside. Yet a recent discussion on the "Strong Country" forum run by the People's Daily (the Communist party's flagship paper) carried almost daily accounts of rural misfortune.Serious political argument is also tolerated as long as one golden rule is observed:   mention the party."Western democracy is not just about money," argues a contributor to the same site - taking issue with the standard line that the US electoral system is "controlled by capital" and completely "bogus"."Even if not perfect, it's much better than the 'people's democracy' which relies on the power of the gun to stay in power," he insists.Politics is not the main concern for most of China's netizens - estimated at 22.5m and growing. Even at the Internet Cafe at Shanghai's stylish Book City, users are more likely to be reading online lifestyle magazines or playing computer games.However, the web offers a range of discourse that not only extends the choices of its users, but has compelled the government to bring its own information services into the internet age.To focus on the dichotomy between political dissent and state-imposed conformity on the web is to miss the point, according to the political scientist Dali Yang in his recent survey of the internet in China. "Even while the government has worked hard to constrain the availability of freewheeling content in China," he says. "Govern ment-owned media outlets have had to adapt to the internet age."In 1998, only 145 domain names were registered under gov.cn: a year later the number had risen to 1,470. Government agencies that used to keep their telephone numbers secret now publish them on the web.Efforts to limit access coexist uneasily with the drive to make more information available and commercial pressures.There are three main areas of control, and all present big problems for the censors.The first and crudest effort consists of blocking access to information from abroad. This is done so patchily that one suspects the censors are just going through the motions.The English-language foreign media are targeted inconsistently. Access to the Washington Post and the New York Times is blocked, but the International Herald Tribune, which carries their most significant China reporting, is freely available.The poor old BBC, perpetually on the black list because it once portrayed Chairman Mao as sex-mad, is blocked. Other British media, including (I almost regret to say) The Guardian, seem to carry too little clout to be blocked in a country whose leaders see the US as the world's number one power.Hong Kong's South China Morning Post, denounced by conservative voices in Beijing, is blocked part-time: access late at night is usually not a problem.The bulk of resources is probably devoted to obliterating any and every route that may lead in the direction of the banned Falun Gong sect and human rights organisations such as Amnesty International and the Tibet Information Network.Yet there is no problem about reading the US department of state's annual strictures on Chinese human rights abuses on its website."News from other than (mainland) sources flows in via unblocked newspaper sites from Hong Kong and Singapore," reports a recent survey by the US embassy in Beijing. "Increasingly, many Chinese net readers also get information from banned email Chinese language journals that arrive in individual inboxes through mass mailings."Some Taiwanese sources are available too: president Chen Shui-bian's Democratic Progressive party website is blocked, but the pro-independence Taipei Times can be accessed.The second official target is to limit the news available on the most popular Chinese websites, which may only carry the officially approved services.This is only effective up to a point, with the line between unofficial and official news becoming blurred. Investigative reporting of disasters such as the March school explosion in Jiangxi that killed more than 40 children has been widely diffused.Items from the foreign press and internal Chinese documents are also posted frequently on discussion   forums from which they can be copied widely.Perhaps recognising their lack of success so far, the authorities are now retargeting their efforts at the actual users, particularly through tighter controls on China's internet cafes, where a crack-down has followed new regulations published in April.The cafes are popular particularly among students whose college computer rooms often have additional restrictions on access (partly to limit demand). Clusters of cafes can be found within yards of many campus gates, and access charges are typically around six yuan (45p) an hour - the cost of a dish in a roadside restaurant.According to one report - ironically published on the internet edition of a popular Shenzhen newspaper - police have inspected 56,800 cafes across the country in the past two months, closing down nearly 2,000 and temporarily cutting off internet access to another 6,000.The figures are so large that they must include illegal cafes - of particular concern to the authorities - which provide mainly pornography and network games. Beijing has banned internet cafes within 200 metres of schools.The Shanghai authorities say that one-third of the city's 381 internet cafes have problems. Most of these are minor infractions, but some have provided access to porn and "superstitious websites", which is presumably a reference to the banned Falun Gong's sites abroad.Users are required to   register with their names and ID numbers, though verification of the details is often lax.According to a recent government-sponsored survey, only one in five of regular internet users resort to the cafes. How effective or long-lasting this campaign will be remains to be seen. Many observers believe that it will tail off like previous efforts and that the resources to maintain real-time monitoring do not exist.The new campaign may encourage self-censorship   among some users, says Duncan Clark, the managing director of the Beijing-based telecommunications consultancy, BDA, but it is unlikely to be sustained indefinitely. "There is a continual tension between the political demand and the need to make money."Some crackdowns will be severe, but if you are running a profitable business you can work something out &#91;with the authorities&#93;."A huge government effort would be required to make real-time monitoring effec tive. With deregulation on the way, Clark believes it will become more difficult for the censors "to impose their will on a fractured environment".Besides, the real challenge to the Chinese government arises not from embarrassing foreign news items, but from the vast pool of internally generated material that swirls quite legitimately around the domestic web.In a country where the written word has always been regarded with Confucian respect, most of this material will never appear in the print media. It enjoys immunity, however, in an electronic form. The older party cadres who denounce "spiritual pollution" probably have no idea how to log on, and their junior officials see no reason why they should be bothered.A current example - chosen almost at random - from Shanghai illustrates the point. Although the city is relaxed and cosmopolitan in comparison to Beijing, the official print media lag far behind: Shanghainese say that if you have read one newspaper, you have read them all.Yet a passionate lament for the plight of Shanghai's poor that could never have appeared in the Party's Liberation Daily was not only posted on the city's Shanghai Hotline discussion forum, but quickly re-posted on the People's Daily national site.The writer, a graduate student whose parents came from the countryside, describes how the poor wait for the markets to close before   scavenging for discarded vegetables, and how many workers cannot afford the bus fare. She hears tales of terminally ill patients who refuse food or medicine so their families will not go short."We &#91;intellectuals&#93;are the cream of our country," she writes, but democracy will never be achieved unless "all the people become aware".This is stirring stuff to read on the website of the newspaper for which Mao Zedong used to write editorials. And whatever may be said on formal party occasions, China's internet scanners will reading much more of it in the future.&#149; John Gittings is the Guardian's Shanghai correspondent.&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Explore hereMSN Explorer, a replacement for Internet Explorer, is finally available in a UK version. It is worth a look not just because it is simpler and prettier than IE. It is designed to deliver a more integrated, more family-friendly AOL-like experience, and can handle up to nine users. Naturally it plumbs you in to many of the Microsoft offerings that are central to its planned evolution from a software supplier into a net-based services company. Unlike AOL, of course, Microsoft does not have your address and access to your bank account, but it will get those when you start paying for enhanced services. Download MSNE fromhttp://explorer.msn.co.ukGoogle viewGoogle, the best search engine for finding relevant texts, will soon be the best for finding images, too. Google is now running a beta test version of its image search engine, and   I have already found it more useful than the long-running Alta Vista service. Try Toro PlayStation, for example: Alta Vista is all over the place while Google is on the money. Make your own comparisons here:http://images.google.comorhttp://images.altavista.comMovie seenThe Erotic Witch Project is the most popular movie on the Movieflix site, but there are more than 350 alternatives. Some are very short experimental films. Others are full length features like TEWP. More mainstream offerings include Theatre of Blood with Vincent Price, The Chinese Connection (Bruce Lee), The Night Porter (Dirk Bogarde) and Heidi. You have to   register but the films are free.www.movieflix.comUntitledGoogle's image search works on the title of the picture and the content of the surrounding text. A much more interesting approach is being tried at Untitled, "a collective of experimental image makers". You can search for images by emotional, formal and technical features as well as by subject area. Searching for a bold, passionate, unified, harmonic pop art illustration on a space theme produces 326 results, mostly irrelevant, but you can always commission something. The user interface is appalling. Seehttp://212.187.225.138/Ask who?You have tried Ask Jeeves and exhausted Ask Jack. Now you can Ask Oxford: "an exciting new website fromOxford University Pressdesigned to help you with all your language queries". Or rather, you can't: the questions are canned, unless you want to mail one in. However, the site's mixture of quizzes and trivia is at least better than a naked promotion for OUP books. But if you still have a question, Albert is the one to ask. Go to www.albert.com and click Demo to try the natural language interface. The third-party search engine finds some fantastic stuff. (Why Albert? After Einstein?)Moo musicYou can get away with almost anything if you make it funny enough, and musical trio RmT pushes sexual perversion further than Old MacDonald in I'm A Cow, from their latest CD, Eden. RmT (Riddle Me This) is based in Texas, but the Flash animation that goes with the song is available worldwide. Seewww.riddleme.com/html/cow.htmlMusic notesNeumu is a promising new music site launched by Michael Goldberg, once of Rolling Stone. The 0.5 beta version is, unfortunately, a top candidate for "bad sight of the week" because the text is almost unreadable by people with impaired eyesight. Until the designers discover usability research, there is a solution in Internet Explorer. Go to Tools, select Internet Options, click the button for Accessibility, and put ticks in the boxes for Ignore font styles specified on Web pages and Ignore font sizes specified on Web pages. With View|Text size|Larger, Neumu becomes an entertaining read. Seewww.neumu.netGene sceneWhat is life? The answer is not on the BBSRC's site, exactly, but there is a lot of stuff about genomics, biodiversity and similar topics in the Science of Life exhibition at the BBSRC site. It is so slick, you might think the BBSCR was a pharmaceutical giant. In fact, it is the Biotechnology and Biological   Sciences Research Council, funded by the government's science budget to "promote public awareness of biotechnology and its relevance to everyday life". Seewww.bbsrc.ac.uk/lifeNew &amp; noted&#149;  World premier, Saturday, Royal Festival Hall, London:   a celebration of Arthur C Clarke. Seehttp://thecityandthestars.com&#149; Big Brother fans can now tap into the second US series atwww.cbs.com/primetime/bigbrother&#149;  The Tattoo Baby Doll Project:www.daintytime.com/tattoo&#149;  Street basketball goes from Gameswatch to Web watch in a Flash extravaganza:www.nbastreet.ea.com&#149;  "The UK's ultimate guide for people with disabilities":www.4dp.com&#149;  Love, life and email: sign up atwww.handbag.com/arts/emailsoap/&#149; Best-ever image of Mars:http://heritage.stsci.edu/public/2001jul/big.htmlSix of the bestLanguage translatorsBabel (Systran)http://babel.altavista.comMore pairswww.tranexp.com:2000/InterTranDo it betterwww.freetranslation.comJapanesewww.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/wwwjdic.htmlArabichttp://tarjim.ajeeb.com/ ajeeb/default.asp?lang=1Metasitewww.foreignword.com/Tools/transnow.htm
You only need to spend a short while surfing the web to realise that Britain truly is a nation of pet lovers. The volume of websites dedicated to pets is astounding, ranging from the informative to the absurd, with plenty to amuse, educate, inspire and disgust animal lovers.If you are considering a pet and have never had one before, then www.pethealth  care.co.uk offers advice on how to choose your first pet and general animal welfare advice. There are plenty of other websites offering similar information but one of the most extensive iswww.vetulike.com. It offers advice on a wide variety of animals that are likely to be kept as pets, from the humdrum (cats and dogs) to the exotic (tropical fish, chinchillas and lizards).You wouldn't leave a member of your family with strangers while you go away would you? So, why leave your beloved pet behind? Find out where you can holiday with your pet by visiting www.petfriendly.co.uk first. Since the introduction of the pet passport scheme, you don't have to be restricted to holidays in the UK.www.maff.gov.uk/animalh/quarantinewill tell you all you need to know. There are a frightening number of websites offering services to immortalise your pet in a photograph,http://website.lineone.net/%7Enick-ridleyor portrait,http://petportraits.hilken.co.ukandwww.pet-portraits.co.uk.If you'd prefer something more unusual then visit www.petchina.co.uk where you can order hand-painted china (including clocks and crockery) adorned with portraits of your pet.   On the other hand, you may prefer others to see photos of your beloved creature in the form of personalised greetings cards. In which case,www.purrfectlysublime.co.ukis the place to go. If viewing photographs of other people's pets is your thing then www.petpics.co.uk not only has an extensive gallery of cats, dogs and rabbits but offers you the opportunity to add your own pet's photograph. While you're at it, take a look at the jokes that didn't make it into the Christmas crackers.If you're convinced that your pet has the potential to be the next Andrex puppy then visitwww.dogstars.co.uk, where you can submit photographs of your pet to this UK-based agency and view its existing pet stars. Pets are   precious, and you'll always want to keep that nose cold, tail wagging and soft purring. So if ill health should strikewww.findavet.org.ukandwww.vetlist.co.ukoffer postcode searches to find your nearest veterinary surgery.www.petz.co.uk/vetontheweb/new/index.htmlmeanwhile offers free online advice.The problem with your pooch, however, may be emotional rather than physical and thus in need of therapy. The association of pet behaviour counsellors has its own website (seewww.apbc.org.uk) and if the behaviour of my cats is anything to go by, they won't be short of customers. For behavioural advice online, try the behaviour section ofwww.petplanet.co.uk.A visit to the vet is always a shock to the wallet. Those on benefits can use the services of thePDSDA. For the rest of us, pet insurance may ease the pain of vet's bills. Royal &amp; Sun Alliance'snew pet insurancehas been heavily advertised but you can also get insurance fromwww.petplan.co.uk.   But, every dog has its day, and once Fido has had his,   you may want to arrange a special cremation.Dignitypetcrem.co.uk/newfiles/service.htmoffers personal pet cremations, while the sentimentalhttp://petloss.comwill help you come to terms with your loss. You could also ease the pain by immortalising your dead friend at the Virtual Pet Cemetery: www.mycemetery.com.   If your pet is lost rather than dead, then there are some helpful resources. Petsearch UKwww.ukpetsearch.Freeuk.commaintains a national database register and the famous Battersea dogs' home is also online atwww.dogshome.org. Create your own "missing" poster online athttp://petdetective.co.uk. If you want websites dedicated to your favourite animal, then there are plenty to choose from. Dog lovers should trywww.everythingdoggy.com.   Find out everything you ever wanted to know about cats at the definitive cat website,www.moggies.co.uk, with everything from cat trivia to a feature on Bastet, the Egyptian cat goddess.Normally hunted by cats and dogs, rodents may be the pets you love to pet. Rat and mice fanciers should checkwww.miceandrats.com,www.petrats.org.uk, and the national fancy rat society atwww.nfrs.orgwhile bunny owners should go towww.ukcompanion.rabbits.org.ukand fish lovers towww.fishindex.com.   If birds are more your thing then if you time it carefully, you can view the live webcam of nesting barn owls kept by the owners behindwww.birdcrazy.co.uk. For something a little more lively, it's still not to late to watch those pesky hamsters dance atwww.dancinghamsters.comorwww.hampster.co.uk.Cat fans are warned to steer clear ofwww.bonsaikitten.com, a site "dedicated to preserving the long lost art of body modification in house pets". Weird and wicked, its spoof images will be too much for the average feline fancier.
Napster livesI read your file-sharing alternatives with interest and was disappointed to find that you missed out two of the best clients available.First up is WinMX -www.winmx.com- a Napster-like clone that allows you to connect to both the Napster and independent Opennap servers.It also has its own P2P &#91;Peer to Peer) function built in, allowing you to connect with other WinMX users online, which apparently number over one million. As well as this, it is very easy to use and has many extras that Napster doesn't.Second up isGnucleus. This is a true P2P client along the veins of Gnotella and Bearshare. It's not as easy to use as WinMX but does generally get the results I need.Neither of these clients use advertising or contain any known "spyware", as do more than one of the clients you listed.Another source of help iswww.naptalk.com,which is a Napster oriented bulletin-board designed to help people with file-sharing queries.Laurian Dalleylaurian@btinternet.comMP3 sharing is very much alive and kicking and I can still get whatever music I want. I haven't used Napster since they started hiding certain files, except for chat.There are many, many new clients out there, and many, many new servers to connect to. Most of these are personal servers which will never be stopped.They get shut down, get another server name, link to a new network and they are back up and running again. As time passes by, more and more people are getting servers and we can all link up and share for free.So a big :o* to all those who tried to stop Napster. They have killed a client but many people have got off their own backsides to keep the internet music sharing community alive.Name and address suppliedRegarding Napster, two points spring to mind:&#149;  Napster was the best resource in the world for out-of-print titles and obscurities. While a hit parade of transfers might put familiar names at the top, the most useful aspect of Napster will never be reproduced in a paid-for system - the chance of finding someone with that ultra-hard-to-find track or vintage out-of-copyright recording. These are the tracks the record companies already deem uneconomical to re-release, or belong to long defunct labels.&#149;  Given the slow speed of downloading and the varying quality of ripping and compression, it was never really feasible to use Napster as a means of acquiring CDs for free. I am one of many who used Napster as a stepping stone to trying out unfamiliar artists before shelling out on a proper CD.Yes, I have the equipment to burn audio CDs from MP3s, but even so a free Napster did more to encourage me to buy more CDs than anything now proposed.I strongly suspect that the Napster alternatives will do less well what Napster did so successfully.Andrew Roseandrew@moeran.comDesigner labelDavid Earls (Feedback, July 5) illustrates perfectly how designers do not find out what their site looks like to real users.To maximise a site's readability you need to fit as many words as possible, at the size the reader finds best, onto the line length (s)he is looking at on their screen.To put 10-13 words per line so that you have to scroll from side to side to read the whole line (as is often the case) defeats the whole point of a clever design. If 10-13 words are optimum, why do newspapers print in columns with 4-7 words per line?Alan Joyce claims that "the vast majority ... use IE 5.x on an 800 x 600 or VGA screen" but, for a start, how many use the window full screen? The point is that browsers and HTML were designed to adapt the text to the user's requirements, including screen size and character size.But most designers seem to be frightened by this and instead design as if it were on paper, where every copy looks exactly the same!Both try and blame their   clients for the narrowness of their designs, but the client is not the expert on good design - the designer is, and should be advising the client.They both also ignore the fact that getting the design perfect on one screen size should not mean it is rubbish on any other, although this is often the case.The client should also be advised that it is what he is selling and how well he can deliver that counts, not simply a pretty site, and an annoying site will drive customers away.Geoff Tomlinsongeoff@the-tomlinsons.org.ukDavid Earls (July 5) incorrectly states that the inability to alter font size on a web page is "due to the inclusion of CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)". Absolute nonsense! This problem predates the existence of CSS, which is a little used technology, sadly.The problem is caused by "pixel-perfect" web merchants using the "Size=" attribute of the Font element with absolute values, such as points or pixels, instead of relative values.Setting text in points or pixels prevents users resizing the text, unless they override this in their browser Preferences. IE5 on a Mac, incidentally, makes ALL text resizable - I don't know about Windows versions.One of the principal aims of CSS, in fact, is to stop this nonsense. Using CSS, the user can override any type of "DTP/layout" instructions that the web page designer has included.CSS instructions merely have the status of "suggestions" for layout, which the user is free to ignore (via a personal stylesheet).Final control resides with the user, which is exactly the way it should be - whatever precious web "designers" may think to the contrary.Brendan Rowlandbrendan@browland.karoo.co.ukLunacyMatthew Genge's "irrefutable evidence" (On the rocks, Science, July 5) for the Apollo missions, namely the samples they supposedly brought back, won't satisfy the die-hard conspiracy theorist.If, as Genge says, the USSR managed to retrieve moon rocks without using astronauts, could not the USA have done the same?Nick Simonsnicholsi@cogs.susx.ac.uk
NBA StreetSony PS2	&#163;39.99  Electronic Arts	***NBA Street could be one of those most desirable sports titles, a crossover hit. Like Ready 2 Rumble, Tony Hawk's Skateboarding and its predecessor in the EA Big   range, SSX Snowboarding, it could appeal to people who do not play or are not interested in the sport itself.In fact, the professional NBA circuit could learn a lot from NBA Street. Scoring is boring, and in NBA Street, the main aim is to score style points rather than baskets. As in fighting games, you have to put together a string of special moves to get a really   big score. However, a "trick points reduction penalty" kicks in if you do the same things over and over again.The graphics are excellent, and amusingly exaggerated, though not as cartoony as Ready 2 Rumble's. With only three players on each side, the PS2 provides good detail and a smooth frame-rate. The sound effects are above average.NBA Street is also a challenge, even on the easy level. You have to complete the City Circuit mode against other teams, and also Hold the Court, which means winning a string of games on the same court against increasingly difficult squads. Of course, having Michael Jordan on your side helps.Winning games earns you extra courts, new players, and points you can use to build your own "super player". And even when you have beaten every "street boss" and unlocked all the cheats, you can still enjoy playing in two-player mode.If you liked NBA Jam for the last generation of consoles, you will love this. And even if you hate basketball, you might still enjoy NBA Street.  (JS)Onimusha: WarlordsSony PS2	 &#163;39.99  Capcom	***Onimusha: Warlords, the first million-selling Play Station2 game in Japan, is out in the UK, and is already topping the charts here, too.From the opening movie sequence to the powerful soundtrack, it is clear Capcom has loosened the purse strings. Set in feudal Japan, the aim is to restore political harmony, win your honour and rescue the princess. It is basically Resident Evil with swords, although Capcom has balanced the annoying control elements with sublime sword play. Using your weapon is satisfying, and the gruesome effects add to the blood lust.After killing the bad guys, you can pilfer their souls, too. Your sword can be enhanced through the game, which becomes useful when attacking enemies. The graphics are impressive, especially the fog and water, although never quite realistic; as with RE, characters are superimposed on to rendered backdrops with mixed results.However, while the action is entertaining, the use of the hackneyed Resident Evil-style control system and cam era angles means the game never hits the heights its sales figures would suggest. There are too many attacks from your blind side, forcing you to hack widely into the camera, while thepuzzle element does little to break up the action.Nevertheless, the sword slashing is addictive and there is a great atmosphere. After a fairly turgid eight months of PlayStation2 gaming, Onimusha is a welcome sign of better things to come.  (GH)Who Wants To Be A Millionaire JuniorPC	 £29.99  Hothouse Creations/Eidos	****As video games begin to permeate the mass market, rifts are opening between traditional gamers and the casual PlayStation owners who dip in and out when the mood takes them. Are games such as The Sims and Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? shameless and shallow cash-ins, devoid of real challenge? Or are they the future of interactive entertainment, reaching out to new audiences as proven by their recent chart dominance?Who Wants To Be A Millionaire has now sold more than 2m units. The Junior edition was always unlikely to take risks with a hit formula, so do not expect miracles. But this is easily the best interpretation yet of a TV quiz show on CD-Rom. The format of the show is followed religiously, with that familiar music kicking in right from the opening credits and a simple interface, which is well animated and loads in double quick time.If you know the show, you know the game: the voice of Chris Tarrant guides you through 15 questions of increasing difficulty in search of the fictional £1m. Unlike the adult version, there is no time limit to the questions. In fact, you even get the chance to change your mind.Roughly speaking the questions are perfect: not too hard and with a bigger proportion of pop and TV trivia for younger players. The 
pacing is excellent, building tension nicely as you approach the final million. 
It is a shame Tarrant 
was not asked to record at least a couple of video segments. Admittedly, it would have been expensive to have him voicing all the questions (and spooling video would certainly slow the game down) but surely an introductory message or a personal greeting for successful millionaires would not have gone amiss. Something for the inevitable sequels, perhaps?Back in the late 80s almost every major TV series had a spin-off game like this. Will it happen again or are such conversions the only way to attract a non-gaming audience? Only time will tell. (MA)
Dangerous Data by  Junior Adam Lury and Simon Gibson	 | £9.99  BantaA verb has entered the lexicon of the New York singles scene recently: "google". You meet someone, swap numbers, fix a date, then Google them through 1,346,966,000 web pages. Maybe their name will crop up as a Nobel prize 
nominee. Or maybe on a sex offenders' register in Arizona.But suppose you want to take it further. Would you want to see their police file? Their medical records? Would you want to know who they phone or which corners of the internet they visit at night? Or how often they bought condoms last month?
Arthur C Dogg, the narrator of Adam Lury and Simon Gibson's debut novel, is a data detective. Using the weapons of the hacker, he can access and cross-reference information from at least 200 different databases.Employed by a mysterious client to investigate an address, the scraps of data he gathers join up like a huge game of dot-to-dot. The emerging picture reveals a frighteningly detailed, sordid scene of infidelity, drugs, dark secrets and suspicious deaths.Dogg is a new breed of gumshoe, and Dangerous Data is a new breed of thriller. It is suitably gripping, told cleverly on alternating pages - Dogg's notes fill the left: bald "facts" pulled from databases and credit card transactions occupy the right. And it is terrifyingly convincing.Data detectives really are out there, presumably using these precise illegal methods. Professional ad-men Lury and Gibson are not paranoid young conspiracy nuts, either. Lury sits on the government's thinktank on data protection. 
It is much more interesting than a straightforward panic attack about the end of privacy. Dogg is not only a detective, he is also a philosopher of the information revolution. Drawing on ideas from 
Bentham and McLuhan, and cultural reference points as varied as Shakespeare and Courtney Love, he sketches a morality for the post-privacy era. "It is the desire to know that makes us human," he posits. "And unhappy."The answer, he suggests, is to worry less about the desire to keep information free, as "it isn't privacy that protects... it's trust that protects".
Our society has yet to recognise that "data protection" is an oxymoron. If this novel helps awaken us to that truth, then it has to be 
welcomed. I doubt there will be a more important novel published this year.
Dangerous Data by  Junior Adam Lury and Simon Gibson	 | £9.99  BantaA verb has entered the lexicon of the New York singles scene recently: "google". You meet someone, swap numbers, fix a date, then Google them through 1,346,966,000 web pages. Maybe their name will crop up as a Nobel prize 
nominee. Or maybe on a sex offenders' register in Arizona.But suppose you want to take it further. Would you want to see their police file? Their medical records? Would you want to know who they phone or which corners of the internet they visit at night? Or how often they bought condoms last month?
Arthur C Dogg, the narrator of Adam Lury and Simon Gibson's debut novel, is a data detective. Using the weapons of the hacker, he can access and cross-reference information from at least 200 different databases.Employed by a mysterious client to investigate an address, the scraps of data he gathers join up like a huge game of dot-to-dot. The emerging picture reveals a frighteningly detailed, sordid scene of infidelity, drugs, dark secrets and suspicious deaths.Dogg is a new breed of gumshoe, and Dangerous Data is a new breed of thriller. It is suitably gripping, told cleverly on alternating pages - Dogg's notes fill the left: bald "facts" pulled from databases and credit card transactions occupy the right. And it is terrifyingly convincing.Data detectives really are out there, presumably using these precise illegal methods. Professional ad-men Lury and Gibson are not paranoid young conspiracy nuts, either. Lury sits on the government's thinktank on data protection. 
It is much more interesting than a straightforward panic attack about the end of privacy. Dogg is not only a detective, he is also a philosopher of the information revolution. Drawing on ideas from 
Bentham and McLuhan, and cultural reference points as varied as Shakespeare and Courtney Love, he sketches a morality for the post-privacy era. "It is the desire to know that makes us human," he posits. "And unhappy."The answer, he suggests, is to worry less about the desire to keep information free, as "it isn't privacy that protects... it's trust that protects".
Our society has yet to recognise that "data protection" is an oxymoron. If this novel helps awaken us to that truth, then it has to be 
welcomed. I doubt there will be a more important novel published this year.
Microsoft has agreed to change its licensing agreements with computer manufacturers - several years after the issue prompted the company's long-running battle with the US government.It is to allow personal computer manufacturers to remove the Internet Explorer icon from its Windows desktop and add those of other companies for the first time.Microsoft's decision comes two weeks after a US appeals court upheld the ruling that its behaviour was tantamount to illegal monopoly maintenance.In a rare public admission of wrongdoing, Steve Ballmer, the company's chief executive, said: "We recognise that some provisions in our existing Windows licences have been ruled improper, so we are providing computer manufacturers with greater flexibility."The change will come into effect immediately, so that manufacturers can choose which icons to display when they produce machines using Windows XP, the latest version of Microsoft's operating system.Until a few years ago, Microsoft forbade computer manufacturers from changing the desktop in any way. Those that argued faced the threat of delays in receiving the company's operating system, used on more than 90% of the world's computers.Microsoft's refusal to allow manufacturers to change their desktops or start-up menus to include the internet browser icon of its rival, Netscape, first raised the ire of regulators at a time when the company was meant to be abiding by an earlier court injunction.A US district judge ruled that the company had illegally maintained its stranglehold over the world's computer market by insisting that manufacturers abide by its rules.   The US appeals court agreed with this decision, but overturned two other findings.In the past year, manufacturers have been allowed to add rival icons, but not to remove the Internet Explorer icon.Mr Ballmer denied yesterday that his latest move was an attempt to kick-start settlement talks, but made a conciliatory statement. "This announcement does not take the place of settlement discussions with the government parties, or any future steps in the legal process," he said. "However, we wanted to take immediate steps in light of the court's ruling. We are hopeful we can work with the government parties on the issues that remain after the ruling."But the company's opponents said the changes did not go far enough. Ken Wasch, president of the trade Software and Information Industry Association, said: "Microsoft's anti-trust troubles can't be solved by adding or removing a few icons from the desktop. This is a death-row conversion by Microsoft in an effort to derail more serious discussions. It may be a step in   the right direction, but it certainly doesn't go far enough."Kevin Arquit, an attorney who has advised ProComp, an anti-Microsoft trade group, said: "My reaction is that Microsoft is only doing what the court decision required them to do anyway."The company insisted yesterday that the changes would not delay the proposed October 25 launch of Windows XP - an abbreviation for Experience. Its plans for XP have already been sharply criticised by its rivals and consumer groups. Until last night, Microsoft had insisted that all computers installed with XP must show a clean desktop, free of icons. Such an edict flew in the face of the court of appeals ruling.The desktop is felt to be vitally important by the computer industry, as most consumers do not want to have to go to the bother of changing the one installed by the manufacturer. Microsoft, which insisted on its version of an internet browser icon being included on all desktops during its war with Netscape, now enjoys a leading share of the browser market.
A Spanish internet surfer saved the life of a woman 6,000 miles away in Montevideo, Uruguay, after discovering that she was trying to commit suicide, officials at the Uruguayan embassy in Madrid said yesterday.The anonymous internet addict logged on to his favourite chat group on Friday afternoon and saw a message from a Uruguayan woman saying she had swallowed a bottle of pills and was preparing to die.Her message included a goodbye to her cyber-friends.A panicked phonecall to the Uruguayan embassy in Madrid did not, at first, help. "All he had was her online nickname and the fact that she came from Montevideo," embassy official Carlos Barranano said.In desperation he logged back on to the chat group and appealed for someone to come forward with her name, address or telephone number.A second Spanish surfer, produced the woman's phone number a few minutes later."We rang a group called 'Pro Vida: Suicides Anonymous' in Montevideo, who rang the woman's home," Mr Barranano said.The suicidal woman was still able to answer the phone and gave her address in the capital, from where she was rushed to hospital by ambulance."Obviously we cannot give her name. All I know is that she had a daughter who also went to help her," Mr Barranano said. "The person at the embassy was so nervous, and so was the caller, that we never got his name. He seemed to come from southern Spain."The surfer has dropped back into anonymity. The identity and subject matter of the chat room remain a mystery.But somewhere in cyberspace they are celebrating.
Webvan, among the first and most successful online grocers, yesterday sacked its remaining 2,000 employees and filed for bankruptcy protection.The collapse of the San Francisco-based company closes a chapter in retailing history in which upstart delivery merchants rivalled far bigger supermarkets in terms of market valuation.Shares in Webvan were trading at just six cents yesterday, down from an all-time high of more than $30 (&#163;21) when the company listed on the US stock market in November 1999.Bud Grebey, vice-president of corporate affairs, said the decision to close the business had been prompted by weaker than expected sales in the three months to the end of June and a failure to raise more money.Webvan is estimated to have spent almost $500m since being founded in 1997.Remaining employees in the group's seven locations around the US were told that they would receive wages and benefits they had accrued to date. An anonymous donor stepped forward to pay some the company's 1,700 hourly workers about $900 each to soften the blow of losing their jobs.The company's decision to file for chapter 11 protection from its creditors also casts doubt over a controversial redundancy package for George Shaheen, the former management consultant who stepped down as chief executive in April.Under the terms of his contract, Mr Shaheen was to receive $375,000 a year for life for his 21-month-stint at Webvan.However, he will become an unsecured creditor as a result of the filing. "He will have a claim against the company as any other creditor," said Mr Grebey yesterday.Yesterday's announcement came just a few weeks after Webvan's remaining shareholders approved a drastic 25-1 reverse stock split in an attempt to remain listed on the Nasdaq stock market.Under rules designed to prevent the continuation of near-worthless shares, the company faced   delisting by the end of this month.Webvan had hoped to use its existing $40m cash balance to maintain operations until early next year. However, the decline in orders in the three months to the end of June forced it to try to raise money before the end of this year."We were unable to secure additional capital given the harsh climate and performance of our business," said Mr Grebey.In a statement, Robert Swan, company chief executive, said: "Webvan has weathered numerous challenges, and in a different climate, I believe that our business model would have proved successful. At the end of the day, however, the clock has just run out on us."Last year, the company lost $413m after buying Homegrocer.com, a rival US grocer, for $1.2bn in stock. First quarter net losses this year added up to $21m on sales of $77.2m.Founder Louis Borders, the co-founder of the eponymous bookseller, still owns 10% of the company. Other shareholders include Sequoia Capital, Benchmark Capital Partners, and Amazon.com.
A day before the BBC annual report came out last week, the BBC's director of new media, Ashley Highfield, made a stunning comment about the future of BBC Online that really threw the cat among the pigeons. In a classic piece of testing the water "New BBC"-style, Highfield decided to mull over the options facing BBC Online in the corporation's preferred publicity vehicle, the Financial Times.The hubbub that ensued was a carbon copy of the frenzy which followed Greg Dyke's mulling of advertising onBBCNews.com- again in the FT - not that long ago. Before you could say "Another Auntie blooper" the idea of streaming BBC programmes via the web was thrown up for public debate.Was it just a case of Highfield getting cocky and wanting to rile the comatose internet industry, or was he taking a leaf out of Dyke's book and cleverly planting ideas in the public domain? Either way, there was method in his madness. In one fell swoop he made his mark on the new media stage and got the industry buzzing again about the dangerous insubordinate beast that isBBC Online.Andrew Ward, the FT journalist who got the interview with Highfield and splashed with the key points on Tuesday's front page, clearly couldn't believe his luck. He knew his story would be explosive: Highfield, he wrote, is the "journalists' dream interviewee", throwing "grenades" and "eye-openers". When the story broke, the BBC was ready with a statement: "We encourage an atmosphere of voicing ideas and Ashley was just talking hypothetically." It all seemed perfectly contrived.BIPA, the industry body that looks after the interests of internet publishers, was enraged by the whole thing. Chairman Rob Hersov even went so far as saying that if the BBC is going ahead with a pay-per-view streaming service then the rest of the industry may as well admit defeat now.In an interview with yours truly on Tuesday afternoon, Hersov said: "I'm sick of the BBC Online floating its ideas in public like this. All it's doing is justifying itself as the fourth arm of the BBC, or something like that, before going on to wipe out the entire private sector." The outspoken Hersov knows just how hard it is to fight   for survival in this depressed climate, as his own business - Sportal - has been clinging on for months now.Hersov also has a fair idea of what you can and can't say to the press, and thinks what Highfield did would have been a sackable offence in a private company. But Highfield now works for New BBC, which, like New Labour, has come up with a whole new set of rules since getting a new boss.New BBC, however, is not getting on very well with its comrades over at Worldwide, so say reliable sources, with each side stepping on each other's toes and fighting it out for who will digitise the programmes and handle sales.This friction was discernible when Dyke floated the idea of ads on BBCNews.com, and questions started to be asked about whether it was right that the public service BBC News should be handling this project instead of the commercial arm,BBC Worldwide. The questions went unanswered, leaving more uncertainty about what kind of relationship the public service BBC new media has with the commercial BBC new media.What's more, now that the idea of storing a pay-per-view BBC programme archive on the web is up for public discussion, people are starting to ask why it is not being considered as part of Project Irene, a Worldwide project to digitise the BBC library and sell it via the web.To take on a project the size of that suggested by Highfield, the BBC is going to have to commit hundreds of millions of pounds with no way of knowing if it will produce returns. And why bother spending millions of man hours converting video to an internet format when pay-per-view is so much easier, and more popular, on TV? To date, all experiments to broadcast via the internet have been complete disasters. Logistically, the plan to develop an online TV programme archive is a huge undertaking. Not only would the bill run into the billions; in terms of scale, as Highfield suggested, it would be akin to setting up a new TV station.Pick apart the tentative plan and you're left with an unconvincing concept that will never get past the board of governors, let alone a public consultation. But that's not what the mulling in public is intended for - it's for gauging reaction to abstract notions and exploring how far the BBC can overstep the mark.With its charter up for renewal in 2006, the BBC is fearful that sliding TV ratings may mean a reduction in the amount of license fee revenue given to it, so it is having to come up with radical new ideas to catch dwindling audiences and raise more cash. But maybe this is one idea that goes a little bit too far - may it never see the cold light of day.
Nick Denton, one of Britain's best known young dot.com entrepreneurs, is stepping down as chief executive of the Silicon Valley firm that he founded.Online information service Moreover.com has appointed "Valley veteran" Susan Atherton to take over the day-to-day running of the company from 34-year-old Denton. Ms Atherton previously held senior positions with Doubleclick and Oracle and has been hired for her experience of selling product to large corporate customers."Silicon Valley is like a magic circle run by 2,000 or so people and Susan is one of those," said Mr Denton, who becomes chairman. "She brings us tremendous contacts and experience."The former journalist said he believed the time was right for him to give up operational control of the business. "The truth is I'm a media guy who has adapted pretty well to run ning a business but Susan's got 15 years experience."One of the biggest challenges founders of young technology companies face is knowing when the time is right to move upstairs and I think its canny to do it now."Great technology companies aren't built in a couple of years, it takes time and this is a move for the long-term."Moreover.com, which aggregates online news and information for businesses, was founded in London in 1998. Its technology enables companies to find out what is being said about them and their rivals online.Mr Denton, who was also one of the co-founders of the First Tuesday networking group, moved to Silicon Valley in 1999 to get closer to the company's biggest customers and potential investors.Moreover.com's backers include Reuters, WitSoundView and Atlas Partners. The firm is forecast to turn a profit by the end of this year.
The internet is taking off in Britain, with a "massive rise" in connections in the past 12 months.Some 4m households got themselves connected to the internet in the 12 months to May, bringing the total in the UK to 10m.A MORI survey for Oftel, the government-appointed telecoms regulator, also found that more households were choosing to buy fully unmetered internet connections, with 24% of households connected to the internet in this way compared with 18% in February.A spokeswoman for Oftel said: "We are delighted that more and more people are using the internet."We are embarking on further research to find out why there has been this massive rise."Mobile phone ownership was still on the rise, the survey found: 70% of adults claimed to own one, and 15% of consumers considered it their main method of making and receiving calls.Nine out of 10 consumers without a fixed line at home used a mobile phone, and only 1% of homes owned neither a mobile nor a fixed line telephone.Although 95% of consumers stated that they were satisfied with their fixed service, almost half were not aware of indirect telephone services available to them over the line that was already in their home.Chris Kenny, Oftel's director of regulatory policy, said: "These findings show that, in general, consumers are taking advantage of the choices available to them."However, there is still evidence that, particularly in the fixed market, there is still a need to increase consumer awareness."Satisfaction levels also remain high - with more than 90% of fixed, mobile and internet consumers satisfied with the overall service they receive from their provider."The survey was conducted by MORI among 2,089 UK adults, as part of Oftel's quarterly research.Press Association
From outside, the Simputer is nothing special: a grey box the size of an electronic organiser, with a black and white screen and four chunky buttons.But the handheld device might solve the most pressing problem of the internet age: how to get developing countries online. The Simputer, short for simple computer, promises to have as profound an impact on communications in the developing world as the clockwork radio of the British inventor Trevor Bayliss.The device took a group of Indian scientists almost three years to develop. It will give online access for around &#163;140, a fraction of the cost of a PC, when it becomes commercially available in India early next year.Unlike the PC, it does not need a mains electricity supply but runs on three AAA batteries.The Simputer's most revolutionary feature, however, is that it eliminates the biggest single barrier to computer use in the third world: illiteracy.Almost 50% of India's population is unable to read or write. To overcome this, engineers at the Indian Institute of Sciences in Bangalore, epicentre of the country's hi-tech activity, and a local software company, Encore, developed a remarkable piece of text-to-speech software.TranslateCalled Information Markup Language - or Illiterate Markup Language by the inventors - the software allows the Simputer to translate English text into a variety of Indian languages, then read the information aloud to the user.Swami Manohar, a scientist at the institute and a senior member of the team, told the Guardian: "We spent a lot of time analysing how IT could really impact on the developing economies - this was before the phrase digital divide &#91;between rich and poor nations&#93; became fashionable."Then we resolved that, instead of declaring what needed to be done, as technologists we would just do it."To start with, the Simputer will be targeted at India, where there are 2m PCs for a population of 1bn.Because the developers are licensing the hardware to manufacturers cheaply, and making the software available free under licence so that it can constantly be upgraded and distributed, the technology, especially text-to-speech, is likely to spread quickly to other countries.The need is overwhelming. According to estimates from the World Resources Institute in Washington, more than 4bn people worldwide remain untouched by the IT revolution - yet the global economy is increasingly reliant on electronic communications and information."It is not access to technology but access to information that is critical," Dr Manohar said."There are tonnes of initiatives coming out of New Delhi - poverty alleviation   schemes, women's welfare schemes, and caste/tribe welfare schemes - but unless a person who is eligible actually knows that the schemes exist, it is not going to help them."The Simputer could improve their lives radically."He envisages farmers, for example, using the Simputer to go online to access land records or to find out which markets would pay the best price for their products.Electronic banking is another potentially massive use.There are similar projects elsewhere. In Brazil, for example, a cheap no frills computer, the Computador Popular (or the Volkscomputer, as local people call it in imitation of the popular VW car) is being developed as part of a government-backed scheme to bridge the digital divide. It will have an estimated price tag of &#163;160, including monitor.The Simputer's text-to-speech capabilities put it well ahead of the pack.It works by breaking words down into basic sounds, then putting them back together in an Indian language, using a library of 1,200 sounds that is adequate for most dialects.At present, it can translate from English into Hindi, Kannada and Tamil; the developers say it will be easy to apply the same basic principles to any other   language. "The resulting speech sounds quite artificial, very much like the robots of science fiction movies," said Dr Manohar."But in terms of understandability, it will be 99.9% for native speakers of that language. After listening to a few sentences, the person's brain gets calibrated to understand the accent." To keep costs down, the inventors have absorbed all the development costs themselves, a bill which could have run to as much as &#163;20m if the Simputer had been put together in Silicon Valley in the US. They have also used free "open source" software, such as the Linux operating system, wherever possible. The project's website is atwww.simputer.org.Alien conceptEven a price of &#163;140 is likely to be too much in cultures where single ownership is an alien concept. So the Simputer is designed to allow one device to be easily shared by a community. For about 70p, individual users can buy a smartcard on to which all their personal information is saved. Each time they plug it in, the computer is customised to their needs, exactly like a PC. "We want the device to continue to be useful over the years," said Dr Manohar, "like those 25-year-old transistor radios that most homes in India have. They still work."IT and the developing world&#149; 80% of the world's population has never made a phone call, let alone used the internet&#149; The internet connects 100m computers but less than 2% of the world's population&#149; London has more internet accounts than all Africa, and New York has more phones than all rural Asia&#149; India's population of almost 1bn have 2m PCs between them&#149; The average rural wage in India is &#163;20 a month; its cheapest PC costs &#163;650&#149; 1% of Indians and 5% of Brazilians have internet access, compared with more than 60% access in the developed world&#149; Almost 50% of Indians cannot read or write
Way back in the early Sixties, when a Rand engineer named Paul Baran came up with the idea of a packet-switched digital communications network, his toughest opposition came from AT&amp;T, the world's biggest Telco. The AT&amp;T folks were dismissive of this new-fangled digital stuff and refused to have anything to do with it.In the end, Baran withdrew his proposal because it would have to be implemented by AT&amp;T, and he figured they would screw it up. It was a rational fear. 'First,' a senior AT&amp;T executive told him, 'it can't possibly work, and if it did, damned if we are going to allow the creation of a competitor to ourselves.'In 1972, after the Arpanet was up and demonstrably running, AT&amp;T got a second bite at the cherry. The Pentagon asked the company if it would be interested in taking on the network. Once again, AT&amp;T declined.Spool forward four decades, and nothing's changed. Telcos are still the corporate world's equiva lent of the Ultrasauros, the dinosaur that stood six stories high, weighed 50 tonnes and had a brain the size of a walnut.Actually, the comparison is unfair to dear old Ultrasauros, for he probably had better strategic judgement than the Telcos, who shelled out $150 billion for 3G phone licences and are now contemplating spending a further $150bn to build the networks which will be necessary in order to provide 3G mobile services.This crazed profligacy, as the Economist tartly observed, 'may well turn out to be the largest investment in the shortest time by any sector in history'.Quite so. Now nobody minds companies making massive investments if there are reasonable grounds for supposing that vast revenues will one day flow from them. The really striking thing about the 3G gamble was the fatuity of the ideas for earning revenue from the increased bandwidth provided by the technology.How were Vodafone, BT and their peers going to get back the (borrowed) cash they paid for their 3G licences? Why, by providing subscribers with novel, must-have, cutting-edge services such as, er, sports scores, stock market prices, travel updates, news flashes, health tips, best-buy information, premium-rate porn (sshhh...) and 'localised content' based on the fact that 3G phones know where they are.Or, to put it another way, the Telcos are going to recoup their investments by offering the kind of brain-dead content which has already proved a commercial flop on the wired Web. And, just in case anyone thought the technology would come to their aid, the companies are discovering that delivering 3G networks is technically more difficult than expected. Apart from anything else, the phones have to be bigger because they have to be able to function as 2G phones whenever they cannot reach a 3G base station.There are really only two conceivable uses for a 3G phone. One is as a paperweight. The other is as a high- speed modem. The original 'killer app' of Baran's Arpanet was email. The killer app of mobile phones is an inferior form of email called SMS. The main reason users like me are looking forward to 3G is as a way of getting broadband connectivity from anywhere. What we're after is a way of keeping in touch with one another, not with CNN, HSBC, Nasdaq nor even, God help us, Arsenal.com.What we want is a way of connecting our laptops to fast, reliable, always-on, ubiquitous email. And therein lies the Telco problem: there is no money to be made from email because the user owns the content (shock, horror!) so there is no way of raking off a percentage from content providers. There is no way of intruding ads or sponsorship, either. So how will 3G be funded? Answers please on a stamped, addressed Marconi share certificate.
EMI and Virgin will this week become the first major record labels in Europe to sell music downloaded through the internet,  writes Nick Mathiason.The companies have agreed terms with Buylando, a Swedish company, to allow music fans to buy albums from a range of artists, including Massive Attack, Gorillaz and Mariah Carey (pictured), which will be transmitted digitally through the internet.Sources close to the labels forecast a rash of similar deals in the next few months in a bid to move music distribution online, potentially sounding the death knell for high street music shops.The news follows a recent agreement enabling renegade US music file swapping company Napster to license music from 150 European independent labels.&#149; The EMI and Virgin albums will be sold atwww.buylando.se
It gave the world Lara Croft, the digitised heroine of Tomb Raider who brought in more foreign earnings than the Spice Girls at their peak. But the computer games industry, the jewel in the crown of Britain's new media revolution, may never again be able to develop a product with similar global blockbuster appeal.A report from an influential thinktank, due to be published this month, will warn that the games industry, for all its world-beating success, risks being relegated to minor player status by better financed, better organised and more ambitious foreign competition.With the release this weekend of the Lara Croft movie, domestic games developers are enjoying unprecedented popularity. The company which created Tomb Raider, Eidos, has sold 22m copies of the game since 1996 and last year had a turnover of &#163;195m.The success is not limited to Eidos. Britain ranks second only to Japan in the authoring of games software in a global market worth over &#163;12bn a year. Home-grown products account for 12% of the US market and 25% of the European market. British game players alone spend &#163;1bn a year, compared with &#163;650m spent in cinemas.But the new report on knowledge entrepreneurship, to be published by Demos, warns that the very factors that led to the current success may ultimately be the industry's downfall."The British computer games industry is at a critical point in its development," the report concludes. "The next few years will prove whether it will suffer the fate of earlier innovative British industries, built on a mixture of entrepreneurship and DIY knowledge - shipbuilding in Glasgow, textile machinery in Lancashire - which were unable to meet better organised, funded and   skilled competition as the market matured."Born out of the home computer craze in the 1980s, the pioneers of British gaming taught themselves how to programme on cheap machines such as the Sinclair Spectrum and the Commodore C64. As the industry has evolved, it has retained this do-it-yourself culture, with power remaining in the hands of self-taught computer enthusiasts.According to the Demos report, this culture may hold the industry back as the technology and skills required for authoring games becomes more sophisticated.It is also becoming more ex pensive to develop successful games, and the resources required may be beyond the reach of the average UK company, the report says.The British industry, despite its strength in developing games, is comparatively weak at marketing and publishing them. Foreign companies, such as the US giant Electronic Arts, or the French developers Infogrammes and Havas International, are far stronger.Too many British companies lack ambition, focusing only on producing the next game. This cottage industry approach, according to Demos, could be fatal."They have a garage mental ity; not enough of them want to be Microsoft," said John Sutherland, who has developed the UK's first computer games degree courses at Abertay university in Dundee. "They don't know how to scale up and there are a lot of small, vulnerable, companies across the UK."Peter Molyneux, one of Britain's most successful games developers, who sold his first venture, Bullfrog, to Electronic Arts in 1995 to set up his company Lionhead, agreed. "The games industry will never become higher profile until it becomes mass-market. It's all very well to have games that get harder and harder to play. But you are just appealing to the same people that bought your games last time."&#149; Raphael Gray, 19, who released thousands of credit card details on the internet, was freed at Swansea crown court yesterday after agreeing to a three-year psychiatric community rehabilitation order committing him to constant appraisal, as well as treatment to raise his self-esteem.Gray, of Clynderwen, Pembrokeshire, said he had expected to be jailed after admitting 10 charges of computer fraud. "I would do it all again but another time I would choose to ensure that I acted legally," he said. He had intended to show the lack of internet security.
Teenage hacker Raphael Gray - who famously sent a shipment of Viagra to Microsoft founder Bill Gates after lifting his credit card details off the internet - has been sentenced to a probation programme of three years of community rehabilitation for his crimes.Gray, now 19, had faced a possible jail sentence for posting thousands of credit card details on the internet during a month long hacking spree between February and March last year. He was finally arrested in March 2000 after a transatlantic sting operation traced him to a computer in the bedroom of his home in Clynderwen, Carmarthen, west Wales.Following his appearance in Swansea crown court today, a composed and smiling Gray said that he regretted not what he had done, but the way he did it."I would do it all again but another time I would choose to ensure that I acted legally," he said.In April, Gray pleaded guilty to two counts of obtaining services by deception after illegally accessing credit card details and eight counts of unauthorised access to customer databases of companies in the US, Britain and Canada, as well as two charges of obtaining services by deception.Gray also admitted two offences of obtaining computer equipment and other items worth £1,399 by deception.Styling himself the "saint of e-commerce", Gray had targeted American, British and Canadian companies in a "crusade" which caused one firm to fold and caused huge financial damage.A court heard that Gray, praised by one victim for making the Internet more secure, obtained access to 23,000 different credit cards by hacking into web sites. Police on both sides of the Atlantic took a month to track down the hacker to his home, where he was arrested by FBI agents.Gray called himself "Curador", a Portuguese word from the Latin for curator, on his internet sites e-crackers.com and freecreditcards.com, where he published details of his target companies and own beliefs.There he wrote: "I'm for e-commerce when concluded in a secure and sensible manner but this is a rare thing. Most companies put some kind of page together and wait for the money to roll in. These people are the criminals."In a message to the companies themselves, he said: "If your site is broken into, you should spend more time asking why and not who."Gray had claimed he was authorised to access sites because there was no warning that access was prohibited. The prosecution said that Gray's actions were extreme and he took a pleasure from flouting the law.A judge at Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court in south Wales adjourned sentencing in April for medical reports and indicated he was considering a custodial punishment.The court heard that Gray, who has "massive promise" and "intellectual gift", was unemployed when he committed the offences but was now working in a computer software company where his talents were finally being appreciated.The defence said that Gray, the third of five children, had lived an unremarkable school life until the age of 14 when he fell and banged his head, suffering serious physical and mental side effects and becoming interested in computers.Related articles05.06.2001: The security expert v the teenage hacker25.03.2000: FBI's global fraud inquiry leads to village youths with a home computerUseful linksInfowar.comInterview with Raphael GrayHackershomepage.comSlashdot
Robert Bonnier never dreamed that it would turn out this way. Last October, the co-founder of internet directory service Scoot.com was sitting in the breakfast room of the exclusive Halcyon hotel in London's Notting Hill, feeling every bit the dot.com wunderkind.A 30-year-old who made his first investment as a teenager using the insurance payout from a football injury, he now had a &#163;2m home a few minutes' walk away. In the garage was a Porsche; on the mantlepiece, the keys to a holiday home in Umbria; at his disposal, a share in a private jet.Sitting across the restaurant was media heir Elisabeth Murdoch, and other members of the City's digerati talking animatedly as they tucked into &#163;18 fry-ups and freshly squeezed orange juice.Yet nobody talked with quite the same passion as the former investment banker from Holland. Scoot had never made a profit and had barely any revenues, but already it was valued at more than &#163;1bn.Vivendi, the French media and utilities conglomerate, was apparently ready to pour in unlimited funds to make Scoot the biggest company of its kind in Europe. Loot, the classified advertising newspaper group, had joined the party following a &#163;190m takeover earlier that summer.It had all been Bonnier's work, and it left the financier with a nice line in new economy jargon and a name as one of Britain's foremost young entrepreneurs.As far as he was concerned, his &#163;100m paper fortune was only the start. But only nine months later, Scoot is teetering on the brink of collapse and Bonnier has severed all links with the company. At yesterday's quarterly results meeting, Scoot failed to come up with details of the &#163;22m   it needs to keep afloat but insisted it was still hopeful of securing new funds. Bonnier quit as chief executive last week and yesterday the phone that was glued to his ear duringthose boom times was off line.Jon Molyneux, the managing director of Scoot UK who has the unenviable task of stepping into the breach, talked calmly of a radical restructuring plan. The collapse in Scoot's share price from a high of more than 340p to yesterday's 2.75p was just another example of a fledgling dot.com that has struggled to overcome technological problems and then been hit by the sharp turn in investor sentiment."We have a lot of work to do, but this is going to be a slow, sure-footed recovery," Molyneux said. "It's going to be about under-promising and over-delivering."Yet the real story of Scoot's near-collapse is something more complex, involving missed forecasts, mounting losses and scandal compounded by allegations of a dirty tricks campaign being waged against Bonnier by offshore speculators.Scoot was founded as Freepages in 1995 by Bonnier and Nigel Robertson, an entrepreneur was has since quit and is now based in Monaco. Helping Bonnier were rising stars from investment bank SBC Warburg, including Chris Akers and Ronald Dorjee - who last week quit as Scoot's finance director.Together they engineered a reverse takeover of Freepages by an AIM-listed shell named Blagg. Bonnier set out to build up the business as an interactive imitation of Yellow Pages, in which users would be connected direct to the number they were inquiring about.Analysts say he became over-ambitious, spending heavily on technology, planning an international roll-out and then buying Loot at what proved to be the top of the market. Molyneux yesterday appeared to confirm the strategic errors by announcing a restructuring and retrenchment. Having raised &#163;300m, Scoot has just &#163;7m left - and only three months in which to find more.&#163;22m and still countingScoot UK will become the focus, non-core assets will be sold and Loot revalued. There are hints that the financing terms of joint ventures with French group Vivendi to establish European versions of Scoot will be renegotiated. If the &#163;22m is found, it is most likely to come from securitising positive cashflows generated by Loot. In the worst case, Loot will be sold. Almost 300 Scoot staff have been sacked, and more may follow.Critics are not surprised that management failed to deliver, pointing to stories that first appeared in this paper as early as October 1999 detailing Bonnier's past share dealings.His investments were financed by Ronald Zimet, an Israeli businessman and former chairman of Scoot whose offshore accounts are alleged to have been   used to pay bribes to executives at the Co-Operative Wholesale Society.As the number of negative stories appearing in the press about Scoot increased and the company's share price started to fluctuate wildly, Bonnier instructed a private detective agency to investigate the source.The trigger was an anonymous dossier circulated to newspapers containing allegations that subscriber numbers at Scoot had been inflated.Bonnier believed that Andrew Regan, a Monaco-based businessman facing theft charges relating to transactions with the Co-Operative Wholesale Society, was trying to mount a campaign to discredit Zimet, who stood to become a crucial prosecution witness in Regan's trial.Bonnier complained that his wife's car had been followed, his mobile phone bugged and that taxis he ordered came equipped with secret recording equipment. Scoot instructed lawyers to contact Regan and a former Scoot employee, but the pair have consistently denied any involvement. Scoot's action has ended.The startling rise and fall Scoot shares and the trading related to them is understood to have sparked an investigation by the financial services authority.The focus is on a Sunday newspaper story that claimed Scoot was about to be taken over and triggered a massive jump in the company's share price - only for it to be later denied.The Monaco linkAdvisers to Scoot believe much of the trading has been by funds linked to Monaco - but nobody, least of all the authorities, is sure.Molyneux's priorities now are to secure the new funding and then rebuild the business. He acknowledges that it will be a long haul.Before he can even embark on it, the &#163;22m cash has to be secured. A group of unnamed wealthy individuals is said to be ready to step in, but shareholders are not holding their breath. Stung before by talk of takeovers from Vivendi and others, they will only rest easy when the money is in the bank.Molyneux is confident. He says the technological problems have been stabilised, reducing the backlog of angry advertisers who wanted to get on to the Scoot service but were unable to do so.The expensive head office has been closed and costs reduced - and Molyneux plans to charge users between 50p and 60p a call for what used to be a free service. He acknowledges that the volume of users could fall by almost two-thirds as a result, but insists the new revenues will more than offset that.If things go according to plan, Scoot should achieve positive cashflow by the end of next year.But as followers of Scoot have learned, that is a big "if".
An email campaign is urging women to wear designer mini-skirts and ostentatious gold earrings to work today in protest at the sacking of one of New Zealand's top female civil servants.Christine Rankin has taken the government to court in Wellington claiming unfair dismissal from her &#163;72,000-a-year post as head of the work and income ministry, the largest government department in the country.Despite the New Zealand government being headed by a female prime minister, Helen Clark, backed by seven female cabinet ministers, Ms Rankin claimed she was systematically discredited by attacks on her dress sense. She regularly wore expensive cream suits and pendulous earrings to work.Headed "Women of the Workforce Unite," the email asks women to attend a protest outside the court and dress like Ms Rankin to "show the sexist men of this country we will not tolerate their oppression".The public servant head of the prime minister's and cabinet office, Mark Prebble, told the court that he was embarrassed and "outraged" by Ms Rankin's plunging necklines. "Every time she moved I found that I was having to see an embarrassingly large amount of breast exposed."He admitted advising her that public servants should dress in grey at work, preferably choosing off-the-peg attire "from a chain store".The opposition leader, Jenny Shipley, has criticised Ms Clark for "condoning" the sexism of her male civil servants.But women's solidarity with Ms Rankin has been tested by freezing winter temperatures. "I don't have a short skirt, I don't have dangly earrings and I don't have time for Christine Rankin," Nicola Sanders said. "I don't hold her in very high regard as far as her fashion sense goes."
