The team of computer gurus that helped Tom Cruise dodge a helicopter as it raced through a Eurostar tunnel in Mission Impossible has put itself up for sale on eBay.The creatives behind the special effects technology also used in The Matrix and The Last Samurai put themselves up for auction after their jobs were "offshored" by technology giant Discreet.Gus Grubba and his team of 12 developers only found out about their impending job losses when they discovered their posts were being advertised on the company's website."We've been like a family for more than a decade so we are focusing our energies on keeping our team intact," the team says in its eBay ad."Now you have the opportunity to negotiate a contract with the most cohesive and passionate people in the industry."The winning bid, currently running at $530 (£290), merely gives the bidder the right to discuss a contract with the team.However, all the proceeds of the auction are being donated to the George Lucas Educational Foundation.This is not the first time people have auctioned themselves on eBay. Last January the entire journalistic team behind ZDNet's Tech Update put itself up for sale.However, eBay pulled the ad on a technicality because it suggested the winning bidder "should be prepared to make a total annual commitment for salary and benefits in the high six figures".Rosie Reid, the Bristol University student who tried to auction her virginity on eBay before moving the ad on to her own website, is facing a police investigation after having sex with the highest bidder.Police are investigating whether she is guilty of soliciting after sleeping with a London man who bid £8,400.Earlier this month, eBay users tried to cash in on the negative PR surrounding Coca-Cola's decision to withdraw its Dasani water by offering bottles for sale on the site."The 500ml bottles were common but the 1.5-litre bottle, which this is one, is the one to have," writes MrsKelly834, one seller of an unopened bottle.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The music industry yesterday launched the first wave of international lawsuits against web pirates as it warned that global record sales fell an estimated 7% last year. cThe International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said legal actions had been brought against habitual users of illegal internet services in Italy, Germany, Denmark and Canada. Jay Berman, the chairman of the global music industry body, said similar lawsuits were "likely" in the UK if consumers failed to respond to repeated warnings from the British Phonographic Industry body.The latest round of lawsuits follows similar action against more than 2,000 consumers in the United States over the past year. Criminal and civil proceedings have been brought against 247 internet users who break copyright laws by making hundreds, and in one case 54,000, files available over the web for fans to download.Mr Berman said he expected the legal proceedings to have an impact on the number of illegal music files distributed over the internet without the consent of record companies and their artists. An estimated 800m illegal files are available on the internet, downloaded from services such as Kazaa, DirectConnect and iMesh."The number of illegal files being made available will shrink dramatically, because everything now known about the mechanics of these services is that a relatively small number of people are making a relatively large number of files available," he said.The destructive effect of web piracy on the record industry was underlined yesterday by IFPI estimates that global record sales shrank a further 7% last year. In 2002, the market dropped 7% to $32bn (&#163;17.6bn) as services such as Napster took advantage of the rise in broadband access and sparked a surge in the use of file-sharing networks.The seemingly gloomy outlook for last year, however, points to a slowing of the decline in record sales in the second half of 2003. The global music market declined 10.9% in the first six months of 2003.Alan Dixon, the general counsel of the IFPI, said the example of lawsuits in the US, where the majority of web-based piracy is committed, proved that legal action had a deterrent effect. The number of music files on the best known downloading site, Kazaa, has fallen from 900m in April last year to 550m."We do think there is a deterrent method that lawsuits can bring against the wider population of &#91;illegal music file&#93; users," he said.Mark Mulligan, an analyst at Jupiter Research, said the IFPI may have made a strategic error in taking high profile action against users when legitimate online services such as Napster and iTunes were months away from launching in Europe. "The stick is being beaten before the carrot has been grown. The timing of high profile press releases prior to the wider availability of legitimate services is unfortunate, at best," he said.More than 120 people in Denmark have been sent civil demand letters ordering them to stop distributing music over the web and pay compensation. In Germany, 68 have been reported to the authorities and in Italy criminal proceedings have been brought against 30 people.But the IFPI admitted some service providers had protested over legal action taken in Canada. Service providers had expressed concerns over court orders demanding details of 29 people using their portals.The ISP Association in the UK has warned it will fight against disclosing illegal downloaders.
It may have become the standard gripe of the professional classes but the theory that we are a cash-rich, time-poor society may be an urban myth, according to a survey that reveals that a new age of convenience is upon us and there is more time for fun.A switch has occurred over the past 10 years thanks to "time freers" like fast food, self-medication, and telephone and internet services, according to a report published by Mintel researchers today.Thanks to this switch, Mintel found that only 5% of adults feel they "never have any time at all" while four in five of us are "well-timed" with "enough time to relax". Fourteen per cent even admitted to being "chilled". According to the study, this group cannot see the point in rushing around or overdoing it."We are not a cash-rich, time-poor nation," analyst Shaheed Alam said."Although we are busy, we do have time to relax and more people have disposable income in their pockets. The increase and use of convenience products has freed up people's time."Mr Alam explained that people may also feel they have more time because of changing attitudes - what used to be not enough time now feels like plenty."It is to do with attitude, what people feel within themselves," he said."If you only have one hour in the evening to relax you might say that's enough, if people within themselves say that's fine."Most striking is the shift towards convenience medicine. The research shows that the use of over-the-counter medicine has surged by 71% since 1993. Doctors have lost influence over patients over that period as pharmacists and alternative health practitioners become an easy one-stop call to deal with minor ailments.When looking where to cut back on time, 20% of women pinpointed avoiding a visit to the doctor.Elsewhere, convenience food constituted a third of all food spending last year and, while the overall food market has grown by 32% since 1993, pre-prepared food has sprinted ahead by 70%, fast food by 80% and takeaway food by 86%.Changes in personal finance have also liberated more time for less tiresome activities. Mintel estimates that almost 33m personal accounts were accessible by phone in 2003, compared with 9.46m in 1998. The number of accounts accessible online rocketed from 380,000 to an estimated 17.21m over the same period.One in two adults can now access the internet at home, enabling a surge in internet shopping. Online holiday bookings are booming, with 32% of those buying a holiday using the web.The study found that it is these new kinds of services that are allowing people to feel "busy enough" (32%) and "time rich" (30%) rather than "time short" (8%) or "leisure constrained" (16%) where they do not have enough time for relaxing or leisure pursuits."Time short" folk feature heavily among working mothers and tend to live in the south-east. If you want to be "chilled", avoid children and move to Scotland, Wales or the West Country."The results do not paint a picture of frenzied humanity," Peter Ayton, Mintel's chief statistician said."Although life is busy it also has its restful moments."So on what are we spending all this free time? The survey revealed a mammoth appetite for overseas holidays, gym membership and entertainment. Spending on fitness and gym membership is growing faster than any other leisure activity. That market grew by 179% over the past 10 years.According to Mr Ayton, gyms kill two birds, providing both leisure and convenience in one lycra-clad stone.Similarly, getting away from "leisure constrained" life is proving increasingly convenient to organise and increasingly popular among the new convenience generation.Jetsetters spent an estimated &#163;20bn on overseas holidays last year, up &#163;11bn on 1993, and holidaying in the UK grew by 50% to an estimated &#163;18bn.Since 1993 overall spending on travel has almost doubled, breaking the &#163;50bn barrier for the first time last year.But it is not only free time pursuits that are seeing all the money. According to Mintel, 45% (&#163;400bn) of total British spending is funnelled into the housing and financial markets.While spending on house-buying has risen by 86% since 1998 to &#163;232bn last year, the   researchers do not predict a crash in the market. "The market is set to continue to rise," Mr Ayton said. "But the growth will be at a more measured pace."However, the researchers predict that the emergence of more "time freers" will create even more time for spending on the cinema, toys and sports goods, holidays, entertainment and fitness.Paul Rickard, Mintel's director of research and publishing, said: "This trend to convenience will continue over the coming years."
On Slashdot, harlows_monkeys writes: "Apple's trying to patent several aspects of the iPod user interface. This one is particularly interesting because the claims are written in fairly clear and simple language, easy to understand by anyone. If this one is granted, it won't be because an overworked examineer was confused by deliberate obfuscation by the application (which is what I think happens for a lot of the ridiculous patents). About half the claims are for things that were implemented in prior players (e.g., Archos), and the other half are for things that are in many other common device interfaces (DVD players, PVRs) and the only novelty is that Apple put them on a portable music player."The Slashdot debate ishere, and the patent applicationhere.Comment: as notedbelow, StarBrite Ltd has already offerd pPod (pBop) lookalike MP3 software for PocketPC handhelds (photo). Its site now says: "Due to legal pressure from Apple we are no longer able to distribute this application. Sorry for any inconvenience."
"A French court has approved MandrakeSoft's plan to exit bankruptcy protection, a boost that accompanies a return to profitability for the Linux seller." reportsCNet."The plan was made possible by a return to profitability in the fourth quarter of 2003, its first since 1999, the company said. MandrakeSoft reported a profit of 270,000 euros on revenue of 1.42 million euros for the quarter."
Pipex Communications was back on the move yesterday amid talk that it is close to sealing the acquisition of Host Europe, a deal which would make the firm one of the biggest listed on Aim.According to market gossip, Pipex, run by serial entrepreneur Peter Dubens, has instructed its broker, Collins Stewart, to raise about &#163;31m by way of a share placing to pay for Host. If Mr Dubens pulls off the deal Pipex, a broadband interest and telecoms company, would have a market capitalisation of about &#163;230m.However, traders reckon Pipex has no plans to seek a main market listing at the moment.Pipex shares closed 3.4% higher at 11.37p last night, while Host Europe rose 1% to 2.36p.
Your leader on the strides being made by France Telecom in respect to broadband (March 27) makes depressing reading to those of us in the UK still sentenced to remain with the trickle known as dial-up. I am not alone in having fast ADSL connections at work in London only to come home to slow dial-up connections.BT will not upgrade many UK exchanges to ADSL broadband until local campaigners have mustered support to reach daft trigger levels. Local campaigners' protests to BT that it should do the work it is dumping on to them are met with cynical excuses by BT that it is better for local people to find out how much interest there is in broadband. The government should take exchanges and the local loop away from BT's   dinosaur monopoly and hand them over to France Telecom.Henry PavlovichCholsey, OxonOne would delight in the "ordinary" 512 kilobits/second masquerade, if it was accessible to many of us. It is possible to live just under 4km from our activated exchange but to be informed by BT that the line is unable to support broadband. It is even possible for neighbours in the same street to be on either side of the broadband reception divide. The root of the problem is that BT's technology is too inadequate.Ken SawyerHalifaxAll the ADSL equipment across the world is capable of at least 8mbp/second, but only where the subscribers   are close enough to the exchange, which usually means big apartment blocks in cities. In the UK there are several ADSL suppliers providing more than 1mb/second, but only in big cities. The 512kbps ADSL used for internet access shares this capacity between 100 users, but digital TV needs more than this for a single user.If enough people take up broadband for multi-channel TV, as you suggested, this would need a massive increase in network capacity. ADSL was originally invented - by BT - as a means of providing on-demand TV, and wasn't rolled out for many years for these reasons; it only took off when it was realised that it would be great for high-speed internet access.Ian DedicNortholt, Middx
Virgin Mobile is preparing to appoint advisers for a flotation in the last week of June which could value the mobile phone company at upwards of &#163;1.3bn.Last week senior executives from Virgin and its mobile phone offshoot met up to discuss the chances of Virgin Mobile becoming the first of Sir Richard Branson's businesses to have a listing in London since he took his holding company private in the late 1980s.They are understood to have agreed to take a two-track approach: appointing one set of advisers to work on an IPO while another draws up a long-term debt financing deal if a listing has to be pulled because of market conditions.Exactly which route the business will take will be decided by Virgin and its advisers in May.Insiders at Virgin believe that unless the market suffers a considerable correction, Virgin Mobile will float in the summer. Investment banks JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs and Investec, instrumental in the formation of the company in the first place, are rumoured to be the likely flotation advisers and brokers.A public listing of Virgin Mobile, which has nearly 4m customers in Britain, will give Sir Richard the financial firepower to launch an airline in America, a dream he has held for almost a decade.It will also see T-Mobile, Virgin's former partner in Virgin Mobile, reap &#163;100m following its out of court settlement with the firm this year.Virgin Mobile was set up as a joint venture between Sir Richard's empire and T-Mobile, owned by Deutsche Telekom, in 1999. Virgin Mobile uses the T-Mobile network to operate its service. The two fell out in spectacular fashion two years ago. The dispute ended up in the hands of lawyers but, following a change of management at T-Mobile, a deal was reached in January.That paved the way for a flotation by handing full control of Virgin Mobile to Virgin. The two sides signed a 10-year network agreement which safeguards the company's future.Under the terms of the settlement if Virgin Mobile is floated within two and a half years, T-Mobile gets 25% of any equity value over &#163;550m, up to a maximum payment of &#163;100m.Virgin Mobile's recent performance has given its management confidence that the   business will get a fair rating in the market. The company acquired more than half a million new customers in the last three months of 2003, making it Virgin Mobile's best ever sales period by far.One concern is that the company counts customers as "active" provided they have made a call in the past year. Other networks discount customers if they have been inactive for 90 days.Using a similar method would reduce Virgin Mobile's customer base, insiders admit, but would also increase its average revenue per user figures.Virgin Mobile is considering reporting both sets of figures - with the consequent reduction in subscriber numbers estimated to be about 10% to 15% - but will not cut off customers who are inactive for more than 90 days.Separately, Virgin is expected this week to confirm that it has signed a deal with Bell Canada to roll out its Virgin Mobile concept in Canada. A venture in Mexico is likely to follow. The company's US business, which uses Sprint's network, has already signed up 1.75m customers in a year and a half.
A couple of years ago, Jack and I did apiecefor G2 on the technology in the film Minority Report. My favourite was e-paper - a technology which, I wrote, was only just round the corner from entering the real world. In the film, Tom Cruise ran on to a crowded subway, fleeing his pursuers, only to see a newspaper front page change in front of his eyes to display his mugshot, and a headline to the effect that he was on the run. It was a good example of the possible power of the technology.Well, now e-paper's really here - or, at least, it will be from next month. Sony, Phillips and e-paper have announced the first electronic paper display will go on sale in Japan shortly. It might only be black-and-white (unlike in the film) but, going by thePR blurb, the rest of the spec is very impressive indeed:"The Electronic Paper Display is reflective and can be easily read in bright sunlight or dimly lit environments while being able to be seen at virtually any angle - just like paper. Its black and white ink-on-paper look, combined with a resolution in excess of most portable devices at approximately 170 pixels per inch (PPI), gives an appearance similar to that of the most widely read material on the planet - newspaper. Because the display uses power only when an image is changed, a user can read more than 10,000 pages before the four AAA Alkaline batteries need to be replaced."But if that's not amazing enough, this might grab your attention: according to theMiami Herald, the first reader is going to cost around 40,000 yen - that's £208.If this price information is true, that's an astonishingly low price for a first generation technology, and one that should help make it a rapid hit - if it's anywhere near as good as it appears to be.
USA Today has a round up of new wireless technologies, headedFour wireless technologies move toward starting gate. It covers WiMAX, 802.16e, 802.11n, and Ultrawideband. Online covered some of this ground in September,here.
"Officials at software developer Macromedia launched a new Flex presentation server and application framework Monday, in a bid to entice programmers to trade in their HTML-based Web applications and upgrade to Flash technology," reportsInternetnews.com."Flex takes nearly the same approach as Java Server Pages, where the source code is compiled at the server side and sent out in dynamically-generated HTML. With Flex, however, the code is sent out using Macromedia XML (mXML) syntax on the SOAP Web services messaging standard."
A European Commission ruling last week against Microsoft has brought back into focus the fight over control of how we see, use and, increasingly, pay for our digital entertainment. This battle is pitting Microsoft, Sony, Dell, Apple, Motorola, BSkyB, Nokia and a plethora of other media giants against each other as they vie for control of the future of the much-heralded home entertainment space.Last week the Commission fined Microsoft for using its dominant position in the PC market to flatten the competition. Under the ruling, Microsoft is forbidden from giving its Media Player (which allows PC users to play videos from the internet) "favourable treatment on Windows", its operating system software that runs 90% of the world's PCs.But the ruling only touches on the underlying question of who is going to rule the home entertainment space as convergence of household electronic gadgets begins to take effect. After years of talk, this converged world vision has the PC, the TV, DVD players, video games machines, portable devices such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), smart mobile phones and gadgets such as the new iPod all linking together. The only question seems to be which companies are going to do the linking.Late last year, Microsoft made the first major strike with the launch of its new Media Centre products in Europe - nearly a year after devices were available in the US. After some unsteady steps in the pay TV business, the Media Centre is Microsoft founder Bill Gates's first major step into the home entertainment space that seems to have a chance. Media Centre basically soups up a PC so that it organises music, videos, photos and can be linked by a wire to any TV screen in the house. It also has a personal video recorder so you can hook it up to your TV and organise your night's viewing without having to rent a Sky Plus box from BSkyB. And, say retailers, because it includes a remote control as part of the package, it is easy for even computer-illiterate people to run.Two weeks ago, Microsoft announced the rollout of what it is calling the Media Centre Extender which, when it starts selling in Europe early next year, will let consumers wirelessly connect their Media Centre PC to their TV. Next year, Microsoft's Xbox console will include "Extender" functions too. Also unveiled at the Cebit technology fair in Germany earlier this month was a portable version of Microsoft Media Centre (MMC) that lets you organise all your digital media (from DVDs to music to information downloaded from the internet) and take it with you.The digital cognoscenti have already given this portable product, which should be on sale at the end of this year, the nickname "iPod killer". Not only does it do all the things that the iPod does - download, store and organise music, plus synching with your PC calendar and contacts list - it has a screen as well, so it will play DVDs and other video. So far there is no crossover announced between the forthcoming portable Media Centre and Microsoft software-powered digital smart phones, but it would be a logical next step.High street outlets like Dixons and PC World are moving the original MMC-enabled PCs faster than anyone wishes to tell you and head of marketing at PC World (part of the Dixons Group) Chris Matthews says the reason they are selling is all about ease of use. "We do demos in our 125 stores on MMC and if you give someone the remote control, in five minutes they will be able to download CDs, record TV, listen to radio, download album covers - all through the remote. It makes it very simple."But while Microsoft is pushing consumers to convergence via the PC, Sony and the rest of the competition are trying to dominate digital media with their own products.Sony's campaign is led by the PSX, which is basically a next-generation PlayStation. When attached to the TV, the PSX stores and plays back the user's movies, photos, music and videos. It also burns CDs and can be used to play games. The next version will also include PVR functions and next year Sony will launch PSP, a portable version of the PlayStation, which will do all the things the portable Microsoft Media Centre does as well as playing sophisticated video games.Both Sony and Microsoft (and others) are looking to be the home entertainment hub, but they come at it from different areas of strength. For Sony, the PlayStation, the world's dominant gaming device, is the obvious place to start. For Microsoft it's the PC, as Gates's software runs the vast majority of the world's computers.In a speech earlier this month in London at the FT New Media and Broadcasting conference, the chairman and CEO of Sony Corp America   Howard Stringer called 2004 "the year of convergence". If this is true, it opens up important new possibilities for Sony. "With all these broadband connected TVs, PVRs, PlayStations, cellphones, MP3 players and more, we will no longer need a permit from the gatekeepers when we want to reach the consumer. We'll use our ongoing dialogue with the customer to develop greater loyalty and to offer new tools to create and share content," said Stringer.There may be everything to win but there is also a lot to lose as well, particularly for companies like Sony which also own large swaths of content from music (through its record company) to movies (through its Hollywood studio). Both have already seen increasingly big losses from online and off-line piracy as digital technology makes it easier to steal content.Not everyone agrees that Microsoft has the right approach, though."You are talking about putting a PVR and a DVD and other functions all on one device, on the assumption that people want one device," says Brian Sullivan, director of new product development and sales at BSkyB. "It sounds logical. But when you pick it apart there are elements that aren't necessarily consumer friendly. What happens if you are using a Media Centre and the processor on the computer goes bad? You are not going to just lose your computer, you are going to lose your TV and your music and everything."Reining in the ambitions of Microsoft with its deep pockets and its entrenched position in the PC market is no easy thing, although many, including the European Commission, have tried. Perhaps allowing Microsoft to bundle its Media Player would actually be better for consumers, since so much content is being encoded using Microsoft's software (optimising it for play on the Microsoft player).In fact, an analyst for the Ovum consultancy in London thinks that the Commission made a "tactical error" by focusing on the desktop when Microsoft's overall strategy has shifted to services and devices beyond the desktop. "Microsoft has to some extent built its own insurance policy against rulings like this," says Neil Ward-Dutton, principal analyst at Ovum, "in that it has moved a lot of its real intellectual property invention focus away from the desktop and towards other types of devices and network services. So in terms of Microsoft's wider intent to leverage its dominance on the desktop to other domains, this &#91;ruling&#93; doesn't really affect any of that at all."Stay tuned for more appearances by Microsoft on entertainment devices everywhere, then.
In all the hoo-hah over Microsoft's Euro-fine, one thing seems to have been missed. The company's spokesbots have furiously reiterated their leader's mantra that regulators have no business curbing Microsoft's 'freedom to innovate'. And regulators respond solemnly that they have no desire to curb innovation but simply to ensure Microsoft stays within the law.There is one thing wrong with this: monopolists don't innovate as a rule. And, on the rare occasions they do, they do so at their pace, not that of technology and certainly not at the behest of their customers.We've seen this with every monopoly in history. AT&amp;T is the best known modern example. If it had been left to AT&amp;T (then a lightly regulated monopoly), we would never have had the internet. When Paul Baran - the co-inventor of packet-switched networking - tried to sell the idea to AT&amp;T in the early Sixties, the company wouldn't hear of it.After interminable discussions with Baran, AT&amp;T's Jack Osterman turned to him and said: 'First, it can't possibly work, and if it did, damned if we are going to allow the creation of a competitor to ourselves'. (Note the word 'allow'.)So the ARPANET was built without AT&amp;T's participation. And after the network was built and demonstrably working, the company was offered a second bite at the cherry. The Pentagon asked AT&amp;T in 1973 if it would like to take over the network. Again the company said no.So monopolists don't innovate. Microsoft is no exception. The reason its claims to be on the leading edge are accepted by politicians such as Gordon Brown and Tony Blair is that they know so little about technology. In fact, a close examination of Microsoft's corporate history reveals the extent to which this innovation propaganda is, well, hooey.The foundation stone of Microsoft's fortunes was the MS-DOS operating system. But when, in 1980, IBM came to Seattle looking for an operating system for their new   PC, Microsoft didn't in fact have such a thing. What happened is that Bill Gates bought an operating system called QDOS from a small Seattle firm for $50,000 and rebadged it.In due course, MS-DOS was superseded by another Microsoft 'innovation' - Windows. But owes a great deal to the Apple Mac (which in turn found inspiration from Xerox PARC). Steve Jobs showed Gates the Apple Lisa (the precursor of the Macintosh) in the early Eighties. Gates came back to Redmond screaming 'I want the Mac on the PC'. A decade later, in 1993, his programmers finally succeeded in delivering a windowing interface that actually worked - nine years after the Mac was launched.The other cornerstone of Microsoft's current prosperity is its Office suite. Here again, the innovation myth pales under examination. Microsoft Word was a development of the Bravo! word processor written for the Xerox Alto workstation in the early Seventies.The Excel spreadsheet program evolved from Multiplan, which was an attempt to replicate Lotus 123 (which in turn was a development of VisiCalc, which was written for the Apple II and released in the late Seventies). The Access database program is a descendant of DBase II, an Ashton-Tate product. PowerPoint, likewise, originated outside of Microsoft.Then came the web. Microsoft missed the internet when it first showed up. When Gates finally spotted it, his company didn't have a browser. So they bought the rights to Spyglass - the first commercial development of the original Mosaic browser -- and rebadged it as Internet Explorer 1.0.Similarly, when seeking a web-authoring program they bought a small Californian company called Vermeer which had developed one and rebadged it as Microsoft FrontPage. And Microsoft Hotmail was invented by an Indian entrepreneur who sold it to Microsoft for $400 million.I could go on, but you get the point. Microsoft is a very successful company, but its success does not stem from technological innovation but from buying in innovative ideas, rebadging them and then bundling them with its operating system.In the process, it creates a monopoly that wipes out potential markets for innovative newcomers. Far from stimulating or enabling innovation, the effect of Microsoft's dominance is to stifle it.And this is why the European Commission ruling is significant. What matters in the long run is that the astonishing ingenuity of engineers, computer scientists and programmers continues to be liberated, not stifled.In its early days, Microsoft helped innovation take place because it provided a  de facto  standard around which the nascent personal computer business could coalesce. But that was a long time ago. We have now reached a state where, unless legislators and regulators act, technological innovation in the computer business will henceforth march to the leisurely beat of a Microsoft drum.And this we cannot allow. For once, the commission is right.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
If and when Bill Gates sits down to write a cheque for &euro;497 million (&#163;330m) payable to the European Commission, he will doubtless have a moment to reflect on why the EU's competition commissioner, Mario Monti, imposed the large fine on his company, Microsoft. The money itself won't hurt - the company has $53 billion in cash - but it will add to any sense of persecution the convicted US monopolist already harbours.The Commission ruled against the company last week for the relatively minor infraction of bundling Media Player into the Windows operating system - and thus breaking the law by using its 'near monopoly' in operating systems to squeeze out rivals in other kinds of software. The European verdict may have greater consequences than the long US antitrust case brought against Microsoft in the late Nineties. Microsoft, which intends to appeal, sees a Europe that will no longer be so friendly to it in future. Ditto for Asia, though for different reasons.'This is the largest antitrust fine ever imposed by the EU so it sends a big message,' says Simon Yates, senior analyst at Forrester Research. 'In the short term it's a major inconvenience because it's going to require them to deliver two different products - the full Microsoft software with the Windows media player, and another with other vendors' software in it.'But it's the long term that worries Microsoft. The company fears the precedent set by being forced to unbundle Windows could be applied to its next generation of operating systems, codenamed Longhorn. The failure, despite chief executive Steve Ballmer's last-minute concessions, to establish an agreement between the EU and Microsoft that would govern how the company uses Windows to deliver new technologies against competitors leaves the company open to EU regulation.Longhorn, which will require a whole new chipset and will contain much closer integration between the operating system and applications, is expected to include integrated web services and a new file structure. There will also be a search engine that can learn what the user is interested in and associate that with related things. 'That gets into a lot of privacy concerns down the road,' says Yates. 'People will ask: "Do I want Microsoft to know what I'm interested in - and what are they going to do with that information?" 'For Microsoft, the release of Longhorn is crucial. There has not been a completely new operating system since Windows was first introduced. But Microsoft doesn't merely want to be an operating and productivity systems company, and the EC ruling could put a serious crimp in the plan to maintain market dominance and extend its reach into the market for video games, mobile devices, smart cellphones, online music, and TV set-top boxes.Delving into new technologies is regarded by Microsoft as a bridging strategy until Longhorn is ready for release. The company believes the desktop is the centre of the consumers' information life, but different devices need to be linked before the concept of the 'digital home' can be realised. Yates says: 'Microsoft is pursuing a way to wire all different consumer electronics gadgets together and put the PC at the centre of gravity.'But Europe and Asia are risky territory for Microsoft. In Asia, and particularly in China, the &#91;free&#93; Linux operating system has a much better chance of establishing market dominance than Microsoft can with Windows because Windows is too expensive and their needs can be met more effectively with cheap hardware, a free operating system and applications.'Last week, in a symbolic and perhaps prophetic move, Hewlett-Packard announced the worldwide rollout of PCs installed with Linux. The fork in the road may come when Longhorn is released. In emerging markets the cost-effectiveness of adopting Longhorn may be even less attractive because it will require new hardware systems to run it. To offset the threat of Linux, Microsoft is already offering software tiered in functionality and priced to what the Asian markets can bear.Not surprisingly, and given that technology represents a large proportion of American foreign earnings, Republican politicians responded unfavourably to the EC ruling. US Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist thundered that it 'threatens the vitality of America's IT industry' and accused the Commission of showing 'complete indifference to the negative impact of its ruling on American jobs, American consumers, and the US economy.'He added: 'I now fear that the US and the EU are heading toward a new trade war - and that the Commission's ruling against Microsoft is the first shot.' The US Justice Department, too, strongly criticised the EU, believing its own remedy for Microsoft's monopolistic practices was the correct one. 'Antitrust policy must avoid chilling innovation and competition, even by "dominant" companies,' a senior official remarked.The Commission ruling virtually negates the US-Microsoft settlement. Moreover, the EC's action is widely interpreted by the US Administration as another example of post-Iraq anti-US meddling.According to Laura DiDio, an analyst at the Yankee Group, paranoia has descended on the Redmond, Washington, company. The rise of Linux; the DoJ lawsuit; the EC ruling; the problems the company has had with licensing software; the lengthening lifecycle of software; the army of Microsoft bashers and detractors - have all put the company on the defensive.The result, she says, has been to make Microsoft more agile and quick-witted. 'There are only two voices at the company that count,' DiDio says. 'Gates and Ballmer are at their best when they are challenged. For the last 18 months, their modus operandi is to not try to defend an indefensible position or a losing hand.'Last winter, Ballmer made a sudden trip to Munich to try to dissuade Bavarian city officials from switching from Windows to Linux. He failed and the city decided to go open-source. But what hap pened in Germany is a harbinger of the change that is sweeping the $200 billion-a-year software industry.DiDio believes Ballmer's last-minute trip to Brussels was an honest effort to reach agreement. According to Microsoft, the failure to establish guidelines led to the collapse of settlement talks. 'He would not have got on a plane, or offered to incorporate three rival browsers and open up the source code to developers, if it was not genuine,' she says.Microsoft's anger at the EC ruling is partly justified, DiDio adds. After all, the bundling of Windows Media Player was not an abuse of position to the same degree as when Microsoft crushed Netscape. But, Didio says, Gates may still have trouble understanding it.'He's an easy target because he's the world's richest man. Has he gone out and squashed the competition like a bug? Yes. But he doesn't view it as wrongdoing. He's Darwinian in his   approach; he believes the strong should survive.'But the irony of the ruling is not lost on US observers. After all, it does not help European software manufacturers as much as it will help Microsoft's American rivals. 'If you are going to nail Microsoft, nail them for what they're guilty of... being a monopoly and abusing that power.'Still, DiDio and others believe the challenges Microsoft faces have changed the company for the better and are requiring it to be more innovative.'They can no longer just show up with a product and expect everyone to buy it. That's why they're going to go from an evolutionary software model to a revolutionary model again. They want to imbue much more functionality into the computer, and the EU is setting the stage to limit the scope of what it can deliver in terms of functionality. That's why Microsoft will fight tooth-and-nail to prevent this from happening.'
"The video game industry is facing a hardening of the creative arteries as aging gamers' tastes increasingly shift toward sequels and games based on movies, industry participants said this week. With more and more titles chasing the success of their predecessors and content owners digging deep into their libraries to tap older material for quick fail-proof conversion into games, the industry is faced with a question more serious than rhetorical: What's new?"Reutersreports the Game Developers Conference in San Jose, California.
According to theIDG News Service: "MSN Blogbot will aggregate content from hundreds of thousands of Web logs and index that content based on which Web logs are most popular and credible, [Karen Redetzki, a product manager for MSN at Microsoft] said. The service should go into beta soon, and Microsoft plans to introduce MSN Blogbot worldwide, she said.""Also Friday, Microsoft said it is working on a natural language search engine, dubbed MSN Answerbot. This service will take questions from users and find answers on the Internet, rivaling a similar service from Ask Jeeves. No release date for MSN Answerbot has been set, but Redetzki says it is about three years away."
CNetreports: Acting on a tip from Apple rival Dell, the council's National Advertising Division (NAD) "determined that the evidence provided by Apple did not provide a reasonable basis for its broad unqualified claims that its Power Mac G5 is 'the world's fastest, most powerful personal computer' and that it 'edged out the competition on integer.'" In a statement Thursday, NAD also said it took issue with Apple's claim regarding the computer's 64-bit processor.Comment: NAD belatedly shuts stable door. Curiously, the NAD remains as ignorant as Apple about earlier 64-bit personal computers -- not workstations -- running Microsoft Windows NT on Alpha processors.
Over the last few days the British Phonographic Institute (BPI) has stepped up its fight against computer owners who download music illegally over the internet. The record industry trade body is now threatening to take legal action against consumers who do not disable file-swapping software like KaZaa and WinMX on their PCs.Apparently the illegal download of music in this way is costing the record industry millions of pounds and many analysts see it as the main reason for the demise of the CD single.Yet hidden among the BPI's release is a very interesting statistic. It claims that 92% of the eight million people in the UK downloading music are using illegal sites. The amazing figure is not the 92%, but the 8% of computers owners actually paying for tracks!Even though around 8% of computer owners might not sound like much, it does highlight that there is a core of consumers prepared to give legitimate downloads a chance.After all, there are advantages of grabbing tracks from legal sites. Users of file sharing networks often inadvertently download spyware on their computers. Legal sites' users are assured they are getting the track they want, and that is of good quality. With file swapping software there are no guarantees the track that has just been downloaded is what it purports to be.So what will change the minds of the other 92%? Being hounded the BPI? Probably not. No, what the UK needs is the arrival of high-profile music download sites driven by brands users trust.In the US the arrival of Apple's iTunes service kick-started legal downloads and the company now claims that fifty-million tracks have been downloaded from its site by both Mac and Windows PC users since its launch last year. The tracks are in the Advanced Acoustic Coding (AAC) format, which offers superior sound to MP3 and can be seamlessly transferred to Apple's iPod music players.All kinds of US companies have noted Apple's success, among them the huge supermarket chain Wal-Mart, which plans to offer its music service later in the year.The difficulty for Europeans is that the huge number of copyright agreements across the continent's nations has inevitably slowed down the launch of the iTunes Music Store here. Most industry observers are fairly confident Apple will launch iTunes download in Europe this summer, though Apple in the UK - typically - is keeping very quiet.If Apple doesn't launch in the next few months the company most likely to drive the UK download market will be Sony. At the CeBit exhibition in Hanover last week, it announced that its Connect download service would debut in the UK, France and Germany in June. It will apparently offer 300,000 tracks, which will be priced at one Euro a download.Rather than use AAC, or its Microsoft-based competitor Windows Media Audio, for Sony will use a proprietary system called ATRAC. This may have an unlikely trump card in that it is compatible with the many thousands of MiniDisc players Sony has already sold across the continent.Although MiniDisc players can't compete with hard disk based jukeboxes like the iPod in terms of storage (each disc can house around 30 hours of music) the players do have the advantage of significantly superior battery life - 50 hours for the MD as opposed to eight for the iPod. Tunes downloaded in ATRAC though won't be compatible with the iPod.The other major player eagerly eyeing the European market is the poacher turned gamekeeper Napster. It is expected to arrive in late summer, which most observers believe is around the same time as iTunes. The service will use Microsoft's Windows Media Audio (WMA) as its format. Similar to Sony's ATRAC, WMA tunes won't be compatible with the iPod or indeed several other personal audio players.If the European Union gets its way too, Microsoft won't be able to bundle WMA players with its operating systems and users will have to download it, thereby sacrificing the format's trump card.There are other players in the UK market. My Coke Music launched in February and was immediately beset by technical glitches. Now these have been overcome the service, which offers music in the WMA format for around £1 a download, works rather well. Internet Service Providers such as Tiscali also have strong music download packages. Wippit, which offers a legal form of file swapping service, which costs $49 per year, has also attracted some users.Quite how successful the legitimate music downloads services will be really is anyone's guess. The service users are most likely to subscribe to, in the short-term at least, could depend on the type of personal audio player they want to transfer the tracks to. So put your money on Apple and Sony.Apple iTunesNapsterWippitMy Coke MusicTiscaliKaZaA
Got an email from Audible.com today - heavy, but pretty significant, listening for your iPod this weekend?The 9/11 Commission Hearings are available right now for free athttp://www.audible.com/911hearings. [...] You'll hear Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, Secretary of State Colin Powell, former National Counterterrorism Coordinator Richard Clarke, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, and others as they answer tough questions on blind spots in foreign intelligence that may have enabled the worst terrorist attack in American history.Download the Hearings now from our Web site, and feel free to share this e-mail with your friends. Let them know they can download the audio for free as well.
France has suddenly stolen a march over Britain in the provision of fast "broadband" access to the internet. France Telecom is launching a service enabling it to send as many as 100 TV channels down existing copper wire phone lines. This is done by upgrading the lines to ADSL broadband technology carrying data at nearly 12 times the speed that BT's ADSL lines can currently manage. This is more than enough to provide high-quality television pictures. The service was launched in Paris this week and will be rolled out to other cities later this year.People used to say of broadband access to the internet: "What's the killer application that will make people want to use it?" To those who already have it, the speed at which information can be accessed and the "always-on" nature of the connection are answer enough. But now other key uses are emerging. If people adopt broadband for multi-channel television, it would boost the take-up of digital television (thereby accelerating the analogue switch-off date), while widening access to the internet which, in turn, could help bridge the threat of a "digital divide" of haves and have-nots.The prospect of television by phone line coincides with the imminent arrival of another "killer app" for the web. This could be the year when telephone calls via the (broadband) internet start to take off, as they already have in a big way in Japan. Since the cost of the internet part of the telephone call's journey is virtually zero, this could lead to a large rise in poorer people adopting broadband in order to get cheap telephone calls: another way of bridging the digital divide through the back door. If internet telephony takes off in a big way, it will have another consequence - it would make most of the inner-city telephone exchanges largely redundant, providing a property bonanza for BT and liberating a lot of inner-city space that could be turned into houses. And the real moral of all this? It is time Britain started rolling out real broadband and not the 512 kilobits-a-second that masquerades as it at the moment. We are still fighting yesterday's battle, not tomorrow's.
British Telecom's price-cutting skirmish with Carphone Warehouse and other rivals is, in every sense, a phoney war.It's not just that the cuts are not always what they seem (such as trading possible lower call charges for a higher rental), but that they are also obscuring some interesting things that are happening behind the smokescreens.Not to beat about the bush telegraph, the telecoms industry is about to be turned inside out by a new technology that has been around for years but has suddenly reached take-off - voice over internet protocol (VOIP).This is a way of routing telephone calls over the internet (instead of over copper cables or a cellphone) in which the extra transmission costs are next to nothing.Until recently, progress had been held back by the poor quality of calls and the fact that those at either end of each call needed to be at a computer, connected to the internet, to make it work.All that is changing very fast. The number of people switching to broadband (which facilitates high-quality sound) has hugely increased the amount of potential customers.An emerging industry, including the likes of Microsoft and Cisco, has agreed a common standard (akin to the mobile industry adopting GSM years ago), although Skype, the London-based start-up that claims 8m downloads of its free VOIP software, is on a different standard.One of the drawbacks of VOIP - including the Skype model - has been that it needs two people to be sitting in front of their computers to function properly.This makes it great for internal corporate communications, or for late-night geeks, but not so good for ordinary punters who are either at the end of the local loop from their telephone exchange or using a mobile phone.All that is changing fast as operators, including BT, begin to offer home phones that look like ordinary phones but are actually VOIP.So if, for example, you are ringing Australia, the call will be routed over the internet for next to nothing until it gets to Australia, where its final lap will be charged at the cost of a local call.If you have a cellphone or personal digital assistant (PDA) that can hook up to a local wi-fi (local wireless network), you can go all the way on VOIP, squeezing your traditional telephone company out of the picture almost completely.Small wonder, then,  that telephone companies are trying to get in on the act as quickly as they can, because some analysts think that the advent of VOIP could be the biggest threat to BT's monopoly since privatisation.This week, a House of Commons select committee found that BT's 70% monopoly of domestic calls was "unacceptable".If this is true then, for once, MPs need do nothing about it - except sit back and watch internet telephony do the job of cutting BT down to size without governmental interference.Internet phoning is already happening in Japan, where usage has exploded from next to nothing to five million people over the past year or so. The result has been claimed savings of up to 80% on telephone bills.It is also beginning to take off in a big way in the US, where companies such as Vonage are offering low monthly subscriptions and almost unlimited free calls.A company in France is reported to be offering multi-channel TV, 1MB of broadband and ten hours of free VOIP calls for &euro;30 per month.A number of fledgling VOIP companies in the UK - not including BT - recently joined together to form a trade association, ITSPA (Internet Telephony Service Providers Association), to push their cause, and several overseas companies, especially from the US, are expected to begin a British invasion later this year.In other words, internet telephony could emerge as the unexpected "killer application" for broadband - indeed, it could generate a virtuous spiral. If the cost of telephone calls is kept low, that could provide a big incentive for poorer people to think about getting broadband - thereby helping to bridge the broadband digital divide.And if internet telephoning sweeps all before it, think of what we could do with all the redundant telephone exchanges that will be lying around - like converting them into dwellings.&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian Online.
Internet chatroom users can be so aggressive that a sociologist studying them has labelled some online communities "electronic fight clubs".According to the new research, even the most laid-back people can erupt into furious rants when debating online, and it's all part of an effort to distinguish themselves from the next user. Some even take on multiple personalities in a bid to outsmart their online acquaintances, while others adopt menacing usernames.Gordon Fletcher, an information systems lecturer at Salford University, revealed his findings to the British Sociological Association meeting this week. His paper, entitled "Fight Club: culture, conflict and everyday life amongst an online community, focussed on a sociological study of an online finance forum", describes conflict as "a unifying social force that shapes individual participant's relationships with one another".The research's abstract explains: "Conflict is an important social force among online communities, as it assists in the construction of hierarchies and social orders without the need for prior knowledge of individual participants or other forms of verification or trust in relation to the claimed identity of others."The finance chatrooms that Mr Fletcher studied were made up of stockbrokers and finance buffs, who used pseudonyms such as Moriarty and Xerxes, and repeatedly argued until they established a pattern of social hierarchy."The hallmark observation of this forum was the regularity with which conflict occurred among the members," Mr Fletcher told the Times Higher Education Supplement."These people are coming together because they have a common interest, but that doesn't necessarily mean they want to be friends with one another," he added.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!&gt;connecting to server . . .Current Topic:Tony Blair's meeting with Muammar Gadafy yesterday ended Libya's 20-year status as a pariah state, and set the stage for close diplomatic ties. Is this a coup for the prime minister, or a cynical decision based on political expediency? What do you think?Pashmina:never heard of himLadeezMan:mad dog of the middle east innitHost_Chris2:he's the leader of LibyaPashmina:if u say somu'ammar1 has entered the NewsRoomcapitalistpiglet:I can't believe you've never heard of himmu'ammar1:GREETINGS WESTERNERSPashmina:things are busy at workHost_Chris2:he's been leader for 25 yearsmu'ammar1:IT IS I: GUIDE OF THE FIRST OF SEPTEMBER GREAT REVOLUTION OF THE ARAB LIBYAN POPULAR AND SOCIALIST JAMAHIRYAHost_Chris2:I think he's pretending to be Gadafymu'ammar1:I AM NOT PRETENDINGPashmina:dont worry mummer were all a bit gadafy in ere!capitalistpiglet:why would Muammar Gadafy be in a chatroom?Host_Chris2:well, it IS the UK's premier online current affairs forummu'ammar1:I NEED A GOOD RECIPE FOR FLAPJACKScapitalistpiglet:Col Gadafy how do you respond to charges that your renunciation of terrorism is born of economic necessity?mu'ammar1:MINE ALWAYS COME OUT TOO CHEWYLadeezMan:I like them chewyPashmina:get bronco's recipieHost_Chris2:this is not a recipe exchangePashmina:I know but they are v goodmu'ammar1:IT IS BRONCO I SEEKHost_Chris2:if you want to make flapjacks go to www.permachat.co.uk/kitchenkorner.mu'ammar1:I HAVE. THEY TOLD ME BRONCO COULD BE FOUND HERELadeezMan:he aint ben in yet todayHost_Chris2:please restrict your comments to Blair's visit to Libyamu'ammar1:HE LOOKS YOUNG. HIS TEETH ARE GOOD.capitalistpiglet:We should move forward, but is this the right time?Bronco has entered the NewsRoomBronco:yo roomPashmina:Bronco! Give mummar gadafy yr mum's flapjack recipe!Bronco:no way&gt;connection to server has been terminated . . .
"The European Commission's order for Microsoft to ship a version of Windows without the Windows Media Player could stifle innovation and help Microsoft's rivals instead of promoting fair competition, the US Department of Justice's antitrust chief says."IDG News Servicealso quotes Assistant Attorney General Hewitt Pate's statement that: "Sound antitrust policy must avoid chilling innovation and competition even by 'dominant' companies. A contrary approach risks protecting competitors, not competition, in ways that may ultimately harm innovation and the consumers that benefit from it."
"A teenager who tangled with Microsoft over his [MikeRoweSoft] Internet domain name has donated most of his legal defense fund to a hospice for terminally ill children," reportsAP."Supporters donated about $8,000 (US$6,000). Rowe kept $1,000 (US$750) to apply to his university education and received $1,300 (US$975) from an eBay auction of his legal papers. Most of those who responded to an Internet poll favored giving the leftover money to charity over making refunds."Rowe and Microsoft settled amicably with the software giant agreeing to provide the teen with an Xbox and other gifts, help him get Microsoft certification training and cover the cost of changing the domain name and of redirecting traffic from the old site."
Yesterday I took part in a Microsoft conference call for European journalists (see below). Later, there was a similar call for US journalists, with Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer taking part. You can listen to it or read a transcripthere.As you might expect, there was some American tub-thumping absent from the European call. Microsoft counsel Brad Smith said: "This is a case that started in the United States. Microsoft is an American company. The complainant companies are American companies. The software is designed in the United States, and the US government dealt with the issues thoroughly. There was no need for the commission to disrupt that regime with this conflicting approach in which it's embarked today."US politicians are already taking up the cause: seeUS politicos fire at EU's Microsoft ruling. (It must be a while since Microsoft had US politicians on its side.....)Smith also pointed out that the US courts specifically rejected Monti's code-removal strategy. The US court said, according to Smith's quotes, that "innovation would be stifled" with this type of approach, that "this would disrupt the industry, harming independent software vendors and consumers" and result in "clear and certain harm to the entire personal computer ecosystem".Regardless of the rights and wrongs of the case, when it comes to finding a solution, I have to agree with the US court's opinion: the EC's decision is clearly and immediately harmful to consumers, who will be forced to buy a less capable, less functional operating system (with no reduction in price). I also sympathise with Microsoft's point: its offer to ship three alternative media players (so every European user got four of the things) would have benefited consumers more than code removal.It might also have been better for EU PC suppliers. I can see more people buying PCs overseas ---and, particularly, buying laptops in the US -- as a way of getting round the "broken Windows" problem.However, I am not too disposed to complain. The advantage with code removal is that it should be simple to download and install the missing bits, if one so desires. This could be much easier than removing three unwanted media players, especially since one of them will most likely be a RealPlayer.
Oh dear. Apple's just announced that, in order to satisfy demand in the US, it is postponing "world-wide" availability of the iPod Mini to July. Which makes today's Ashley Norrispieceabout trying to lay hands on one even more appropriate. Let's hope the six-month lag-time between launch and availability doesn't become a habit at Apple, and that they eventually get to grips with this global market thang.
The European commission's move to fine Microsoft £333m and also to force it to open up its products to more competition is a landmark decision. It shows that a European institution can play a leading role in curbing the excesses of multinational corporations - though the case could go to appeal and drag on for years. The fine was a record one for the EU. That will not worry Microsoft, which has reserves of over $50bn. More important, perhaps, are the restrictions imposed. The problem is that Microsoft, which sells 95% of the operating systems running personal computers, also "bundles in" functions like its Media Player (enabling users to play music and videos) that competitors say give it an unfair advantage. Microsoft argues that it employed functions like that before rivals existed and that they are an intrinsic part of its Windows operating system.Mario Monti, the EU competition commissioner, thinks otherwise. Yesterday the commission endorsed his view that Microsoft should be ordered to share more of its Windows code with rivals in the server market and to produce a version of Windows free of the bundled audio-visual software within 90 days. Microsoft responded by offering to make a couple of rival media players available on a worldwide basis. This may have been the germ of a solution - if Microsoft could have been trusted to implement it fairly - but it would not have been embedded in EU law so the EU decided to go all the way.Microsoft will now appeal, which may delay a solution for up to four years. Such a course would only worsen Microsoft's image as a corporation that takes on governments in order to win. It would do Microsoft good simply to accept the EU's mild requirement to make a "clean" version of Windows available. After all, if Microsoft really believes that its media player (and future add-ons) have to be part of the operating system, then a version without the add-ons ought not to do harm. The objective is not to knock Microsoft, but to achieve a fair market for products that have to work in Windows because of its 95% monopoly.
Few issues in the computer industry are more divisive than the issue of open source software. Viewpoints are so strongly held you could be forgiven for thinking it was a matter of life and death. Typifying the debate, the recent announcement that Microsoft now has 1m participants in its Shared Source Initiative (SSI) is seen by some as a milestone; by others as an irrelevance.Open source works on the basis of software being freely available so it can be seen, modified and redistributed, so long as changes are made public. Much open source development is done under the General Public License (GPL), which ensures that nobody holds the intellectual property of the source code.The GNU/Linux operating system is open source's poster child and benefits from a massive community of programmers constantly sharing information on its development. Firms commercialising Linux can sell packaged versions, but derive profit mainly in the form of service contracts, as opposed to software licences.Meanwhile, Microsoft, like most software firms, creates software based on internal development with limited third-party access to the source code, and derives revenues by licensing the software for use.But, perhaps seeking some of the benefits of a limited form of open source, Microsoft launched its SSI in May 2001. This made selected code available to approved organisations. Today, the programme's one million participants are made up of customers, partners, academics, and individuals who join under a variety of licence arrangements.The programme includes Windows 2000, Windows XP and Windows Server 2003, but participants are only able to view the code: they cannot modify or redistribute it. However, Microsoft has also made Windows CE, the operating system for small devices, available under its Premium Source programme. This allows manufacturers to view, modify and redistribute the software in commercial products under contract.So is the program a sign of Microsoft seeking to clone its own version of open source? Microsoft talks of a "merge to the middle" in software development. It says it is responding to customer demand to see the code, while making it easier for customers to answer technical questions and suggest improvements.It admits it is learning from a system that creates more independent feedback, but denies criticisms that it is trying to benefit from an external workforce of unpaid code testers.When asked why it doesn't allow more freedom to modify code, Microsoft says demand is minimal. Its research among 300 developers found that while 60% wanted to see the source code, only 5% wanted to modify it.But open source advocates such as Eric Raymond, president of the Open Source Initiative, denounce the program as nothing more than a PR campaign. "Developers have rejected this in large numbers. They only take part if they are told to by their employers. Most employers fight shy of it and we advise people to be aware of the possibility of legal action from Microsoft if, as participants, they fail to maintain a clear separation between in-house developers and those viewing Microsoft code."Alan Lawson, a research analyst at Butler Group, says the problem is that allowing customers to view the   software is not enough. "Microsoft would like the program to be seen as equal to open source but it is not. Being able to look at the code doesn't allow you to amend it: it's still proprietary." He believes Microsoft is moving faster on issues such as security with its Trustworthy Computing Initiative (which targets security and privacy issues) but that it should make better use of the concept of open source development to speed new code, like the next version of Windows, code-named Longhorn.What about the uptake of SSI in Europe? Among enterprise customers, Microsoft says it works through global firms that have European operations but can only name Citibank and the Swiss financial services firm UBS AG as European enterprise participants. That's two firms in three years. In academia, it lists Hull, Southampton, Birming ham and Leeds universities as four of 60 educational organisations that are participants in the UK.The UK government - under Microsoft's Government Security Programme - is the only European government to take part, and one of only 18 worldwide. A spokesperson from the office of the e-envoy said that participation had been beneficial but declined further comment. That is perhaps understandable when it has just released a consultation document that some say favours the adoption of open source software.David Roberts, director of the Corporate IT Forum, which represents corporate IT departments, says he does not know of any participants among a membership of 150 blue chip firms. "I wonder if it is a PR exercise. I guess the reality is in the middle because Microsoft is very pro tective of its intellectual property and makes a lot of money from licensing it again and again. My members are more concerned about the huge increase in cost as a result of the new corporate licensing program.""The initiative is a balanced approach for us," says Roger McGrath, head of platform strategy at Microsoft UK. "We are responding to customers who asked to be able to see code. The SSI allows us to do that while also protecting our intellectual property." He says the concept of open source is implemented in SSI in a way that serves the needs of all parties. He points out that chip firms Intel, Hitachi, Arm and Mips are participating in the Windows CE Premium Shared Source program.Many analysts detect a softening of Microsoft's line towards the open source community, but in recent statements, Microsoft has renewed its attack, saying the open source community is also proprietary. It also claims there are no "pure play" open source companies allowing complete access to source code and still maintaining a strong business model.So is the open source community naive in expecting Microsoft to open up more of its crown jewels or develop a more open source approach? James Governor, principal analyst at Red Monk, believes so. "A lot of software we take for granted started off as open source, so this is not a black-and-white issue. Of course, Microsoft is determined to maintain its franchise, but in markets in which it is less successful, it knows it has to provide the framework so others can add value and benefit commercially. It is also aware that in the Asia Pacific region, it has to provide Indian and Chinese developers with an incentive to open up those markets. I think it is part of Microsoft maturing as a company and not just a PR stunt."What is clear is that however far Microsoft extends its Shared Source Initiative, it will not be enough for the people who promote open source, such as Eric Raymond. "I don't know what they will do with this in the future and I don't care," he says. "When was the last time Microsoft had any credibility in the open source community?"
On tourHandheld History is a location-based service, which allows you to use your mobile phone to access a three-minute story related to a London location featuring "a host of historical characters brought to life by Stephen Fry and Joanna Lumley". There are also three longer tours based around Covent Garden, with other areas to follow. You don't have to be in the location to use the service, or use a mobile: you can call from home. However, the service offers no information about the history of handheld computers...www.handheldhistory.comGoogle LocalIt is amazing how often Google beta tests ideas for new services, and how few people know about them. This month's toy is a local search service, which combines web search information with Yellow Pages data. Once you have a set of results, you can expand or narrow the search to within 45 miles, 15 miles, five miles or one mile. At the moment, Google Local only works with US addresses and zip codes. In ResourceShelf, librarian Gary Price has had some Sunday fun with the service, searching for things like Sons of Bitches in Washington DC. Yes, the White House comes top.http://local.google.comhttp://digbig.com/3ygwQuick takeThe Exorcist in 30 seconds, re-enacted by bunnies. What more could anyone need? Oh, there may be another bunnytoon around April 26.http://www.angryalien.comBetter homeIt seems a reasonable question: what would Martha Stewart's cell look like after a bit of judicious home decorating? The Worth 1000 site provided a bare image and the Photoshoppers   got to work, decorating it "in a way that would be suitable for the queen of gracious living". Voting on the results lifts the most popular images to the top. Check Worth 1000's contest directory page for other Photoshop competitions, such as "regrettable tattoos", and contests for photos, text and multimedia.www.worth1000.comWord trekThis month, AWAD or A Word A Day celebrated its 10th anniversay, which makes it slightly older than Online. Every day, subscribers get a word sent to their inbox, with definition and illustrative quotes. Roughly once a month, there's also an entertaining digest of readers' letters. Today, AWAD has 570,000 subscribers in 210 countries, and has just launched an RSS version. Anu Garg, who was born in India, started the service while a graduate student to improve his English. He still picks most of the words, while "guest wordsmiths" usually focus on a particular theme.http://wordsmith.org/awadGadgetmaniaThe one thing you can guarantee today is that there is no shortage of gadgets: every week brings a new crop of mobile phones, MP3 players, digital cameras and so on. There's no shortage of gadget websites, but Gizmodo, the blog run for the past two years by occasional Online contributor Peter Rojas, attracted a strong following. Rojas has now left to start Engadget, which is very similar. Both sites face competition from Chris Price and another contributor, Ashley Norris, and their gadgetblog, Tech Digest.www.gizmodo.comwww.engadget.comwww.tech-digest.comBlog trackingWeblogs often inlcude interesting information but most people don't have time to track more than a handful. PubSub (Publish &amp; Subscribe) has a solution. You give it a few search terms, and it lets you know whenever they appear. Since this is the blogosphere, it creates an RSS syndication feed. The only thing you have to part with is an email address for the confirmation message. PubSub reads more than 100,000 RSS feeds. However, if you are a blogger and it doesn't read yours, there's a page to enter your URL. PubSub also reads Usenet newsgroups and SEC/Edgar financial filings.www.pubsub.comPC tipsPractical PC is a British online computer magazine. It's not exactly new, in the sense that it has been going five years. However, until the end of last year, it was only available on AOL.www.practical-pc.co.ukNew &amp; notedRaskin on the Machttp://socrates.berkeley.eduHello worldhttp://travelsinvirtuality.typepad.comTiny priceshttp://tiny.comSix of the best:AssassinationsSixth Floor Museumwww.jfk.orgThe Last Dictatorhttp://heraklia.fws1.comSheikh Ahmed Yassinhttp://heraklia.fws1.comA Study of Assassinationwww.kimsoft.com/korea/cia-0.htmMissedwww.who2.com/almostassassinated.htmlLinkshttp://dmoz.org/Society/Crime/Murder/Assassinations
Pass it on. It spread first across the city and then the country, multiplying itself through mobile phones, emails and the internet. You have one new message. "Today at 6pm, Genova Street, to find out the truth. Pass it on."And they did, in their thousands. Genova Street is the location of the conservative Partido Popular (PP) headquarters in Madrid, the party in power in Spain until March 14. From 6pm the day before, until long into the evening, 5,000 people gathered in the Spanish captial to vent their anger at what they saw as a deliberate government cover-up regarding the perpetrators of the recent bombings.The message stretched far beyond Madrid. By that evening, PP branches all over Spain were being harangued on the night before the general election by demonstrators not allied to any political party. In Spain, the PP appeared on television to denounce the demos; the number of protestors subsequently soared. There were 7,000 protesters in Barcelona, 1,500 in Galicia and hundreds more in city centres across the country. Most remarkable of all, the protests were organised in just a few hours, via text message and email, by a disillusioned electorate that had decided to take matters into their own hands.It was a political extension of the phenomenon nicknamed "smart mobs" by American author Howard Reingold - and it's happened before. In the Philippines, text messages helped whip up public opinion and led to widespread protests, which ended in the eventual toppling of the president, Joseph Estrada, in 2001. The day after suffering their own   impromptu smart mobs, the Spanish government was defeated at the polls."No one knows what the election results would have been without the protests," says Ignacio Escolar, a freelance journalist and blogger based in Madrid - although opinion polls indicated that the PP was comfortably ahead. "But one of the turning points was the mobilisation of left-wing sympathisers who weren't planning on voting. Thanks to the protests, they started to believe this government could be defeated."The protests themselves came about thanks to a quirk in Spanish politics. Political campaigning is banned the day before an election. Following the bombings in Madrid, the prime minister extended this   amnesty to the four days before the vote. However, this meant that the socialist opposition couldn't easily question the PP's claim that the Basque separatist group ETA was responsible for the attacks. It would have been politically convenient for the PP if this had been true. But now it seems the government's original hypothesis was highly flawed.As more facts emerged, many people felt they had been deliberately lied to by their government. By 3pm Saturday, the first messages had been sent, talking about a non-party gathering against the PP. According to mobile phone operators Vodafone and Amena, 20% more text messages than usual were sent that day.Forwarding messages to everyone in your phone or your email address book is now a matter of a few simple clicks - so groups of people can be mobilised quickly and effectively, even if, as in this case, no one can be sure who has organised the protest.The technological enfranchisement didn't end there. The main government-owned television channel TVE practically ignored the demonstrations that evening, so people were relying on the internet to keep them informed about what was going on."The first protest in Madrid hadn't appeared on a single traditional media channel until 7.30pm," says Escolar. He'd gone to the protest at 6pm but left it briefly to put details on his blog,www.escolar.net, at 7.15pm, before adding subsequent updates throughout the night. "I believe that these were the first 21st-century protests in Spain," he adds. "Text messaging and the internet had already been used during the anti-war demonstrations. But never before has a protest been created so fast and with so little advance warning."In 1981, a soldier led an attempted coup in the Spanish parliament. It was later called "the night of the transistors", due to the fact that the nation was glued to its radio sets to find out what was happening. Some people are now calling Saturday, March 13, "the night of the mobile telephone".
The money doesn't matter. Whatever the newspapers write in their headlines, $613m isn't even a drop in the ocean for Microsoft.The company has $53bn in cash and has grown this pile by around $8bn annually for the past few years. So, one fact: the fine is puny, it might be 'record-breaking' but it hurts Microsoft less than a parking ticket hurts you or me.Nor do the measures demanded by Mario Monti, European Union competition commissioner, amount to much. Microsoft needs to share some code with its   competitors and bundle some rival multimedia software with some versions of Windows. Big deal. Much of the ruling refers to the already outdated Windows 2000 operating system, not Windows XP, the current vintage. The horse has bolted.The ruling on multimedia software may be a boost for firms like Apple and Real Networks, which make competing products, since they can now expect to find their software on more PCs in Europe. But most consumers don't really know which media player they are using. They are in hock to the choices of the websites they access.In short, the ruling won't affect Microsoft's business much. In any case, the pace of litigation is such that by the time the appeals round is complete, competitors have changed and the market has moved on.So does the Commission's judgment mean anything at all?A little. If the regulator wins this round, even after a Microsoft appeal, it will be the first significant victory against the company. And by stating that   Microsoft engages in 'ongoing illegal behaviour' Mr Monti opens the door for companies to enter into their own litigation with Microsoft.Of course, Microsoft may win on appeal, as it did in the US. An April 2000 decision mandating that the company be broken up was overturned within a year.But let's face facts: Microsoft is a dominant player. It achieved that   dominance by sound business acumen over many years, and more recently, by   leveraging legally and - as the regulators have found - abusing illegally its dominant market position. (Eighty per cent gross margins in a mature industry are unheard of.)Mr Monti argues that as a dominant company, Microsoft has 'a special responsibility to ensure that the way they do business doesn't prevent competition on the merits and does not harm consumers and innovation.' Moreover, 'the ongoing abuses act as a brake on innovation and harm the competitive process and consumers, who ultimately end up with less choice and facing higher prices'.The trouble for Microsoft is that it can't really deliver on this 'special responsibility'. It is in the DNA of the company to 'prevent competition on the merits': that is what business is about. Competition is good, winning is better.The company is so large that it can crowd out innovation. Where Microsoft has sewn up the market it doesn't innovate (look at word processors or corporate email systems). And where it faces competition, it imitates and, in some cases, ultimately improves. But it rarely takes prisoners.History is littered with firms who came out second-best to Microsoft: Lotus, Apple and Netscape. And once Microsoft has captured a market, it can move its innovation dollars elsewhere, establishing a beachhead in that sector and leaving its captured market stagnant.With regulators impotent, competitors under pressure and Microsoft constitutionally incapable of meeting its 'special responsibility', the market may have to step up a gear to keep Microsoft in check. The maturity of the computer business means that standards have emerged. Computers from different vendors talk to each other. Using a Windows PC to access a website powered by a Unix server? No problem.The rise in standards makes this diversity more acceptable. And many buyers, including governments across the globe, have recognised the risks of allowing Microsoft to become an exclusive supplier. For strategic reasons they are increasingly turning to open-source software, which is developed by volunteer networks of programmers.IT is too important to let a single firm dictate what you can do with it.  A single vendor, which could drive adoption of technology, may have been helpful in the mid-1980s. But in the 21st century, open standards, interoperability and a desire to keep vendors on their toes is attractive. Customers, both individual consumers and companies, will demand it. This is why Microsoft has lost market share in the government sector, and why it is not the number one player in games consoles or mobile-phone software.Such pressure is more likely to tame Microsoft than regulatory power alone. But it needs to be exercised by the market. Without it Mr Monti's warning of 'less choice &#91;and&#93; higher prices' will undoubtedly come to pass.&#183;Azeem Azhar is athttp://azeem.azhar.co.uk
XP RescueI had to hand my machine to the local shop when my SCSI/RAID Host Controller got corrupted, with the consequence that the CD-Rom wouldn't work. System restore points didn't seem to work either. The technician said the only option was to reformat and reinstall, which cost, of course. Windows 95 had a boot floppy so that, along with the CD-Rom driver, you could start the computer from the floppy. How do you do a floppy boot recovery like this with XP?Gordon PoleJack Schofield replies:The standard way to recover a failed Windows XP system is to boot from the CD-Rom and run the Recovery Console. As you have discovered, this does not work if the CD drive fails. Microsoft has therefore made some XP start-up floppies available online via Knowledge Base article 310994 (eg search Google for Q310994). Some PCs also let you boot from an external CD-Rom attached via a USB port - check the BIOS settings - so this might be worth a try. Other alternatives are to install Symantec's Norton GoBack 3.0 (formerly known as Roxio's GoBack 3), which provides a more powerful version of the system restore feature, or to keep a back-up of your hard drive on a separate partition (see next question).Instant back-upMy five-week-old 120GB hard drive suffered a mechanical failure. Fortunately, I had burnt most of my most precious data, eg photos, on   to CD. However, it took me time and effort to re-configure my PC as it was previously. Given the relatively low cost of hard drives and the relatively high cost of specialist data recovery, is it possible to install another hard drive and have it operate as a hot standby?Chris CleverleyJS:People who have complex PC set-ups, such as software developers, typically partition a large hard drive, install all their software, then copy an exact image of the C: drive to the partition. Programs such as PowerQuest Drive Image 7, Norton Ghost, and R-Drive Image make this easy. Some of these can also keep the back-up updated, if that's what you want, or you can use a different program such as Centered Systems' Second Copy. It is less convenient, but programs that create drive images can also be used with CD-R discs and other formats, including hard drives in removable trays. It is important to keep a separate back-up because if the drive suffers a mechanical failure, as yours did, then you lose both the C:drive and the back-up partition.Snooper?I recently had someone do some work on my computer. He found a program named ptsnoop.exe and said I should dispose of it as it is spying on my computer.Harold EdwardsJS:PTsnoop is a badly named and perhaps badly written program that is installed with some modems. It waits for a program to open a communications port, and if the modem drivers are not already loaded, it loads them. However, it is unlikely you need to run this program, and you can stop it loading by using Windows explorer to change its name to ptsnoop.exe.old or something similar.F-Securereckons there was also a back-door Trojan using the same name, so you should also run an up-to-date virus scanner. However, some older programs wrongly identified the    innocent version as a virus. See the discussion atExperts-Exchangefor more details.Backchat&#183;Huw Pryce had a problem with Microsoft Word files that included rubbish. I didn't know the cause, but I suggested a clean-up routine that included deleting the normal.dot file, and this solved the problem. Chris Quinn, an IT manager, suggests the "Files of type" box in the Word File/Open dialog has accidentally got changed to "Recover text from any file". "Change it back to Word Document and things will be fine," he says. Neil Brooks and Mick Gardner helpfully proffered the same solution. Dr Martin Bligh adds: "Some of us find a highly customised normal.dot file very useful and time saving. It would be worth saving a successfully running normal.dot as, say, normal18-03-2004.dot so that you can revert to that after a clean up."&#183;Last week, John King suggested sending people Adobe PDF (portable document format) files instead of Word document files that might contain hidden edits and other information. Mark Pilbeam adds: "I can recommendPrimoPDF fromfor creating pdf files. It sets up as a virtual printer so can easily be used from any program with a print function. It is free and a full version."&#183;Bob Bland asks about an item from March 3 where I said the worm Netsky-D could install itself in the Windows directory using the name winlogon.exe. He says: "On checking my computer I find that winlogon.exe exists in Windows\system32." Just to be clear, the suspected virus would be C:\Windows\winlogon.exe whereas the normal file is C:\Windows\ system32\winlogon.exe
Tom wasn't sure exactly where he was: he looked at the screen of his mobile phone, but the map      showed several streets and no red dot to say "You are here!" Luckily, there was a pub nearby, so      he waved the phone past its front door to pick up his co-ordinates, which naturally came along with      special offers on beer prices, a bar menu, and a singing commercial, which he cut off at once.The pub sounded OK, but he was not going in without consulting Urban Tapestries, to read      messages left by previous visitors. One was a long story by a local pensioner who had grown up in      the pub. Another recommended a visit to a church further down the street: it offered an audio      tour guide including soundscapes of what it was like when it was bombed during the war...This is not the future: this is here and now, or soon to be. Urban Tapestries is a real project,      backed by the Department for Trade and Industry and the Arts Council: it has run a trial in      Bloomsbury with iPaq handheld computers, and is about to run another with Symbian-based mobile      phones. It is related to a much larger project, Mobile Bristol, which Hewlett-Packard is driving      because of its proximity to HP's Bristol research lab."The idea of Mobile Bristol was to create a test-bed for the technologies used to deliver media into      physical spaces as an open invitation for people from different backgrounds to get involved - the      BBC, Ordnance Survey, Vodafone, education," says Phil Stenton, manager of the technology      lifestyle integration group at HP Labs. There's a tourist application based on Bristol's ferries, for      example, and an educational application that "lets kids roam around a digital savannah and learn to      survive as a pride of lions. That happens next week. Then, in the middle of April, we're doing the      first ever located radio play, 1831 Riot!, designed to unfold as you walk around Queen Square. It      will be open to the public for three weeks."Such "intelligent environments" could be the next big thing. Instead of being mute, your      surroundings will tell you about themselves, and what they offer. Tourist spots will want to      trumpet their attractions, and places such as the Tower of London will be ideal for hosting      "located plays". Advertising hoardings will offer one-click ordering: you will be able to buy things,      pay by phone, and have them delivered to your home.All this started to become a reality with location-based services, or LBS for short. The most      obvious are "finder applications" - where is the nearest pub, bank etc - and "navigation      applications", which offer driving or walking directions. These typically use location information      derived from cellular phone networks, which is not very precise. However, they could use more      accurate GPS (global positioning satellite) information if receivers were fitted to more phones.       Mobile phone networks such as Orange and 3 see location-based services as a way to provide extra      services to voice users and thus increase their all-important Arpu (average revenue per user).Another popular location-based service is the type of audio tour pioneered by Anglo-American      company,Antenna Audio.Visit a tourist attraction and you may be      able to get an audio tour on a cassette recorder or digital audio player that will talk you through      it. Antenna Audio's tours include Alcatraz, the Tower of London, the Louvre and the Rijksmuseum.The Alcatraz tour was one of the things that inspired Stenton to look into audio soundscapes.       It's obvious that you can deliver the same kind of audio via a mobile phone, and that's whatBeyondGuidedoes. This American company started out offering museum      guides in the US, and expanded to cover the cities of Washington, DC, New York and Athens.      (BeyondGuide planned to add London in 2002, but it does not seem to have happened.)But there are clearly advantages to having sensors and signalling systems embedded in locations,      both to collect data and deliver information. One of the first examples was TrafficLine, an LBS      available to O2 customers. This uses the traffic-monitoring sensors that Trafficmaster installed      alongside British motorways. It delivers voice messages to users' mobile phones, to help them      avoid the jams.Last year, Antenna Audio did an installation at the Tate Modern in London where      Wi-Fi was used to provide multimedia information to iPaqs that were loaned to visitors.The potential for "intelligent environments" has now become much greater thanks to the expanding      use of technologies such as always-on GPRS (general packet radio service), Bluetooth access      points, Wi-Fi wireless hotspots, DAB digital radio, and RFID (radio frequency identification) chips.      These are not mutually exclusive: Mobile Bristol is already using a combination of DAB, Wi-Fi and      GPRS.RFID chips will become very important because they are small, don't need a power supply, and can      be read at a distance. Today, RFID chips are mainly used for transport cards (eg bus passes) and      for tagging goods on their way to supermarkets. However, they could easily be used to tag      buildings, advertising hoardings, paintings in art galleries, almost anything.At the minimum level, each RFID chip contains a unique number. Information related to that number      will be readily available via the VeriSign database, using the same servers that maintain the      internet's domain name service (DNS). Larger, but more expensive, RFID chips will be able to hold      more data: a menu, perhaps, or a spoken advertisement or short welcoming speech.To make this approach viable, everyone will have to carry some sort of RFID reader. The plan is to      build the reader into PDAs and mobile phones. At this month's CeBIT exhibition in Hanover, Philips      and Sony announced a system called Near Field Communication that could make this idea      attractive. NFC is compatible with the contactless (RFID) smart cards based on the ISO 14443A      international standard, and works with both Philips' MiFare and Sony's FeliCa electronic ticketing      systems.Philips and Sony have pulled in Nokia, the biggest mobile phone supplier, to set up theNFC Forum, with the idea of establishing an open platform. There will be      trials using RFID phones in the US later this year.Philips and Sony say: "NFC can be used for quickly establishing other types of wireless      communication between devices, acting as a virtual connector. By bringing two devices into close      vicinity, it can invisibly configure and initialise other wireless protocols such as Bluetooth and      802.11 (eg Wi-Fi), enabling devices to communicate at longer ranges or transfer data at higher      rates. In an environment rich with wireless-enabled devices, it's the easy way to set up      connections without needing to go through complicated menus."Philips envisages that the system will be used for more than just advertising. The RFID phone could      also, for example, be your car key, your credit or debit card, and your business card. But before I      buy into all that, I'll also want my phone to have a secure and reliable biometric built in - such as      thumbprint or iris recognition - so that no one else can use it.Commerce is likely to drive the adoption of embedded technologies providing location-based      services. But that's not the end of the story. Giles Lane, leader of the Urban Tapestries project,      is researching other uses, as part of the DTI-funded City and Buildings Centre led by Phil Stenton      at HP Labs. Lane's other partners include France Telecom R&amp;D, Orange, Ordnance Survey and      Media@LSE at the London School of Economics."We're looking at the social and cultural aspects of the emerging pervasive technologies," says      Lane. "There have been lots of projects about creating things like tourist trails, but people are      only tourists for two or three weeks a year. Our premise is about designing something for      everyday use, and we think the stuff that's most useful is going to be created by friends,      colleagues and people who live nearby. We call it 'public authoring'." Scott Fisher, a leading      American researcher in the field, calls it "mobile blogging".In the first trial in December, Urban Tapestries set up a Wi-Fi network in Bloomsbury in central      London. People with Wi-Fi on iPaq handhelds could write notes and link them to various locations so      that others could retrieve them later. In the next trial, this summer, Urban Tapestries will use      Sony Ericsson P800 and P900 phones and GPRS to cover a much larger area of the metropolis.Reactions could be edited or summarised and attached to Ordnance Survey's MasterMap: Lane      points out that the system provides a way to gather data that couldn't possibly be recorded by      satellites or surveyors.How many people will want to annotate the world is another matter, but Lane says: "We're not      making a product, we're trying to understand how these things could be made useful. We don't      need people to buy into the idea: if they don't, that's a perfectly good research conclusion!"Still, "intelligent environments" and location-based services look like being a big step forward for      computing. At the moment, Stenton says the industry is following an anything/ anytime/anywhere      strategy, sometimes known as ubiquitous computing. "We have to get to right thing/ right      time/right place," he says.
Splinter Cell: Pandora TomorrowXbox, &#163;39.99 Ubi Soft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The return of one-man army Sam Fisher is bound to induce a state of excitement among Xbox owners, and with good reason. The strengths of the first game - rigorous stealth gameplay, cutting-edge graphics and a decent storyline - have been improved upon. And, crucially, you can play Pandora Tomorrow (unlike the original) against human opposition over the Xbox Live service.The single-player game has not stood still, however. The graphics are even better, reaching near photo-realistic levels. Fisher has acquired a few new moves, including a handy "commando roll" that allows him to move invisibly from one side of an open doorway to the other. The once fiddly star-jump move, which lets him wedge himself in between walls, has also been rendered user-friendly.The end result is an incredible feeling of immersion: Fisher moves so well that you often forget you are manipulating him with a gamepad and not actually inhabiting his virtual skin.The storyline is as claustrophobic as ever, and some of the original game's linearity has been shaken off by the creation of outdoor environments. The multiplayer game is interesting, as it pits a team of two stealth operatives against the sort of heavily armed mercenaries (equipped with motion-sensors) that you find in first-person shoot-'em-ups. Although only four people can play at once, it proves compelling. Pandora Tomorrow is a must-have if you own an Xbox.Steve BoxerFar CryPC, &#163;29.99, Ubisoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Tranquil blue sea, white sand, palm trees - Far Cry makes you want to sunbathe rather than shoot. Sadly, the numerous denizens of the tropical islands want your blood rather than your drinks order.But initially, at least, you can luxuriate in the finest PC graphics to date. The piercing sunlight and tall trees are one thing, but never have swaying grass, roots and undergrowth felt so alive in a game.But Far Cry is more than just premier eye candy. It is an intelligent shooter with freedom. Rarely do you feel like you are being funnelled in a particular direction. There are numerous ways to succeed, with players encouraged to try different strategies. Hide in the undergrowth and sneak past the guards, or take out the heavy guns and go blasting.The enemy AI is smart, taking positions, flanking and generally doing its best to annoy and surprise you. Sadly, the graphical splendour of the outdoor locations means that the interiors suffer by comparison.And the urge to get out in to the fresh air is strong, even if the underground enemies display unexpected levels of deviousness. Weak scripting and voice acting don't help, but Far Cry is a beautiful glimpse into the next phase of PC gaming.Greg HowsonSacredPC, &#163;29.99 Koch Media/ Ascaron Entertainment&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Diablo has spawned plenty of would-be successors, many of which have been awful, catching neither the addictiveness nor the fluidity of Blizzard's famous hack'n'slash. Thankfully, Ascaron's role-playing game Sacred isn't one of them.You start the game with one of six fantasy characters: wood elf, battle mage, gladiator, vampiress, seraphim and dark elf. You are immediately pitted against the rise of unholy evil and all its minions. Much of the mission structure revolves around quests from in-game characters, such as escorting people around, delivering messages and vanquishing a few of their less-than-friendly neighbours.An effort has been made to make the populated areas seem alive. Villagers wander around and take to their homes at night, animals graze in the fields, children run after you in town and there's background chattering. Unfortunately, the detail comes with bugs, such as unfinished dialogues and characters getting stuck.The gaming area is huge, perfect for multiplayer, with a comprehensive map, while the addition of horses prevents travelling being a chore. Despite its flaws, Sacred is genuinely addictive, with plenty of battlefield booty to keep hoarders happy.Rhianna Pratchett
Comrade Richard Granger, director general of NHS Information Technology, yesterday inspired a packed auditorium in the Great Hall of the People, Harrogate, with news that all targets in the five-year plan to put a million new computers on doctors' desktops have been achieved.Interrupted by several standing ovations, Comrade Granger announced that, from July, doctors in Yorkshire and London would be able to book appointments for their patients electronically.From next year, the speed of travel of prescriptions from doctors' surgeries to chemists' shops will increase from three miles per hour to 186,000 miles per second.These achievements follow the crushing of the computer industry's profiteering lackeys and lickspittles by the massed forces of the NHS, led by Comrade Granger.This, roughly, is what the government would like to see written about the &#163;6.2bn National Programme for IT in the NHS, the world's largest single computer project. This week's annual conference of the healthcare computing community, Healthcare Computing 2004, was crawling with spin doctors trying to gag any dissenting view. IT contractors building the new systems were banned outright from talking to journalists.Such spin is probably counter productive. Because, apart from the standing ovations, most of the facts in the above speech are true. (Possibly the standing ovations, too, as the speech was scheduled to take place after this went to press.)Two years after it was conceived,   the gigantic upgrade of NHS computer systems is about to become reality. The first "deliverable" - in the language of the management consultants - will be electronic booking of hospital appointments. The NHS e-booking system will handle its first bookings this summer and be available throughout England by the end of 2005. As a centrepiece in the government's plan for re-election, delays are officially unthinkable.But then things are going to get messy. Although it's easy to make jokes about Stalinism, the NHS is not a homogenous entity. Its employees have wildly differing ideas about what they want from IT. Astonishingly, 104 GP practices in England seem to get by without any computers at all.At the other end of the scale, NHS communities such as Wirral   have developed electronic health records that are the most advanced in the world, and bristle at suggestions that anything better will come out of a national programme.There are going to be some huge rows, between professions, organisations and, when it realises what's going on, the public.For all the rigidity of its planning, the long-term outcome of the NHS national programme has to be uncertain, because no one has ever done anything like this before. No one can predict how healthcare will change when patients have control over their own electronic records. Or when doctors and policy makers have instant and accurate information about which drugs and treatments work and which don't.When reality is this exciting, who needs spin?
"Our monastery is kinda fun. We're a little on the edge. We're not the stereotypes people think of. We spend about five hours a day in Gregorian chant, another couple of hours in prayer - the motto of the order is 'ora et labora' &#91;prayer and work&#93;. We're serious about the 'ora', and we're serious about the 'labora' - the fun is in being able to help people."It is perhaps not your average e-commerce set-up, but then Father Bernard McCoy, Abbey Steward of Temporal Affairs at the Cistercian Abbey of Our Lady of Spring Bank in Sparta, Wisconsin, and the man responsible forwww.lasermonks.com, is perhaps not your average monk.He has a pilot's licence, is an avid racketball player, is proficient in five musical instruments and started his first business at the age of 12. Disillusioned with the physics and astrophysics degree at the Georgia Institute of Technology he enrolled in at age 16 - from which he ran an international import/export business using the pay phone in his dorm - he transferred to the Thomas Aquinas College in California on a whim, never having heard of Thomas Aquinas or knowing any Catholics.When he graduated four years later, he had not only converted to Catholicism, but had also decided to spend his life as a monk in the Cistercian Abbey in the wild of Wisconsin.And now he runs a very successful e-business venture selling printer and imaging supplies. "I was looking for a toner cartridge for use here at the monastery, and it struck me how incredibly expensive black dust actually was," explains Fr McCoy. "It's a product that everybody needs that is sold with an extraordinary mark-up. And I thought: 'there's got to be a better way'."And there was. The monastery was looking for a way to raise money, both for their own living expenses and for use in charitable endeavours. Various other plans had been floated, from developing a golf course on the abbey grounds to growing shiitake mushrooms, but the monks were still searching for the perfect project."Traditionally, monks used to sell what they produced on their own property, but today you simply can't do that. There are only five of us in the monastery, and we asked ourselves, what do we have, what are the resources we can use to support ourselves?"We don't have the labour, we don't have the land, but what we do have is the marketing potential of a name with a 900-year-old history behind it and certain entrepreneurial and marketing and development skills. LaserMonks gave us an ability to use those gifts."He voiced his idea of selling cut-price printing supplies to a couple of manufacturers, who were "delighted" to hear from him. "They said: 'you have this great tradition behind you. Being monks you are immediately trustworthy, and in a certain sense you're not after the profits of the business since you give most of it away. It's a win-win situation. Once people hear about you, why would they choose to go anywhere else?'"LaserMonks, the for-profit company, is wholly owned by the non-profit monastery, and is assisted in customer service, manufacturer relations and allied trades by a separate company, MonkHelper Marketing.The latter was started by the two women who sold the monks their first customer database "at a cents-for-dollars price", and subsequently became so enamoured with the monks and their business ethic that they rented a property on the abbey grounds and remain there to this day."It's a modern business," says Fr McCoy. "There are the monks in the monastery, the people who make the shopping cart are in Australia, the designs for our printed materials are done in Montreal and our marketing company is in California."The charitable causes that the revenues support are equally diverse, from a school teaching technology skills, to street children in Vietnam, to supporting the local Wisconsin fire service and ski patrol.By making deals directly with manufacturers and selling over the internet, LaserMonks can typically save consumers 30-60% on the standard retail price. In 2002, the year LaserMonks was founded, they sold US$2,000 of products. In 2003, that figure rose to $500,000, and in January 2004, sales totalled $90,000. Obviously the knock-down prices are a significant factor in their customer appeal, but Fr McCoy thinks there is more to it than that."The media has been great. Monks are cool and it's a great story. But we're also in a sense on the edge of the avant garde of entrepreneurial endeavour - business for a good cause."As with anything, especially for a monk, tools are tools, and technology is something that can be used for good or bad. Serpents are usually more wily than doves and take advantage of things more quickly, and I think the good organisations are just beginning to use the internet to the full. And it is always a delight when customers ring up to check that we're really monks to be able to say, 'Yes, we really are who we say we are. If it seems too good to be true, this is the one time in your life that it actually is.'"Our customer service is following on our order's tradition of hospitality. We try to transfer monastic hospitality into commerce hospitality, if you will. We try to treat every single customer with kid gloves."Sceptical customers who have been previously stung by internet scams have been sent their requested products on a no-strings-attached basis, with an exhortation to send the monks some money "if they feel like it".A man whose stolen credit card number had been used to purchase products found all his money returned with no questions asked, and one customer who urgently needed a particular type of printer cartridge that wasn't available anywhere locally found Fr McCoy delivering one to his doorstep after having got in the abbey's plane and flown the 200 miles to Minneapolis to pick one up for him.Needless to say, repeat custom and personal recommendations should see the monks well on their way to achieving their goal of tripling revenue during the coming year.LaserMonks has also just been announced as one of Fast Company magazine's "Fast 50" innovators of the year.&#183;For more details, log on towww.lasermonks.com
The commercial software industry is worried about the latest discussion document from the office of the e-envoy. Its problem with Open Source Software: Use Within UK Government is that it says: "If no commercial or community shared exploitation route is used for publicly funded R&amp;D software an OSS default will apply. Licences compliant with the OSI definition will be used."OSS is open source software. OSI, in this case, is the Open Source Initiative, founded by Eric Raymond and Bruce Perens as a way of dumping the ethical baggage of the "free software" movement.Lobbying against the provision is being led by the Initiative for Software Choice, a global coalition managed by the US-based Computing Technology Industry Association. The CompTIA has more than 19,000 members in 89 countries, and has been going for 22 years. The ISC has more than 300 members, including about 60 in Europe. Microsoft and Intel are, not surprisingly, among the backers.The ISC's European director, Hugo Lueders, said the first draft was in favour of choosing software on merit and value for money, and "that's what we say. But in the updated version, there's a strong default preference for open source, and we have concerns about that. We don't speak out against open source, we are against bias: it's not what the government should do."The ISC may be over-reacting. It is already fighting a worldwide battle in countries such as Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Peru, Portugal and Spain, as well as in several US   states. It would be no surprise if it saw threats all around.The ISC may also be reading too much into the e-envoy's document, which is badly written and, perhaps deliberately, confused. There are three separate issues: open source, open standards and intellectual property rights. The document doesn't address these with any rigour: it's just fudge.But even if the British government could produce a coherent document in favour of a rational policy, history suggests it would probably be wrong.The UK and European governments have made two massive interventions in the computer market, using policy and procurement strategies for political ends: "national champions" and OSI (Open Systems Interconnection). Both looked like good ideas at the time.The "national champions" strategy was to knock the UK's many small computer companies into one corporation that could compete with IBM, if given enough government contracts. Our national champion was ICL. So much for that idea.The next big thing, in the 1980s, was a hugely complicated seven-layer networking system called OSI. As with ICL, vast sums were poured into supporting it. The alternative was supposedly IBM's SNA (Systems Network Architecture), but turned out to be TCP/IP and the internet. Big mistake.Massachusetts reconsidered its open source policy after the ISC pointed out the threat to 135,000 jobs in more than 300 companies in the state's $11bn IT industry. If the UK government inadvertently helps destroy Britain's commercial software industry, will anybody care?Links  Jack Schofield's columnOpen Source Software: Use Within UK Governmentwww.govtalk.gov.uk/policydocs/consult_subject_documentComputing Technology Industry Associationwww.comptia.orgSoftware Choicewww.softwarechoice.orgSincere Choice  (Bruce Perens of OSI responds)http://sincerechoice.orgMassachusetts New IT Standards Finalizedhttp://www.mass.gov/eoaf/new_it_standards_finalized.html
Should the cast of Channel 4's Sex and the City renege on its promise and reunite for another series, I bet you a year's worth of Vogue there will be a new addition to Carrie's handbag. For when New York's top columnist dips her beautifully manicured fingers into her vintage Christian Dior handbag, chances are that alongside her Chanel lipstick will be a pink Apple iPod mini.In case you missed the hype, the iPod mini, which is smaller, lighter and holds fewer tunes than the original players, went on sale in the US late last month and has apparently sold out.Stores reported that when they opened their doors, they were besieged by young Carrie-clones. There was even talk of affluent young buyers snapping up iPods in each of the five colours (gold, silver, blue, green and pink). Well, a girl has to accessorise.It doesn't bode well for the UK launch, scheduled for late next month. Although Apple in the UK insists there will be plenty to go around, there remains a serious chance that the iPod famine of last summer - where would-be buyers couldn't find one for any price - will return.Should Apple delay its launch, I won't give a jot. For I already have two minis. One is blue, and the arrival of the pink one more than compensated for my failure to deliver breakfast in bed on Mothers' day.Getting hold of an iPod mini in pink proved a Herculean task. With no friends planning US visits I turned to the BritishiPod mini sites, which   promised a baby MP3 player within days of its US launch. After countless unanswered phone calls, I resorted to eBay, where I was constantly outbid for both pink and blue players. There were plenty of silver ones, though.Eventually, I bit the bullet and paid &#163;220 for a blue player. When the buyer let it slip he had a pink iPod,   I snapped that up, too. I have since been unable to make even a trip to the bathroom without my blue iPod mini.Fellow journalists are particularly bitter as Apple isn't sending out samples for another month.  All this gloating is ridiculous, given that I paid over the odds for a product I can buy in the UK in a few months.   But, sadly, I can't stop myself.So is the iPod mini any good? iTunes, which accompanies the player, is easily the best MP3 software even for Windows. The option of storing music in the AAC format is handy, too, as it gives a slightly better quality performance than MP3. Then there's the device itself, with its spinning menu wheel. While other   MP3 jukeboxes almost rival it for speed of access to tracks, their button-based systems are nowhere near as elegant or as fun. It looks groovy, too, although the silver one is a little tacky.As for the bad stuff? Well, Windows users will need a PC with either a USB 2.0 or a Firewire connection, so if your PC is more than a year old, you'll have to upgrade it. The device also doesn't come with a recharging/transfer dock - you pay extra for that. I would also like to see the iPod with direct recording from CDs/hi-fi systems, Bluetooth wireless earphones and be able to guess intelligently which track I want to hear next.The only serious blot is its pathetic eight-hour battery life. With MP3 players offering at least 12 hours and Sony's MiniDisc players soldiering on for 50 hours, I feel a little shortchanged.One thing I won't moan about is the storage. The iPod mini has 4GB - enough for 1,000 songs, more than adequate for most people. I can't quibble about the price either. OK, even if Apple does launch the player at &#163;200 - pricier than the US equivalent of $250, it is still pretty good value for money.I am afraid, Apple-haters, the iPod mini is bad news for you. It is smart, works well and comes in fabulous colours. Track one down if you can. Only don't get the silver one: as Carrie will tell you, they are way too common.
Billed as the dashboard for the digital home, the iPronto is a re-invention of the universal remote control. You can use it to control the functions of your TV, DVD player, satellite etc, via its elegant 6.5in 640x480 pixel LCD touch screen. If you fancy checking out the internet during an ad break, the iPronto has a web browser with an integrated wireless (802.11b) card that connects to your network. And if you are unsure what to watch, iPronto delivers an electronic programme guide on its screen that's updated every few hours via the web.It's clever stuff, but the iPronto still feels like a work in progress. The remote control section works well, but takes time to set up and is a little slow. As for the EPG, it is a neat touch, but no rival for the onscreen Sky Digital version. The web browser accesses mainstream sites, but struggles when you go elsewhere. It wouldn't deliver webmail either and web browsing massively drains the battery. All of which means that it struggles to justify the &#163;1,300 price tag.
This month's panel of experts includes Ken Munro, managing director of security consultancy SecureTest Ltd; Tom Rattray, proprietor of Hit IT Harder, a consultancy for small businesses in Scotland; Jim Mathieson, technical director of Imperidata; Arthur Barnes, principal consultant at Diagonal Security and Christian Harris, editor of Bios Magazine.I've heard that you can get into trouble for not having the right amount of licences for your software users. Like a lot of small businesses my organisation has grown - how can I check that all of my software is legit, and what can the penalties be if it's not?KM:During rapid expansion software licensing is easy to overlook. Copying a hard disc image from an existing computer is the fastest way to set up a new machine. It is also hard to keep track of employees installing software a colleague may have already licensed. The first that directors may hear of a licensing problem is after a whistleblower has alerted the Federation Against Software Theft. To quote FAST: "The officers of a company are responsible for ensuring that their organisation complies with the law. Ignorance is no defence." In recent cases, companies sued by software publishers have been forced to pay their legal fees as well as damages to the copyright holder, to remove all their illegal software and buy new, legal copies. Technically, it is possible to reduce the likelihood of users installing software by ensuring that they do not have administrative privileges on their PCs. Audit tools are available, such as Visual Audit Pro, Centennial Discovery and Microsoft SMS, but the best solution is to set a clear software usage policy that all users subscribe to.I have five PCs in my business running a network, but we're thinking of expanding and some of my staff think we should get a server. At the moment we're running peer to peer. What would the advantages of a server be, and what sort of signs should we look for to suggest we need one?TR:A network without a server is like a pub quiz team without a captain. You can manage without one, but the bigger the team gets, the less efficient it becomes. If you recognise these symptoms, then your network needs a captain: multiple versions of important files scattered across the network, no one is quite sure how to set up new PCs, data backup is someone else's problem. You can opt for a "chairless server" - an ordinary PC without a user where files, email and printers are centralised. For full rigour, go for client-server, where the server forces the network structure on users. As you expand, you'll draw increasing benefit from roaming profiles so staff can log in at any PC, check their email and work on shared documents.I've heard that backup software doesn't always reliably back up emails. How do I ensure I am correctly backing up the information in my company's emails?JM:Many backup packages can't back up information from email servers while they are running. They need the server to be completely shut down. This is obviously a problem for companies that need uninterrupted email access. You should check that your backup software supports email backup and ensure it is configured correctly. As email backup is notoriously tricky, it is essential to regularly perform test restores to ensure that the correct information is being protected.The recent virus issues have me worried. I want to evaluate our AV policy but don't know where to start. Assuming you've bought an adequate AV package, is there really much between the different vendors?AB:The key to dealing with viruses effectively is in obtaining immediate access to high-quality information about the threat. There is little to choose between different anti-virus vendors in terms of the quality on offer. What makes more of a difference is the ability of the vendors to communicate effectively with their customers. Users should concentrate on the quality and relevance of the information vendors provide in the event of a virus and how quickly they are able to deliver it. For example, a high quality service would include notification of a potential virus by text message as opposed to just an email. Organisations need to make rapid, well-informed decisions in these circumstances in order to effectively combat the threat of an attack.I'm looking at expanding my business and buying new PCs. I can't help but notice that loads of computers with the same rough spec cost different amounts from different manufacturers. Is there really much of a difference - and how do you tell the good from the bad?&#183;CH: Similarly-priced systems from different manufacturers generally offer the same level of performance. The main thing you should consider is the manufacturer's target market. For instance, Sony and Tiny.com sell primarily to individuals, rather than to networked organisations - the bundled software and preinstalled operating system may be unsuitable for business use. Try to look beyond price and go for a manufacturer that prides itself on service and support. Dell and IBM maintain a high standard in quality assurance and reliability. You should also make sure your new systems are backed with at least a two-year parts and labour warranty as standard. Above all, you need to find a manufacturer that can accommodate your business' needs - and not the other way around.
Double complaintNow that unsolicited email is illegal in the EU, I decided to report a spammer, after carefully checking the headers and message content to make sure it was definitely a UK company. It took some time to find the correct site - the Information Commissioner's Office - and even more digging to find a link to the complaints procedure.When I eventually located it, I was very disappointed to find that it was, in fact, a PDF form to be filled in and posted back to the ICO. The form can be seen athttp://tinyurl.com/2yntf.The form only asks for basic information, and although I could print the message and headers, presumably someone would then have to enter all of these again!Surely setting up an online complaints system where all the relevant information can be posted would be a lot more useful, and might encourage people to complain. Many other services (eg Telephone Preference Service and ICSTIS) do this very successfully, so it's a bit disappointing to find that an organisation supposedly at the centre of IT is so far behind the times.David PatersonMore musicI wanted to compliment your article Can't stop the music (March 3) but I thought you should know of two errors it contained. First, the article talks about TuneYard as if Apple owns it. I know the three owners of TuneYard and they are certainly not affiliated with Apple.Second, you left out iCompositions.com, which is the biggest GarageBand community. It has nearly 1,200 songs uploaded (more than twice that of any other site), and they have been listened to 125,000 times. It also features a familiar interface and elegant design. Unlike the other sites you mentioned, which either charge, give you 25MB of space, or don't give you any space at all (links only), iCompositions provides every user with 50MB of upload space free and offers a $10 upgrade to 250MB of space.Lee WhiteVery adaptableIn reponse to Andy Rowlands (Feedback, March 18), I don't profess to know anything about "a fat-burning power supply", but I know a few things about electronics. I had a similar problem travelling with numerous AC supplies, so built a universal one.I bought a five volt regulated supply - rated up to two amps - and a USB cable, which I cut in half. After a bit of testing and some soldering, I had a powered USB socket. This allows me to use USB-charging cables and home-made adapters to power a number of devices such as my old Ericsson phone, Nokia phones, Game Boy Advance SP, CD player, MP3 player, a small pair of speakers and an NiMH (Nickel Metal Hydride) AA/AAA battery charger (for devices that don't already have rechargeable batteries).So far, I've had no problems. Other things such as PDAs and some digital cameras should also work using this system. I also discovered you can use some bus-powered hubs to power multiple devices at the same time.James MuirheadFree and efficientAnother free PDF creator in response to Feedback, March 18 is PDFCreator athttp://sourceforge.net/projects/pdfcreator. It's free, unlike pdf995, which is ad based, and seems to work much better, too.Also, the newer versions ofOpen Officeallow   you to export Word/Excel/Powerpoint documents to PDF format, as well as Flash - handy for putting a powerpoint slide show on the web.Dr Paul DixonLondonIn focusWhile I like to see mass media talking of the E-1 &#91;digital camera&#93; and its kin, I take issue with some of the points raised in your review (Online, March 11).To begin with, the a 4/3 lens standard was introduced by Olympus and Kodak in September 2002, with Fujifilm revealed as a partner shortly after. Then came the initial release as detailed in the article. Since then, another lens from Olympus has been added. Also, at this year's PMA, another Olympus lens was announced, as well as the joining of Panasonic, Sanyo and Sigma. Sigma has also announced two lenses for the system.Now we're up to date, the conclusion seemed somewhat naive as well. The E-1 has always been marketed as a professional DSLR, in the realms of the Nikon D2H, Canon EOS-1D and faster, none of which has a built-in flash. For the professional needs for which they are designed, such flashes are inadequate. I can't comment on the AF (auto-focus) speed but, by all accounts, it is as fast as the prosumer DSLRs such as the Nikon D100 and 10D, and faster than the S2Pro, certainly not lagging.And last, the price is always an issue. You're getting the same performance as the &#163;1,200 10D with the inclusion of a weather-sealed body akin to the &#163;4,000 1D - for &#163;1,400.How exactly is this overpriced? Competition from the Canon 300D and Sony DSC-F828? They are totally different products marketed at three separate user groups. Admittedly, the Sony and Canon may overlap in some cases, but even they are vastly different beasts. The E-1 is pitched much higher and not intended to compete with them.Philip Banks
By now everyone in business who has any use for online banking should be using it. There's no excuse not to - the banks have realised that it would be better not to charge for something that saves them money.It's possible to make bill payments at your computer and all sorts of other transactions for which only a couple of decades ago you'd have had to go out and do some walking.This leads to the inevitable question of where internet banking will go next. Paul Tierney, senior manager of business e-channels for HSBC, points to a number of areas requested by customers. "We're looking at email services, and within the actual secure services we currently offer, we're looking at the ability to have web chat and real time."HSBC is worth listening to in these areas since it's the only high street bank that dedicates a team to making a business-specific internet offering.Anyone who has examined an Amstrad e-m@iler (one of those phones that offers email and basic web work on a screen) will have noticed the card slot on its side. Chipped cards could offer extra security when buying something electronically, effectively turning a purchase from a "buyer not present" to a "buyer present enough so we could check their physical card" transaction.Smartcards, however, will not be a technology in which many smaller customers will be interested, says Tierney. "We already offer a secure service via smartcard for our major corporate customers. Within the SME, I'm not sure that in the future we will move to smartcard technology."The facility to email the bank is on the way, though. "In terms of email, it's purely logistical - we're looking at several different ways in which we can offer that to our customers from a commercial perspective."Inevitably the newer technologies will be expensive, so it's not at all unreasonable to expect them to be introduced at the corporate level before the small business.Interesting stuff is happening at that high end, though. Martyn Gates, marketing director of security specialist OmniPerception, confirms that a number of trials are happening in the biometric security field.Within six months or a year, he believes high street banks will be implementing biological checks on a customer's identity. The important thing, he says, will be the successful combination of different forms of identity confirmation. "We specialise in facial recognition but we are working closely with a supplier of fingerprint readers."Fingerprints are normally reliable, but in isolation are not always so. "If it's a Monday morning and you've been out working in the garden all weekend, and you put your fingerprint on a reader, any mud and dirt on your fingerprint may make it unrecognisable," says Gates. Likewise poor lighting conditions can make facial recognition fall over.The answer, to OmniPerception, is a combination of data, possibly carried on a smartcard or on someone's PC. The card is inserted into a reader, the fingerprint and face are tested and only once all the systems are happy will any transactions be allowed.The logistics of this sort of implementation are considerable and you can see why the commentators are saying it's a way off - but Gates confirms that banks in mainland Europe and in the UK are very keen. Trials are being held now and they are working. It will mean new computers, or at least extra peripherals, to read the fingerprint, scan the face and read the card but the fundamentals are in place.It will, of course, be ages before the small business community gets to see any of this. However, once the idea has bedded down, the costs will come down and the banks will offer it to their smaller clients.The only objection is likely to be user resistance and self-consciousness. Let's be honest, not everyone wants to feel like something out of Star Trek as the computer recognises their face and checks their thumb print while they transfer 50 quid into a savings account. It all feels a bit too far-fetched. But then, 10 years ago, you'd have said that about banking from your desk.
&#183;Mobile workers will beinterested to know that 02 has built Blackberry-style connectivity into its XDA II. That means the mobile company has taken the "always connected" element of the Blackberry mobile mail device, which picks up your mail without being prompted, and transferred it to the full-functioning XDA. The XDA in its turn is a Pocket PC-based hand-held computer, which can already do email but which requires a manual process to send and receive. This version of the system requires a company network rather than an ordinary internet service provider account.&#183;Among all the fuss aboutunlicensed software, a report has emerged from Benchmark Software that says small business is wasting up to &#163;1.5bn a year on unused software. The company interviewed 400 small to medium enterprises (SMEs) and found that whereas 80% believed software was an important investment for their organisation, 60% found the spend hard to justify and 39% admitted they had bought software and not used it. 76% of them couldn't tell the difference between one piece of software and another. If you doubt that, try asking everyone in your office whether Microsoft Windows comes with a copy of Word - surprising amounts of people think it does. Benchmark is calling for software suppliers to label and explain their offerings more clearly to prevent further waste; arguably the rule of "caveat emptor" still applies.&#183;This month Orange hostedthe second Small Is Beautiful awards, a scheme aimed at recognising the best of small business. Top of the class was Truancy Call Ltd, the Birmingham-based supplier of IT-based truancy management for schools (it enables the school to contact the parents on the first day of absence). MD Stephen Clarke also won the small businessperson of the year award at the same ceremony, held at the Institute of Directors in London.&#183;As one winds downanother starts up - Hewlett-Packard has also decided to start running an award scheme for small business. Called the European HP Business Award it will cover only companies with ten or fewer employees and will seek to recognise innovation. As the title suggests it will operate on a multi-country basis and prizes will comprise business equipment and services from the likes of HP and Mastercard, who will also be on the judging panel. Entries will need to be in by 16 May and details are atwww.hp.com/uk/&#183;Security specialist Trend Microhas released the latest version of its firewall, anti-spam and anti-virus suite. Unusually it's aimed at the smaller enterprise, explains the company's UK country manager Roger Levenhagen. It's not a simple "out of the box" piece of software though - the company recommends it should be installed by an expert re-seller and supported in the same way, and is recruiting an appropriate sales channel as a result. Levenhagen believes that the "scattergun" approach taken by a lot of user-installed products is less than ideal for the more sophisticated virus writers, spammers and hackers who are active today. He stresses that this isn't a cut-down version of the product for large businesses but a fully-functioning product in its own right.&#183;Have you ever lost yourmobile phone? If so, Phonesync and BT may be able to help with a new scheme allowing your contacts and other details to be stored on a personal web page. A number of companies already offer a similar service - any Orange shop will tell an Orange customer how to back up their sim card and the details on it without hesitation, as will a number of the other mobile companies, but take-up to date has been fairly low. The advantage of the Phonesync/BT system is that all of the software is kept on the website away from your computer - the customer doesn't have to download anything.&#183;Software company Roxiohas come a step closer to uniting all of its product lines with the release of Roxio Creator 7.0. This will let people edit photos and other pictures as well as music and sound files and video editing, but of more interest to the business community will be the ability to schedule regular back-ups to a DVD or CD drive. The company believes it is the first to market with a comprehensive suite that enables editing and writing to just about all media. The suite will cost a princely &#163;69.99, although several of the individual component features such as Videowave 7 Pro and Photosuite 7 Platinum will continue to be sold separately for &#163;59.99 and &#163;49.99 respectively.ContactsBusiness Solutions welcomes readers' letters - send them to:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include a full postal address and telephone numberTo advertise:Gavin Andrews 020 7713 4418; emailgavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukPress releases:online@guardian.co.ukPost:Business Solutions, Online, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERFax:020 7713 4154
Ready for xxxInstead of .com, many users could soon have different domain names including .xxx for porn sites, and .mobi for mobile phones. Ten companies have applied to Icann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, proposing nine new domains such as .asia, .mail, .jobs and .travel. The mobile domain has been proposed jointly by Microsoft, Nokia, Vodafone, 3, GSM Association, Hewlett-Packard, Orange, Samsung Electronics and Sun Microsystems. The internet originally had seven top-level domains, such as .net, .org and .gov. Another seven were added in 2000: .biz, .info, .name, .pro, .aero, .coop and .museum, though many companies have used country names such as .tv - owned by Tuvalu - instead.www.microsoft.com/presspassNot amusedAn unpatched flaw in some BlackIce Defender, Proventia and RealSecure products from Internet Security System (ISS) is exposing users to a new worm called Witty A. It acts like the Blaster worm, seeking vulnerable systems over the internet. Once inside, the worm's payload is extremely destructive, overwriting key hard disk sectors and causing systems to crash. ISS claims that none of its managed service customers has been affected because a patch was applied last week, but fearssome customers may not have applied the fix.http://xforce.iss.net/xforce/alerts/id/166Internet bankersWestern European banks are leading the way in the adoption of web services in the financial markets, according to research by IDC. The European Vertical Market survey finds that many of the banks are already adopting XML and web services interfaces, but says that insurance companies are lagging. The report notes that large projects are being held back because return on investment is unproven and executive management is unwilling to release funding. IDC believes that the focus on web services will lead to growth in other sectors, as brokers and security firms adopt XML over the next two years.Faster netBIC-TCP makes DSL look lethargic, according to researchers in North Carolina State University's Department of Computer Science. BIC-TCP (Binary Increase Congestion Transmission Control Protocol) has been competing with six other protocols developed by researchers from universities around the world in a study run by the Stanford   Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC). Rivals include S-TCP from Cambridge University and Fast TCP from CalTech. BIC allows the transfer of increasingly large packets of information over long distances.http://www.csc.ncsu.edu/faculty/rhee/export/bitcp.pdfhttp://dsd.lbl.gov/DIDC/PFLDnet2004/papers/Bullot.pdfhttp://www-iepm.slac.stanford.edu/bw/tcp-evalOnline servicesThe increasing willingness for small-to-medium enterprises to embrace online services is being tapped by Hewlett-Packard, as it moves to expand its products and services programme, and by online services firm NetSuite, which is expanding its UK operations. In the US, HP is piloting Learning Curve, which offers unlimited access to "instant chat with a technical representative" for the equivalent of &#163;80 per year, and access to its IT Professional Help Desk for &#163;840. This covers five support incidents. Meanwhile, US-based company NetSuite, which develops Oracle's Small Business Suite, has new offices in Reading and claims that Europe is becoming a key market. Microsoft is also readying its SME-oriented CRM (customer relationship management) package for online access.www.hp.com/sbso/serviceshttp://www.netsuite.com/portal/pr/nlpr03-18-04.htmlhttp://www.netsuite.com/portal/pr/nlpr03-18-04.htmlEnd of breakWednesday could be your last chance to take advantage of a four-year tax break on IT purchases. Chancellor Gordon Brown announced a 100% capital allowance on information and communication technology in his 2000 Budget, so the value of an item such as a new computer for business use could be taken off a single year's taxable income. Brown renewed the allowance in each Budget up to 2003, but did not do so in his speech last week. Unless there's a belated renewal statement, the allowance is set to expire on March 31. Local tax offices can offer advice on whether items qualify.Apig's lawMPs are holding a public inquiry on updating the Computer Misuse Act 1990. The All-Party Parliamentary Internet Group (Apig) says the inquiry will examine whether the act needs tougher sanctions and broader definitions of abuse, as well as looking for loopholes that need plugging. Apig plans a public hearing in Westminster on April 29, and asks for written evidence before April 9.www.apig.org.uk/16th_march_2004.htm
Like a gambler trying to save himself with a double-or-quit bet, the government is contemplating one more round of IT investment in public services. Its purpose is to reduce numbers of civil servants by organising government functions around citizens, not agencies, and sharing systems between departments.Chancellor Gordon Brown signalled the start of the process in his budget last week when he announced that more than 40,000 civil servants would go by 2008. Brown said the cull would be achieved by realising the benefits of money already being thrown at modernising government computers. "We are investing over &#163;6bn in modern technology - creating the potential for greater economies in back office and transactional processes."At the same time, however, Brown published a report showing that more money will have to be invested before it is saved. The O'Donnell review into the biggest proposed rationalisation, the merger of HM Customs &amp; Excise with the Inland Revenue, warns that crucial harmonisation of IT systems will be "not without cost".One model for a merger is Jobcentre Plus, created by amalgamating benefits offices and Jobcentres. An investment of &#163;2bn on new technology, the chancellor said, was "able to unlock savings in back office administration and at the same time move resources to the front line to expand our successful service of personal advisers".A merger between tax-collecting bodies is long overdue. Britain is one of only three countries in the world   in which separate government departments handle tax and VAT (one of the others, Israel, has already announced a merger). Combining the two would allow "an overall reduction of 40,500 staff", Brown said.Achieving these savings, however, will depend on IT. "Better use of information is central to the review's recommendation that a new, integrated department be created."The O'Donnell review suggests that the new revenue department creates systems that take a "whole customer" view of its clients in the way that banks try to. This would mean that officers have access to a complete record of their clients' dealings with   the tax authorities.At the moment, the review says, such information-sharing is dismal. While the two organisations exchange data on occasions - for example to investigate people trading in the shadow economy - "these examples are the exception, rather than the rule", the review says.Unlike with some other departments, the barrier does not seem to be legal. Public bodies are supposed to keep confidential information supplied for statutory purposes unless there is a specific law to allow it to be shared, a "statutory gateway" in civil service jargon. This has proved a barrier to some joined-up   government projects. In the case of the revenue and customs, however, the power to share information is wide: officers need only to show that the exchange is "assisting them in the performance of their duties".The O'Donnell review claims that "care is taken to ensure only relevant information passes". It stresses that data sharing doesn't benefit just the bureaucrats. For example, information about businesses approaching the threshold at which they have to register for VAT could be used to "pre-populate" registration forms, saving businesses time.A merged, customer-centred department would also be able to   make big savings by encouraging taxpayers to communicate electronically, the review says. So far, the two agencies have very different levels of e-takeup. The Inland Revenue last month celebrated receiving 1m self assessment forms - more than 13% - electronically in the last tax year. Customs is doing less well. Less than 1% of registered traders took up an electronic VAT return piloted in 2000, partly because it offered no obvious advantage over the paper form.In future, suggests the review, a single revenue/customs web portal, used by both "customers" and staff would provide basic data and guide customers into systems to perform transactions such as filing returns.The snag is that the two departments have different IT systems and management cultures. Customs buys its basic systems from IT services firm Fujitsu, but does a lot of work in-house. The Inland Revenue outsources almost everything to a single prime contractor: it is currently preoccupied with switching from EDS to Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young in a new 10-year contract.The review warns that these contracts will have to continue in place while the two agencies merge. "In the longer term, it would be possible to harmonise IT provision fully, though not without cost." It also warns of "a risk that systems issues are not seen as a priority", because they do not save money in themselves, "but this would be a mistake".The IT difficulties posed by amalgamating sister departments with essentially the same function do not bode well for rationalising more complex public services around the customer.
MobileTwist and flipCeBIT proved to be a busy show for Samsung, with the unveiling of its first megapixel camera phone and a new 3G handset. Due in late summer, the SGH-P730 has a clamshell design featuring a twist and flip rotating screen similar to the LG 7100. It takes one megapixel still images, can capture video and play back MP3 music. Files are either stored on its 64MB internal memory or on an MMC card.At the Vodafone stand, the company was displaying its 3G services via Samsung's new 3G phone, the Z105. A clamshell model, not unlike Sharp's GX20/30, the Z105 has a 262k colour screen, person-to-person video calling and video downloads, and has access to Vodafone's Live! services. It is expected to launch in the UK in the summer.Pop-up screenPanasonic claims to have re-invented the form factor of the camera phone by offering a model with a pop-up LCD screen similar to those found on camcorders. According to the company, the screen makes the X300 much simpler to use than rival handsets. However, the resolution of the images it takes are VGA standard - only around half the quality of recently announced megapixel phones from Sharp and Nokia. Due in the autumn, the phone also features a 65k colour screen, video play and record functions and a Wap 2.0 browser. At CeBIT, Panasonic also unveiled a trio of ultra-thin handsets, the A100, A101 and A102, which are due for a later summer launch. It also showed off the first Secure Digital (SD) card with a storage capacity of one gigabyte.High resolutionSiemens has unveiled its first megapixel camera phone. The S65, which is a candy bar-style handset, goes on sale in September and will take 1.3 megapixel images (0.3 more resolution than either the Sharp GX30 or Nokia 7610).    Aimed at the business market, the S65 also features a video camera, an MMC card slot, Bluetooth and compatibility with Outlook and Lotus Notes.Watch and surfArchos, pioneer of the personal video player market, has taken the concept a step further by displaying a model that also features PDA-style facilities. The AV500 not only lets users watch video on a number of formats (MPeg4, WMV and DivX) but they can also store appointments, access email and surf the web. There are no details yet as to which operating system the player will use. The AV500, which will debut at the end of the year, also features a 20 or 40GB hard disk, a 704x480 pixel screen and is housed in a unit much smaller than previous Archos PVPs.Data spreadT-Mobile will offer unlimited mobile data access over its Wi-Fi, 3G and standard GSM networks from May, although at a business-focused price of &#163;70 a month plus &#163;199 for a laptop data-card and software. It will use 300 Wi-Fi hotspots, a number that will more   than double by the end of the year. Its 3G network opened last month. The latter is concentrated on London, but T-Mobile plans to add up to 10 more cities this year. The network will also introduce Mobile Jukebox, allowing users to download music to some phones.Good Pub GuideReviews and locations for the 5,500 pubs in this year's Good Pub Guide are being added to mapping service Mapminder, joining more than 3,000 restaurants in Harden's guidebooks, as well as listing services for films and other entertainment. Next month, Mapminder is also adding public and private group facilities, allowing the exchange of locations, routes and other information. Subscription is free for 30 days, then costs &#163;2.95 a month.   Mapminder is one of several services which, for an extra charge, gives access to the approximate location of mobile phones, when the owner has given permission, for the Vodafone,Orange, and O2 networks.www.mapminder.co.ukDigital radioTuning inA curious feature of many digital radios is that, while boasting state-of-the-art innards, they sport a decidedly retro exterior. A new cut-price model from Acoustic Solutions is no different, with a design that appears to owe more to the 50s than the 21st century.We tried the Portal Two model (&#163;79.99), with a digital and FM tuner (the Portal One, for &#163;69.99 has only a digital tuner). Sound   quality was crisp and clear where - as is always the case with digital radio - reception was good. In our office, where reception is poorer, listening was as difficult with this set as with any digital equivalent that we've tried.Aesthetically, the set lacks the quality feel of some of its more expensive rivals. One of its features is that the handle can be folded down so the radio lies on its front, its top facing you with the speaker pointing down. It's a neat trick, but it exposes a rather ugly back, and muffles the sound. Upright, however, the Portal is a cheap and quite attractive introduction to the enormous choice of digital radio. Both machines are available only from Argos.www.acousticsolutions.co.ukServicesSolve that scratchOnce, we thought CDs were indestructible - thank that episode of Tomorrow's World where marmalade was smeared over a disk to demonstrate its robustness. Then we managed to scratch one, and learned they could be as temperamental as vinyl records.Now, Perfectplay is claiming to be able to repair scratched CDs - and that includes PC and console game disks - to a fully working state. Its Azuradisk technology removes a tiny layer of the plastic coating on the disk - the bit that sits on top, and so always gets scratched - to restore things to normal. You can find a list of suppliers, or the address for a mail-in service, on their website.www.perfectplay.co.ukStat of the week:  Camera phones are taking offIn 2002, less than two in every 100 phones sold had a camera built in. By 2006, according to research firm Gartner Dataquest, two-thirds of all mobiles will sport a camera. With quality improving fast, they could soon become the most popular way to take snaps.
Can you explain about your HyperPop menu project?Imagine that behind every word you have a supercomputer just waiting to act on your commands based on that word. Say you're reading a Guardian article and the words Vint Cerf are there. You can point to Vint Cerf once, get a menu item that says 'Show Only Paragraph with Vint Cerf', so it allows you to take two things and send it to the server ... the word and a command. Those commands can be anything: "Search Google for Vint Cerf", "Show Glossary   entry" etc, as long it can be programmed. Anything can be programmed if it can be said explicitly.You use blogging to exemplify HyperPop?We're using blogging as an example on the Cynapse site mainly because it's an easy data format. The tiny pop-up menu you get when you point to specific words is the entire research project. I'm trying to allow a richer interaction with the text. We now have theworking infrastructureof the pop-up menu coming up. Most of the things on the demo don't work yet I don't care. We now have the ability to reach out and touch that word. The HyperPop is a way to take some of the performance of the 60s and latch it on top of this big billboard we call the world wide web because it's currently so flat.Where do you envisage the Hyper  Pop impacting?Doug Engelbart is building something he calls aHyperScope, which is an ambitious way of making webpages more interactive. I'm trying to reach as large an audience of knowledge workers as possible. The concept of the HyperPop menu came from reading a document. You get to a point of change or tangent and the whole idea is of being allowed to follow these tangents freely. The link is a magical device: why should it constrict you?You work with a Russian programmer you've never met?I found a place online calledEjob Shopin Silicon Valley and it is the future. If you want to reprogram a huge project or spend $50 to modify existing code - so long as it'sJavathey can do it. No contract, you just go in and pay for what you want. Igor is a teacher at   Penza University in Moscow and programs in his spare time, which means I get a big brain cheaply.You've written software called LiSA that announces email?LiSAis a toy that brings in money to pay for this research and she illustrates some concepts. There's no AI in the programming but because we're using recorded voice, the computer seems more sophisticated. LiSA understands who emails are from and whether they're urgent and will announce them accordingly.Visit:www.cynapse.org&#183;Frode Hegland will be speaking today at 3pm at Dust or Magic in Oxford:http://emedia.brookes.ac.uk/dustormagic/
When Bill Gates' time has passed and the Windows empire is lost to feuding little Gateses, when Internet Explorer has hung up its explorer's paraphernalia to retire to the lounge rooms of the Royal Geographical Society, one thing will remain. It will bide its time through productivity peaks and troughs; secure in its virtual existence it will remain confident that, although naughty and ultimately unsatisfying, it will have its day. Because when the deadlines loom or the document remains stubbonly blank, Solitaire   reigns supreme. It's the only game in town.Some say that the genius of Windows was the graphical user interface. I say it was recognising that a little-played game, made tedious by the ease of cheating could be translated to the world of   the virtual - where cards remain impervious to tactical reshuffles and where moves can only be undone once. With computers, Solitaire's day had come.Draw one or draw three? Las Vegas or standard? Black couples up with red. King with Queen. Queen, unbeknown to King, with Jack. Work is set aside for the ballet of the 52 - the guilt of inaction briefly assuaged by the thrill of piling number on top of consecutive number while the boss, never forgotten, speeds the game - the ever-present threat of his discovery forcing the tempo.And then, impasse. A red cross where fresh cards used to be. Nowhere to go, nothing more to win.Because not for Solitaire the pathetic fripperies of Minesweeper or pinball. Success here is contingent on skill and intellect, yes - but also on a heavy dose of luck. Inevitably no matter how big the wins, however large the initial streak, the slow steamroller of probability guarantees ultimate failure. This is life. This is existence with all its pathos. An allegory in a card game wrapped up in a procrastinational tool.
The plastic cards in our wallets date back to the 50s, their magnetic stripes to the 60s and their smart chips to the 70s. They really are getting antiquated, which is why - despite their dominance - there's a feeling there might be a better way of paying for things online. Yet in that environment, it's the business model, not the technology, that might be worth re-examining.It wouldn't make sense to get your shopping at Tesco, take the bill to Barclays, pay it, take the receipt from Barclays back to Tesco and then pick up the shopping, as shoppers at Soviet department stores used to do. It would, however, be much cheaper for Tesco and Barclays if you did: Tesco wouldn't need cash drawers or point-of-sale (POS) devices to accept payment   cards and Barclays wouldn't need to issue cards or process the deposits. So, instead, you give your bank-issued payment card to the shop, which passes on the details to another bank, which discusses it with your bank and then gets back to the shop and says it's OK.Instead, when we take our basket to the checkout, we bring together two business processes that ought to be distinct: executing transactions and financing them. Why does the shop handle your cash, card or cheque when these clearly belong to the world of banking? The answer is that it would be crazy to do it any other way. In the physical world.Similarly, when credit cards were introduced, it made no sense for every bank to run a cable to every shop in the world: communications were scarce and expensive. Hence MasterCard and Visa. When   you present your card in Tesco, Tesco doesn't care which bank issued it. Tesco passes the details to its own bank, which passes them via the credit card networks to your bank.Today, communications are not scarce or expensive, and on the internet, every shop is connected to every bank. Yet we still use the old payment paradigm: just because we used to pay for things in a particular way, we've taken that model into the new environment. But we don't have to pay for things that way: we can make the process on the internet better than the process in Tesco.Suppose that when you bought something from Amazon, instead of giving Amazon your payment card details, Amazon sends you a bill. You then present the bill to your bank and agree payment.   Your bank gives you a receipt in return. You pass the receipt to Amazon: Amazon's bank can easily check that the receipt has been paid (using digital signature technology) and it sends your book.This isn't a new idea. In the early days of internet commerce, quite a few people realised that the payment process ought to be the other way round. There were a number of efforts to introduce this kind of payment scheme. They have failed, so far, to reach the mass market but, as internet shopping continues to grow, perhaps it's time to think again about a more Soviet-style approach to baskets and checkouts.&#183;Dave Birch is the organiser of the 7th annual Digital Money Forum, held in London on March 30-31. Seewww.digitalmoneyforum.comfor details.
