The Wii clearly isn't short of a minigame collection or two, with Wii Sports, Wii Play, Carnival Games and the numerous other titles offering a pile of quick 'n' easy games for casual players.Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party is one of the latest additions to the genre. Looking for deep, lengthy and rewarding gameplay? RRRTV isn't for you. Fancy shaking a Wiimote violently while pretending to be a jockey before going back to watching Corrie? Then this may be up your street. There is a thin plot of sorts – the "rabbids" have hijacked a TV station – but this is much the same as previous RRR games.So expect simplistic racing, rhythm and other dumbed down mini-versions of popular gaming genres. The inclusion of Balance Board (Wii Fit) support makes thing more interesting with some of the games allowing you to dance or sit on the board. Multiplayer is obviously the way to go, but some niggles detract. Nevertheless, this is a solid party package that will appeal to casual Wii owners.
Look before you clickMelZoo, a new search engine beta, shows sites in a split screen when you hover over links to get rapid previews.Up to speedOfcom has published a guide for consumers who are unhappy with their broadband speeds.The sky's the limitedSky Factory is planning to install "realistic, ceiling-mounted, illusions of sky" in UK homes.Don't smash that drive!The TechGuys are offering a data cleanse service for &pound;29.99 in PC World stores.Walkman noise reductionSony reckons its next-generation X Series Walkman will be the first MP3/video player with built-in noise cancelling.Google reader for beginnersGoogle has produced a guide to help RSS/web feed newbies.USB for backupsSanDisk Ultra has announced a range of Ultra USB flash drives with built-in software for taking backups.Norton on trialSymantec has started a public beta test of its Norton 360 v3.0 security suite.New digital darkroomPagePlus maker Serif has launched Digital Photo Suite 2009, priced at &pound;29.99.
The conflict between Palestine and Israel is not limited to the real world. A group of programmers working under the name "Help Israel Win" has developed a piece of software that lets people devote part of their computer's processing power to attacking pro-Hamas websites.In the conflict, the majority of hacking groups are anti-Israeli. At Iran's Festival of Digital Media last year, a Hamas group, the Digital Intifada, offered a prize worth about &pound;1,300 for anyone who successfully disabled an Israeli website perceived as being "hostile to the Palestinian people". Help Israel Win itself has been forced to change its website repeatedly over the past week after facing continuous denial of service (DoS) attacks.The software program developed by Help Israel Win, called Patriot, is coded as a botnet - more usually associated with viruses that turn computers into "zombies", which do work for the programmer that the owner knows nothing about.Digital attacks alongside real-life conflicts are now fairly commonplace, but Help Israel Win is innovative in that its software allows novices to participate, donating their computer's power to individuals who are able to use it to bring down opposition websites. Its website, whose address changes regularly, states: "Our goal is to use this power in order to disrupt our enemy's efforts to destroy the state of Israel." Its intention is to damage Hamas-supporting websites by creating a DoS attack - illegal in the UK under the Computer Misuse Act - by overloading a website's server capacity with bogus requests. The greater the number using the software, the easier this is to achieve.Help Israel Win's website claims that more than 8,000 individual users have downloaded its software. "Gal", one of the creators of the Patriot software (who declined to give his full name), told the Guardian that the group has "disrupted" four different Hamas news sites.Asthe targeting of Georgian government websites last year by pro-Russian hackers suggests, cyber warfare now forms part of any organised attempt to disrupt an enemy's communications systems. However, attacks on non-governmental websites by politicised hackers have also grown.Gal perceives his program as part of Israel's arsenal: "We started the group the day the war started in Gaza. We couldn't join the real combat, so we decided to fight Hamas in the cyber-arena."Gaza has been a catalyst for amateur digital warfare. And this too is a conflict unlikely to end with the present incursion.
You have heard of the gold rush and railway mania of the 19th century, not to mention the dotcom boom of the late 1990s. Observe now the latest land grab - to build a three-dimensional replica of London, complete with streets, shops, parks, even the underground system, on the internet. At least five companies are doing this and most of them are unaware of all of their competitors.The theory is seductive. Build a 3D London and you can rent out apartments and shops, get advertising, boost heritage sites and familiarise tourists with the capital before they arrive. And, of course, go out clubbing and meeting people.During a recession, won't people want to stay at home using broadband, already paid for, rather than going out? Won't they want to shop without the hassle and parking problems of Oxford Street? We shall see. All five are doing it differently. This adds interest but there is no way all five are going to succeed.The biggest - covering not just central London but an area stretching out to the M25 - is also the most bizarre: a publicly funded project that the public can't see. Built by University College in association with Connect London, it boasts 3.2m building blocks and could have gone live two years ago, well ahead of the competition, as part of Google Earth, but for our friends at Ordnance Survey, which controls the vital database. It refused permission. Cue the Free Our Data campaign.In terms of being up and running, the London being recreated in Second Life, which is the only one to use an existing virtual world, by a team led by Debs Regent, is literally streets ahead of the others. It already offers shops and apartments for rent. Just type, say, "Mayfair" into SL's search box after (free) registration. One person who had opened a clothing store in Mayfair last week said she had recouped the modest rent with her first sales (of clothes for avatars). Regent - her avatar's name - says 40% of shops in Mayfair have been rented out, though mainly to Second Life residents, not to real-life shop owners, who are proving a hard nut to crack. Visitors can go clubbing at the Underground club or walking in Hyde Park and soon will be able to travel by (virtual) tube.Twinity.com, a German company that has already built a virtual Berlin, is building London from Soho towards Westminster and hopes "definitely" to go live this year. Its avatars, which will look realistic as you can transplant your own photo on to your face, will help it build up a strong Facebook-style community in 3D. This distinguishes it from the fourth virtual capital, Near London (NL), run by the media entrepreneur Alex Wrottesley, which doesn't have avatars on the interesting grounds that they are not "you", as you view them from a distance. In NL you navigate from eye level, as you do in life. Rivals say an avatar-less city won't make a community - though NL will be linked to social networks such as Facebook. NL has easily the best rendition of buildings I have savoured, though I was only seeing a closed version. Which is not surprising because, unlike Twinity, which builds from existing databases, NL sends vehicles out into the streets using laser techniques to map buildings in very fine detail. And it can make them even finer if real-life owners request it. So that is four out of the five. Who is left?Enter Microsoft, the dark horse of the land rush. Microsoft is rumoured to be about to unveil its own large-scale version of the capital as part of an international project to do a large number of cities. Apparently it won't be using collaborative web 2.0 techniques. It will be all its own work. A rival, who fears his own world will be redundant, described it to me as "phenomenal". So, even if Google doesn't come up with something more dramatic than its current static model of London, it looks as though we are in for a war of the capitals. Happy shopping.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
At last, a tedious inevitability has been rendered immaterial. Recently, whenever a big Apple press conference or Macworld keynote loomed, speculation would echo around the web that the Cupertino company would announce a handheld gaming device. But now it turns out Apple already makes not one but two handheld gaming consoles: the iPhone and iPod Touch.Developers have been raving about the gaming potential of the iPhone and iPod Touch for a while, and Apple now feels sufficiently confident to join in: on a recent visit to the UK its vice-president of hardware product marketing, Greg Joswiak, busied himself talking up the gaming abilities of the iPhone and second-generation iPod Touch.Both devices can run full 3D games roughly on a graphical par with Sony's PSP and way better than Nintendo's DS, while certain types of games (such as driving ones) can be controlled by the motion- and tilt-sensitive accelerometer. Apple's multi-touch screen lets game developers design their own control interfaces, such as the ghostly virtual onscreen D-pad, which lets you move footballers in Gameloft's Real Football 2009. Pretty much any control button found on a handheld console can be imitated virtually on screen.Cash in its chipsWhat Joswiak didn't say was often more revealing than what he did. For example, he declined to state which processor and 3D graphics chip power the devices, saying: "Part of what we've done, purposely, with the iPods and iPhones, is to tend not to geekify them." (Online sourcessuggest it has an ARM CPU running at between 412MHz and 532MHz, and an implementation of the PowerVR MBX Lite 3D accelerator.)Joswiak is less tight-lipped about another key element of the credibility of the iPhone and iPod Touch as games devices: "We kicked off the App Store a little over 100 days ago, and in that time there have been 6,000 applications in the store and over 200m downloads - and the biggest category has been games."Now there are 1,800-plus games in the App Store, and six of the top 10 bestsellers are games. Joswiak wouldn't reveal how many iPod Touches have been sold worldwide, but says that 13m iPhones are out there, along with a cumulative total of 175m iPods, of which 55m were snapped up in the last fiscal year.The most recent cumulative global sales figures for the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP are 77.5m and 41m respectively, but taken as one entity, the iPhone and iPod Touch are clearly already in a similar ballpark. Such potentially huge markets get developers very excited.Developers also love Apple's hands-off nature towards third parties keen to upload games to the App Store. Joswiak says: "It's not somewhere you have to be represented by somebody; you have to be in the development programme, which is very inexpensive. It's a very smooth process for developers to get their apps in the store."Jim Mummery, creative director at the small UK developer Doublesix, explains what this means in practice: "One of our guys wanted to make a quick game, Colour Theory, which could be released online, and which we would put up there for free rather than selling, just to see the process. We had a lot of fun playing with the idea of the console, which is about as powerful as a PSP, and from the technology we developed, we were linked with a movie IP from Paramount, and our game based on that will be in the App Store soon."The iPhone and iPod Touch are also attracting developers from two distinct groups: handheld console and mobile phone specialists. The aforementioned Doublesix is best known for the DS game Geometry Wars Galaxies, as well as Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network games, whereas the mega-publisher Electronic Arts, as EA Mobile's executive producer Chris Gibbs explains, is approaching the platforms as mobile phones.Platform for changeGibbs says: "One of the challenges that the mobile games industry has faced since day one is an awareness issue. What Apple is doing with the iPhone that's changing our world - which the other devices haven't done to date - is making the discovery of really good mobile games easier." But he acknowledges that they have gaming attributes superior to other mobile phones. "The multi-touch screen is so much better than single-touch ones. From a creative standpoint, the big thing is that we have a chance to design just for that platform."However, Gibbs sounds a couple of notes of caution: "If people think of them as just another PSP or DS, I think they're missing the point. People bought an iPhone as a phone, not a games machine. And I know developers are worried about getting swamped - there are so many games up on the App Store." But customers (and only customers) can rate the games they download, and it is also well served by forums, lists of bestsellers and staff picks.Fergus McGovern is the president of HotGen, which has made more than 200 games for Nintendo handhelds, and is about to release its first iPhone/iPod Touch game, Brain Surge!, along similar lines to Brain Training. He addresses that perceived drawback of the App Store's structure, and maintains that it frees up small developers to concentrate on the quality of the games they put up there: "Unlike the traditional publisher model, where publishers will take a game from a developer because they have a sales team they have to keep paying a salary to, we can be far more selective on the App Store."With conventional games, we had the mentality that the publisher is the customer, but this time our customer is the real consumer, so we have to take more care. We have no idea how many downloads we will sell, but you could easily be into the hundreds of thousands of downloads in a week."Joswiak points out: "These games are easily under &pound;10 and most are under &pound;5. So what we typically see is people buying more titles. And this is just the start - we're less than four months into this. My mind boggles with where we're going to be six months or a year from now."
As management consultants say, it was a piece of low-hanging fruit. In the interests of economy and efficiency, the agencies responsible for motor vehicles and people who drive, own or otherwise operate them, would join forces and run their "back office" functions on a shared IT system at our beloved DVLA in Swansea. What could possibly go wrong?Quite a lot, according to the inevitable National Audit Office and Public Accounts Committee (PAC) investigation. "Extremely poor", "one of the worst", "serious weaknesses" were among the judgments - and that's just in the first paragraph of the committee's report.Two points grabbed the headlines. First, the shared services project, supposed to save &pound;57m, has so far had a net cost of &pound;81m. Second, the hurriedly installed software flashed up user-messages in German. "It is enough to make you weep," Edward Leigh MP, chair of the PAC put it, perhaps overlooking the frequency with which German civil servants have to deal with software messages in English.But the story's significance goes further. An awful lot of political credibility is riding on the hope that shared IT services can produce a kind of technological alchemy, improving public services while making them cheaper. The philosophy runs though the government's entire IT strategy - even the much reviled national ID register and the NHS national programme for IT are, in essence, shared services schemes.It is patently bonkers for every single local authority and NHS trust to run its own "back office" administrative systems. The Cabinet Office's transformational government strategy is right to promote a "develop once, use many times" philosophy and right to encourage public bodies that have a surplus IT capacity to provide it to others.But human nature, honed by the culture of "new public management" with its private-sector ethos, doesn't work like that. Enthusiasm for shared services tends to vary according to whether you see yourself as a buyer or a seller. The biggest evangelists tend to be managers planning to provide the services. In this, they are inevitably egged on by IT firms sniffing big, long-running, contracts.Such attitudes are understandable - the more so as creating a successful shared services business is one way to cushion the impact of job losses. Several local authorities have embarked on "strategic partnerships" with IT companies which, far from cutting jobs, actually seek to increase the payroll by becoming national suppliers of computer services.The trouble is, even in the mad world of public finances, we can't all be sellers, and there are likely to be casualties. I don't know whether such forces were at work in the Department of Transport's troubled scheme, but the PAC's report paints a picture of a macho management culture, pressing ahead with implementation deadlines that were known to be unrealistic.And remember that this is a scheme to share resources within a single department, with none of the challenges of trading between different entities.Despite the damning reports, the scheme, and many of its counterparts elsewhere in the public sector, should go ahead. To be fair, the DfT says that the project is still a work in progress.However, one of the PAC's recommendations deserves to be taken seriously: in future departments should "communicate clearly the incentives for success and the penalties for failure in projects such as this, including the expectation of the termination of employment contracts and naming those responsible".Macho managers, take note.
EA's approach to big franchises is always to pick a genre and copy its best exponent … and this time, it's the turn of Star Wars Battlefront.LOTR: Conquest allows you to play out the key battles from Peter Jackson's trilogy, from Helms Deep to Gandalf's Balrog-bash, crammed into two single-player campaigns and a 16-player online mode. Each level follows the same pattern – namely, a frantic struggle against up to 150 onscreen foes to regain control points from the enemy.Succeed and you can move on to the next objective or switch character class – from fighters, to mages or hero characters. Yes, it's one of those games that almost plays itself, but it's gorgeous to behold and a promising start to the gaming year.
The boss of the Apple computer empire, Steve Jobs, today disclosed that his health problems have become "more complex", prompting him to take extended leave from his role as chief executive until the end of June.In a shock announcement just eight days after Jobs reassured investors about his well-being, Jobs emailed employees to say that Apple's chief operating officer, Tim Cook, was taking control of day-to-day operations.Jobs, 53, survived pancreatic cancer five years ago. A deterioration in his health is likely to cause great alarm among both Apple investors and technology enthusiasts, who see him as the driving force behind successful products such as the iPod, the iMac and the iPhone.In his message to staff, Jobs said: "Unfortunately, the curiosity over my personal health continues to be a distraction not only for me and my family, but everyone else at Apple as well. In addition, during the past week I have learned that my health-related issues are more complex than I originally thought."In order to take myself out of the limelight and focus on my health, and to allow everyone at Apple to focus on delivering extraordinary products, I have decided to take a medical leave of absence until the end of June."Speculation over Jobs' health has been rife since the summer, when he appeared gaunt and drawn at a technology conference, prompting a slide in Apple's stock.On January 5, Jobs issued a statement acknowledging that he had suffered weight loss. But he blamed his condition on a relatively minor hormone imbalance and said he intended to remain in charge of Apple.Moments before today's announcement, trading in Apple's shares was suspended on the technology-dominated Nasdaq stockmarket.
This is the story running onPR NewswireandApple.com:Apple CEOSteve Jobstoday sent the following email to all Apple employees:Team,I am sure all of you saw my letter last week sharing something very personal with the Apple community. Unfortunately, the curiosity over my personal health continues to be a distraction not only for me and my family, but everyone else at Apple as well. In addition,during the past week I have learned that my health-related issues are more complex than I originally thought.In order to take myself out of the limelight and focus on my health, and to allow everyone at Apple to focus on delivering extraordinary products,I have decided to take a medical leave of absence until the end of June.I have asked Tim Cook to be responsible for Apple's day to day operations, and I know he and the rest of the executive management team will do a great job.As CEO, I plan to remain involved in major strategic decisions while I am out. Our board of directors fully supports this plan.I look forward to seeing all of you this summer.SteveSOURCE AppleBoldsections aremyemphasis, added after posting.For more information,see our report from Andrew Clark in New York.The New York Times now has:Apple's Chief Taking a Medical LeaveReuters:INSTANT VIEW: Apple CEO Jobs to take medical leaveBloomberg:Apple CEO Steve Jobs Takes Medical Leave Through JuneCNN Money:Apple's Jobs to take leaveWashington Post:Apple CEO Steve Jobs Takes Medical Leave of Absence
With the recession kicking in and an ominous cloud of caution hanging over the games industry, it could be that downloadable titles will be the true stars of 2009 - at least in terms of sparkling, original content. Last year's E3 was considerably lightened by the presence ofFat PrincessandflOwer,  while Ubisoft'sCellFactor: Psychokinetic Warsand Sony's ownEyePetlook intriguing.But one publisher thatreallyunderstands the downloadable market is Capcom. The recentMega Man 9title reveled in the brand's history, self-consciously brandishing 8bit visuals and old skool plot dynamics in a joyous platform adventure. Next month, the company will release Flock onto XBLA, PC and PSN. Flock is no retro arcade re-make – it's a brand new title from Dundee studioProper Games, set-up in 2006 by staff from defunct developer Visual Science. Like Mega Man 9, it has an idiosyncratic sense of style, combining eighties quirkiness with modern design sensibilities. Like Mega Man 9, Flock could only really exist in this burgeoning age of digital distribution.And like most current XBLA and PSN titles, this was no two-man job, chucked out over a couple of months. Working with the online platforms is a serious business now – and the Proper Games team are the first to admit, they weren't quite prepared for just how serious…"We spent the first year developing technology and investigating ways to get to market," explains CEO Paddy Sinclair. "The first thing we realised was, it wouldn't be as easy as we thought. Luckily we're funded privately so we had the luxury of getting it wrong. It was very… educational. We learned very quickly that, no, you can't write a game in three months. We also realized we'd need a bigger team than just two or three…""The XBLA market has really evolved," continues business development head, Chris Wright. "If you look at the very early games they were simple ports - single-player, retro emulation titles, and you can kick those out very quickly. That market is disappearing. If you're going to do retro remakes you have to extend it, you have to add multiplayer. If you're going to do something new, it has to be bigger. We've got a team of 10-12 people working on this title. If you look back, it's what we would have had on PS1, and the game is probably of the same sort of size. It's not the huge budgets of a retail title, but it's not a trivial undertaking either"The concept behind the game is a simple one – you control a flying saucer herding a range of different animals toward your mothership for abduction. The team jettisoned the idea of providing a plot fairly early on in the development process - "we don't know what your motivations is" deadpans designer Andrew Smith while showing me the game, "and we don't care".To herd animals you hover above, allowing your force field to nudge them in the direction you want them to go. There are 57 single-player missions, all taking place on different island environments, each crammed with obstacles, traps and power-up possibilities. In every location there are a set number of animals you must abduct – get any more and your score improves. There's also a timer ticking down – the quicker you complete the level, the better your rating.The key element is the inclusion of contrasting behaviours for each species. Sheep will pretty-much stumble around stupidly, but chickens race and flap, and are capable of flying short distances, allowing you to herd them over ledges if necessary. Cows are the stars – they get angry if prodded too much and will stampede, smashing through fences (which allows you to free other animals if properly directed). Later on it's possible to unlock a depressor beam that can be used to stretch and squeeze certain objects – squeeze a cow for example, and it'll produce a cow pat that will, in turn, attract pigs, which love to roll in it. There's loads of interspecies interaction; you've just got to figure out the benefits as you go along.Flock, you may have guessed, comes from a long British tradition of humorous strategy games, its sense of the ridiculous and boyish knockabout violence recalling the likes of Lemmings and Worms. The visuals too, have a similar handmade aesthetic. The landscapes are designed to look like overstuffed quilts, while the animals are daft, fluffy little critters.One of Geoff Gunning's original character designs. Note: no legs!Not all of this was intentional – some design decisions were the result of needing to get something running on screen as quickly as possible. As Paddy Sinclair explains,  "initially we had the sheep moving around just by bouncing – they had no legs because a couple of bits of the animation module weren't ready at that point. It was just the funniest thing we'd seen, so it stayed as a fundamental theme of the game – all the animals are stuffed toys, none of them have legs. The whole look evolved from simple little compromises like that, which were just to get the game going."But Flock, like Lemmings, isn't as daft as it looks. It's partly a smart sandbox puzzler, using realistic physics to create cool set-piece manoeuvres. On some levels for example, you need to roll boulders onto see-saw devices that'll shoot animals over otherwise impassable canyons. But, although a lot of these features have been set up with one solution in mind, play testers have been finding their own routes through each mission, exploiting bugs and oversights, which – as long as they don't break the game completely - the team has decided to just leave in.Importantly, there's a real understanding here of the casual marketplace. While the core game is relatively easy to get through for mainstream players, hardcore users are able to seek out extra points, perhaps by destroying trees with the repressor beam or creating combos of certain actions. Power-ups unlocked later in the game, can also be used to squeeze more points from earlier missions. For example, there's a tractor beam that lets you pick up and manipulate objects, using gates to make impromptu bridges. Players with good memories may subsequently recall stages where animals were simply unreachable first time round – well, they're not now.Completing the package are two must-have features: a co-op mode (albeit local two-player) with 17 dedicated missions and user-generated content. Flock ships with a full level editor, allowing players to create their own stages then post them online where they can be shared with, and rated by, the game's community. This feature, together with the quirky hand-crafted visuals, will no doubt draw comparisons with LittleBigPlanet, although Proper Games' Geoff Gunning who had the original idea for Flock, started working on the concept a year before Media Molecule unveiled LBP.So will Flock be at the vanguard of a new rush toward original XBLA and PSN development? Can we expect all the major developers to get involved? Chris Wright isn't sure. "I think the reason big studios don't do it is focus. If you have a big studio set up to do big retail titles, it's actually quite difficult to turn it into one doing smaller titles. But with Proper, our engine's focused on it, our pipeline's aimed at it. The structure, the design, the kinds of games we're planning to do – it's a mindset. You have to make a game of a certain size and certain type. It's got to be simple but also rewarding within the first 60 seconds."Wright compares the downloadable games scene to the arcade business of the eighties. In both, you've got the need to simultaneously entice hardcore gamers and casual browsers, using cool visuals, immediately intuitive gameplay and a tight attract mode – or in the case of XBLA and PSN, a decent demo. "It's actually really hard to produce a good demo," says Wright "A lot of them are terrible. What developers tend to do is finish the game then take the first ten minutes and turn it into the demo, which actually isn't the way you need to do it. The Flock demo is purpose-built and the levels have been very specifically picked to demonstrate the full game. You've got to capture the audience, you've got to let them have fun, but they've also got to understand the opportunities, the size of the full-game; they've got to be left on a cliffhanger. It's a real challenge. That's what the casual space is all about – how do you get people to convert? And conversion rates are fairly low".Flock should do the trick - Capcom certainly thinks so. The publisher offered Proper Games a deal after seeing an early version at the Leipzig Games Convention in 2007 and has apparently been hugely supportive. "They're still making arcade games which is quite rare" enthuses Wright,  "they get that idea of instant playability. They also have the right mentality for XBLA. I mean Mega Man 9, that's not a normal thing to do..." If Flock is a success, Proper has other downloadable titles planned. There was a prototype developed before Flock that could come into play again. The studio is also a registered Wii developer so WiiWare is an option.It's clear this team enjoys the challenges of working in the downloadable gaming field. As Wright says, "You don't have FMV or cut-scenes or story and all that stuff which can sort of hide the fact that the game mechanic isn't that good. If the mechanic of an XBLA game doesn't work, well there's really nothing else there". Flock has no FMV, no cut-scenes, no story, but, sure enough, the mechanic is strong. It's offbeat, it's silly, but it's also solidly playable. Like I said, classic British game design.
You probably heard this the other day but Guitar Hero III has become the first game togenerate over 1 billion USDin sales. Impressive figures even if you factor in the high price for the game and guitar.  But what about taking the genre to the next level? Don't get me wrong, Guitar Hero World Tour and Rock Band 2 are great fun with the right crowd, mainly because the drums are such a hoot. But what next? Yes, the publishers can keep on rolling out song packs for hoary old rockers like ACDC and Metallica. But how exciting is that? Exactly. Yes, what we need to push the music genre along to the next level is... Synth Hero!Yes, stick with me here. What we really need is Synth Hero complete with a nice plastic Moog orJupiter 8obviously. Just think of the songs you could include with the game. Where do you start? Going back in the day you've got Kraftwerk -The Modelwould be a one of the easier songs in the game - the entirety of Dare by the Human League, and most of Depeche Mode's catalogue (though Personal Jesus could easily be on Guitar Hero) just for starters. You could stick on some dance/rave stuff too – early Prodigy? – maybe some of Saint Etienne's more electronic moments. And it won't be 80s and 90s classics only. There is loads of contempary stuff -Little Boots, Ladytron, Hot Chip,Errorsetc - to keep this from being a retro collection.Yes, Synth Hero may have a more European appeal but you could always stick inVan Halen's Jumpto keep the traditionalists happy.So, what do you think? Are you happy enough with the - yawn - conventional Guitar Hero and Rock Band guitars/bass/drums setup? Or, like me, are you waiting for Synth Hero? Or at least the inclusion of a synth as an add-on instrument. And if so what synth/electronic classics would you like to prod along to in front of your telly?
Early adopters are eagerly downloading the first beta release of Microsoft's next operating system, Windows 7. Microsoft no doubt hopes it will repair the reputation of Windows, tarnished by too many bad user experiences with Vista, and by the steady growth of Apple's market share. The buzz is mostly positive, though there are dissenters.Paul Thurrott, a Windows expert, likes it overall, but says that the "comingling of different functions" in the taskbar "is a whopper of a mistake, and one that will actively harm most Windows users", adding that the new libraries feature "will confuse users for years to come". These are described below - see what you think.That said, most agree that Windows 7 is smoother, better-looking, and less annoying than its predecessor. It has similar internals, which means that most software that worked in Vista should continue to work after the upgrade.Raising the (task)barWindows 7 makes significant changes to the desktop and taskbar, the strip of icons that by default runs across the bottom of the screen. The taskbar was introduced in Windows 95, and has worked in broadly the same way since.Windows 7 changes the rules. The taskbar is bigger by default, and its icons can be shortcuts for launching applications as well as showing what is running. In this respect it is like the Dock in Apple's OS X, though the Windows effort is chunkier and not as pretty. Only frequently used applications that you choose to "pin" appear there, and a subtle difference in shading shows what is actually running. Clicking an icon has varying results depending on the context: it could activate a window or launch an application, or summon a preview or pop up a customised "jump list" menu.Sneaking a peekIt sounds confusing, but in practice feels mostly intuitive. If you hover the mouse over a preview, other applications go temporarily transparent - which can be disconcerting, particularly if you do not actually click and the window fades back into the background.There are more tricks to come. Sometimes you can do all your work from the preview or jump list, for simple actions such as playing or pausing a song in a media player. A new "peek" feature is triggered by hovering over the Show Desktop icon, and uses temporary transparency to show your desktop icons and gadgets.Libraries lets you merge several locations into a single view: each library has a "Save location", which determines where stuff goes if you save it there. The feature is powerful but can be confusing, such as when two different documents of the same name exist in separate folders. In some views they cannot be distinguished.Homegroups form a simplified approach to home sharing. They are aimed at homes with a wireless network, several PCs and perhaps a game console and network storage device.The first PC defines a new homegroup with a password; others on the network can then join the group. There are options to share media, using the standards of the DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance - dlna.org) - although Apple, unfortunately, is not a member. Support for online identity providers will enable per-user permissions even in a home network, though this is not working in the beta. The Device Stage appears when users connect a device such as a camera, mobile phone, printer or MP3 player. I connected a Sansa Clip, one of the few devices supported in the beta, and was able to follow a link to update its firmware. Other features are aimed at businesses, including encryption for USB storage devices and direct access to server applications online. Built-in support for a variety of sensors will enable location-aware software.You can touch thisAnother theme in Windows 7 is touch control, and some of the user interface enhancements have this in mind. The Windows 7 beta is high quality, and although Microsoft will not commit to a date, there are indications that the company is aiming to complete the software in the summer, with general availability by autumn this year.Microsoft's reluctance to reveal a release date may partly be for fear of stalling sales of Vista. Windows users who can afford to wait will probably want to do so. That said, behind the revamped desktop Windows 7 is not radically different from Vista, and Vista today is more mature and reliable than it was on first release.There are several implications. Hardware requirements will be similar - a machine bought now with Vista should be fine for running Windows 7 later, and application and driver compatibility should be good. On the other hand, users who have stuck with XP will be faced with the same compatibility issues in Windows 7 as they would get with Vista. That is not surprising, as XP is now more than seven years old - an eternity in computing. Windows 7 may be the release that persuades XP diehards to upgrade.Test driving Windows 7Microsoft has made Beta 1 of Windows 7 publicly available. Anyone candownload and install it, and a previously announced limit of 2.5m has been lifted at least until 24 January.Several health warnings apply. Beta software is unsupported, and this one will expire on 1 August, by which time either an updated pre-release or the final version will be available.It is not normally possible to upgrade from a beta, so you should expect to zap the install completely when you are done with it. The beta is intended for testing on a spare machine, not for real work.The Windows 7 download comes as a file with a .iso extension, which is a software image of a DVD. This can be copied to a real DVD using any DVD writer, or mounted as a virtual DVD using a software utility.There are several strategies you can use to install it. An actual spare PC or laptop is ideal, if it is not too old; the rule of thumb is that it should be able to run Vista. Technical enthusiasts can also use a spare hard drive or partition in their main PC, and choose which Windows to run when starting up.Another popular approach is to use a virtual PC. These systems let you emulate a PC in software. Microsoft's Virtual PC is afree download, as is the excellent and open sourceVirtualBox.You can even attach the downloaded .iso file directly, with no need to burn a DVD. They are isolated from the rest of your system, and removing the beta later is as easy as deleting a file. The main drawback is that you need a more powerful base PC, and the performance will not be as good as with real hardware, particularly for graphics.
On being appointed, Carol Bartz, Yahoo's new chief executive, said: "There is no denying that Yahoo has faced enormous challenges over the last year. But I believe there is now an extraordinary opportunity to create value for our shareholders and new possibilities for our customers, partners and employees. We will seize that opportunity."There's an extraordinary opportunity, is there? Note that key phrase "create value for our shareholders" - who are, of course, the Olympian gods to whom all American chief executives must pay fealty. Pushing up the share price is the most important thing any chief executive can do for a US technology company - usually because the dividends they pay are so measly that flipping shares is the best way for them to realise any money out of them. And Yahoo, like Apple - and Microsoft for years - doesn't pay a dividend.But let's not get ahead of ourselves. Imagine yourself given the task of running Yahoo today. The questions you'd have to ask yourself are: what is Yahoo best at? And what makes Yahoo the most money?The trouble is, the two are very probably not the same. So if Bartz is going to "create value" (ie goose the share price) she'll have to focus on the money-making activities.Let'sgo to some numbers. Yahoo: for FY07 (which is the same as the calendar year 07) its net income was $660m on revenues of $6.97bn. Its annual revenues are looking much the same for 2008 - but profits fell off a cliff after March, from $542m in the second quarter to $131m and then $54m in the third quarter. (The fourth-quarter results should be announced soon.)Trouble is, this isn't a new phenomenon. Yahookeeps disappointing with its profits.The reason: it has for so long been doing the peanut butter sandwich model - spreading everything wide and thin. When itgot called on this failing strategy, back in November 2006, by then senior exec Brad Garlinghouse, the reaction from the top was instant. The executives read thememoand said "Hmm."And then carried on pretty much as before.Although Terry Semel, who'd been in place, subsequently got kicked out. To be replaced by Jerry Yang.So whichareYahoo's money-making activities? Flickr? Yahoo Mail? Its front page? Pipes? Actually, we don't know. We know it makes money from display adverts. We know it makes money from adverts sold against search. But we have no way of looking at which particular properties are useful. It's possible - judging by theannual report's "How We Generate Revenues" page- that it's not that clear even to the managers: there is a huge sprawl of Yahoo properties, and ads get plastered all over them. None costs that much to run. They get some ads. Who knows where the profits really lie?Yahoo's other problem: it isn't Facebook or MySpace, and it seems to have missed the opportunity to be either. Quite probably many of the people on one or both of those services have a Yahoo email or messenger account. Why, oh why, couldn't it have gotten into bed with one of them sooner? Why, in short, doesn't Yahoo understand social networking - which is after all about people interacting?Bartz's problem, then, is to somehow discover an underlying order in all this - or else to impose it. The classic task that any manager trying to figure out what to do next undertakes is theSWOT analysis: Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats.So, what are they?Strengths:Yahoo is enormous, and a major destination for millions of people. It has huge amounts of user-generated content on websites and particularly in Flickr.Weaknesses:falling behind in search, share price low makes it an attractive bid, Microsoft has its eyes on its search business, nothing that it does actually stands out as absolutely the best on the web.Opportunities:given its breadth of activity, Yahoo might be able to inveigle itself into almost everywhere, if it can persuade people not to go with Google or Microsoft. Alternatively, if it can strip itself down into a more comprehensible shape and stop buying companies willy-nilly, it could become a destination that actually means something - rather as Facebook does to many people - rather than "the place where I check my webmail before going to Facebook". (Imagine if Facebook introduced email. Yahoo might curl up and die.)Threats:falling advertising revenue due to the economy, grumpy shareholders such as Carl Icahn who want to see the stock rise, Microsoft's desire for the really useful bits of the company (such as search), every other small company that seems to have a clue and which is trying to hire disaffected Yahoos away.(Someone else has done one- no date - which I found after writing that. And anotherfuller analysis from a business studies course, who apparently didn't have a spellchecker, from May 2007, which points to the opportunities in video and mobile.)In retrospect,Yahoo's failure to buy YouTube in October 2006may one day come to be seen as its deathknell. That, and its inability to grasp the value of social networking.Fasten your seatbelt, Ms Bartz. It's going to be a bumpy ride.
Using Safari to capture RSS feeds on a Mac or Windows machine? You shouldn't - aserious vulnerability has been discoveredwhich would allow a malicious siteTo read files on a user's hard drive without user intervention. This can be used to gain access to sensitive information stored on the user's computer, such as emails, passwords, or cookies that could be used to gain access to the user's accounts on some web sites. The vulnerability has been acknowledged by Apple.Unfortunately, "acknowledged by Apple" doesn't equate yet to "fixed by Apple". The discoverer, Brian Mastenbrook, has form in finding Apple vulnerabilities:one,two,three,four- each dealing either with problems in handling potentially unsafe URLs or lack of warning before opening "certain potentially unsafe content types".The problem seems to lie in Apple's Webkit, as users of OmniWeb (a Mac browser which uses the WebKit rendering engine) are also believed to be vulnerable.Mastenbrook also explains how to avoid the problem on a Mac, at least until Apple fixes it:To work around this issue until a fix is released by Apple, users should perform the following steps:Download and install theRCDefaultApp preference pane, following the included instructions.Open System Preferences and choose the Default Applications option.Select the "URLs" tab in the window that appears.Choose the "feed" URL type from the column on the left, and choose a different application or the "disabled" option.Repeat the previous step for the "feeds" and "feedsearch" URL types.The only workaround available for users of Safari on Windows is to use a different web browser.Safarigained RSS capabilities in 2004, with version 2.0. The idea that RSS could be a path to vulnerability haven't been discussed often (and Mastenbrook isn't giving away any more details, though that won't stop a lot of hackers trying to figure out what the sikrit method is). But it's clear that you can't be too careful.Update:to clarify, if you're using something like Google Reader or Bloglines to read RSS feeds, then essentially you're just looking at a web page which doesn't contain RSS feeds. This vulnerability is about using Safari's built-in RSS reader, not web-based ones.
Yahoo's new chief executive, Carol Bartz, has a long history in Silicon Valley, with positions at Autodesk and Sun Microsystems as well as directorships at Intel, Cisco and NetApp.The 60-year-old is known for being a tough competitor and fighter – not just professionally, but personally too: shortly after getting the top job at Autodesk in 1992, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. In the end she took just a month off work to receive treatment before continuing her job.In a conference call after the Yahoo appointment, Bartz did not give away her immediate plans, but said she planned to buy the company "some friggin' breathing room" so that it can "kick some butt".In a statement, the company's chairman, Roy Bostock, said that Bartz was "exactly what Yahoo needs"."She is the exact combination of seasoned technology executive and savvy leader that the board was looking for – and we are thrilled to have attracted such a world-class talent to Yahoo."Bartz is seen as a solid manager and safe guardian, who places a strong emphasis on social responsibility – something that could benefit Yahoo's image, particularly after itscontroversial dealings with the Chinese government.Credibility with investors is also vitally important for the Silicon Valley company, after a series of difficult years that have taken the shine off the dotcom pioneer. "She is admired in the Valley as well as on Wall Street," Bostock added.The move brings an end to a two-month search to replace the former CEO Jerry Yang, who announced in November thathe would be stepping downas chief executive after a torrid 18 months in charge.Yahoo also announced that Sue Decker, currently the company's president, will resign her position after what Yahoo called a "transitional period". Decker, who was the company's chief financial officer for seven years, was widely seen as a potential CEO but was perhaps too intimately involved in recent management failures.When Yang took over the chief executive's role in June 2007, many saw it as an attempt to manoeuvre Decker into power – but the company's failure to outline a coherent strategy and recent poor financial results left her reputation tarnished.Bartz was boss of the 7,000-strong design software firm Autodesk from 1992 to 2006, and still serves as its executive chairwoman. None of her previous roles, however, compare to the high-profile job as Yahoo's chief executive, one of the most important and pressured roles in the internet industry."There is no denying that Yahoo has faced enormous challenges over the last year," Bartz said. "But I believe there is now an extraordinary opportunity to create value for our shareholders and new possibilities for our customers, partners and employees. We will seize that opportunity."Bartz's biggest immediate challenge could be to fend off another takeover approach from Microsoft – which has once again been sniffing around Yahoo's business – but will also require an ability to unite the company's 13,000 demoralised staff."The Yahoo brand is very muddled and confusing," Neil Sims of the headhunting company Boyden, who has worked with Yahoo in the past, told Reuters."The company is a cobbled-together association of fiefdoms, and within those business units and predecessor companies are strong personalities and agendas."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
James Bond's favourite inventor, Q, would probably approve of the Parajet Skycar, but even 007 might think twice about the hazardous mission that awaits it.At 10am today the vehicle that can "drive like a car" and "fly like a plane" will begin a journey from the salubrious surroundings of Knightsbridge, London, to Timbuktu.The trip of 6,000km (3,700 miles) will take the car - in plane mode - over the strait of Gibraltar, the Pyrenees, the Sahara and finally to the Malian city.As well as natural barriers, the team has been warned about the threat of kidnap in volatile parts of Africa and the car will have to negotiate a minefield in Mauritania - "I might fly that one," said 45-year-old expedition leader Neil Laughton.When the need for flight arises - estimated to be for 40% of the journey - a ParaWing, a parachute of the type used by paragliders, will be dragged behind the modified off-road buggy and the propeller on the back of the vehicle will boost the Skycar down whatever happens to be serving as an improvised runway. When it reaches 45mph, enough lift should be generated to get the car airborne, its weight supported only by "a silk handkerchief, a large one at that", said Laughton.Emphasising that the journey would be the Skycar's maiden voyage, the expedition leader admitted the car had not yet been tested to any "distance, heat or endurance" and that there was an element of "mad Brits" about the adventure.Its inventor, Gideon Cardoso, 28, dubbed the "boy genius" by Laughton, will accompany the former SAS officer for part of the journey and a support team of up to 13 people will be at hand.Cardoso has visions of the Skycar being sold to the public for "beating congestion ... or providing a low-cost method of reaching remote regions". But the expedition is not just about proving the viability of this unique vehicle.The adventurers plan to raise more than &pound;100,000 for a number of charities, including Alive and Kicking, which distributes footballs bearing health advice in Africa. The plan is for the flying car to descend on African villages and for the team to challenge the inhabitants to a game of football before flying out. "I can't wait to see their face," said Laughton.
Yahoo has just issued apress releaseconfirming that Carol Bartz, former executive chairman of AutoDesk, is replacing Jerry Yang at the helm of Yahoo. Yahoo's president Sue Decker will resign after a "transitional period". It remains to be seen how many other people will follow….The announcement was widely expected (as we reported), but we should give a hat-tip to Kara Swisher at Boom Town on All Things D, who was first to float the idea last Wednesday in a story:New Prospect for Yahoo CEO: Carol Bartz(and no, she hasn't let us forget that).But the key question is what happens next, and as Swisher says:Is a Microsoft Search Deal With Yahoo "Ticked and Tied"?Apparently Microsoft is ready. Swisher says:BoomTown could not get further details of the proposal, but it is likely to be similar to past ones Microsoft has offered, with a small payment upfront and a long-term and large amount of guaranteed revenue.Yahoo seems to have had trouble finding someone to grasp the poisoned chalice, but Bartz is already 60. She could parcel Yahoo into saleable bits and get some of the shareholders their money back, or even turn the business around -- not a safe bet given the state of the world.  But if it all goes wrong, she's not going to ruin a bright career.
Tomorrow, the Internet Safety Technical Task Force, led by the Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, is due to deliver a report ordered by 49 state attorneys general, and the US papers have just started reporting on the draft.The New York Times goes withReport Calls Online Threats to Children Overblown, saying that:children and teenagers are very unlikely to be propositioned by adults online. In the cases that do exist, the report said, teenagers are typically willing participants and are at risk in other ways (with poor home environments, depression or substance abuse, for example).The report criticized previous findings that one in five or one in seven minors are sexually propositioned online, saying that in a strong majority of those situations, a child's peers are responsible for the proposition, which typically amounts to an act of harassment or teasing.The task force also looked at age-verification technologies and "concluded that such systems 'do not appear to offer substantial help in protecting minors from sexual solicitation'."The Wall Street Journal's headline isInternet Child Safety Report Finds No Easy Technology Fix. It says:the task force found that the risks that minors face on the Web—notably bullying and harassment by peers, which are far more common than sexual predation—aren't very different from those they face in the real world. The group reviewed several different types of technologies, including age and identity verification, filtering and auditing, text analysis and biometrics, and found they came up short of a comprehensive way to protect children and teens. In addition, the report found that deploying these technologies would be costly and could create broader privacy and security problems.The New York Times says: "The 39-page document was the result of a year of meetings between dozens of academics, childhood safety experts and executives of 30 companies, including Yahoo, AOL, MySpace, Facebook, Verizon and AT&amp;T."
Another day, another batch ofconsole sales figuresalthough at least this latest lot are interesting. Ok, no real shocks, but the 360 is a little closer to the Wii than I expected. Anyway, the headline is obvious. As of Jan 3rd 2009 the Wii, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 have sold a combined total of 10 million units in the UK.  The Wii – unsurprisingly – accounts for most of these sales, with 4.9 million units sold. The 360 is next up with 3.2 million sold, with the PS3 on 1.9 million.The handheld market is similarly buoyant with the DS and DS Lite selling 8.8 million in the UK. The PSP has sold a surprisingly high 3.2 million. Surprising because hardly any games get made for it anymore. A shame really as I've always liked my PSP – battery aside. So taking handheld sales into account the combined console installed base in the UK is 22m.So what does this mean? Are games really set toeclipse other media? Or is this a gaming sales blip caused by Wii and DS-mania?
On this week's show, we're looking back at the technology events that rocked America last week at the Consumer Electronics Show, including an interview with the developers of mind-bending machines. A computer game controlled with brainwaves? Yes, Bobbie meets the folks behind the MindFlex, as well as a GPS watch to track your kids, and an internet surfing device that uses Android from people who make digital picture frames.Plus we have all the news from the West Coast of America., and a bumper pack of blog comments and feedback – all that and more, on Tech Weekly.
Yahoo will shortly confirm former Autodesk head Carol Bartz as its new chief executive, the Wall Street Journal reported today, ending months of speculation about the replacement for co-founder and beleaguered chief executive Jerry Yang.The appointment of the 60-year-old, who is understood to have accepted the role, follows a two-month search during which Jonathan Miller, former chief executive of AOL, and Meg Whitman, former chief executive of eBay, were rumoured to be considered as potential replacements for Yang.Bartz was chief executive of the 7,000-strong Californian design software firm Autodesk from 1992 to 2006, and still serves as the firm's executive chairwoman. She has also worked at Sun Microsystems and Cisco.Following rumours of Bartz's appointment, tech blogs were split over the decision, asking whether she was too old, too close to Yang and Yahoo's president Susan Decker, and whether she had enough experience in advertising or web business to steer Yahoo through another difficult period.She is seen, however, as an experienced operator who will probably be supported by a more internet-experienced deputy. She faces the potential sale of part of Yahoo's advertising business or a merger with AOL.Yahoo's management has long been under pressure from shareholders over its financial performance and failure to compete with market leader Google, and Yang was blamed when negotiations with Microsoft over its $47.5bn takeover offer collapsed. Yahoo's stock price has fallen from a peak of around $30 after Microsoft made its bid last January to around $13 on Tuesday night.After a boardroom takeover battle led by veteran corporate raider Carl Icahn, Yang stepped down in November last year, resuming his previous role of "chief Yahoo" and continuing as a director.Yahoo said it had no comment to make at this time.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Alex Wissner-Gross, the physicist quoted in several articles about Google's carbon footprint, is putting some distance between himself and comments attributed to him over the search giant's environmental impact. He toldTechNewsWorld.com:One problem: the study's author, Harvard University physicist Alex Wissner-Gross, says he never mentions Google in the study. "For some reason, in their story on the study, the Times had an ax to grind with Google," Wissner-Gross told TechNewsWorld. "Our work has nothing to do with Google. Our focus was exclusively on the Web overall, and we found that it takes on average about 20 milligrams of CO2 per second to visit a Web site."Wissner-Gross did say that a search using Google has "definite environmental impact" and that they operate energy-intensive data centres, butJason Kincaid on TechCrunch says:But the "tea kettle" statistic that has been repeated ad nauseum simply isn't his.Wissner-Gross asked for a correction, but none has been made.That doesn't mean that Wissner-Gross isn't talking about Google's environmental impact, which he doesin this CNBC interview, but he puts this in context of the global IT industry. The presenter seems shocked that Global IT has the same carbon footprint as all of the world's airlines, according to Gartner. But she also doesn't qualify the ffigure with real numbers, currently 2% of global emissions.
Reeling fromlow sales of the latest iteration of their prize property, Eidoshas announced that they're set torevamp the Lara Croft character, reinventing her as more "female-friendly" in a cynical attempt at wooing a new audience.I wonder what they'll do. Will they paint herpink? Will they reduce her breast size? Will they put her in less revealing clothing?Or, perhaps instead of focussing on the character alone – which is apretty cheap shot at women everywhere if they think that's all theyhave to do – they should scratch the silicon(e) surface and create amore compelling narrative, a more playable game and a better all-around product, eh?If you were to transform Crofty into a more "female-friendly" versionof herself, what would you do?
Last week saw yet another depressing announcement from the One Laptop Per Child project – more redundancies, further cutting back on the project's commitment to its free and open operating system, and a general scaling back and winding down of one of the most ambitious, inspiring projects of the past 10 years.In case you missed it, OLPC's mission is to put a small, flexible, hackable laptop in the hands of every child on the planet. There's been endless debate on the wisdom of this. Detractors say that the developing world needs food, literacy training and mobile phones – not laptops. These sceptics are sure to see the OLPC's woes as confirmation that the project was doomed from the start.But I disagree, on both counts. I believe that the world's poor will derive lasting, meaningful benefit from widespread access to technology and networks. And I believe that laptop computers will eventually find their way into the hands of practically every child in the developing world, even if the OLPC project shuts its doors tomorrow.First, the case for laptops as tools for sustainable, appropriate, community-driven development: the original, audacious OLPC plan envisioned its laptops as pedagogical and development wonder-boxes. They were to be wide open and trivially modifiable by their owners, ensuring that inspired young programmers could develop any and all software and hardware add-ons that suited their needs. Their networking stacks were built on the idea of forming ad-hoc meshes that made it easy to connect any OLPC units to one another, and to share Internet connections among them.In short, the OLPC vision is to deliver to children in the developing world the capacity to play and work together to produce tools and networks and communities at the lowest possible cost, with the highest possible flexibility. Poverty and its associated problems – hunger, poor health, lack of education and disenfranchisement – are fundamentally information problems. Poverty is exacerbated by the high cost of discovering how your peers have solved their agricultural problems, of accessing government services, of communicating with distant relations who have gone to the city to earn on behalf of the family. Poverty and oppression thrive in situations where people can't communicate cheaply and widely with one another about corruption, injustice and violence.The success of mobile phones in defraying these co-ordination costs shows just how profoundly technology can change the cycle of poverty. Whether it's electoral monitors armed with mobile phones who watch the ballots move from the polls to the counting houses in Kenya, the citizen reporters who exposed the brutality in Myanmar, or the fishermen and farmers in Africa and Asia who use networks to find the best market for their goods. A mobile phone network can multiply the food, education, health and democracy that  is already there, and be used to bring new resources besides.But mobile phones are necessarily an interim step. Adding software to most mobile phones is difficult or impossible without the permission of a central carrier, which makes life very hard for local technologists who have a very particular, local itch that needs scratching (and forget about collectively improving the solutions that do get approved – when was the last time you heard of someone downloading an app for her phone, improving it, and republishing it?). Mobile phone use is always metered, limiting their use and exacting a toll on people who can least afford to pay it. Worst of all, the centralised nature of mobile networks means that in times of extremis, governments and natural disasters will wreak havoc on our systems, just as we need them most.By contrast, an open laptop with mesh networking is designed to be locally customised, to have its lessons broadcast to others who can use them, and to avoid centralised control and vulnerability to bad weather and bad governments. It is designed to be nearly free from operating costs, so that once the initial investment is made, all subsequent use is free, encouraging experimentation and play, from which all manner of innovations may spring.It may be that OLPC won't be the entity that puts a laptop into the hands of every child on the planet. Certainly, they've disappointed me more than once along the way: for example, the decision to add remote kill-switches to the machines to deter thieves (incidentally creating a situation where a thuggish state or despot could shut down the network), and the decision to emphasise running Microsoft's proprietary, non-customisable, toll-bearing operating systems at the expense of the free, locally modifiable GNU/Linux systems they started with.But so what? I remember the decades during which I (and others of my bent) went around telling people that PCs and the internet were destined to change their lives for ever, no matter who they were, no matter what they did. Over those years, we had many failures, mostly due to bad preconceptions of why and how our loved ones and co-workers would benefit from our beloved systems. We told our grandmothers that the PC would be the ultimate cookbook, told our bosses that the internet would let them field better sales brochures, told our kids that educational CD-Roms would teach them to read faster. From Sinclair to Commodore to Acorn, computing platforms rose and fell, breaking up on the cliffs of the unguessable public taste.Slowly and surely, though, IT infiltrated every social group. Whether you're looking for an underground dance party on Friday or help coping with your terminal cancer or a way to feed your compulsive need to acquire plush stuffed animals, the internet is where you live. Each new group came online when one key person within it figured out what all this technology was for, as far as his social circle was concerned. My grandparents steadfastly ignored PCs until they worked out that all their friends were getting scads of email from their grandchildren, while they were stuck with a few paltry letters and cards. In record time, a PC and internet connection were purchased, installed, and mastered – at least, far enough to tackle the key task for which the machine was purchased.The protean nature of IT is its greatest weakness – it's impossible to say what it's for – and its greatest strength – it's for anything you can think of. The OLPC detractors who say that the rich, northern minority can't know what the world's majority need are right. And that's why giving the world's poor access to the tools that they can use in any way they can imagine is so powerful. It's a break from the centuries-old model of development and aid. It's an invitation for the world's majority to simultaneously access all of human knowledge as equal participants in the global conversation, all the while having the power to modify their systems to match their needs.Early PCs such as the 1975 Altair were unrelentingly hostile to their usersand functionally useless except as systems for occupying the spare time of their owners. And yet, these early efforts led inexorably to the continuous refinement of technology, as larger and larger populations of users were captured by the promise of these systems. The eventual failure of the Altair (discontinued in 1978) did not invalidate the promise of computing. It would have been a visionary entrepreneur indeed who invented the perfect system the first time out.Likewise, the OLPC may falter and vanish. But the vision of a world where we can all talk to one another, where we can all modify our tools to suit our needs, where we are not charged a toll for our access to democracy, communities and ideas – that will live on forever.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Smarthouse reports: "Mobile phone company HTC is set to launch a brand new phone touch phone that will take on the Apple iPhone and the new Pre offering from Palm claims a senior executive of Telstra." Telstra staff say:"We have seen both and we believe that the new HTC phone will be a real competitor to the iPhone and the Pre which at this stage looks nice but is still not delivered to market."Taiwan-based HTC already makes the Touch and Touch HD phones, which are based on Microsoft's Windows Mobile. However, it has got into the Android market by manufacturing the first G1 "googlephone" so it makes sense to develop -- or redevelop -- its own software on top that. Indeed, from HTC's point of view, it would make sense to offer the same TouchFlo interface on all its phones, regardless of operating system … and then refuse to share it with anyone else.Both Android and Palm's WebOS are based on open Linux. It will be interesting to see how "de facto proprietary" they turn out to be in reality.
Anyone who searches for information on the web will land onMetaFiltereventually, probably without realising what it is. Nowadays, the web is designer driven, and priority is given to bold headlines, large photos, and illustrations. MetaFilter is the opposite: there are no pictures at all, and what might be headlines are in the same small print as the text. Here, it's the quality of the information that counts, not the quantity of the display.MetaFilter describes itself as a "community weblog" and that's how it started in 1999.Matt Haugheywrote the software for the site, set it up, and still runs it. All the front page posts (FPPs) are made by members, who pay $5 for their lifetime accounts.Like regular blog posts, FPPs are links to other things on the net, though the idea is that they should be less obvious ones. Yesterday's list included A visit to Russian abandoned nuclear lighthouses, Twenty-nine Tao te Chings, a line at a time, and Fridge magnets in seven scripts. Longer posts effectively synthesise a news story for discussion, often with links to a dozen or more sites.Although anyone can make an FPP (after being a member for a week), the posts are consistently well written and correctly spelled. That's almost always true of the comments, too. MetaFilter has few written rules, but plenty of community pressure against ranting, self-promotion and fanboy product puffery of the sort that is the staple fodder of most comment sites. Anyone who believes in the "broken windows theory" could use MetaFilter as an example.Nowadays, however, many MeFites (MetaFilter users) may be less interested in "the blue" front page than in some of the newer sections. The most important for outsiders isAskMeFi(Ask MetaFilter), where members suggest answers to a wide variety of questions. Lots of these are computer questions, but others range from what to eat to "How can my ex-girlfriend and I live together while avoiding jealousy and drama?" AskMeFi has 20 sections including media &amp; arts, pets &amp; animals, and religion &amp; philosophy.Two more recent additions areMetaFilter Projects, introduced in 2005, andMetaFilter Music, in 2006. The Projects area lets people promote what they are doing ("I'm starting this online magazine" etc) so that other members can provide feedback, or vote for them. The Music area lets members upload their own songs, performances or podcasts for others to share. If you ever wanted to hear "a cover of Then He Kissed Me by The Crystals that [clcapps] threw together this morning, primarily featuring gamelan instrumentation",thisis the place.Like any close community, MetaFilter takes some getting used to, and there is a wiki that provides help with thein-jokesand jargon. There's also some serious discussion in theMetaTalkarea, whichsometimeshas me crying with laughter.MetaFilter is a reminder of what online communities could be like, before the web was swamped by the hoi polloi. For that reason alone, it's worth cultivating.
Is that Google search really necessary? It's the latest question that environmentalists are asking after therelease of research from US physicist Alex Wissner-Gross. He says that a Google search performed from a desktop produces about 7g of CO2, whereas boiling a kettle releases about 15 g. Google, and a fair number of others on the internet, are questioning the figures, making it one of the most discussed issues on the internet right now.Google has fired backsaying:In fact, in the time it takes to do a Google search, your own personal computer will use more energy than Google uses to answer your query.Google claims that its servers generate 0.2g CO2 per search, and counters that "the average car driven for one kilometer (0.6 miles for those of in the U.S.) produces as many greenhouse gases as a thousand Google searches." Kevin Marks, who works at Google on their Open Social project, says on his personal blog that people generate about6g of CO2 from simply breathing for 10 minutes. Jason Kincaid at TechCrunch looks at afew other activities to put this carbon output in context.Asingle bookruns around 2,500 grams of CO2, or more than 350 times a Google search. Bysome estimates, a single cheeseburger has a carbon footprint of around 3,600 grams - over 500 times larger than a Google search. Granted, meat in general has a notoriously large carbon footprint, but if you're genuinely concerned about your environmental impact then try cutting a burger from your diet every week and search guilt-free (you may even lose a few pounds).Kevin Marks highlights this quote from Chris Goodall, author of Ten Technologies to Save the Planet, who estimates the carbon emissions of a Google search at 7g to 10g. That assumes 15 minutes of computer use per search. These estimates of several grams per search factor in six to 15 minutes of computer use by the owner of the computer. Is that Google's carbon or simply carbon produced from general computer use?The tech community has also been quick to point outGoogle's green efforts, and tech commentator Jeremy Wagstaff highlights a possibleconflict of interest for Wissner-Gross. Articles mention that Wissner-Gross has set upCO2stats.com. Wagstaff says that neither the article in the Times (nor another article atBBC News) explain:...the website—and Wissner-Gross--directly benefits from this kind of research. C02Stats offers clients plans, ranging from $5 a month to $100, to calculate their websites total energy consumption, make it more energy efficient, and then neutralizes their carbon footprint by buying renewable energy from wind and solar farms.Now, it's pretty typical for news organisations to cover stories like this, and it's a clever bit of PR. However, not to explain the business model of Wissner-Gross' website, help put the figures in context and provide motivation for the publication of the figures. Many have asked about the figures methology, andCO2stats.com provides an outline of its method:CO2Stats software continuously scans your website so that it can monitor your site's energy usage each time someone visits your site. CO2Stats is very smart, and is able to capture a large amount of data about your site's total energy consumption. For example, it can tell what make and model of computer your visitor is using, what its electrical consumption is, and even what types of fossil fuels are being burned in order to power that computer. Likewise, it is able to detect how much and what type of energy your server is using, and even how much and what type of energy is being used to power the networks that are connecting your visitors' computers with your servers.That raises a question. Is Google responsible for the ineffiency of some computers that people are using to conduct their search?Articles are also unflatteringly comparing the carbon output of the global IT industry with another oft-cited carbon criminal, the airline industry. However, to put this figure in context, both industries contribute 2% of the global carbon emissions. With campaigners targeting airlines for action, how long will it be before IT is in the crosshairs? John Naughton thinks "environmental impact of computing is one of the Next Big Stories." How long before we see pickets at PC World?
Admittedly, I write a lot of Gamesblog posts while ensconced comfortably in my home office - although by home office, I actually mean dangerously cluttered attic room. However, once in a while I escape, and last night I flew out to Dundee to visit several local developers and find out why this unassuming city has such a healthy concentration of videogame studios.Of course, the presence of DMA Design has something to do with it. The GTA creator was here for years before its Rockstar North rebrand and move to Edinburgh, and along the way, lots of staff have left to set up their own ventures; one of the companies I'm seeing today,TAG games, was formed by two original Grand Theft Auto designers. Similar things have happened in Newcastle, where longstanding local studios Reflections and Eutechnyx, have spawned several smaller studios and start-ups, and in Leamington Spa, where ex-Codemasters staff have created their own Midlands-version of Silicon Valley.Anyway, I'll find out later. And tomorrow, I'll be heading over toDenki, home of ex-Zzap 64! scribe and game design guru, Gary Penn. This is an interesting studio, which has ploughed its own rather unique furrow through the industry over the last few years. I have resisted the temptation to bring my pristine copy of ZZap! issue one along for an autograph. Just.
The city ofDecaturin the US state of Georgia has opened up their call for developers to create a virtual city, titled Virtual Decatur, in a massively multiplayer online environment. Potential winners of the competition will have creative liberties to the extent that any activity supported in the online version must be "considered acceptable in the actual environment of Downtown Decatur" and is aligned withtheir mission for the project(pdf):The City of Decatur wishes to harness new and innovative technology that highlights the city as a progressive, creative, and vibrant community to people around the world.The City seeks to use Virtual Decatur to create opportunities for 'community networking', civic engagement and economic development.  Similar to other social networking tools, Virtual Decatur will provide an environment in which residents, businesses, institutions and visitors can interact and connect around a common interest: the City of Decatur.  However, it is it is imperative that the project go beyond the features of traditional MMOs.The overarching purpose of this project is to allow users to interact with the City in new and innovative ways that are not possible in the real world. It is envisioned that the real world experience may be enhanced through participation in Virtual Decatur.Decatur is a bit Hay-on-Wye (it hosts thelargest independent book festival in the country), and a bit Oktoberfest (check out the annualDecatur Beer Tasting Festival). It's also a little bitBeach Blanket Bingo. More information is here.This isn't the first time a city has been replicated in a virtual world. During the Second Life boom, several cities were recreated in that virtual environment (Dublin, Amsterdam, Berlin). Additionally, it has been used for civic outreach; several governments opened up 'virtual embassies' and University of of Southern California's Annenberg Centre for Public Diplomacy set up shop.Deadline for submission of applications for Virtual Decatur is 13 February.
I've definitely warmed to theDSi, Nintendo's forthcoming update to the hugely successful DS Lite.  When originally announced it seemed to me nothing more than a minor update – an excuse to create Brain Training 7: Camera Edition. But the ability to download games and – perhaps even more importantly – the customisation options suggest that the DSi may be more interesting than originally thought.  Nintendo president Satoru Iwata has recently beentalking upthe prospects of downloadable DS games and the ability to personalise your device.Nintendo DSi, the latest version of the DS series, was launched in November and sold 500,000 units in the first month. The product includes new functions such as a camera and the ability to download software through the Internet to customize it for the individual. We hope this will create a trend in which each family member will have his or her own DSi with their favorite software installed.Iwata also argued that games can do well in a recession, although how the thousands of DS owners who got the handheld this Christmas will feel about their new handheld console being superceded so soon remains to be seen.It seems more and more people are enjoying games instead of travelling or eating out to save money. Sales of the Wii video game console and Nintendo DS portable video game player have exceeded our expectations so far.Fighting talk then. But what do you think? Will the DSi continue the huge success of the DS series? Or is it simply not enough of an upgrade to tempt current DS owners?  And if not can the PSP - or even the iphone/ipod touch - tempt new portable gaming players?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Plans to build vital facilities to help Britain secure its energy supplies at a time of increasing fears about reliance on Russian gas are in doubt as a result of the credit crunch, energy groups warn.Stag Energy says the credit crunch is making it harder to raise the &pound;600m for the Gateway project to build a storage facility beneath the Irish Sea. It received planning permission for the project in November.The UK has storage capacity of about 4% of average annual consumption, or about 14 days' worth. This compares to Germany's reserves equivalent to 21% of annual consumption and France's 24%.This makes the UK, which imported about 40% of its gas last year, more vulnerable to supply disruptions. As North Sea output declines, Britain is expected to import up to 80% of its gas by 2015.The aim of the Gateway project is to construct 19 underground caverns to store 1.5bn cubic metres of gas, or about five days' supply of UK consumption.Last week the energy industry wrote to the government to warn that it was currently uneconomic to build storage facilities unless tax breaks were granted. Only a handful of storage projects have made it to the construction phase.Stag Energy has appointed the investment bank Lazard to find a partner willing to stump up the finance in return for the right to use the facility. Stag claims to be in negotiations with six companies, but one of the potential investors mentioned told the Guardian that it had not had any contact with Stag since March. George Grant, managing director of Stag Energy, admitted: "One has to say that the credit crunch is having an impact across the board. It's too early to say definitely whether there will be a delay or not."In November, another storage developer, Portland Gas, admitted that it was suspending plans to build a &pound;500m, 1bn cubic metre facility in Dorset. The company hopes to secure funding this year.Andrew Hindle, chief executive, urged the government to consider introducing a storage obligation on gas suppliers to speed up construction. This would require suppliers to store a proportion of their gas in the UK. "A storage obligation exists in some countries in Europe and it is being looked at by the EU," he said."It could be the solution to ensure that there is enough storage built in Britain."In a letter last week to Revenue &amp; Customs, a group of utility companies including EDF, Portland Gas and Centrica complained that because they did not know the price of gas in five years' time - the time it takes to develop a facility - it was hard to raise the financing. Referring to the dispute over gas supplies between Russia and Ukraine, they said: "This acts as a timely reminder of supply risks that now face the UK."Five years ago, the regulator Ofgem predicted that the UK would have built 10bn cubic metres of capacity by the end of the decade. But the current capacity is only about 4.3bn cubic metres.Ed Miliband, secretary of state for energy and climate change, is understood to be looking at the issue.
Gary McKinnon, the computer hacker facing extradition to the US for hacking into the Pentagon and Nasa systems, could now be prosecuted in Britain.The Crown Prosecution Service is considering a request from McKinnon's lawyers in which they have said their client would plead guilty to an offence under the Misuse of Computers Act. If McKinnon were to be prosecuted and punished in Britain, it would make any extradition to the US unlikely. McKinnon, 42, who has Asperger's syndrome, has resisted attempts to extradite him to the US on the grounds that the offence was committed in the UK.McKinnon's lawyer, Karen Todner, has written to the director of public prosecutions, the recently appointed Keir Starmer QC, stating that McKinnon acknowledged his guilt. With clear evidence of an offence being committed, she said, the DPP could now initiate proceedings against McKinnon in Britain. The CPS also confirmed that the matter was under consideration.The action is the latest in the long-running attempt to halt the extradition of McKinnon, who fears for his safety and his chances of a fair trial in the US.He is accused of hacking into the US defence and Nasa systems in 2001 and 2002 and causing an estimated $800,000 (&pound;525,000) damage. McKinnon admits the hacking, after which he left messages, including the observation that "your security is crap", but denies the damage. Last year, he lost his appeal against extradition in the House of Lords.McKinnon's mother, Janis Sharp, said there were precedents for British-based computer hackers to be tried in this country. In a letter to the DPP, Sharp wrote: "Many people with Asperger's have a heightened sense of justice and have obsessions, which can sometimes get them into trouble. Gary's obsession was computers."He has received support from the National Autistic Society (NAS), which has offered to provide evidence about the diagnosis of Asperger's syndrome, and there is also political support. About 80 MPs have signed an early day motion tabled by his MP, David Burrowes.
For years, parents have been limited to traditional methods of keeping track of their children's movements: standing in the playground, watching from the window, or asking them to phone home when they visit a friend's house. But now anxious mothers and fathers are being offered a distinctly hi-tech method of monitoring their child's every movement - tracking them by satellite.Launched this week at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, the Num8 watch from British company Lok8u is said to be the first tracking device specifically designed to help parents keep tabs on wayward offspring.The &pound;149 Num8 looks much like any ordinary digital wristwatch, but it houses a GPS chip similar to that contained inside a satnav unit. This constantly keeps tabs on the location of the child - it is accurate to within 3 metres - and beams it back to Num8's website for monitoring.Relatives can receive text messages about the watch's location direct from the device, pinpointing the street address of their youngster at the touch of a button."As far as the child is concerned it's a digital watch - for the parent it's a child locating product," said Steve Salmon, Lok8u's chief executive. He added that he hoped it would be used as a way to give children more freedom, rather than restricting them or promoting lazy parenting."Only 20% of children are now allowed to go out and play. It's my profound hope that Num8 will help parents feel more comfortable about letting their children go out to play," he said.It is not the first time that a company has offered parents the chance to track their children by GPS, but most previous devices have been built into mobile phones - expensive pieces of technology that are notoriously easy to dispense with. By contrast, Worcestershire-based Lok8u says it has improved the situation by locking the watch on to the child's wrist.If an errant child forcibly removes the watch - or has it taken from them - the system immediately trips an alarm, sending an alert to the mobile phone of a parent. Removing the gadget also triggers a warning that is sent by email, just in case the worried parent happens to be sitting in front of a computer.And to get around the limitations of satellite tracking technology - such as going indoors to prevent the satellite overhead from establishing a direct connection - the system can also use mobile phone signal triangulation to determine a more approximate location for its target.The gadget was just one of thousands on display at the CES in Las Vegas, one of the world's biggest technology showcases. The event, which finished yesterday, saw more than 2,500 companies exhibit their latest gadgets and technologies - many of them targeted at children and families.
TOP 100Wikipedia would never be used by a "Reference" librarian. Reason: unauthoritative.Rita Musa, Wigan&gt;&gt; One snag for me is that The Guardian only recommended two sites for blogging: Bloglines and WordPress. WordPress is great and just came out with a new version. But I haven't seen as many changes happening in Bloglines compared to Google Reader... My readership data is going to be way-skewed, but I do think Google Reader is more popular than Bloglines these days.mattcutts.com[of Google]&gt;&gt; It's a decent well thought out list with some sites getting the recognition they deserve as well as few apps which you may not have heard of.That said, it's pretty disappointing to not find Mixx included in the News Recommendation category, absolutely no mention of Friendfeed and to see Matt as one of the the best Twitter apps is frankly ridiculous.thenextweb.com&gt;&gt; [Bloglines has] turned into a trainwreck and the only context I see people writing about bloglines with now is to say that they're leaving it.philbradley.typepad.com&gt;&gt; So too, a question about how many of them may still be around in another 2-3 years, given the economic climate that may not smile so favourably on free-for-use sites such as many of these areblog.core-ed.net&gt;&gt; One of the sites selected is a personal favourite of mine "where's the path" a mashup of Google and OS [Ordnance Survey] mapping..Ironic then, the publicity of the national newspaper mentions results in..[a note saying it has used its OS-imposed limit of displays per day]. Perhaps out of embarrassment, the OS may up the daily limit ?edparsons.com&gt;&gt; The Guardian put Where's The Path? in the top 100 websites. As a result, more than a few people visit it, incurring the "absurd" tile number restrictions that non-commercial OpenSpace users will come across.failmaps.com&gt;&gt; a quick shout-out to the guardian which has elected popurls for its annual top 100 list as one of the five best news sites on the web. cheers!pophub.com&gt;&gt; they forgot the service ://URLFAN and their Buzz Radar which to me is more transparent in regards to whats going on the blogosphere:http://www.urlfan.com/site/buzz_100/600.htmlurlfan crunches all the data from over a couple million rss feeds and tracks what's moving in the blogosphere. there's no human intervention so it's able to float top stories faster than the standard vote up/down digg and reddit use. according to alexa, urlfan is about to overtake reddit in terms of reach and rank so they must be doing something right.chasnote.com&gt;&gt; "The web really is becoming the operating system." And no mention of Internet Explorer under the browsers category either.disassociated.com&gt;&gt; Are there any big brands in The Guardian's Top 100 sites this year? Yes - 1. That's all. Oh dear.With the exception of the BBC, (and Dilbert, Doonesbury and the CIA!), there are no non-web native brands in the Guardian's Top 100 Sites. No FMCG. No electircals. No charities. No fashion, transport, telecomms, banking. Why isn't LloydsTSB or Barclays the authority on savings rather than moneysavingexpert.com? Why isn't Canon the daddy of photosharing instead of Flickr, Picasa or Picnik? Why isn't 02 the social network instead of Facebook? Why isn't HMV the godfather of online music recommendation? Why? Why? Why?It's obvious isn't it? Brands still aren't embracing the digital space.knitwareblog.com&gt;&gt; Cooliris. This browser add-on is an image based search engine, in which you scroll through a "wall" of images to find your match, news item, or product. This approach is truly innovative and really worth trying.dereksou.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Worth a look through although I still don't get the Twitter bias - I'm sure no-one is interested in hearing about how tired I am every 2 hours!pri.me.uk&gt;&gt; I sort of forgot to mention on here, but I launched StreetWire the a couple of weeks back. It's the hyper-local information site that I've been working on it on and off since I left moo.com. It has kittens, maps and murders. What's not to like?The Guardian have kindly included it in their top 100 sites for 2009, which means I better pull my finger out I guess.memespring.co.uk&gt;&gt; The interesting thing is how uninteresting [the list] is. Nearly everything on the list is well known, whereas a few years ago nearly everything would have been new. The reason I started blogging was because I was finding so much stuff that was just, so new, so different, so plain unbelievable..............now everything seems a bit old hat and everyone knows where to find stuff that interests them. The comment box that invites other recommendations is empty, so far anyway. The web has stagnated!fatbuddha.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Interestingly, the geo sites that make the list of 100 total sites are broken into two categories: location and maps. They might also appear in games, social networks, reminders, search, visualization...it's so tough to put a horizontal technology into a vertical box!apb.directionsmag.com&gt;&gt; Well worth a look in December 2008 and then come back to it in December 2009 ;-)nickhorslen.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Very excited by the future despite the tough economy and thank you to all the Guardian team for having selected Seesmic as one of the sites you like the most.blog.seesmic.comROCK DISBANDThis article states you can't use Guitar Hero Instruments with Rock Band 2. The information now generally available on the net would suggest that in fact you can and that Sony has made it a requirement? A simple search will show this. Important information if you are into this type of game. It seems Sony have made it a requirement that all such games have to be cross compatible.James McBride, by emailSNOW LEOPARD'S SPOTSRob Enderle is primarily a self-serving fool, and especially when it comes to describing anything to do with Apple.Anyone who has followed Apple for more than a couple of years is aware of this so you only diminish your own credibility by using him as one of your sources.His comments today (your article "Apple's Snow Leopard prepares to show off its spots") were essentially content-free and harmless. You might not be so lucky another time.You will do better to choose commentators with a solid record and rely less upon such self-promoters.Peter Lovell, Rockville, Maryland US&gt;&gt; Nevertheless with Microsoft bleeding market share and Vista replacement Windows 7, which doesn't include OpenCL or anything remotely similar, not expected until June, Apple's got an opportunity not just add more users, but also extend its already heady technology lead…mac.blorge.com&gt;&gt; Parallel processing will be difficult for Apple to sell, but it'll give users snappier performance across the board in terms of moving around files, launching applications and using system utilities, according to solution providers.bettenhaussen.com&gt;&gt; I'm really excited for Snow Leopard but am still trying to figure out if Apple would be charging the full $129 for the upgrade, I don't think they will since there are no new user focused features.cybersurge.orgSTARTUP CULTURE: US V UK&gt;&gt; Charles Arthur points out, sensibly, that a hell of a lot of the technologies that all the other Web 3.14159 tiddlers rely on are the products of European innovation. Linux started in Finland, Skype in Estonia and Sweden, MySQL in Sweden, PHP with a Dane in Greenland.But that's far from an exhaustive list; he could have mentioned Python, which originates at the Dutch National Institute for Mathematics and Computer Science in 1991, the KDE desktop for Linux from Tübingen, the KML geo-descriptive language which underpins Google Earth, Google Maps, and which might have originated with an idea of Chris Lightfoot's which I can't now trace, GSM, UMTS and LTE mobile phone networks - so let's leave it at the OpenStreetMap, the Symbian and UIQ mobile device operating systems, the world's best political software team at MySociety, and even Internet exchanges themselves.fistfulofeuros.netWHO'S CALLING?You and your readers no doubt find untraceable cold calls from outside the UK annoying, especially if - like myself - you are registered with the Telephone Preference Service.Your article wisely suggests that the only realistic ("non British") solution is to hang up immediately. But I prefer a slightly more aggressive tack. Every time I get an automated call with a recorded message prompting me to connect, I gleefully follow the instructions and make sure I sound most excited to participate in the offer when the operator answers. And then I politely ask him or her to hold the line for a moment, and put the handset down next to the telephone while I carry on with my business.If cold callers want to waste my time, I'm more than happy to waste theirs. So far I've wasted as much as five minutes of one operator's time, before he evidently realised and hung up. If every recipient of a cold call did the same, the economy of bulk calling to minimise live operator work would rapidly evaporate.To further defuse frustration, a nascent Facebook group has been created to share this (and other) tactics to waste the time of time wasters.http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=62493788312James Brown, Glasgow3D WEB&gt;&gt; In other words, 3D for marketing and sales. Sigh.readwriteweb.comPUZZLERAccording to question 37 of your quiz the government actually has a service on which it is actually possible to report your death.Whilst there may be a web service available to do this, I do not believe technology has advanced to the point where dead people can report their deaths.If the technology does exist, I look forward to you covering it in a forthcoming article, together with some reports from beyond the grave.John Gill, Ottowa, CanadaDARK FIBRETime was when every IT trade journal carried a line or two about the huge overcapacity in dark fibre and the absence of anything over the horizon that might serve to make use of it. Then along comes the BBC with its iPlayer. Do we hear any "Thank yous" ? Of course not, only moans from ISP's about bandwidth being saturated. However what they are talking about are their links from BT exchanges to the end user's homes and the lack of capacity in their Points of Presence. Complaints about Level 3 pricing are a side issue. Looking to a charging model as a means of resolving the problem is one approach, but this on its own will not create affordable increases in capacity, merely throttle demand.And why are we in such a dire a position? Simple – OFCOM's slavish adherence to an outdated Brownite theology which dictates that only the market place should guide investment decisions. And what has this market place given us? A duopoly – on one hand good old BT wearing a Wholesale hat and on the other Virgin Media. There is currently no other reliable effective way of getting the Internet into your home in this country, in spite of claims to the contrary by USB broadband stick vendors. (Not quite true: satellite internet does work but cheap it is not)There is third way. Russia has just announced a national WiMax initiative – but it won't happen here. And why? – thanks to Treasury greed and shortsightedness the UK spectrums will be auctioned off to the highest bidders – and who will these be? – those who have most to lose from its inevitable success – the mobile phone companies - and what will they do with WiMax? One guess - make sure it does not undermine their 3G revenues. Of course OFCOM will commission a study, invite consultation, maybe even carry out a review – heady stuff – but what's the betting that lack of effective competition will not be attributed to HM Govt policy?Peter Lyons, London
When The Sun followed the Daily Mail, The Telegraph and other papers in writing about Twitter, I thought the headline was just a touch misleading:Fancy a Twitter with Britney?Sure, they wanted to use a pic of Britney, but Ms Spears doesn't Twitter: she has people to do that for her. (Wanna job?)By recounting the twittering of Jonathan Ross, Stephen Fry, John Cleese and others, the article might have given readers the impression that they could chat with a galaxy of stars. That's not really the case. On the other hand, I have to admit there are more than I thought, and a brief list follows. (Special thanks to@girlonetrackand @mi for contributing the largest number of names, and anon for the porn stars.) I'll expand it if there are any more.There are, of course, large numbers of "celebrity fakers" and fictional characters on Twitter as well. As far as I know, the IDs below are operated by the people named, or by their staff. (Barack Obama doesn't do his own tweeting either.) However, the list comes with no guarantees, and some of the following may also be fakes:Celebrity TweetersAlan Carr --		@AlanCarr --		ComedianArnold Schwarzenegger --	@schwarzenegger --		Actor/politicianBrea Grant -- 		@breagrant -- 		American actress, HeroesDavid Mitchell -- 		@RealDMitchell -- 	British comedy actor (updated)Elijah Wood -- 		@elijahwood -- 		Hollywood actorFelicia Day --		@feliciaday --		American actress, Web video mavenGraham Linehan -- 		@glinner -- 		TV director (Father Ted, IT Crowd etc)Greg Grunberg -- 		@greggrunberg -- 		Matt in HeroesJames Kyson Lee --		@jameskysonlee --  	Korean American actor, HeroesJimmy Carr -- 		@jimmycarr -- 		ComedianJimmy Fallon -- 		@jimmyfallon --		American comedian, actor etc, SNLJohn Cleese --		@johncleese --		Python etcJohn Hodgman --		@hodgman --  		Actor etc; PC in TV adsJonathon Ross --		@wossy --			BroadcasterKevin Smith --		@ThatKevinSmith --		Movie maker etcLeVar Burton --		@levarburton --		Star Trek actorLuke Wilson -- 		@LukeWilson -- 		American actorMaria Kochetkova -- 	@balletsuperstar -- 	Russian ballet dancerNeil Gaiman --		@neilhimself --		English authorPenn Jillette -- 		@pennjillette --		MagicianPeter Serafinowicz --	@serafinowicz --		British actor, etcPhillip Schofield --	@Schofe --			British TV personalityRichard Branson	 --	@richardbranson --		Virgin founderRobert Llewellyn	 --  @bobbyllew --		English actor, Red Dwarf etcSeth MacFarlane	 --	@SethMacFarlane --		Family Guy creatorStephen Fry --	@stephenfry --		British actor and geekWil Wheaton --		@wilw --			Writer, Star Trek actor etcYoko Ono --		@yokoono --		Japanese artistPopular musicBritney Spears --		@britneyspears --		Pop singerDave Rowntree --		@davefromlondon --		Drummer from Blur, etcMC Hammer --		@MCHammer --		RapperSara Bareilles -- 		@SaraBareilles -- 		Pop singerSnoop Dogg --		@snoopdogg --		Rapper etcSportAndy Murray --		@andy_murray --	Tennis playerEli Manning --		@elimanning --		NFL quarterbackJerry Rice -- 			@jerryrice -- 			NFL (retired)Kerry Rhodes --		@kerryrhodes --		NFL defencemanLance Armstrong --		@lancearmstrong --		cyclistMichael Phelps -- 		@ Michael_Phelps -- 	SwimmerNatalie Gulbis --		@natalie_gulbis --		GolferShaquille O'Neal -- 		@THE_REAL_SHAQ --		basketball player, rapperShaun White -- 		@ Shaun_White --		SnowboarderWill Carling --		@willcarling --		Rugby playerUK PoliticsAndy Reed -- 		@andyreedmpDavid Lammy -- 		@DavidLammyMPGeorge Foulkes --		@GeorgeFoulkesGrant Shapps --		@grantshappsJo Swinson --		@joswinsonLynne Featherstone -- 	@lfeatherstoneTom Harris -- 		@tomharris1964Tom Watson -- 		@tom_watson10 Downing Street --	@DowningStreetBoris Johnson --		@MayorOfLondonUS politicsAl Gore -- 		@algoreBarack Obama --	@barackobamaJoe Biden --		@joebidenJoe Trippi --		@JoeTrippiKarl Rove -- 		@KarlRoveChannelPorn starsBelladonna --		@enterbelladonnaJenna Haze --		@jenxstudiosJesse Jane --		@jessejanerocksJessica Drake --		@thejessicadrakeJules Jordan --		@JulesJordanMarie Luv --		@MarieLuvMichelle Maylene --	@michellemayleneSasha Gray --		@sashagrayStoya --			@stoyaYou can read anyone's tweets by going to the Twitter site for their ID, eghttp://twitter.com/britneyspearsor, of course,http://twitter.com/jackschofieldThere are many other names in lists compiled separately at theTwitter Fan Wiki
Last week I tweeted (atTwitter)Little Boots's home video(above), where she performs a great solo version of HotChip's Ready for the Floor, the technology bit being that she accompanies herself on aTenori-On. To quote theReaction [beta] blog:Japanese artist Toshio Iwai and Yamaha have created a new digital instrument that can be played by anyone. The Tenori-On consists of a 16 x 16 matrix of LEDs that are sensitive to the musician's touch and can recognise simple physical gestures. For example, pushing one of the LEDs creates a ripple effect on the display and a rippling sound effect to match - and if the button is pushed long enough, the sound and light will loop repeatedly.Sounds like an interesting device, though I'd only be interested if it cost roughly a tenth of its current$999 "New Holiday Price".For those more interested in the singer, yesterday's Guardian had an interview with Little Boots, ie Victoria Hesketh:'I've done so much embarrassing stuff it's untrue'.
Ted Nelson was a sort of father to the personal computer revolution, before PCs really existed, coined the term hypertext, and invented a sort of World Wide Web long before Tim Berners-Lee. As aNew York Timesstory says: "A generation of young computer enthusiasts who grew up in the 1960s and 1970s was deeply influenced by Mr. Nelson's ideas."Having influenced the world with books likeComputer Lib, Nelson, now 71, has a look back:In his self-published new book, "Geeks Bearing Gifts: How the Computer World Got This Way" (available on lulu.com), Mr. Nelson, 71, takes stock of the computing world. The look back by this forward-thinking man is not without its bitterness. The Web, after all, can be seen as a bastardization of his original notion that hyperlinks should point both forward and backward.Both Ted Nelson and Bill Gates announced they were starting software companies at "the one and only World Altair Computer Conference, Albuquerque" in 1976. You can see how that turned out.While Bill Gates, Steve Jobs and many others made lots of money from products during the PC revolution, Nelson didn't. I don't think his Xanadu system ever appeared in usable form, in spite of considerable efforts. The gory story was told in 17 chapters inThe Curse of Xanaduin Wired magazine, June 1995.Geeks Bearing Gifts is available in paperback fromLulu for £11.57. I expect the production quality is better than some of his earlier efforts.I remember interviewing Ted Nelson in the Guardian in, I think, 1990. Unfortunately this is far too old to be on Guardian Unlimited….
Reckless teenagers who use their mobile phones to send texts while driving could soon find Big Brother, or rather Big Parent, breathing down their necks.A new service called Textecution uses a phone's in-built GPS system to detect how fast the handset is travelling. If the phone is moving quicker than 10mph, its messaging capability is immediately shut down. When the phone comes to a stop, for example at traffic lights or when parked, the driver is allowed to send texts again.Textecution is one of several innovations resulting from growing concerns about drivers concentrating on their phones instead of on the road.A report by the RAC Foundation last year found that texting behind the wheel impaired driving skills more than being drunk or high on drugs. Despite the danger, 48% of drivers aged 18-24 admitted breaking the law by texting while driving.Textecution is a $10 application that can be downloaded in Britain or America on Google's mobile phone platform Android. A parent registers their details with the service and installs it on their child's phone, so that its movements will then be tracked by satellite. If the child tries to text while travelling at more than 10mph, the phone screen says: "You are moving too fast to use this application."Another solution, Key2SafeDriving, uses a key fob and is more restrictive still. The system, designed by researchers at the University of Utah, includes a device that encloses a car key. When in "driving mode", the phone cannot be used to make calls or send text messages, except for calling emergency numbers or those approved by parents. Incoming calls and texts are automatically answered with a message that says: "I am driving now. I will call you later when I arrive at the destination safely."When the engine is turned off, the driver slides the key back into the device, which sends a "car stopped" signal to the phone, returning it to normal mode.
Aston Martin DBS&pound;162,500Miles per gallon: 17.3C02 per km: 388 gramsGood for: secret agentsBad for: estate agentsCrawling through the traffic on a rainy day in Dover, I pause to let two merry skinheads cross the road, both in an advanced state of refreshment. The bigger of the two notices the car I'm sitting in. He stops dead and raises his arms so that his fingers are pointing directly at me. There's an agonising pause, my throat dries, then suddenly he runs at the car, stopping just in front of the bumper, and roars into the swirling mists: "This is what you call a caaaaaaaaar!" I am unsure how to respond, so I settle for a limp-wristed wave followed by an even more feeble thumbs-up. Then, as I motor past him, I bravely mouth the word "weirdo" through the closed window.The car he's called a "car" is, in fact, Aston Martin's astonishingly beautiful DBS. Or, to give it its Charlie and Lola name, the "actual real James Bond car" - the very model that 007 smashes to pieces in the opening scene of Quantum of Solace. In fact, Bond wrecked seven cars in that six-minute chase sequence - pricey motoring by anyone's standards. Even on a tricky mountain road and being fired on by evil henchmen, writing off a DBS every 51 seconds must be some kind of record. Needless to say, I will not be doing that. I nurse mine over speed bumps to protect its low-slung carbon chin, I panic about the paintwork when a cyclist freewheels up the inside, and I make my wife take off her slightly damp coat before she clambers into the hand-stitched leather passenger seat.Let me give you some numbers. The DBS is a 6-litre, V12-powered, race-bred, two-seat coupe. The all-alloy, 48-valve, 510 bhp engine will fire you to a top speed of 191mph, and it has the sort of acceleration only human cannonballs normally experience - 0-62mph in 4.3 seconds. It is hand built. Lovingly put together by craftsmen, the DBS knows only tenderness from its first twinklings. It takes 210 hours to build one. Last year a Belgian enthusiast arrived with his deckchair and spent his annual leave by the production line watching his Aston Martin take shape. So far there are only 300 DBS owners in the world.Here are some more numbers, equally impressive, but less laudable. The DBS costs &pound;162,500. It does 17.3 miles to the gallon. Can you justify these figures? Of course not. But in the week I had the DBS not one person asked me about consumption or emissions. They asked me about the drive (awesome),the touchtronic six-speed auto gearbox (smooth as cream), the number plate (DBS 1), the stereo (Bang &amp; Olufsen - speakers rise out of the dash), the secret pen (it's a secret) and whether it was mine (no, unfortunately).And so back to east Kent where, in a spirit of homage, I'd decided to take the DBS to visit some of Ian Fleming's old haunts. The author owned a holiday house in St Margaret's Bay, was a regular at the Duck Inn in Petts Bottom and played golf in Sandwich. Completing our 200-mile circular tour I nudged the DBS on to the A2 to give it its head on the long straight back to the capital. As I soared up the fast lane, I passed the original "007", the Dover-London bus - and Mr Fleming's inspiration.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Lego Indiana Jones, MacApple Macs, despite having Intel processors, increasingly powerful graphics cards and the kind of shiny exteriors so beloved by those who enjoy gadgets, have never been host to the kind of games library enjoyed by PC owners. There are plenty of titles available though, including modern classics like World Of Warcraft and Call Of Duty 4, as well as the Sims 2 and Age Of Empires III. It's against this lightly-served backdrop that Feral Interactive brings Lego Indiana Jones to the fray, an excellent, child-friendly jaunt through the Jones canon, charmingly recreated in toy Scandinavian building bricks and faithful to the PC and console versions released last summer. While this is an excellent conversion that loses nothing obvious in translation, it's difficult to get too excited about a seven-month-old title that's already done the rounds on every other conceivable format, from Nintendo Wii to PSP.• Feral Interactive, &pound;29.99Crystal Defenders, iPhoneThe iPhone is already exceedingly well stocked with tower defence games, in which you prevent successive herds of enemies invading by laying out a series of weapon emplacements along a winding path across the screen. Crystal Defenders adds the undeniable sheen afforded by big budget Square Enix, as well as the dear old familiar set of Final Fantasy monsters from Flans to the Cluckatrice. Using a screen layout that turns the bottom half into a big joystick and crams the entire play area into a small upper square, things are instantly fiddly to control. Strategically, there's a huge amount of depth and subtlety available for committed players, but there are also glaring flaws. When you've placed a fighter on the map you can never get rid of them, meaning you're stuck with early decisions, however impractical they turn out to be. Far less forgivably, one stray press of Home (the inviting only button on the iPhone's fascia) and you lose your game, a problem with which the completely free and also highly compelling TapDefense is not afflicted.• Square Enix, &pound;4.99
Squirrels lookcrap in nurse uniformsHow The A-TeamstartedFinally, Facebookfor your petsObama's stepping uphis horological gameSearing meatdoes not "seal in" moistureThe deficitof gratification pushes you in tiresome circlesThe 10 manliestways to dieA better titlefor Britney's last single would have been BaconizerThe 26 coolestcars that have been seen in the moviesWhat the girlfrom Ipanema is up to now
Real BuzzBlogs by international athletes like Liz Yelling, self-assessment tests for the gymphobic and videos featuring cheery man in a yellow vest.Cycling InfoThe Muslim Ladies' Cycling Club, the fold-up bike world championships and tips for a better pedalling technique.One Hundred Push UpsFollow this plan for 30 minutes a week and go from doing zero to 100 push ups while simultaneously eating cake.Fetch EveryoneDiscuss "lumpy legs" with fellow runners, map routes and place bets on yourself to run faster than other site users.I Run Because I Love FoodOne man's challenge to maintain sizable lunch portions while competing in long distance races.
