AOL Time Warner will take a $54bn (&#163;38bn) charge, the largest on record, to reflect the crumbling values of media companies since the group was formed through a blockbusting merger little more than a year ago.The charge is at the higher end of the $40bn to $60bn range disclosed earlier this year.The non-cash item is the largest of a series of huge write-offs among US companies that hit the acquisition trail during the late 1990s boom.Clear Channel, the US radio group which also owns a number of entertainment venues in Britain and an outdoor poster business, said at the end of last month it would take a pretax charge of up to $25bn.New rules drawn up by the US financial accounting standards board mean companies have to conduct regular reviews of the goodwill on their balance sheets and judge whether there has been any impairment. Goodwill is the difference between the value of an acquisition's assets and the price paid.The other industry to come under severe pressure from the rule changes is telecoms. According to consultancy Stern Stewart &amp; Company, the troubled long distance carrier WorldCom will need to reduce goodwill by $37bn while Qwest will be forced to write off almost $22bn.The companies argue that the non-cash charges are purely an accounting measure which have little impact on the business and many of the acquisitions were done with shares. However they do reflect how far management overpaid for takeovers during the stock market bubble.The AOL figure, which will result in an unprecedented loss for the first quarter, has emerged in the media group's annual report. The AOL deal to acquire Time Warner announced in January 2000 valued the takeover target at $181bn. The combined group today has a market capitalisation of $108bn.Shares in AOL are coming under pressure as a number of Wall Street analysts have turned bearish on the business. The chief concern is the speed of future growth at the core AOL internet service.In January the business warned that revenue growth would be between 5-8% during 2002, not the double digit growth previously forecast.
Lucasfilm is trying to make sure that Attack of the Clones, its forthcoming all-digital Star Wars movie, gets seen indigital theatres. Hey, guys, stick it on the web and I'll watch it on my PC!
One of the people challenging the Children's Internet Protection Act of 2000, which obliges US government funded libraries to censor the net, is "Jeffrey L. Pollock, a Republican Congressional candidate who favored mandatory filtering until he discovered that his own campaign's Web site was blocked by one of the most popular filtering programs", reportsThe New York Times. [Free registration required]
Technical Standards Inc, a documentation company, brings you the second annualWorst Manual Contest. The winner - a spectacularly bad employee manual from California. One quote, as highlighted by the judges: "Remember workmen compensation insurance was not provided to cover stupidity or incompetents." (sic) [viaMetafilter.]
Websites have been encouraged to remove outdated files from their sites and participate in Spring Clean The Internet Week, which starts today."Throw out the old junk, get rid of those files you haven't updated, store them on a disk instead of on the web!" urges a group called Information Activism (IA)."The only thing this will do is make the internet better and relieve internet users around the world from viewing information that is out of date," it says.The group was founded by a former chief researcher for the book Harley Hahn's Internet and Web Yellow Pages, Wendy Russ.Its manifesto sets its sights on accessing information that is up to date, actively maintained and accurate."We want to heighten the public's awareness in order that there will be no tolerance for information that is out of date," its website says. "We want quality, not quantity."IA urges individuals to check all web pages that they post on the net, to make sure that they have been recently updated and that the links given actually work."We know it's not fun to turn a critical eye to ourselves, but starting with yourself before looking outward is the right thing to do," it says."Information Activism isn't just about getting rid of dead information. It's also about information integrity. We're concerned with hoaxes, inaccurate information, and untruths that spread quickly to misinform and scare people."
So you turn up to board an Air Canada flight wearing... computerised headset, headgear and electronic body suit, calling yourself a cyborg, and you'resurprisedto be subjected to avery full body searchwhich causes you to miss your flight? "We are going to argue Professor Mann was discriminated against because he is a cyborg," says lawyer Gary Neinstein, proving he's got the best deadpan money can buy. "You can laugh at that, but I don't see the difference between showing up at the airport in a wearable computer, and showing up in a wheelchair." Umm... quite.
Thumbs are the new fingers, according to a report inThe Observer.
Dan Gillmor is as mad as hell as he isn't going to take it any more.
Many years ago your columnist spent a sabbatical year at a Dutch university. Among the other visiting research fellows was a prominent Russian scientist who was, at the time, a vice-president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences.It is, perhaps, difficult to conceive of it now, but in the pre-Gorbachev Soviet Union this meant he was a very big cheese indeed - a member of the governing elite, the  nomenklatura, with his own chauffeur-driven limo, permission to travel abroad, a good apartment and a  dacha in the woods outside Moscow. You name it, this guy had it.Before he returned home, I invited him for a drink. 'What will you miss most from your time in Holland?' I asked.'Oh, that's easy,' he replied. 'The photocopier.''Eh?' I said.'You see,' he explained, 'back home I sometimes spend two or three days in the scientific periodicals library copying out articles from journals.'It transpired that access to photocopiers was one of the   most tightly restricted privileges in Brezhnev's empire. The reason was obvious: a photocopier is a potential printing press, and a regime obsessed with controlling the dissemination of information must control print facilities.I was thunderstruck by my friend's revelation, but failed to draw the most important inference from it - which was that the Soviet Union was doomed. It could not make the transition to the information age, since that would require technological freedoms that threatened the regime. Or, to put it another way, you cannot have a knowledge-based economy without freedom of information.Now spool forward 25 years and visit a large room on Capitol Hill, where Senator Fritz Hollings is holding hearings on Hollywood's demand that all information devices   should, by law, be fitted with anti-copying technology.The essence of the studios' case is this: in a digital age, every computing device is a digital copier - a tool for piracy. Although they are seeking technological ways of preventing people making digital copies, they know that ultimately the task is impossible. Thus the only 'solution' is to compel the computer industry to cripple its products to safeguard the intellectual property of film studios and record companies.Their ideal outcome is a world in which anyone wishing to purchase a general-purpose - that is unrestricted - computer would have to obtain a government licence - rather like buying a shotgun in this country.This is preposterous. It is as if the Victorian telegraph industry had demanded that the telephone system be modified to make it incapable of passing messages.But the outrageousness of the studios' position does not seem to have outraged US legislators - which may have something to do with the fact that Disney alone gave them   $6.3 million in campaign contributions in a single year.There is, however, one sobering statistic which may eventually cause even Congress to balk at the studios' arrogance. US domestic spending on computing technology is running at $600 billion a year, while Hollywood generates a measly $35bn.To concede the demand for copy protection would be tantamount to compelling a huge, dynamic industry to march to the soporific beat of a technophobic industry desperate to preserve its obsolete business models.Which brings us back to the Soviet Union. Brezhnev &amp; Co wanted to modernise their empire while at the same time maintaining the perquisites of the  ancien r&#233;gime . It couldn't be done.The US Congress is facing an analogous choice between the future and the past. The pace of innovation in computing is relentless - which is why it is the most dynamic industry in history. Will Congress fetter this golden goose in order to maintain the perquisites of a much smaller, reactionary industry? Stay tuned.john.naughton@observer.co.ukJoin the networker discussion online atwww.observer.co.uk/business. Plus more atwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Now Apple has started to offer Unix (the operating system in OS X), people can run industry standard benchmarks on Macs, and SPEC tests show Apple's performance claims are false, according toMac User. The benchmarks were run by a German computer magazine, c't, which has publishedthe results. In fact, a 1GHz Mac runs at roughly the same speed as a 1GHz Pentium III which, as c't points out, has been on the market for 18 months. (Thanks to Paul Thurrott atWininfofor the tip.) The latest scores arehere.
British robotics profKevin Warwickhas chipped his arm.
ZD Net has put together a special report onspam, with a round-up of products that can help you to fight it.
AOL Time Warner has given up trying to make its 82,000 employees use the company's owne-mail software. According to a report in the Wall Street Journal [paid subscription required]: "The e-mail software frequently crashed, staffers weren't able to send messages with large attachments, they were often kicked offline without warning, and if they tried to send messages to large groups of users they were labeled as spammers and locked out of the system." They weren't using America Online's home software, however; "the divisions customized AOL products, such as those from its Netscape unit."
More than one in three motorists admit they have used a mobile phone without a hands-free kit while driving, a survey revealed today.The research follows a report released yesterday that said that motorists talking on mobile phones are more dangerous than those over the drink drive limit.That study, by scientists at the Transport Research Laboratory, found the reactions of people with a phone to their ear were 30% slower than when they were tested over the limit, and 50% slower than without any distractions.Today's survey, for Tesco Personal Finance, showed that around 34% of people say they have made calls on their mobile phone while behind the wheel, while 91% claim to have seen other drivers using their phones.Th research showed that men are more likely to chat on the phone while they are driving than women, with 39% compared to 27% admitting to using their mobile while behind the wheel.Young people are also more likely to make calls while they drive, with 52% of drivers aged between 25 and 34 admitting to using a mobile without a hands-free kit, compared to just 16% in the 55-64 age group.The figures stem come questioning 1,300 drivers by telephone during February.
More Scientology news... they've managed to have many a website closed down, but never an entire ISP... untiltoday.
IBM is still pushing hard at what it calls"grid computing". And it looks as though Sony will join in to overhype the perfornance of thePlayStation 3.
"This site censored by Google.com" is one of the net's more unusual icons, but it could attract visitors tohttp://xenu.net/. The site is devoted to fighting Scientology, a mind-control cult invented by a third-rate science fiction wirter, L Ron Hubbard. Google removed links to Xenu.net after it receivedcopyright complaintsfrom the Scientologists.UPDATE: but has restored pages of non-copyright material.
Well done,Palm, for beating Wall Street's expectations. However, Wall Street's expectations were low. (Sales fell 38% and it lost $14 million.)
More fun fromPlanet Barksdale: "I remind you [that] only 20 years ago, the most sophisticated applications you could get on a PC were little games." Little games such as WordStar, dBase II, the VisiCalc spreadsheet, and Peachtree's accounts suite, that is...
Lest you forget, today's Online isonline
A group of powerful internet companies today released filtering software that allows parents worldwide to screen out pornographic, violent or simply unwanted sites.The Internet Content Rating Association - a collection of some of the industry's biggest companies  - is providing the self-labelling software free to parents and content providers alike.It works by having content providers fill out a detailed questionnaire about the material on their site, including the amount and type of violence, nudity, language and drug or alcohol references. A hidden HTML label is added to the site to alert the filter to its contents.Parents can then allow access to certain types of content and screen out others, depending on their beliefs and the child's age. At the moment the software is available only for Internet Explorer.David Kerr, the chief executive of the Internet Watch Foundation, said the software crossed cultures in a way no predecessor had."For example Swedish naturalists can let a little nudity through," he explained. "With current net nanny software, you're always in the hands of the software makers to make the judgement on what is acceptable. It's always one size fits all. And given that these companies are often American and employing students, the judgement is often that of an American student."Like any new software system, the scheme will rely on sites labelling themselves for its success. But Mr Kerr felt that with heavyweight backing from AOL, BT, Microsoft and Yahoo!, the system would take off.Parents can adjust the software for children of different ages, or switch it off altogether for themselves.The ICRA's chief executive, Stephen Balkam, added: "It's culturally neutral. We even call it an open democratic system. It's transparent and very adaptable and backed by some of the most senior and serious players in the industry."The filter is backed by the Home Office, and the industry hopes that the self-regulatory system will help maintain content providers' freedom of speech and avoid the introduction of legislation.The filter can be downloaded free of charge from the ICRA site at www.icra.org.uk.ICRA
The digital camera market is set to explode, with the sizes - and prices - of new models continuing to shrink rapidly. Several cameras that produce images    good enough for the web now start at less than &#163;100, and cameras that can produce reasonable prints start at just a little more.Last week at CeBIT, Europe's largest tech show, one of the exhibition's surprise hits was the   Blink (&#163;40) digital camera from relative newcomers SiPix. As implied by its name, Blink is tiny - a little smaller in size (but not thickness) than a credit card. Yet it can take 640x480 pixel (VGA standard) images and store up to 100 shots on its 8MB integrated memory. Due on sale in April it will be among the cheapest digital cameras on sale in the UK.It will take on the lower-specified Digital Dream Company L'Espion (&#163;40) model, available from Tesco or Jessops, and the Jenoptik  JD350E  (&#163;50), which offers 640x 480 VGA    resolution and 8MB of storage.  Another potential rival could be Vivitar's (&#163;100) wacky space gun-styled digital camera. Image quality is VGA - good for email or web images, but not for prints - and it, too, has 8MB of storage built in.It is expected to arrive in the UK in the summer. For those who enjoy creating prints, of more interest was Olympus' first quality budget models. Set to go on sale in the next few weeks, the  Camedia C-120  (&#163;170) and  C-220  (&#163;200) are both capable of images of around 2 megapixels (the minimum resolution for good quality 6x4inch prints). The cheaper model has a fixed focal lens, features 2MB storage built-in and    has a slot for a SmartMedia card to expand that memory. The C-220 is similarly specified, though it also has a 3x optical zoom lens. While there is no internal storage, it comes with an 8MB SmartMedia card.They will provide some stiff opposition for Fuji, which has already launched a budget digital camera with a resolution of 1.3 megapixels in the  Axia IX100  (&#163;100). But analysts predict that the surge in sales of low-end digital cameras could be short-lived. They could be superseded by gadgets such as mobile phones and MP3 players that feature integrated digital cameras.Scheduled to launch in the UK in early summer is Panasonic'sSV-AV10(&#163;300). This tiny gadget features an MP3 player, digital camera/camcorder and an LCD screen monitor/ viewfinder. It takes VGA quality images, which it archives on a Secure Digital storage card and is accompanied by a 64MB card.The French-based manufacturer Archos will soon bring a similar, though rather less elegant product, called the Multimedia Jukebox to the UK.  Even more of a threat to digital camera manufacturers could come from mobile phone companies. Multimedia messaging (MMS), which features on many of the year's forthcoming high-end phones, allows users to send images to other MMS phones or PCs.  Consequently Nokia, Sony Ericsson    and Motorola have all unveiled mobiles that feature integrated digital cameras. The images may be low resolution, but being able to instantly share images seconds after being taken could prove very attractive to a generation of devoted text messagers.
Yahoo! is to start charging for certain email services, including mail forwarding and POP3 mail collection, reportsThe Register. The fee for existing users will be $19.99 a year - newbies will have to stump up $29.99.
Spam is out of controland so far the response has been inadequate.
Apple hasincreased the price of the iMacby $100 because of increases in component prices. (And, in passing, it is very clever of Apple to provide an iPod with a 23 inch display.) In the UK, Apple has increased the price of new iMacs by £100 (inc VAT) for the 700MHz G4 with CD-RW drive and 700MHz G4 with Combo drive, and £50 (inc VAT) for the 800MHz G4 with SuperDrive.
The US judges who have had to deal with Microsoft have usually been unimpressive (in fact, two have had to be removed from cases) but District Judge John Coughenour seems to be an exception, at least from reports of hisjudgementin theLindowscase. Microsoft sued this tiny company because it considered the name too close to Windows. In his preliminary ruling, not only did the judge decline to go along with Microsoft's bullying tactics, he questioned Microsoft's own right to trademark such a commonly used term.
She's back. The action, the guns, the short shorts, the breasts ... games publisher Eidos last night announced the latest version of its Tomb Raider series of computer games, with Lara Croft returned from the dead.The makers of the new game - Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness - say they have designed her using 10 times more detail than previous versions. And given the revenue warning issued by Eidos earlier this week, the company could use Lara's support.Fans and company accountants still have to wait for a November launch date. The game will only be available on PlayStation2, a boost for console maker Sony after the recent launches of Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube.Angel of Darkness sees Lara framed for a murder and battling to clear her name by negotiating a series of underworld deals. 
 
Core Design, the game's creator, and Eidos said fans of the game would see a "stronger and more complex heroine". Part of that complexity involved enhancing Lara's infamous figure.She was created using 5,000 polygons - or sections - compared with 500 in previous games."It means the definition is a lot more finer and she moves more smoothly," said Jeremy Heath-Smith, managing director of Core Design. "It also means that she has a bottom for the first time - before it was just an illusion, but now she has real shape."The companies also announced the model who will succeed Nell McAndrew as the promotional Lara: Jill de Jong, 20, from Holland will take over to push the game to a new generation.Earlier this week Eidos warned that its yearly revenues - due to be announced on March 31 - would be at the lower end of analyst expectations. The company blamed a slump in the technology sector and slower sales of its popular Who Wants to be a Millionaire? games.The late release of games - including a new version of Championship Manager - that were expected to launch in time to take advantage of the much-hyped launch of Microsoft's Xbox also caused a drop in revenues.
The web is bad now, and it is getting worse. Every day, the gap between what people want and what the web offers gets wider. Usability experts call it "the customer experience gap". Azeem Azhar, from Go Albert UK, who worked on Online in its early days, explains it this way: "Ten years ago, every web user was a physicist at Cern, and every web site was plain text. Today, sites are much more complicated, and users are much less sophisticated."Experts tell me that website designers should be making their sites more usable every day, because of the number of inexperienced users still coming on to the web. But are they? Of course not. Everybody who uses the web knows that a lot of sites are actually getting worse. Partly this is because of the increasing use of Macromedia Flash, Java and other effects that mostly get in the way.Partly it is because so many sites are increasingly catering to their advertisers, at the expense of their users. For example, any sensible designer - a number that must be in double figures - sends users the text as quickly as possible, because the text usually has the information they want. Nowadays, they often hold up the whole page while a useless pop-up advertisement is fetched from some absurdly slow server.There's 30 years of computer usability research to prove that the user experience is dramatically better if the system responds in less than a second. Given that, by this measure, the web is already too slow, it is insane to make it even slower by making users wait for a pop-up that most will close in less than a second anyway. It just drives users away.Although some sites have improved slightly by eliminating frames that should not have been there in the first place, many of those same sites have got much worse because their designers do not know how to use cascading style sheets correctly. One common result is blocks of microscopic type that the average user has no way of making larger and, therefore, legible. (If View|Text Size| Larger has no noticeable effect on your site, fire the designer.)The situation is so bad that I no longer bother with many of the sites I visited regularly last year, and following Hotmail's horrid redesign, I'm dropping it as quickly as possible. I've also stopped using an e-commerce site, because it is badly designed and its search engine is almost useless. Now the novelty has worn off, I can admit it's easier just to phone in my usual order.This sort of experience suggests that the majority of web designers simply don't have a clue about usability. It is like watching the early days in the development of flying machines. Well, first you design something that looks good - probably something that looks a lot like a bird. Then you try to fly, by jump  ing off a cliff. On the web, alas, it is the users, not the designers, who suffer the effects of the fall. Things would obviously be a lot better if companies did usability testing, which means watching and recording what real users do. However, the real secret is to work out the usability issues before you design the site.If you haven't developed an aerodynamic shape for the wings, there's really not much point in designing the plane, let alone arguing about whether horizontal stripes make the fuselage more attractive, and whether they should be blue or red. Rik Pipe from UserMetrics, a usability company spun off from the University of Warwick, reckons that fewer than 1% of websites get any real usability testing. And as he points out, this is more of a problem on the net than it is with consumer products.The user interfaces on your mobile phone and VCR may   be appalling, but you probably didn't find out until you had already bought them. On the internet, the user experience comes first. "See it, like it, fail to buy it," says Pipe. Web life is measured in abandoned shopping trolleys. And with e-commerce sites, a couple of thousand pounds in usability research can go a long way.Pipe and his colleague Miles Hunter tell of a building society site where 80% of purchasing attempts failed, and the solution was to change two words on a menu to read "apply here". The research more than paid for itself in one weekend. Designers typically spend hours worrying about the type faces used, the precise colour of the background, and whether a button is one or two pixels too far to the left, but the fact that the site doesn't actually work rarely seems to bother them. And until somebody wakes up to this brutal truth, companies are pouring billions down the drain, and making the web a worse place for all of us.&#183;Comments  toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In the last decade of the millennium, a group of software engineers in San Diego began building a vast, virtual world. Their plan was to build a space so large that it would eventually welcome nearly half a million visitors a year. They called their world Norrath and floated it off the coast of California in March 1999.Norrath is a virtual world owned by Sony. The company runs a massive, unending, online role-playing game set in a fantasy world similar to Tolkien's Lord of the Rings. It has taken six years and cost the company more than $15m to develop. The game is called EverQuest, and it offers its players the persistence of the Truman Show with the interactivity of Pac Man.EverQuest is one of about a    dozen online role-playing games that have been around since 1995. To visit a virtual world, you first need a powerful computer with a good internet connection. You then need to buy the game's software (about &#163;30) and pay a &#163;10 monthly fee. Nearly half a million have already subscribed to EverQuest, and up to 100,000 are online at any given time.Contrary to what you may think, virtual worlds are not necessarily isolated worlds. Strong communities grow around them and many have developed complex systems of trading, where digital goods are being sold for hard cash in the outside world. And that is where any talk of online role-playing goes beyond dungeons and dragons.Shortly after the launch of EverQuest, its    players began trading the game's internal currency - the platinum piece - for real dollars on internet auction sites. The problem got so bad that last January, Sony put pressure on the big auction sites to close their EverQuest markets. Sites such as eBay and Yahoo complied, but the markets simply shifted elsewhere. There is still a highly liquid - if illegal - exchange rate between the EverQuest platinum piece and the US dollar.Other games also have similar currency exchanges. In the Dark Age of Camelot, a consortium of professional players is suing the games owners for the right to sell the game's currency on the open market. In a twist that could almost belong to Jorge Luis Borges' The Lottery in Babylon, the players have even issued a bill of rights for citizens of all virtual worlds.And the plot gets deeper. A US economist has now published the first assessment of virtual worlds. Edward Castronova, of the California State University in Fullerton, says the average EverQuest player generates revenues of $2,266 a year. When compared with data from the World Bank, Castronova says Norrath's per capita income is roughly between Russia and Bulgaria. Or put another way, Norrath is the 77th richest country in the world.But how can a computer game create more wealth per person than a European country? Castronova tracked thousands of EverQuest transactions on internet auction sites to determine the economic value generated by the inhabitants of Norrath. This allowed him to calculate how much each character is worth if sold on the open market. If telecommunications costs were not so prohibitive, it would be more productive for your average citizen of Sofia to play EverQuest than go to work.EverQuest is extremely complicated. Unless you have a good PC (and EverQuest can only be played on PCs) you are likely to experience myriad technical difficulties. The game-play is wilfully arcane and requires a rulebook that runs to several hundred pages. Players communicate via an internal language that uses similar abbreviations to text messaging. To the uninitiated, just getting another character to say "hello" in Norrath takes supreme effort.But the appeal of virtual worlds, says Castronova, is easy to understand. "Unlike Earth, in virtual worlds there is real equality of opportunity, as everyone is born penniless... In a virtual world, people choose their own abilities, gender and skin tone. Those who cannot run on Earth can    run in a virtual world."Some 20% of Norrath's citizens already consider it their place of residence, they just commute to Earth and back," says Castrovnova. "People at the top level of these games spend virtually all of their time there. They earn enough money in the virtual world to do what they want there. But their principle problem in life is how to get enough money in the real world to support their time in a world like Norrath."And that is where the currency trading comes in. Most "professional" players don't make much and you have to play a lot of EverQuest to scratch a living. Castronova's research shows that EverQuest players can earn an average of $3.42 for every hour    spent playing the game, a buck below the minimum wage."I have both bought and sold items over the internet," says Dana Jones, a 35-year-old software engineer from Georgia. "I have never taken it too seriously but there are people who mostly farm items and sell them for virtual money (platinum pieces) and then sell the platinum in 10,000 lots for about $100. I bought a set myself from someone who was selling hundreds of lots. Most of the people who sell seem to be college students. Many are making at least a couple of hundred bucks a week."Sony is none too happy. Scott McDaniel, head of marketing, says: "The selling of digital goods outside the game clearly breaks the end-user licensing agreement and we object to people trading our intellectual property. But also I think it does a great disservice to the players and spoils the game's development."Not all EverQuest players are in it for money. Many dislike the trading of platinum pieces. "It's like cheating," says Amber Barnes, a 23-year-old former marketing worker from Texas. "The amount of money people make, though, is absurd. I have looked on one site recently and saw auctions for $400 to $2,000 before for items or characters. I just can't fathom it."Amber wants to be a professional games master (GM) - one of the hundred or so elite players hired by Sony    to referee in Norrarth. Part actor, part police, the GMs push the narrative inside Norrath while cautioning abusive players and, in extreme cases, exiling repeat offenders.Amber is unusual in a game such as EverQuest, because 84% of players are male - more than half in their twenties. But virtual worlds may not stick to such pronounced demographics. In fact, the signs are that they threaten to go mainstream.This spring, Electronic Arts releases The Sims Online, a net-enabled follow-up to the popular computer game that has already shifted seven million copies. The Sims Online will allow groups of up to 30 players to interact and role play with each other in real time. Players will    operate in a truly interactive soap opera, with themselves as the virtual stars.In the Sims Online, players can build houses, open bars or run shops. There will even be a sniff of passion, says EA, although nothing stronger than kissing. Instead of the bloodthirsty chaos of EverQuest, there is a strict behaviour code, with points awarded for neighbourly behaviour. The Sims is, in fact, based on the behavioural strata identified by the 1960s psychologist Abraham Maslow, who first developed a theory on the hierarchy of human needs.November will see the launch of Star Wars Galaxies, a collaboration between Sony and Lucas Arts and a virtual world with proven mass-market appeal.Despite the pioneering work into the first text-based virtual worlds (often called multi-user dungeons or MUDs) in UK universities in the 1980s, the UK has no commercial virtual world of its own. BTexact - the research and development arm of British Telecom - has played around with virtual worlds for years and produced a couple of TV tie-ins in the mid-1990s. Says a spokesman at BTexact: "I think what we'll see next is a move to produce a game that is compelling to people who aren't on the edge of society... If you look at the Sims model, an idea that I've been kicking around my head is why not do a Sims version why not offer a persistent game set in Albert Square?".Many games manufacturers seem shy of the real-world economies their games create. But what if the makers of virtual worlds tried to stimulate such economies - what then? In Sweden, a private corporation called MindArk is planning to launch a virtual world later this year that will actively seek the infusion of real money into the game.  Unlike most existing virtual worlds, Project Entropia will be distributed free. To combat the creation of currency markets, players will be able to purchase digital artefacts in the game from the company.It could only be a matter of time before other companies see the attractions of virtual worlds.This leads analysts to think that games such as Project Entropia will eventually attract bricks-and-mortar companies to establish virtual 3D stores in virtual worlds.With or without the currency markets, online gaming already makes serious money. And while other forms of online entertainment struggle to attract paying customers, virtual worlds are turning handsome profits. Revenues from online gaming were already $208m in 2000 and some estimates see that figure rising to $1.7bn by 2004.  Sony's monthly revenue from EverQuest alone is estimated to be $3.6m. In the far east, virtual worlds earn more than that. The most successful online role-playing game in the world is South Korea's Lineage, which has 2.5 million subscribers and is played in one of every eight households.Not so easy, then, to dismiss virtual worlds as arcane activities played out on the obsessive edges of the internet. The coming of the Sims Online and Star Wars Galaxies should add a mainstream audience to what already amounts to a whole new form of entertainment. Just be prepared to spend a lot of time in there.1969:Rick Blomme writes a two-player version of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's famous Space War for the Plato service.December 1979:Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle develop the first working multi-user dungeon (MUD) at Essex University in Colchester.1983:Kesmai launches MegaWars I. It closes  15 years later.1985:The first virtual reality environments using avatars - virtual icons - begin to appear.1995:Worlds Chat becomes the first avatar environment on the internet.October 1996:Two   Microsoft interns, Andrew and Chris Kirmse, release Meridian 59, an experimental virtual world. It quickly becomes a cult classic and a dedicated community builds up around it. It finally closes in August 2000. Today, unofficial versions of M59 continue in Germany, South Korea and Russia.Autumn 1997:Electronic Arts launches Ultima Online (OU), the first commercial virtual world, a follow-up to its successful computer game that simulates galactic trading in deepest, darkest space.March 1999:Verant Interactive, a subsidiary of Sony, launches EverQuest. It sells   120,000 copies on the first day and becomes the most popular virtual world in the US.Spring 2000:Microsoft joins the fray with Asheron's Call.Summer 2001:Virtual worlds such as Norway's Anarchy Online and Mythic Entertainment's Dark Age of Camelot join the fray. Current estimates put the number of virtual worlds at 18, with another 40 in development.2002:Electronic Arts launches the Sims Online: Sony and Lucas Arts release Star Wars Galaxies. Perhaps the two most eagerly anticipated virtual worlds.
Capital crimesDave Birch points out that EMV smart cards will be harder to counterfeit and require users to input PINs     (Second sight, March 14). What he didn't mention was that cardholders will consequently be subject to more vicious     crime. They will be forced into revealing PINs, so that cash and goods can still be stolen. All capitalistic cards are dumb     amidst huge inequality and deprivation.Max Hesstruesocialism@freeuk.comStock it upI enjoyed the piece on publishing     on demand (Click lit, March 14). However, it is not true that bookshops "can no longer afford to carry a huge range of     stock". Our shops, and many of our competitors', carry a fantastic range. Backlist is promoted, and improvements in the     supply chain mean availability of out-of-stock items is often only hours away. There are "tens of thousands of books out     of print", but usually for good reason. A great book that remains relevant and in demand will stay in print.What Stratus     are doing by bringing back into print long out-of-print titles is fascinating and, in the case of Nevil Shute at least,     essential, but it is the public who decide if it is to be a success. The comparison with the music trade is right, in that we     must avoid the way they are almost completely reliant on one big release after another, and can only shift backlist     through multibuy offers. However, I am not sure Napster did bring "backlist and deleted music to its millions of users".     More likely it brought bootlegs and pirated new releases to users. Similar instore experiments with "Create your own     compilation" technology has never really taken off here.Jon HowellsPress and communications manager, Ottakar's Plcjon.howells@ottakars.co.ukDon't rely on it John Mills' eagerness for Blueyonder broadband (Feedback, March 14) may be     misplaced. My experience over the past two months is slower-than-modem access and intermittently working email, all     for more than £1 a day. This unreliability rules out home working for me and presumably may others, allowing telcos to     claim that the public isn't ready for further broadband investment. Meanwhile, Telewest's response of withdrawing email     as a support medium and its failure to react to either its own diminishing performance or BT's price cuts demonstrates     how committed it is to Broadband Britain.Matt Thurlowmatt.thurlow@blueyonder. co.ukFrench dealI disagree with     Joseph Nicholas on the need for domestic access to broadband (Feedback, March 21). Yes, it's more useful for     businesses, but it is also well worth it for home use. Living in France I have had a cable internet connection for years,     which has transformed my net usage. Just reading the Guardian online rather than buying it at French prices saves the     equivalent of the entire monthly cost of my connection. I have a server running on my home PC all day so I can connect     from work and I can exchange files with friends in England lucky enough to have ADSL. I can leave my PC downloading     large files from the net all day, web pages load in seconds, and all the time-consuming things I used to do by phone I now     do by internet.James Kitcatjames.kitcat@netonomy.comWho benefits?I guess Nicholas has a point about broadband     only benefiting the business world. Then again, I can recall the same thing said about computers, mobiles and PDAs.Steve Hookershooker@tjg.co.ukOn the pulseI've had broadband for over a year and couldn't disagree with Joseph     Nicholas more. It slashes my download times, the "quality" of my net time has increased, and video streaming and live     broadcasts are now such high quality that 56k now seems prehistoric. Home users are a little more sophisticated than     you consider them to be.Steve Barbersteve.barber3@btinernet.comPicture thisI am sure I'm not the only one who has     bought an Ericsson T68 to find that the multimedia messaging capabilities have few uses. The company's website has     details of a Wap service, but does not show how to set it up on your phone. The software for uploading your own pictures     does not appear to work with my phone and an infrared. How can such a supposedly hi-tech phone be released without     proper support? And now I read in Screen Test (Mobile matters, March 14) that a new version is due in May. What's the     story? And where can I upload my photos to the phone?Chris Smithchris@futurebroadcasting. co.uk
We're skirting the eastern edge of the City of London in a minibus, heading towards Aldgate - a hot spot for insurance and financial companies. We pass along a corridor of glass-fronted fortresses, immaculate and impenetrable. Beady-eyed security guards survey their smartcard-secured entry barriers.Beyond, details of policyholders' health histories, house contents and investments sit in corporate databases, supposedly safe from prying eyes. Geoff Davies, managing director of computer security firm I-sec, sweeps the air with his magic wand - an empty Pringles tube connected to a laptop via a wireless network card.The machine begins to ping repeatedly, as the free Netstumbler software we're running detects a flurry of wireless networks happily broadcasting their presence to anyone who might be listening. The foil-lined Pringles tube acts as an antenna, boosting the wireless signal, although Davies says a large soup can or coffee tin will do just as well.In the computer underground, this is known as "war driving". Although we're not hacking into any companies' networks, simply by looking for them we're breaking the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. "I think we've got a pretty strong public-interest defence though," says Davies, whose aim is to show how poorly most companies protect their wireless networks. Netstumbler shows us information about each network, including its name (SSID), signal strength, hardware manufacturer and whether the built-in encryption (WEP) is switched on or off.Since the signal is stronger the closer you are to the building from which it emanates, it is generally easy to tell which company a network belongs to. Some even use their company name or address as the SSID. In less than half-an-hour we have detected 50 networks, many of which are still configured with their default factory settings."The main problem is that the default setting for most wireless networks is to respond to requests to broadcast their presence. It's easy to switch off this broadcast probe, but too many companies don't bother," says Davies.  Even more astoundingly, two-thirds of the networks we find are not protected by encryption, making them easy prey for cyber-snoopers. Unless the company has implemented further security measures (and most have not), getting on the network is a simple matter for any reasonably experienced hacker.Even companies using WEP are not 100% safe. Downloadable tools such as Airsnort and WEPcrack allow hackers to crack the encryption in a matter of days (or, if the network is particularly busy, just hours). The threat of such "drive-by hacking" has been well-publicised in the business and IT press over the past year, and the government has recently banned the use of wireless networks in Whitehall until security improves.Many businesses, however, do not seem so concerned. One IT director of a large City recruitment firm admits he doesn't take it seriously. "I can't really see anyone sitting outside here in a van for days to get hold of our client list or candidate details," he says.  But even if the hacker threat is overblown, it does not excuse companies from not doing all they can to protect their networks from attack, particularly if those networks contain sensitive customer data.Vortex is the alias of a London computer security professional who is also active in the computer underground. "There's no doubt drive-by hacking goes on to a certain extent, although it'll never reach the levels of internet-based hacking simply because of the need to be in close proximity to the target building," he says.  In his spare time, Vortex works to build free, public-access wireless networks. His Free2air website and others such as Consume chart the spread of these community networks, and encourage wireless network enthusiasts across the globe to get involved.The ultimate aim of these campaigners is to provide a grassroots, non-commercial alternative to telcos and internet service providers. Had our war drive taken us a few hundred yards further east, we would have detected one of the community networks already running in London: Free2air's Groundzero has been providing free wireless network access to the local community since December 2000.Vortex also runs War Peddlaz, a group dedicated to mapping the wireless airwaves by cycling round on bicycles fitted with laptops, wireless cards and antennae. "War Peddlaz are not hackers. We are simply the cartographic arm of Free2air," he explains.  "If we are to build usable, free community networks, people need to be able to know where the public network nodes are. To do that they need to run software like Netstumbler. Air space is public space and we believe we have a right to know who is broadcasting in that public space. But by publishing our data, we're also exposing those companies that have failed to secure their wireless networks properly. If companies don't want their networks showing up on our maps and scans, they'll have to do more to hide them."
The unexpected success of text (SMS) messaging, which in January saw the number of person-to-person texts sent in a month reach a mammoth 1.4bn, has recently been the solitary source of cheer for many in the mobile industry. Yet according to research commissioned by routing specialists Airslide at the recent GSM conference in Cannes, the industry has little confidence that the message is getting through.Some 40% of those surveyed said they did not believe that all texts reached the intended recipient, and that the ability of networks to reliably deliver SMS was a serious issue. "Without reliable, consistent services to carry it, mobile commerce cannot go anywhere fast," says Marc Zionts, the chief executive of Airslide."As the applications utilising SMS proliferate, the situation is only going to get worse." Text messaging, though available from the early days of digital networks, took 10 years to catch the public's imagination. With the vast bulk of their revenues deriving from voice traffic, SMS was not a major factor in the network's    plans. When the bug bit, few were prepared for the sudden onslaught of traffic.With reports of the dumping of messages by overwhelmed networks, and memories of the over-hyped Wap still burning, many analysts agree that user confidence is critical to the technology's future. Paul Lee, director of mobile and wireless research at Deloitte Consulting, says texting's potential as a business application is "entirely limited by its reliability."He adds: "Although the vast majority of communications arrive almost immediately, any applications that are time critical cannot rely on SMS. "If SMS was used for large-scale voting on a show like Big Brother, and all the SMS capacity is used up: engineers may not get summonsed, the logistics company might not become aware of a diverted load and services like the West Midlands police initiative to distribute text shoplifter warnings to retailers could grind to a halt."Companies such as Airslide say networks should switch to a system where SMS messages are sent via separate,    IP-based networks, while the continued roll-out of general packet radio service (GPRS) should improve reliability. The major service providers, meanwhile, are bringing their guns to bear upon the SMS phenomenon, with companies such as Orange claiming that they are pouring "considerable resources" into improving the breadth and standard of available services.Given estimates from Andersen's Technology, Media and Communications division that the European    market for enhanced mobile services will reach &#163;11.7bn by 2006, their motivation for doing so is easily grasped. Many providers are pinning their hopes on    enhanced messaging services to harness the popularity of SMS and iron out teething problems. Users in Japan have gone crazy for graphics and musical attachments,   and Britons are expected to follow suit. Given that there are 40m SMS-capable handsets in circulation, and considering the reluctance of many users to gravitate towards new technologies, it is unlikely the humble text message will disappear overnight."There is an evolutionary path from SMS to enhanced messaging services, but these will complement the existing technology rather than replace it," says Simon Holmes from Logica Mobile Networks. "We see great potential for SMS to continue its success, but if operators intend to extend revenues from messaging services - quality of service remains a key issue to address."
WhitneyInternet art is still a young medium, but there are signs that it is finding increasing acceptance in the US art establishment. Last month, the mighty Guggenheim Foundation acquired its first two pieces of net.art and began displaying work by Mark Napier and John F Simon Jr in its new virtual gallery.Over at the Whitney Museum of American Art, net-based works have again featured prominently in its Biennial, held in uptown Manhattan. The Whitney Biennial is arguably the largest and most prestigious group show of young artists in the US. This year it features 10 works of net.art, including previous Web watch favourites Future Farmers, Potatoland and John Klima.Other works - mostly avail able online - range from examinations of database aesthetics, to the use of alternative browsers and, for the first time, works of art for personal digital assistants.  The work is eclectic and many require the download of bespoke software. In fact, one thing that unites the 10 entries is the level of software sophistication. The days when internet art was just pretty pictures online are long gone. Still, not everyone is happy. Net artist Miltos Manetas has launched a satire site critiquing the choices, and has cheekily called his site the Whitney Biennial, too.Rail strikeThe Better Rail Advisory Group (Brag), a new pressure group, is threatening to organise a one-day commuter strike tomorrow in protest at rising fares and declining service on the UK's venerable rail network. An earlier strike was suspended because of the disruption caused to Brag's negotiations with the department for transport by the controversy over spin doctors.    Brag is trying to formulate a national awareness and information campaign with the department and has a new site to help. It has warned that any delay in initiating and implementing the campaign will "result in a major national protest".Single attackMassive Attack is back with a new single, but you will need a net connection to hear it first. Bristol's legendary sound system has teamed up with US rapper Mos Def for the single I Against I. You can stream the track from the site or download it via a very complicated registration process. www.massiveattack.comFactory fodderMike Winterbottom's new movie of the rise and fall of Factory records is out next week. There's the usual film website promoting 24 Hour Party People (or Fac 433) and much of Factory culture. It's nothing special apart from some very lively message boards. Sadly, there is an almost total lack of music. If you want to know about Factory in more detail, head for Cerys Matic's unofficial history: it is much better.   www.partypeoplemovie.com   www.cerysmatic.clara.net/FactorySutton HooSutton Hoo in Suffolk is probably the grandest Saxon burial site in the UK. A new visitors' centre opened there last week, which makes it more accessible to the public. It comes with an informative website that offers interactive maps, archaeological details and material for teachers.   www.suttonhoo.orgNational testIn May, the BBC plans to test how brainy we are as a nation, by broadcasting a TV show using IQ tests gleaned from the internet and interactive TV. The questions have been designed by Dr Colin Cooper of the British Psychological Society, and will include memory and word tests, observation puzzles, logic and mental arithmetic. The test is in May but you can register now.   www.bbc.co.uk/testthenationGame onTickets for the summer's Commonwealth Games are selling fast, with most of the track and field events gone already. But you can still pick up some tickets online. You will also find lots of information on the games, schedules and news about how you can volunteer.     www.commonwealthgames.comLate flightThe Smoking gun - a site that uses official documents in the public domain - last week reported it had found    evidence that six months after September 11, a Florida flight school had belatedly received notification from the US Immigration and Naturalisation Service that Mohammed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, two of the men suspected of flying into the World Trade Center, had been granted student visa status. Horrible cock-up or something more? You can see a facsimile of the document online.    www.thesmokinggun.com/ doc_o_day/terrorvisa1.shtmlEat me!Ellie Harrison is a 24-year-old fine art graduate from Nottingham Trent University. For the past two years she has been photographing everything she has eaten and documenting it on her website. Harrison now lives by a strict code of rules that means she can't eat without photographing it first. You can view each meal, read her log, and marvel at her obsession.www.ellieharrison.com/frontpage.htm
Flash MX, the new version of Macromedia's content creation platform, will enable website developers and online advertisers to do more of what they like over the widest range of systems. It should also help prevent some of them from being sued.The most important new element in Flash MX is the ability to include video. This avoids having to launch a separate video display utility, such as a Windows Media Player. It also makes Flash independent of the "codec wars" and digital rights battles being fought mainly between Microsoft and Real Networks.Macromedia has licensed Sorenson's Spark codec to provide good quality streaming video. Sorenson says it can run any videos that can be played using Microsoft's Windows Media Player or Apple's QuickTime. Macromedia claims its Flash Player is already "the leading rich client on the internet", with more than 98% of online users able to run Flash content.Users will be prompted to download the new version, free, when they access sites that need it. And while both Microsoft and Real Networks are trying to extend their reach beyond personal computers, Macro  media wants to colonise those platforms, too.  At last week's launch, Rob Burgess, chairman and chief executive, claimed Flash MX would deliver "amazing user experiences across everything from mobile phones, PDAs, interactive TV systems, game machines, internet appliances, webpads and in-room hotel entertainment systems."These include home gateways and television set-top boxes such as Moxi Digital, which runs Linux, the Symbian operating system for mobile communicators, the Sony PlayStation 2, and Microsoft's Windows CE. Further, what started (at least in its Flash guise, before Macromedia bought it) as a small vector graphics animation program now includes    familiar furniture, such as scroll bars, and, says the company, support for web standards such as ECMAScript (VB Script), HTML, MP3, Unicode and XML.Rather than simply abandoning HTML and launching their Flash sites separately, web designers will be able to provide a more continuous experience. As for staying out of court, Flash MX is finally able to talk to "screen readers" used by blind or disabled surfers. This means Flash content can be made accessible as required by the UK's Disability Discrimination Act and similar "equal access" laws overseas. Flash should be of interest in another court, too: in the US, where Microsoft's fate is being decided.There have been repeated accusations that Microsoft's monopoly of the desktop market prevents rivals from distributing their own "middleware", and Flash's success proves this claim is wrong. Not only is it possible, it has been done.&#183;Software developers can buy Windows and Macintosh versions of Macromedia Flash MX from the company's website for £369 plus VAT, with upgrades costing £149 plus VAT.
With interest in the Oscars now reaching fever pitch, the web has plenty to offer the seriously star-struck. Admittedly, most of it is as saccharine and sanitised as the ceremony itself, but dig a little deeper and the occasional star still shines.Now in its 74th year, the Oscars began in 1929 as little more than a slap-up meal with added back-slapping - indeed the 15 award winners were known several days in advance. This year's event, hosted for the second time by Whoopi Goldberg, will be watched by an estimated half a billion people worldwide, with the 24 awards remaining a closely guarded secret, not least because of the millions in betting revenue riding on the outcome.The Irish bookie Paddy Power is still taking bets in all major categories, with current odds favouring Russell Crowe (best actor), Sissy Spacek (best actress) and Peter Jackson (best director). Those with slightly richer blood might also want to try their hand at buying and selling Oscar-related stock options.However, this year's betting has already been muddied by claims that A Beautiful Mind    conveniently omitted details from the book on which it is based, including the hero's homosexual affairs and allegedly anti-Semitic tendencies. Matt Drudge - infamous online spoiler of many a media scoop, including the whole Monica Lewinsky saga - has now gone one further by claiming the revelations were deliberately leaked by Miramax, producers of the rival best-movie contender In the Bedroom."It's out of control," said a spokeswoman at Universal. "It's unfortunate that some people are stooping to that level. The last pure place that you thought you could go is completely tainted: the Academy race."As always, you can make up your own mind by checking the Drudge Report. Determined not to be dragged under, the official website maintains a steady flow of celebrity fluff, including a comprehensive archive of material from previous ceremonies and a history of the statue itself. The name Oscar, for instance, supposedly stems from an Academy librarian called Margaret Herrick who commented on how the 13.5 inch statuette resembled her Uncle Oscar. True or not, the nickname was not officially accepted until   1939, by which time it was the most prestigious award in the movie world.As far as this year's nominees are concerned, if you need a reminder of the main contenders, the Apple site contains video clips of all the movie trailers and reminders of some of the outstanding performances.Back in the early 1950s, when Hollywood was facing financial ruin, the decision to televise the ceremony was bitterly opposed by an industry still scathing about the small-screen's status as a significant medium. Since then, however, TV highlights have shaped our most indelible memories of these four-hour marathons. In particular, the acceptance speeches often make the biggest international impact, with actors resolutely resisting pressure from successive TV producers to say less and smile more. Who could forget Julia Roberts hogging the limelight long past her allotted 45 seconds last year or Tom Hanks bemusing his 1993 audience with the words: "I know that my work in this case is magnified by the fact that the streets of heaven are too crowded with angels."Equal enjoyment can be    derived from those stars who once felt above the whole sordid affair: from Jane Fonda insulting the 1971 audience with inaccurate sign language and Black Power salutes, to Dustin Hoffman's 1977 assertion that the awards "are obscene, dirty and grotesque, no better than a beauty contest". Fonda returned in 1978 and Hoffman the following year, both as winners. The list of shame can be found at www.oscarworld.net or check out www.hollywood.com  for a round-up of past winners (most recently Mira Sorvino and Cuba Gooding Jnr) who confused public adulation for something more substantial.Of course, the other things the Oscars are famous for are Big Entrances and Exits. The first can be found at www. hollywoodreporter.com where all the red-carpet arrivals will be captured by the paparazzi. After this, it's on to the post-Oscar parties where last year $1.5m was raised for local charities, about the same as what was spent by those attending on designer rags. E-Online usually has the best coverage of over-dressed celebs looking sozzled, so if the big night leaves you thirsty for more, head on down to www.eonline.com  from around 4am on Sunday.
How important are 3G technologies sgoing to be?Very important - for two reasons. First, 3G is the next generation of wireless voice technology. When we run out of spectrum for GSM, as we will in the not-too-distant future, 3G offers the solution and at 10% of the cost of GSM. Also, 3G provides substantial data bandwidth.Has the poor showing of Wap dented enthusiasm for wireless technologies?No one with any understanding of the technology believed Wap would take off the way it was implemented. Trying to deliver data over a connection protocol was always going to be too slow. But as a packet network, using general packet radio service, it is a reasonable proposition.Has wireless found its "killer app"?Absolutely - voice! But if you mean has wireless data found its killer app yet, I'm not sure. Probably instant messaging: you only have to see how teenagers live on SMS. This will move on to Enhanced SMS, then Multimedia SMS. But there are many other applications - all the things for which you use a PDA (personal digital assistant).Will mobile devices ever replace the desktop?No. You would never want to write a novel on a PDA. Likewise, a desktop is useless when you're in a taxi and need information! The PDA in the taxi will be linked to the office through your Bluetooth-enabled phone  so, if a meeting is changed, you can find out in real time.Is Japan's i-mode technology a promising guide for 3G here?i-mode  is a tremendous example of how ordinary people are willing to adopt wireless data.Has the amount paid for 3G licences put more pressure on it to succeed?There will eventually be a tax on the 3G services being rolled out. I'm more optimistic about 3G than many, simply because spectrum is rare and we need that, even if there isn't any data.Will advertisers come back to the net?I think they will, simply because the net has never stopped growing.To what would you ascribe the success of the BBC Micro in the 80s?It was the best technology at the time and it had the endorsement of the BBC. I'm delighted that the Risc OS is still popular. Every now and then I meet someone who thanks me for my part in the BBC Micro.
User bewareIs it technically possible to contract a virus by visiting a web page - if I don't download any file or open any attachment, and just open the page in my browser?Keith HazeltonPeterborough, UKJack Schofield replies:At the moment, I don't think you are likely to get a virus this way, assuming you have fixed any browser insecurities, such as the scriptlet bug. This hole allowed malicious scripts to run from within HTML pages, so you could get an infection without opening an email. Could an ingenious hacker do something like this from a web page? Perhaps. However, you can certainly catch a "JavaScript virus", such asJS.Excpetion.gen, which modifies your browser's home page, and redirects links to pornographic pages. A reader was recently caught by a similar routine, which changed his home page to Yahoo.This malware placed a file called data789.tmp in the Windows folder. The file inserted data into the registry every time the PC was restarted. He had to disable the file (by renaming it), remove the instruction to load the file (using msconfig), and remove its Search Assistant entries from the registry. There is a free program,Start Page Guard, intended to prevent this type of browser snatching.  You can also, of course, increase your browser's security settings. Go to Tools| Internet Options, click the Security tab, and move the slider from Medium to High. Unfortunately, browsing with a high security setting is so tedious that few people can stand it for long. And while you can put the addresses of any sites you don't trust into the Restricted sites zone, by that time, it is usually too late./www.pjwalczak.com/spguardTrojan scansDo anti-virus programs scan only for viruses, and do you need an anti-Trojan program as well? Your reply last week left me confused...Mike NeveJS:My apologies: I thought I had saved space by providing a link towww.hackfix.org, which tells you how good anti-virus scanners are at detecting Trojans. (Trojans are security-breaking programs that have been smuggled on to your PC without you knowing, perhaps disguised as something else. They can allow a hacker to take over your machine.) It seems that most popular AV software will detect most or all common Trojans. However, it could be worth running aTrojan scannerif your AV software is not good at it, or you have some reason to think you may be hosting a Trojan. You can also have your PC scanned online at the sites listed below.ListeningFollowing your answer on Trojans, I typed netstat -a at the DOS prompt, and it said TCP and UDP k0a4u6:1083 state LISTENING. This points to a file in C:\ Windows\Internet Logs\ K0A4U6.ldb. Any idea what it does?Martin SaundersJS:I don't know. However, port 1083 is one of the ports used by a well-known Trojan, WinHole or WinGate, so check to see if any of these details apply to your PC. If you find an unknown program listening, check the port it is using on one or more of the sites that list the ports used by Trojans, then search your PC for evidence of that Trojan.BlackCodehas a huge list.Pest Patrolhas a short list.Send hereCan I add a destination to the drop down Send To menu, eg a New Folder in My Documents?Derek BurlsSomersetJS:Right-clicking on a file in Windows Explorer usually lets you send it to a variety of places, including a floppy drive or the Windows Briefcase. Suppose you want to send things to a folder called My Work. Find the My Work folder in the right hand pane in Windows Explorer, right-click it, and select Create Shortcut. You will now have a file called Shortcut to My Work. Use the mouse to move this shortcut into the Send To folder at C:\Windows\ SendTo. Highlight it again, press F2, and shorten the name to My Work. This name will appear in the SendTo options when you next right-click a file.Backchat&#183;Following on from the responses about refilling printer cartridges (March 7), Ashley Cooper from Harrogate says that after many unsuccessful attempts at filling his own, and testing the refilled ones sold on the high street, he has found "the ideal solution":Cartridge World'srefilling service. "They specialise in refilling empty ink jet and laser printer cartridges and fill all the cartridges with the correct inks and not universal ones. They test the cartridges on site before they release them, and offer a full money-back guarantee that they will work as well as the originals." It is a franchise operation.
Wreckless Xbox£44.99 Activision ***Mad Dash RacingXbox £44.99 Eidos ***Racing games are the staple of any
   console launch and the Xbox is no different. For rally lovers there is RalliSport Challenge, while Project Gotham Racing
   offers a unique and beautiful take on urban driving. And it doesn't stop there, with both Wreckless and Mad Dash Racing
   adding variety to the releases. The former lets you career through a Japanese city in one of two oddball vehicles as you
   hunt down criminals.The gameplay is basic - follow car, ram it off road - but the heavily populated metropolis leads to
   some exhilarating moments as you plough through street cafes and markets. Unlike Grand Theft Auto 3, pedestrians
   can't be harmed and the game has a slightly comic feel to it. The graphics are also impressive but longevity is a serious
   issue. Even though the missions offer some variety, there is nothing like the freedom of GTA3 and this, coupled with
   overly light vehicle handling, makes Wreckless a short- term thrill. Dispensing with vehicles entirely, Mad Dash Racing
   offers a totally different slant on the genre.This is all about running on foot through a cartoon landscape - think
   power-ups, speed bursts and high jumps rather than engine tweaks. And, for a while it works, especially in multiplayer
   mode, with the courses impressively lengthy. But playing on your own soon loses its appeal, despite the inclusion of
   object-collecting challenges. Disappointing visuals don't help either, with nothing appearing that couldn't be done on the
   PlayStation 2. Both Mad Dash and Wreckless are competent rather than compelling additions to the Xbox racing list. Best
   stick to Project Gotham Racing. (GH)AmpedXbox £44.99 Microsoft ****Convincing anyone - let alone gamers - that it is even slightly cool is perhaps the trickiest
   challenge Microsoft faces with the Xbox. Amped, a snowboarding game developed in-house, is the com pany's first
   attempt at proving it is not geeky to the core. Amped contains accurately modelled versions of real mountains, rather
   than imaginary runs. You must attract media attention and work your way through the ranks as a pro boarder.Thus,
   heavily flagged photographers are positioned at various points on the slopes. At the end of each run, you get an overall
   score, and one for points scored under the glare of the media. As you begin to meet your targets, you are awarded skill
   points (as in Tony Hawk's Pro Skater), your world ranking rises and you get (amusingly lame) media coverage. You must
   also impress sponsors, each of whom prefers different types of tricks. You have to sustain their enthusiasm until the
   bottom of the run - so it becomes vital to land every trick you attempt. You are also given Pro Challenges, in which you
   must perform higher-value tricks than pros at specific points on runs and, later, the chance to compete in proper
   competitions.While Amped, structurally, owes a debt to Pro Skater, it has nevertheless managed to create a distinct
   identity. It is gratifyingly humorous in places, gives plenty of satisfaction when you manage to string a series of tricks
   together and is blessed with a very impressive physics engine (although the graphics are not hugely impressive). The only
   drawback is a control system that takes some mastering, as you must set up spins and flips using the right control stick
   just before launching yourself off jumps. But it is worth the initial frustration, particularly if you are already a keen
   boarder. (SB)IcoPlayStation 2 £39.99 SCEI/Sony ****Rescuing princesses has been the mission of countless videogames since
   Shigeru Miyamoto's genre-defining Donkey Kong. But the princess you must rescue in Ico is different. She is a luminous,
   ghostly figure whose language you don't recognise.Your character, a small horned boy, must lead her by the hand
   through an enormous castle, fighting off the mysterious shadow monsters who try to fly away with her, and out into the
   safety of the world. The castle is the real star of this game, however. Never before has digital architecture had so much
   physical character.Dust motes dance in the light that penetrates gloomy towers, Heath Robinson-style mechanical
   contraptions swing beams and drawbridges to and fro, and distant battlements of this impossibly large prison can be
   seen in a bluish haze. Down in the castle grounds, sunlight bleaches grass and warms rocky walls. It is as if Mervyn
   Peake's Gormenghast had come to animated life, with painterly art direction by Edward Hopper.Ico's rich atmospherics
   are enhanced by superb ambient sound - drippings, clankings and rustlings. The gameplay proceeds like a less acrobatic
   version of Tomb Raider, but one in which the puzzles (how do I get there from here?) unfold more organically and logically
   from the endlessly fascinating structure of the environment.The one jarring note is the shadow monsters themselves.
   Combat (simply bash one button repeatedly to swing a stick or sword) can be highly annoying, and too often the enemies'
   appearance seems cynically prescribed simply to inject some artificial tension. The game could easily have dispensed with
   them altogether and relied simply on the rich pleasures of leisurely exploration. Even so, Ico is a remarkable experience:
   right now, it is the most beautiful game in the world. (SP)
If you were buying a new computer today, there's a good chance you would think about getting one with a flat LCD screen. Microsoft's Mira technology takes that idea a step further - or several steps and a flight of stairs. It poses the question: would you be prepared to pay a little bit more for a flat screen if you could pick it up and carry it around the house?According to Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer: "Mira does for monitors what the cordless handset did for telephones."When you sit down in the kitchen or bathroom with a Mira tablet, it looks as though you are using a PC running Microsoft Windows XP. And you are. However, the icons and applications you can see, and the files, are still running on the desktop PC. The difference is that instead of being connected by a VGA cable, the remote monitor is connected via a Wi-Fi (802.11b) wireless network.It sounds simple, but Microsoft's execution uses a lot of complicated plumbing. The Mira tablet is, in fact, a separate computer, with its own processor and memory running its own operating system: Windows CE.net.And rather than being a spiffing new idea, it is really an old one in a new guise. Mira is based on the same technology as the WBT or Windows-Based Terminal, which was launched at the end of 1997 in response to the network computer hype. Mira even communicates with XP using the same remote desktop protocol, Microsoft's RDP.This is fine for corporate use, but in the home, it has some obvious disadvantages. For example, RDP does not currently support the sort of graphics used for 3D games, or video streaming, so you can't use a Mira tablet for its most obvious application: watching a DVD running on your PC.Another drawback is the fact that XP is being sold as a single-user system. This means someone can't use a remote Mira tablet while another member of the family is hogging the desktop PC. There goes the other obvious application. . . .Travis Aims, a product manager with Microsoft's embedded systems group in Seattle, said both problems would be fixed in the next version. "You've got to walk before you run."And although Mira tablets    are being proposed as moveable screens, they are, as mentioned, really Windows CE computers complete with touch-sensitive screens and wireless communications. They could run Pocket Word and other applications written for CE, including electronic book readers and games. They could equally well be equipped with appli cations and sold as portable computers that, when you get home, also provide remote access to your desktop PC - or, indeed, several desktop PCs.Indeed, if you have a PocketPC 2002 device such as a Compaq iPaq, based on Windows CE, you can already use Windows Terminal Services and RDP to log on to   a remote PC and display a Windows 2000 or XP desktop on the palmtop screen."Mira is a set of technologies," says Aims, "and it is up to the manufacturers which parts of Windows CE they include." It is a modular system that runs on a wide range of processors, and manufacturers choose the pieces they want and package   them to suit their products. With CE, these range from vibration testers, petrol pumps and handheld viewers to in-car systems, WBTs, and PocketPCs. Microsoft does not design, make or sell these products, it just provides the software.But there is another reason - not mentioned by Aims - why Microsoft might not be too keen on the idea of selling Mira as a tablet computer. It is already committed to the Tablet PC, which is a fully portable PC running Windows XP. Having two ranges of incompatible Windows tablets might well confuse the market.So far, Philips, LG Electronics, TriGem and Tatung have plans to build Mira moveable monitors with LCD screens in the 10-15in range. Prices are expected to range from $500 to $1,000, and they should reach the shops before Christmas.Microsoft says it is also working with other manufacturers such as Fujitsu, Matsushita and Wyse to deliver "Mira-enabled displays and solutions". In the long term, Mira is not just for monitors. It could be used for TV sets, smart terminals, video projectors, and other devices.Fair enough. But if you want what Microsoft is promising - "the Windows PC experience &#91;in&#93; any room in the home" - you would be better off buying a cheap notebook PC instead.
Mobile commerce hype has backfired. According to a study by A T Kearny, only 1% of mobile users surveyed world-wide in January said they intended to use Internet-enabled mobile phones for any type of transaction. This was down from 12% a year earlier and 32% in June 2000. "The more they have used it, the less they have liked it," said Paul Collins, who led the research. Nonetheless, there is still a lot of interest in usingm-cashfor small payments. The story is in theWall Street Journal[paid subscription required].
Free to fee: more on Sun's plans to let hackers work on Star Office for nothing while it sells the results.
The Xbox games console launch was astorming successin the UK, reckons Microsoft, and trade magazine MCV thinks the sales figures back up the claims.
Annual losses increased dramatically from $87 million to $140 million. Turnover slipped back 2% to $79 million, so losses were much larger than total sales. "Fiscal 2002 has been a successful year forRed Hat," said the company. It does make you wonder what it would consider a bad year.
The newLara Croftmakes her debut this evening in London.USA Todayhas also covered the story.
The CIA has been forced to destroy data logs after being caught spying on the internet habits of visitors to its online reading room using software called cookies, despite a government ban on the practice.The agency removed the tracking software from one of its sites earlier this week, following a complaint from a private citizen who discovered the software on his machine.Mike Stepp, the manager of the CIA's public website, said the cookie had been installed inadvertently with a new software package in January."It was a mistake on our part. It was not intentional. The public does not need to be concerned that the CIA is tracking them. We're a bit busy to be doing that," he said.Daniel Brandt, the president of a Texas -based research company, discovered the cookie last week while browsing the CIA's electronic reading room, which provides access to previously released agency documents.      Mr Brandt said he discovered the "persistent" cookie - it keeps working until 2010 - and realised that the CIA "should not be doing this."He was particularly concerned because the reading room site allows users seeking documents to search for particular words."The keywords you put in reveal an incredible amount about what you're looking for and what your interests are. It would be very, very tempting to track that kind of information," Mr Brandt said.Cookies are small software files often placed on computers without a person's knowledge. The files can make internet browsing more convenient by letting sites distinguish user preferences, but they have been criticised for violating privacy because they can track users as they move around the net.The government issued strict rules for how federal agencies may use cookies in 2000 after it was discovered that the White House drug policy office had used the technology to track computer users viewing its online anti-drug advertising. The rules ban the use of "persistent" cookies like those found on the CIA site.Mr Brandt emailed the CIA with his concerns and the agency responded on Monday, removing the cookie and some other temporary cookies that were discovered.Mr Stepp explained that an outside company had loaded web analysis software while redesigning the reading room site, and that software included a cookie that tracked repeat visitors to the site.To make sure no improper information about site visitors had been recorded, Mr Stepp said two sets of log files would be destroyed.The US Congress issued a study last summer that found 300 cookies still on the websites of 23 agencies, despite the government ban.
Here's one device Apple boss Steve Jobs certainlywon'tbe unveiling at Tokyo MacWorld this week... the, er,iBong.
When I first dabbled with the web, way back in 1995, I was busy bluffing  the media that my Football Fans Against the Criminal Justice Bill website  was representing the views of thousands of deeply disgruntled fans,  outraged against the proposed legislation.In fact (I can now exclusively reveal!) there was only ever one fan against  the bill at the time - me - but my bedroom bluff worked and the national  media were soon listing the fears of football supporters all over, er, Brixton.But it's not just website owners who can be a little economical with the truth: visitors to bulletin boards are also equally at liberty to invent  all manner of unsubstantiated claims about their occupation and identity.My own site, urban75, has enjoyed a long history of lively and robust debate  on its forums, with all manner of individuals contributing under weird and  wonderful nom de plumes. Some simply prefer to be known under odd names  like chairman_miaow, hatboy and blagsta, while others have to keep  their identity private because of employment considerations.But not all choose to remain completely anonymous. In January 2002, a  character called ColinTheCop turned up on the Brixton forum, claiming to  be a serving Brixton police officer.Regulars looking forward to an interesting debate about policing in Lambeth  were soon to be disappointed as ColinTheCop launched into a series of  astonishing attacks on the community, declaring that "the people of Brixton deserve to be treated with contempt" and those who didn't show a  suitable level of appreciation for the police could "go and fuck themselves".Subsequent posts saw Colin building up a full head of homophobia while  urban75 posters prayed to the Great God of Community Policing that this cop  wasn't for real.As posters grew weary of his ever-more vitriolic assaults, a rising tide of  requests led to his removal from the boards, only for him to immediately  return under a multitude of equally obnoxious alter egos.Among all this mayhem, Brian, The Commander decided to step into the  fray, apparently alerted by police colleagues to the political hari-kari  being committed in his force's name.Not unreasonably, urban75 regulars were more than a little dubious that it  really was Brian Paddick, commander of the Metropolitan police, but after  several failed attempts to convince sceptical posters, Brian emailed me  privately confirming his identity.What followed next was an absolute revelation.  Seasoned contributors stood back in amazement as Brian contributed a stream  of radical, erudite, intelligent and engaging posts. Here was an officer  who was prepared to directly engage with the community he was paid to serve.Unlike committee meetings with their tedious agendas and self elected  "representatives" blathering on into the night, this debate was open play  all the way, with Paddick exchanging ideas, arguments and philosophies with  an assortment of hard-nosed anarchists, ex-addicts, local residents, lefties, righties and the simply curious.Amazingly, despite urban75 being well frequented by media types, all this  passed unnoticed for several weeks until one of the contributors (a Big  Issue news editor) realised that if he didn't cover this story soon, a less  sympathetic paper most certainly would.After checking personally with Paddick, the story was duly printed - and  all hell broke loose. A swarm of tabloids were soon ferreting around the  boards, delighted to find a veritable gold mine of juicy snippets primed  and ready to turn into copy-shifting headlines."The Odd Bill: I back ANARCHY" screamed the Sun, clearly unable to work out  the substantial difference between Paddick's ruminative reflections on the  concept of anarchism and a bunch of spikey-heads pissing on the Cenotaph."ANARCHY IS ATTRACTIVE" misquoted the Standard, while the Sun's slimy  Littlejohn launched into a personal attack of barely concealed homophobia.Meanwhile, traffic on the boards soared through the roof as the site was  name-checked all over the news media, and scoop-hungry journalists  stampeded to set primed questions for Paddick.Sadly, it couldn't last. With certain sections of the press revealing their  ugly, homophobic colours, it rapidly turned into a witch hunt for Paddick,  resulting in his removal from Brixton police and a hasty exit from the urban75 bulletin boards.All of which adds up to a lost opportunity.Paddick's unconventional use of new media as a means to listen, interact  and debate local issues with local people resulted in some of the most  worthwhile debate seen on the subject, and if any proof is needed of the  respect he earned in the process, look no further than the upcoming demos of support in Brixton.You can read about them on the urban75 boards.&#183;Mike Slocombe is editor of urban75.com
Since Christmas Day, I'm happy to report, my shiny new personal organiser has yet to crash, leave me confused and frustrated, or even need recharging. It has worked faultlessly on trains and planes, and fellow commuters have been appreciably quieter on the tedious "my gadget's better than yours" front, too.My new toy's killer features? Paper pages and an old-fashioned reliance on ink. And the complete absence of any cutting-edge technology - such as "synching cradles", or Byzantine shorthand methods of inputting "7.45pm: Swindon Town v Reading" - has proved particularly useful.For a gadget lover working daily in the hi-tech business, this is quite a confession. Electronic organisers have always been a weakness of mine. From early Casio efforts to more recent versions from Psion, Palm and Compaq, I've always enjoyed exploring the worlds of organisation and productivity that they have promised.Not that they have ever - really - delivered. The last one I owned, a Psion series 5, lasted a month before something desperate happened to the screen and it had to go back for repairs. And all repairs, inevitably, result in all the stuff on it - names, addresses, telephone numbers, appointments, anniversaries, all tapped in in one long, dull evening - being lost. The technical term for this teeth-grindingly frustrating experience - data loss - hardly does it justice.Ever since then, fear of "data loss" has stalked my daily life. Every new scrape, so easily acquired on that fragile, rubbery surface, was fretted over. Every little bump prompted a hurried check of its contents. "Back it up," warned my geekier friends. But if I was   that organised, I wouldn't have needed the thing in the first place. And, honestly, it would have tried Kofi Annan's patience to persuade the Psion and my Apple Mac computer to talk.All these frustrations, all these tears, I learned slowly, were common problems in the world of the personal digital assistant (PDA). And now even the &#252;bergeeks have been forced to admit that makers of PDAs are not finding things as easy as they once were.IDC, a market research company, reports that the handheld market in Europe grew by just 8% last year, despite the small size of the market and a year of aggressive cost-cutting by manufacturers. PDA manufacturers have been hit hard: last month, Handspring announced losses of $19.8m for the final quarter of last year. Its chief executive, Danna Dubinsky, made a telling comment to geek news site News.com as her company's results were unveiled: "We are a company that is transitioning out of the organiser business and into the communicator business," she said. "At some point, we will have transitioned out of the organiser business."All this "transitioning" may well be down to the fact that PDA users have begun to grow out of their fascination with simple organisation. The fashion this year is less about diary building and more about getting your email on the bus - or, in geekspeak, "mobile connectivity"."There has been far too much promised so far, and too little delivered," says Andy Brown, research manager for European mobile computing at IDC, and a keen PDA user himself. "I have to say that trying to synchronise my PDA with my desktop computer has left me tearing my hair out sometimes, wondering why I don't just put it in the drawer where it belongs. But we're very confident that things will get better this year."However, "Wireless services like   Avantgo have helped a hell of a lot," he says. "I was able to sit on the train the other day, having an instant message conversation with a colleague in Boston, which was pretty fun. You could see this kind of thing becoming very popular."Is all this hi-tech innovation making the old-fashioned paper competition nervous? Ron Laing, managing director of Filofax UK, is pretty relaxed about the future of the 81- year-old brand as he reviews a new stack of market research. "What we saw was that people who used PDAs were either forced to use them because their employers felt it appropriate, or they were tech freaks who bought them because they assumed they'd get some kind of benefit."Filofax has now identified those who   should be "paper organiser people", says Laing. They tend to be slightly chaotic types, who are likely to lapse from the cult of the PDA. "A lot of them were fairly frustrated. We found some who had had them for six months and hadn't even done the basics like load data into them, let alone get to grips with accessing them."Filofax sales hit a peak in 1999 (not 1989, as you might expect of the first great Yuppie accessory) and have continued at a steady clip ever since. The replacement diary business shows a continued steady increase, with 2m replacement diaries sold last year, which suggests that people who get new paper organisers are continuing to use them.Filofax even has some hi-tech tricks up its sleeve that might convince all but the most die-hard gadget freak that the way forward lies in paper and pen. It's called Anoto, and it's the gadget to end them all: a chunky pen with a scanner in its nose that watches what you write and can beam it to a nearby computer. It has old-fashioned ink in it, too, but needs paper with a special, discreet pattern printed on it for the hi-tech bit - which is why Filofax is interested. "Basically, you could write in your Filofax, tick a box on the page, and it's gone via email if you're within 10ft of your laptop," says Laing. "You could order flowers for your wife by writing a note in your Filofax, then sending it to Interflora - and she would get the handwritten note."Anoto is due to launch in the spring in Spain and Scandinavia, where the mobile networks are ready for it. And, you know, I'm already looking forward to it arriving here - it sounds just the thing to get me really, really organised. Properly. This could be the one. Lose my faith in  all gadgets? Not just yet.
Former Netscape boss Jim Barksdale reckons the proposed anti-trust settlementwould not have helped Netscape. What he fails to mention are any of the things that would have helped Netscape. Examples include: hiring senior people who knew something about Windows programming, writing a properly-architected browser, paying more attention to Internet (W3C) standards, not screwing up their marketing, and not being so insufferably arrogant when their browser had a dominant market share.
I want one. But I can't afford one... .
