Power upCisco has announced support for the IEEE 802.3af Power over Ethernet (PoE) standard across its Catalyst Intelligent Switching portfolio. PoE, ratified in June, allows DC current to be delivered over the same cable as an Ethernet network. This provides a global power standard and makes it easier to connect VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) phones, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth access points, web-based security cameras, lighting controllers, printers and other devices to the network. In five to 10 years, most network devices could be connected via a single RJ-45 plug. Cisco says its 802.3af-compliant PoE products also support earlier devices.http://newsroom.cisco.com/dlls/2004Red tapeBritish businesses have a false sense of security, according to an early take on the Department of Trade and Industry's biennial report on security. In April, the 2004 DTI Information Security Breaches Survey will show that 95% of the 1,000 UK companies surveyed have some form of back-up. However, only a third of them have off-site storage, and only 8% have tested their disaster recovery plans. In addition, less than 20% back up their desktops, which could leave them open to prosecution under the various data retention laws passed over the last two years. The report will be released at Infosecurity Europe 2004 in London.www.infosec.co.ukAutonomic add-onIBM's promise to create self-managing systems took a new turn this week with the release of the Autonomic Computing Toolkit. The kit is a free download aimed at supporters of the Eclipse project, an open-source initiative, sponsored by IBM, to develop and maintain a basic framework upon which application development environments can be built. The ACT is designed to supplement these environments by providing a standard way to build self-healing applications. Included in the download are embeddable components, tools, usage scenarios and documentation that IBM says will be supplemented and expanded over the next year.www.ibm.com/developerWorks/autonomicCybersecurityA US government website is proving to be an international hit. In January,   the National Strategy to Secure Cyberspace launched the National Cyber Alert System. The site provides early warning of security hazards and an email update service. The day it launched, the site got more than a million hits, and the email service's coverage of hardware and software vulnerabilities, patches and new virus attacks attracted a quarter of a million subscribers in the first week. The email update service is still growing by more than a thousand users a day, making it the world's biggest security news distributor.www.us-cert.govPsionaraPsion is transferring its shares in the Symbian consortium to Nokia, making the Finnish firm the biggest stakeholder in the smartphone platform. Psion was responsible for the Epoc OS, which was spun off to the Symbian group in 1998. David Potter, the company's chairman, says it will now concentrate on its Psion Teklogix handhelds and wireless networks.www.symbian.com/press-officeRFID to goA German supermarket group has been quietly trialling radio frequency identification (RFID) chips on loyalty cards: the German FoeBuD group has found them on cards issued by Metro's Future Store in Rheinburg. Each RFID chip holds a unique number that can be retrieved by scanners a few feet away. The store does tell shoppers that it uses RFID chips on individual items, and says they are deactivated at the checkout, though they continue to work partially afterwards. Metro tells us that the RFIDs are used on loyalty cards to verify customer age and to store loyalty card numbers, and that an upgraded deactivation system should blank all details from item RFIDs later this year.www.foebud.org/rfid/index-gb.htmlGran TaxsetterWarwickshire county council has launched an online game for those miffed by council tax rises. Users drive around a virtual town, deciding on spending plans. The council increased its budget for 2004/5 by 6.6% this month, but says the choices made by players could influence the following year's spending, as the results will be passed to the council.www.warwickshire.gov.uk/budgetgame
Broadband Britain?It's not developing as quick as we would wish. Although BT has started to sprint forward with enabling exchanges for ADSL, broadband take-up rates are very disappointing compared to other countries. I believe this is partly due to the broadband "experience" not being as good as it's hyped up. A lot of broadband subscribers are using connection rates so slow that the only difference they notice is that they don't have to dial up. So the downloading of pictures and video streaming isn't instantaneous and pictures are still "herky-jerky". I've coined the expression "wideband" and until 2megabits per second becomes the norm we shouldn't really be saying it's broadband.Can the average net user tell the difference?The marketing boys are partly to blame. They offer broadband at speeds that are incomprehensible to the average consumer yet clearly too slow. And even when high speeds are offered, they aren't always guaranteed because of contention rates when there are many users. So, at peak times, the system slows to a grindingly boring pace!Is wireless the answer for rural broadband?It's tempting to put a Universal Service Obligation on broadband providers but I don't think that would future-proof technology. Wi-Fi and nowWiMaxcould provide broadband where cable can't   reach. Satellite has its place and with 10 or more subscribers it becomes cost-effective. However, geostationary satellites intrinsically introduce delays because of the distance the signals have to travel.Should more government be online?That's the understatement of the year - and they've just gone and closed the UK Business Online site.Did MyDoom show up how vulnerable the net still is?Absolutely. It also demonstrated how vulnerable government servers could be. I'm still unconvinced that the government takes seriously the threat of not only mischievous hackers but also potential Denial of Service attacks.Spam?The government has made this problem worse by having a loophole that says business spammers can't be   prosecuted. A lot of spammers have now registered in the UK. I went on holiday for two weeks recently and came back to 1,904 items of spam, which had slipped through the so-called spam filter on the Parliament network.Gadgets?My favourite is so basic it probably won't impress you but I have a 30GB USB drive I bought fromJadetec. It's so useful for moving pictures or files around and it fits in my pocket. There is also my lovely Canon Ixus digital camera, which has four megapixels.You're in a minority as an MP with your own website?I've tried to make it very straightforward - there aren't any applets on it.Visit:www.michael.fabricant.mp.co.ukwww.zero-g.co.uk/index.cfm?articleid=802www.zero-g.co.uk/index.cfm?articleid=802
Microsoft's latest offer to end its long-running anti-trust case with the European Commission has been rejected, according to reports this week.The Redmond-based software giant had offered to settle the case by putting competitors' software on CD-ROMs sold with computers. But, according to sources quoted by Reuters earlier this week, the Commission believed that the CD-ROMs distributed with new computers would get little use and would be an ineffective channel for distribution.The commission's proposed final decision, which may not include any suggested remedies to its anti-trust concerns, is expected to be considered by an advisory committee made up of representatives of the 15 EU states in the first and third weeks of March, a second source familiar with the case said.According to a draft decision, the European Commission has ruled that Microsoft abused its dominant position and curbed competition by tying its Media Player software - used for playing music and videos - to its Windows operating system.The commission has been considering an order that would force Microsoft to un-bundle Media Player from Windows, which the firm insists would wreck the system.Alternatively, it has considered an order which would require Microsoft to bundle in the audio-visual software of rivals, but as a part of the software package on the computer rather than on a separate CD-ROM.The commission has also determined that Microsoft uses its Windows monopoly to damage competitors selling low-end servers and audio-visual software.The commission decided that Microsoft's servers run better with its Windows program than with those of rivals. It wants Microsoft to give rivals enough information so their servers work as smoothly with Windows as Microsoft's.
"A female Belgian virus writer who has allegedly been waging a public and protracted war against an antivirus expert has been arrested and charged by the authorities. Over the past few years, the woman, who goes by the name "Gigabyte," allegedly launched a number of viruses, all identified by their antipathy toward Sophos antivirus expert Graham Cluley. One launched a game on infected PCs, which challenged readers to answer questions about the man the author had nicknamed "Clueless." Another game required infected users to knock Cluley's head off," reportsCNet."The source of Gigabyte's discontent is comments made by Cluley some years ago, claiming that the majority of virus writers are male. Since then, Gigabyte has been on a mission to prove that females can cause just as much havoc as male virus writers."
For:Commiserations are due to the boy who, it was reported recently, identified the ouch in couch potato and contracted deep vein thrombosis after four straight hours with his console, but let's not use it solely as another opportunity to demonise video games. Providing their usage is properly policed by parents (clearly not, in this case) they can be fun, educational, entertaining and, yes, physically challenging. For a pastime that has been roundly criticised for being sedentary and passive, the PlayStation Eye Toy, for instance, is anything but. With its telly-top camera and interactive activities, it provides a reasonable physical work-out, offering users the chance to be a kung fu superstar or dancing diva, among others. And it's arguably less damaging than plonking children in front of something as mind-numbing as CBeebies for hours on end. With consoles, at least they're learning manual dexterity, honing mental reactions and even, if you join in, enjoying bonding time. OK, so you'd rather they were collecting stamps or playing chess, but that's just you being old-fashioned.Against:Your child's face is the picture of rapturous absorption. He is awestruck, mesmerised, couldn't be more fascinated - but unfortunately it's not you he's looking at. It's not your parental pearls of wisdom, your charming stories from childhood, or your actorly rendition of Jabberwocky that's transporting him to such extremes of sensory pleasure, it's that pesky electronic box in the corner. You wouldn't mind if there was something even faintly edifying on the screen, but there is not; it's cartoon characters beating the living crap out of each other (Simpsons Wrestling, anyone?). It's Legolas and Aragorn on an Orc-slaughtering mission (the player competes for a "kill rating" ranging from fair to perfect). That children emerge from these electronically controlled killing sprees looking like mad-eyed zombies should come as no surprise to parents, but it seems a price they're willing to pay for a couple of hours babysitting - from a babysitter that doesn't charge by the hour, eat all your crisps or demand a lift home. But by allowing unlimited access to video games you are breeding an antisocial nerd who will still be living at home when he's 38.Verdict:A brush with DVT is unlikely to deter hardcore console abusers. The cure is 10 or so weeks' R&amp;R. That'll be bonus time in front of the screen, then.
Internet search engine Google has expanded its web index by one billion pages, increasing its breadth by about one third as it readies itself for tougher competition from Yahoo! and Microsoft.Google now spans 4.28 billion web pages, up from 3.3 billion pages earlier this week. The California-based company also said that it has enlarged its index of web images to 880 million, up from just over 400 million.Even with the expansion, Google still fails to capture the constantly expanding constellation of online content: by some estimates, there are 10 billion pages on the web.Nevertheless, the expansion underscores Google's determination to remain the internet's most popular search engine - a prized position that formidable rivals such as Yahoo! and Microsoft hope to capture.Yahoo! - also based in California - has been drawing upon Google's index for the search results on its website since June 2000, but plans to end the partnership before April. Yahoo! intends to rely exclusively on search technology it picked up last year after spending more than $2bn (£1.05bn) to buy Inktomi and Overture Services.Meanwhile Microsoft is spending millions to develop a sophisticated search engine to use on MSN.com in hopes of toppling Google as the king of search.Google has been regularly upgrading its search engine since its debut in 1998 with a web index of 25 million pages, but co-founder Sergey Brin, the company's president of technology, said the potential threats from Yahoo! and Microsoft have added more urgency."We have decided to put even more energy into our improvements and have turned up the notch on innovation a bit," Mr Brin said in an interview yesterday.The upgrades are being made as Google considers a widely anticipated initial public offering (IPO) of its stock later this year. Mr Brin declined to discuss the possible IPO, expected to be one of the richest in nearly a decade.If it occurs, a Google IPO could build a bigger war chest for its looming search showdown with Yahoo! or Microsoft.Google has built a sizeable lead since Mr Brin and fellow Stanford University graduate student Larry Page developed a new way to guide internet users to their desired destinations.Google's websites handled 35% of all web searches in December, compared with 27% at Yahoo! sites and 15% for Microsoft sites, according to the latest data compiled by comScore Media Metrix, a research firm. AOL and other websites owned by Time Warner have a 16% share. Those sites largely rely on Google for their search results.The latest improvements should help Google's search engine maintain its advantage, predicted Chris Winfield, who runs an internet marketing firm in New York that tracks the search engine industry."Having all those extra pages in the index really isn't going to make much difference for average users, but it cements in their minds that Google has the best search engine out there and the company isn't just resting on its laurels," Mr Winfield said.In its latest makeover, Google also tweaked the closely guarded formula that determines which websites are most relevant to a search request.Google has made five significant changes to its algorithmic formulas in the last two weeks, Mr Brin said.The revisions to Google's algorithmic formula are even more important to e-commerce sites than the expanded web index, because a ranking on the first page of Google's search results typically generates much more customer traffic than on subsequent pages.As Google covers more online turf, it is also digging deeper into web pages. Roughly 40% of the web pages scanned by Google weren't fully indexed until the latest improvements, Mr Brin said. Now all but about 20% of the Web pages that Google covers are fully indexed.
Britons are spending almost twice as much money on internet transactions than they were a year ago, payment brand Visa announced today.According to Visa's figures, UK spending on the internet for the final quarter of 2003 has  grown by a tremendous 91% from the same period in 2002. In total, Visa cardholders in the UK made purchases collectively worth over £1.8bn on the internet during the last year, as more consumers choose to turn their backs on the high street and do their shopping from the comfort of their own computers.A report on online shopping released in December 2003 showed that the desire to avoid the stress of high street shopping, particularly over the Christmas period, has overcome concerns over the security issues associated with buying online.Travel and tourism was the biggest sector for the second year in a row, with annual expenditure rising by 112% as Visa cardholders paid for more of their air travel, hotels and package holidays online, on websites such asBritish Airways,Ebookers.com, andOpodo. A greater number of people are also using the net to pay for their entertainment: the sector, which includes online bookings for cinema tickets and restaurants, grew by 180% over the year.Hugo Bottelier, vice president of Visa EU, commented on the figures. "Christmas was undoubtedly a critical driver for online retail growth, but we are also seeing other sectors such as tourism and travel increasing their online stronghold.""Web users are becoming confident and are diversifying their net spending. With consumers now able to benefit from new security measures, consumer confidence in shopping online can only continue to improve and we predict that the figures will carry on rising for some time yet," he said.Basil Hyman, head of e-commerce marketing atEbookers, confirmed the trend indicated by the report. "We've definitely seen an increase in online transactions," he said. "We believe it's down to a combination of  improvements in technology making booking online faster and more effective, greater confidence  among consumers and the fact that companies such as ourselves are becoming more widely known. We're not a new company anymore - we're bricks and mortar."
As widely expected, Intel says it is adding 64-bit features to the standard Pentium line, following AMD's lead."Intel's 64-bit extension technology will be software-compatible with AMD's 64-bit extension technology, Barrett said. A few architectural differences won't affect application compatibility, he added. The first Intel chip to take advantage of the 64-bit extensions technology will be one code-named Nocona, the next generation of the Xeon DP processors for workstations and low-end servers. Nocona is scheduled for release in the second quarter," reports theIDG News Service."Future versions of both the Prescott processor and the Xeon MP processor will also include this technology. Prescott is the core for existing Pentium 4 CPUs."There will be more details later today.[Update]Seehere
Webmonkey, born in 1996, died last week after a long illness. Paul Boutin writes theobit. Like most of the Wired stable, mind you, things hadn't really been as compelling as they used to be for some time.
At first glance the opening page of the Alliance Defense Fund's website only hints at its anti-homosexual agenda. But a closer examination reveals the site's true purpose.A book called The Homosexual Agenda is advertised. It promises to expose the ways in which "homosexuals and their advocates are increasingly successful in efforts to recruit children and turn their hearts against their parents."The site lists allied groups which promote a mixture of marriage, the family unit and Christian decency.The ADF also runs the Campus Crusade for Christ, which wants to "turn lost students into Christ-centred laborers" at American universities and a National Litigation Academy to instruct sympathetic lawyersThe group says its function is to defend religious freedom and the sanctity of life as well as protecting "traditional family values.""The family is the most basic unit of any society and the foundation of America," it reports. "Without healthy, functioning families, a culture cannot survive. God has defined the ideal for family as one man and one woman, married for life, and those related to them by blood, adoption, or marriage."
"Google is a step in the long march to better search. Yes, Google's scheme yields fantastic results. But the Web is inexorably dynamic. During the next five years, it will move from containing primarily file-based content (HTML pages) to containing more executable content (e.g., online gaming or new structure imposed by Web services such as XML). When that happens, the usefulness of link-based search will wane. Simply stated, Google is very much of the times, with no advantage in the more structured, executable Internet that lies ahead."Over atCNet, Forrester Research founder George Colony has a go at putting the Google IPO into some sort of perspective.
"In just its first month of testing, an estimated 50,000 people signed up to use Xfire, which functions like an instant-messaging service. Gamers can link with each other to play up to 75 action, strategy and role-playing games, including Counter-Strike and EverQuest. That hasn't always been easy: An estimated 35,000 computer servers, for example, run Counter-Strike," reportsUSA Today."Enhancing Xfire's pedigree is its chief gaming officer, Dennis "Thresh" Fong, the world champion of action games Doom II, Quake and Quake II. He also founded the popular site Gamers.com."
The five-star review on Amazon, one of the world's biggest online booksellers, was attributed only to 'a reader from Chicago'. Those who felt this spoke for the man in the street may have been tempted to share their credit card details and order a copy of  The Life and Adventures of Lyle Clemens  by John Rechy. They might have been hesitated, however, had they known the reviewer's true identity: John Rechy.The art of self-reviewing - and coming up with a false identity to fool cyber-police - was last week exposed as one of the literary world's best-kept secrets. Amazon's Canadian site suddenly revealed the identities of thousands of people who had posted anonymous reviews on the American site under signatures such as 'a reader from Alabama'. There were some prominent authors among them.The gremlins that bedevilled Amazon all week laid bare how writers can exploit the web to praise their friends, rubbish their rivals and even champion themselves in the hope of shifting extra copies. The humiliation ended only after outed reviewers ordered Amazon to fix it.Rechy, author of the 1963 bestsellerCity of Night, defended writing the eulogy to his latest book, which he unashamedly awarded five stars out of five. 'That anybody is allowed to come in and anonymously trash a book to me is absurd,' he told the  New York Times. 'How to strike back? Just go in and rebut every single one of them.'Dave Eggers, author of  A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius, also admitted writing a review last year praising the work of his friend Heidi Julavits as 'one of the best books of the year'. He posted it as'a reader from St Louis'. But the review appeared under 'David K Eggers' on Amazon's Canadian site last week.Eggers also claimed he was merely striking back at unfair criticism: 'I've done that one or two times before, when I like a book and the reviews on Amazon seem bizarre. In this case I just tried to bring back some balance.'In Britain, Anthony Burgess set the standard long before the internet when, in the 1960s, he reviewed  Inside Mr Enderby,  which he had written under the  nom de plume of Joseph Kell. His notice in the  Yorkshire Post was provocative: 'This is a dirty book ... It may well make some people sick, and those of my readers with tender stomachs are advised to let it alone.' Burgess was soon unmasked and lost his job.Last night, British writers confessed minor indiscretions, but denied plugging themselves on Amazon, which does not compel contributors to publish any personal information but has a system for ranking its 'best' reviewers. The novelist Julian Barnes said: 'I would not do it - probably out of prudence as much as morality.'DJ Taylor, author and critic, said he thought such antics were 'beyond the pale' but added: 'When I was 22, I wrote an article in the  Spectator  about working in a bookshop, and I can remember forging a letter about it and sending it in. I have also reviewed under the pseudonym Felix Benjamin - the names of my children - but that was because I was doing the same book for two different papers and wanted to make sure I got paid twice.'Novelist Jilly Cooper said: 'All writers want to be loved. Their books are like babies, and they want to win first prize in the baby show. But plugging your own books is a pretty awful thing to do.'Professor Lisa Jardine, who was an adviser on the setting up of the site's British edition, Amazon.co.uk, said she had no objection to Rechy, Eggers and other clandestine reviewers. 'There's nothing immoral about it. This is a marketing website. You might as well say putting your own stuff on e-Bay and plugging it is immoral.'Jardine, a former chairwoman of the Man Booker Prize judging panel, added: 'In America, Amazon review-watching is a sport. There have been some fantastic indiscretions. One ex-wife of an American author put the history of his infidelities in her review of his book. It was breathtaking.'Rupert Allason, who uses the pseudonym Nigel West to write spy thrillers, said: 'I don't have sympathy with writers who do it.'I thoroughly disapprove. Some authors are known to try to fake their own figures, claiming that 5,000 copies have been ordered when in fact most have been sent back.'A spokeswoman for Amazon.co.uk said: 'I can't talk about the technology behind customer reviews, because that's confidential.'A spokeswoman in North America told the New York Times: 'It was an unfortunate error. We'll examine what happened and make sure it won't happen again.'
It is not often that an item of consumer electronics features in a House of Commons Early Day Motion. Such is the status of the Apple iPod - the dinky MP3 player that has become the epitome of techno-chic - that it has now achieved that distinction. The EDM, a parliamentary device to raise an issue, was proposed by Labour MP Lindsay Hoyle.The motion states: 'That this house notes with concern the difficulty people are having in replacing batteries for iPods, the new pocket-sized Walkmans; notes that iPods were a favourite Christmas present, with a value of between &#163;250 to &#163;400, but that when people come to buy replacement batteries they find that they cost &#163;100 and that they have little knowledge of where such batteries can be obtained from; and calls on the supplier, Apple, to ensure that replacement batteries are plentiful in supply and priced at a reasonable level.'Apple, stung by this criticism, responded vigorously, pointing out that a new battery will cost British consumers less than &#163;100. 'For &#163;79 including VAT (plus postage and shipping)', the company said in a statement, 'iPod owners can enroll in the iPod Out-of-Warranty Battery Replacement Programme any time after the one-year warranty has expired.'So that's all right then? Er, not quite. First of all, there is the question of why rechargeable batteries cost so much (a more general issue fully deserving another EDM). And of course there is the small matter of the shock endured by proud early-adopters of the iPod when they discovered that the battery no longer worked after 18 months and that a replacement cost almost as much as a whole new iPod.There is an even more interesting question: why should replacing a battery be a warranty operation at all? After all, it takes only a few seconds to slip the battery out of my Nokia mobile phone and replace it with another (disgracefully expensive) one. But with the iPod, it has to go back to Apple. (Techies report that the procedure can be done with a special type of what my kids call 'pokey sticks'. Apparently it's a bit like opening an oyster - not for the faint-hearted, in other words.)In fact, Apple's approach to the iPod battery is emblematic of the company's attitude to design generally. Or perhaps I should say of Steve Jobs's attitude to design. It was evident, for example, in the first version of the Macintosh (another design icon that is 20 years old this year), which Jobs insisted should have no expansion slots. In taking this view, Jobs was implementing his vision that computers were consumer products - like, say, food processors or TVs - not engineering test-beds. The Mac should have, as it were, 'no user serviceable parts'. It was perfect just as it was.This might be a sensible policy for food processors   and games consoles, but for a general-purpose machine like a computer it was daft, and Apple nearly died as a result. Jobs was pushed out, and replaced by men in suits who drove the company into the ground. Then Jobs was brought back, and Apple's resurgence as the most innovative company in the personal computer business began. To date, the iPod has been the crowning glory of the new strategy - a consumer electronics device that has taken the world by storm, the spiritual heir of the Sony Walkman. But implicit in it is Jobs's old hostility to consumer tinkering.These reflections are prompted by a fascinating essay by Dan Hill, a BBC designer who runs one of the most interesting weblogs,www.cityofsound.com. Apple has, Hill argues, a design strategy that pursues perfection. 'When this works', he writes, 'and it has often approached perfection since Jonathan Ive took over the industrial design team at Apple - it creates a community of users who will not just consume, but actively fight its corner.' The flip side of this loyalty, however, is that enthusiasts feel betrayed if the design turns out to embody an avoidable flaw - which is why iPod owners are so aggrieved.And this illuminates a deeper paradox, namely the tension between the quest by designers for 'perfection' and the fact that users have an unruly desire to modify things. This is, as Hill points out, a profound need. It's why people are forever extending and modifying their houses and, in the process, usually undermining the architect's original vision. There are some lovely photographs of what people living in houses designed by Le Corbusier have done to them. All of which makes one wonder if Steve Jobs missed his vocation.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
I am far from attractive. My nose is large for my face and, while not hooked, has a bump in the ridge. Though I am not bald, to say that my hair is thinning would be an understatement. I have indentations on either side of my forehead, which I like and believe add character to my face, though I've never actually received a compliment on them. When I look down at my pale, skinny body, I wonder why any woman would want to sleep next to it, let alone embrace it.So for me, meeting women takes work. I'm not a guy they giggle over at a bar or want to take home because they're feeling drunk and crazy. I can't offer them a piece of my fame and bragging rights like a rock star. All I have is my mind and nobody can see that.You may notice that I haven't mentioned my personality. That is because in the last year, my personality has completely changed. Or to put it more accurately, I have completely changed my personality. Researching a book proposed by an editor, I allowed myself to be taken under the wings of the selfproclaimed greatest pick-up artists in the world and entered an underground subculture of men dedicated - sometimes to an unhealthy and troubling extreme - to figuring out the mystery of the opposite sex. For lack of a better term, they refer to themselves simply as 'the community'.For most, entry into this cult-like cross between self-help group and locker room begins on the internet. Type 'seduction' or 'how to meet women' into a search engine and you will find hundreds of sites trying to part you from your money. But the lucky few, able to wade through enticements to 'meet models now', may find one of the free usenet groups, internet mailing lists or message boards where hundreds of men labour day and night to turn the art of seduction into an exact science.From New York to London to Croatia - places my reporting took me - many of these men meet offline in groups known, without irony, as lairs to discuss tactics and techniques before going out to bars and clubs to put their theories into practice.It is a world with its own jargon (AFC, for example, denotes an Average Frustrated Chump, PUA a Pick-up Artist) and luminaries known by pseudonyms like Mystery and Juggler. Those who manage to earn the respect of their peers through online postings or real-world prowess can make money writing ebooks or running workshops. This has given birth to a seduction industry in America marketed almost entirely through online newsgroups and mailing lists. Some have turned it into a full-time career with six-figure incomes, others into a lucrative sideline allowing them to collect a few thousand dollars here and there.One of the pioneers of the seduction community is Ross Jeffries, who, describing himself as unattractive and frustrated, wrote a small book called How to Get the Women You Desire Into Bed in the Eighties. His method was based on an adaptation of neurolinguistic programming, a school of hypnosis which believes that one can communicate with the subconscious through seemingly normal conversation. When a student of his created an internet newsgroup, the seduction community was born.'I don't know if anybody can really understand the community until they get involved in it,' said Juggler, a comedian from Michigan, who teaches his own method, focused on approaching women directly and mastering the art of natural conversation. 'They view it as guys trying to be players and lying and doing anything for sex, and there are some people in the community who take that tack. But I find that the people who get really good at this aren't like that. That's because to get good, you have to believe you are the prize. And when you are the prize, you start doing more giving instead of more taking.'Born Erik von Markovik, Mystery is known for spitting out long, detailed postings that read like algorithms of how to engineer social situations to meet and attract women. In detailing his social life online, he has singlehandedly invented much of the jargon and tactics that men around the world are using to meet women.The 'neg', for example, is his invention. Neither a compliment nor an insult, a neg holds two purposes: momentarily to lower a woman's self-esteem and to suggest an intriguing disinterest. ('Nice nails. Are they real? No? Oh, they look nice anyway.') Mystery cautions online, however, that negging is only for exceptionally beautiful women who are used to a steady stream of compliments.Speaking in a booming voice that he said was modelled on Tony Robbins, the motivational speaker, he explained his theory to me. 'Normally, the whole concept of meeting a woman is walking up to her when she's by herself and trying to seduce her. The game doesn't work that way.'If a guy wants to meet a woman who is sitting at a table surrounded by men, he continued, he will most likely be rejected - or beaten up - if he walks straight up and asks for her phone number. He will be much more successful if he befriends the men first. After winning the goodwill of the group, he will be able to talk to the woman one on one, especially if he has already shown a lack of interest with a well-placed neg.An extraordinary amount of effort seems to be needed to achieve something so shallow, raising a question: what, exactly, do men expect to get out of this? After talking to more than 100 would-be Casanovas, I rarely heard the same answer twice.Some students - in their twenties, thirties, even forties - said they were virgins who had exhausted most other options in trying to meet women. 'My goal is to get comfortable with myself and show who I truly am,' said one 20-year-old. 'I feel like a Ferrari that is stuck in first gear when I know I have a sixth gear.' A millionaire I talked to said that he was looking for a wife. He soon succeeded - his first child is due this week. And one pick-up artist, who did not want to be identified, said his entire goal was to be in a committed three-way relationship consisting of himself and two beautiful women.When I asked some women among my friends what they thought of socalled 'seduction coaching', most had no idea how much work men put into getting lucky. Danielle Rose, a student who had exchanged numbers with Mystery after meeting him in a bar, recalled: 'He came over a little like he was trying too hard. But he did seem like a nice guy, which is why I talked to him.' Informed of Mystery's sideline, she said: 'It doesn't change my impression of him, because some guys need the help.'Juggler's ex-girlfriend, a 21-year-old student, admitted that his involvement with the community had caused problems in the relationship. 'The second or third time we saw each other, he said he had this job and taught guys how to pick up girls,' she said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 'So I got on the web and found the community. My initial reaction was disbelief. But the more I read, the more I felt that there was a huge objectification of women. And I started having pretty big problems with the entire community and his involvement in it.'Several months after learning about the seduction industry and following many hours of coaching, I went to the VIP lounge of a bar in Miami. Two well-tanned women with matching platinum hair and white figure-revealing tanktops walked in, turning every head.The women were talking to a man so, in keeping with Mystery's technique, I walked toward the group without even glancing at the women, focusing on the guy instead. I greeted him as if I knew him. Now that I was in range, I tried to break the ice. Nervously, I said the first thing that came to my head. 'You know what?' I told them. 'You both look like strange little snowflakes.'It was nonsense, but I had their attention. I continued with what I knew all along would be my true opener, the neg: 'Is your hair real?'The shorter girl looked shocked, but then recovered her composure. 'Yes,' she said. 'Feel it.' I tugged it gently. 'Hey, it moved. It's not real.''Pull harder.'I complied. 'OK,' I said. 'I believe you. But how about your friend there?'The taller woman's face reddened. She leaned over the bar and stared at me. 'That is really rude,' she said. 'What if I'm actually bald? That could really hurt someone's feelings. It's disrespectful.'I had provoked a negative reaction, but now at least we had a relationship. I just had to turn her anger around to make it a good relationship.'I'll tell you something,' I said. 'I live in Los Angeles. It's where the most beautiful women in the country come to try and make it. And do you know what I've learned? Beauty is common. It's something you're born with or you pay for. What counts is what you make of yourself.'Her face relaxed. 'And you know what?' I added, as an afterthought. 'You have a great smile. I can tell that underneath all that, you're probably a good person.'The shorter girl sidled up to me and said: 'We're sisters.' I looked very slowly at both of them, evaluating her comment, and took a chance. 'I don't buy it,' I said, smiling. 'I bet a lot of guys believe you, but I'm a very intuitive person. When I look at you both, I can tell that you're both very different. Too different.'She broke into a guilty smile. 'We never tell anyone this,' she said, 'but you're right. We're just friends.'Now the hard part was over.'You're interesting,' the shorter woman gushed at one point. 'We have to hang out with you in LA.'You may have noticed that I haven't used the women's names. This is because Mystery told me never to introduce myself. Wait for the woman to introduce herself, that way you know if she's interested. It's what Mystery calls an Indicator of Interest, or IOI, and when one gets three or four IOIs, the option to see the woman again is on the table.The taller one asked what my zodiac sign was - another IOI. She suggested spending time together and gave me mobile phone numbers for both of them. But what pleased me even more was that she bought me a drink. I was excited not because I needed the free cocktail, but because she confessed that she and her friend had made a pact before the trip to trick guys into paying for all their drinks.My days as an AFC, it seemed, were finally over.© New York Times
It was another bad day at the office for Microsoft yesterday. Seventy-two hours after being forced to explain yet another serious hole in its Windows operating system, the software giant was hit by the most embarrassing security breach so far when portions of the secret blueprint for Windows were leaked over the internet.The company is notoriously protective of the blueprint for its software, known as the source code, only sharing it with its biggest customers. But yesterday, this secretive approach appeared to be in vain when several million lines of the code, dating from mid-2000, began circulating on internet chatrooms and hacker sites.Last night, technology analysts said it was too early to assess the damage the leak may cause to users. The worst scenario is that it will allow hackers to find and exploit new security vulnerabilities in Windows NT4 and Windows 2000 software, which are used on hundreds of  millions of computers around the world. Microsoft said there was no known immediate impact for customers.The code could also allow rival software companies to gain a better understanding of the inner workings of Microsoft's technology.But the leak's biggest impact could simply be to further undermine Microsoft's already beleaguered reputation for security. "It seems unlikely this is going to create a material, significant security problem," said Rob Enderle, a technology expert with the Enderle Group. "It's more embarrassing than anything else because it makes it look like Microsoft can't control  its code."The source of the leak remains a mystery: the company said there was no indication that its corporate network had been breached. Microsoft had previously shared some of its source code with some companies, US government agencies, foreign governments and universities, under  tight restrictions.Marc Maiffret, of California-based eEye Digital Security, said the leak came as little surprise. "I don't understand why it hasn't happened sooner, because there are so many &#91;organisations&#93; out there that have access to the source code," he said.The security breach comes after yet another damaging round of bad press for Microsoft's Windows software. The company issued a critical alert on Wednesday that it had found a serious flaw in a fundamental part of its popular Windows XP software that could have allowed a hacker to take over a vulnerable machine and run any code they wanted.Microsoft had been made aware of the bug several months ago by a computer research  company but had put off announcing the risk to customers to provide time to produce an update."There's a balance between getting the security patch out as quickly as possible against the fact that we want to do the best quality testing on that patch," said Stuart Okin, chief security adviser for Microsoft UK.To many technologists, Microsoft's products have become synonymous with bugs, security flaws and bad programming practice. The software has also been the target of countless computer viruses, most recently MyDoom, a virus designed to exploit a vulnerability in Windows  computers and email itself to all the contacts contained in a user's email address book. It then launched a coordinated attack on several websites, including Microsoft's."Hardly a week goes by without a hole," said Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant for computer security company Sophos.SecrecyMany programmers blame the company's secrecy with its source code for the sheer number of bugs and security holes. The code for many other operating systems (such as Linux, UNIX and even Apple's products) are freely available to programmers to build on and update. This "open source" approach relies on the fact  that, with so many people working on it at once, problems with the software can be spotted and fixed quickly.In Microsoft's defence, Mr Cluley said that when the company has made updates available, they have been easy to obtain and install via its website.Producing a security update is one thing - getting the message out to everyone to install it on their machines is more tricky. The more machines that install the update, the lesser the global impact will be from a computer virus designed to exploit the security hole.But, as computers become ever more complex, the issue of security may be largely out of Microsoft's hands.Professor Ian Angell, a computer security  researcher at the London School of  Economics, said modern software's complexity made it almost impossible to predict what will happen as different applications interact with each other. The upshot is that people are simply not in  control of their software.Ross Anderson, a computer security researcher at Cambridge University, said that, statistically speaking, Windows will probably never be bug-free. "The news for Windows users is about as bad as can be," he said. "Once software passes a certain threshold of complexity, you can expect that its reliability will be governed by statistics which ensure that it becomes more  reliable at the slowest possible rate."But Microsoft's Stuart Okin said:"If you were to write perfect software, it would still be possible to find vulnerabilities. Every time you put in some type of protection against criminals, they work out ways of circumventing it."
People have made a living recently taking pot-shots at the largest software company in the world. And why not? Is there an easier target today? Microsoft has turned from garage startup to what some would call a global monopoly in just over 20 years. And it has done it quickly. Who wouldn't be jealous of this success?But are Microsoft's security ills the result of jealousy or just plain poor programming? The answer is most likely something in between. Windows has grown from around 15m to more than 50m lines of code in just a few releases.The problem with writing tons of code is that it inevitably introduces more flaws. It is simple maths - the more products and code, the more potential flaws.Additionally, when more computers come online, and those computers run predominantly Microsoft products, the desire to find flaws in the operating system rises, largely because it has broader impact.The people who discover vulnerabilities and write viruses and worms choose Microsoft because it is simple to obtain, and easy to install, and by targeting the operating system they can have a dramatic influence in a short period of time.The open source community has tried to convince the world that it is a better model than the closed source world of commercial vendors like Microsoft.The theory is that an open source code allows for greater review and scrutiny and thereby reveals more flaws in its design. While this sounds good in practice, it is only a theory. Open source review has yet to be realised in anything over a couple million lines of code, in such programs as Linux. The final verdict may not be in for some time.Ultimately, the data to support either a "shoddy workmanship" or a "pure jealousy" explanation to Microsoft's security ills has not been realised.But every vendor has significant security problems, whether they are Sun, RedHat, Cisco, Novell, MacOS, Oracle, or Symbian.The only question is whether we have found them yet. Keep searching, and demanding that vendors like Microsoft take security seriously. It is the only sure way to make the world more secure.&#183;Stuart McClure is chief technology officer of Foundstone and co-author of Hacking Exposed: Network Security Secrets and Solutions, the biggest-selling book on computer security.
A couple of days ago I was listening to the breakfast show on a London-based music station, XFM. The two presenters were discussing what they were going to do that evening, and one was complaining that he was going to miss his favourite TV programme. "Ahh," replied the other presenter, "you can always Sky-plus it".This is the first time I have ever heard Sky+ used as a verb and is a measure of the pull the satellite driven decoder/video recorder has over the media.Delve into BSkyB's financial results as posted earlier this week and there's evidence that Sky+ is gaining ground among consumers too. The broadcaster claims to have now sold more than 250,000 machines, many of which have gone as a result of it suspending its ridiculous £10 a month subscription fee, aided by an imaginative advertising campaign that Sky launched at the end of last year.While there's no denying that the Sky+ box is a huge leap for consumer electronics it is far from perfect. There are a few enhancements we'd like to see. Here's our shopping list.1: More storageAt present the Sky+ unit offers 40Gigabytes of storage - enough for 40 hours of programming. This clearly isn't enough. There are hard disk upgrades available now via Sky, and many of its more technically minded customers have been whipping out the hard disk and replacing it with a significantly larger one (this obviously invalidates Sky's guarantee). We would, however, likely to see a unit with 240Gb, which incidentally has been rumoured for launch later in the year, sooner rather than later. A cheaper upgrade offer for existing Sky+ owners would be good too.2: Remote programmingThe days of going out for an evening and missing a programme because you'd forgotten to set the timer would be gone forever, if only Sky offered a Wap site that enabled users to program the box remotely via mobile phone. Sky has promised this for later in the year, and may even allow user to set their Sky+ via a dedicated internet page.3: Recording programmes at different quality levelsThe quality level on the Sky+ unit is fixed. It would be good to be able to choose a lower quality setting for recording soaps and sit-coms, while being able to archive home movie footage in the best quality video.4: Broadband connectivityIt is a little surprising that Sky hasn't gone down this route already. Add broadband connectivity plus an Ethernet connection for plugging the unit into a home network and a huge range of possibilities become available. You could listen to MP3 music on your living room home entertainment system, or watch videos on your TV directly via the internet. It would also open up a new world of possibilities for Sky's interactive services. Maybe this is something Sky will launch later in they year, calling it Sky+ +, or Sky + Super.5: Streamed wireless video to other TVsYou can already do this using an analogue device called a video sender, but you lose sound and picture quality. With all that superb programming broadcast live to the box and stored on the unit, the Sky+ is an obvious choice for a home video server pumping out content throughout the home. Obviously there would have to be some enhancements to the unit, which would effectively turn it into even more of a PC style product. Also the wireless format would have to be fast enough to contend with the multiple stream of quality video from the unit too, something that is way beyond current systems 802.11b and 802.11g.6: Streaming programmes to remote devicesYou've paid your subscription, had the box installed and recorded the programme. Why should you only be able to watch it on TVs in your home? There are already companies like Allmimiedia, working on services that enable viewers to stream video stored on a hard disk recorder to PDAs and even phones via Wi-Fi. In the UK this would not only work well it would deliver a killer application for 3G networks.6 Get the Sky+ functionality, but not have to subscribe to SkyTo be fair, this is unlikely to happen. There will however soon be a serious rival to the Sky+ unit that works with the Freeview digital terrestrial signals that come though existing aerials.The Digifusion FVRT1000, which launches in April, pairs a Freeview decoder with a 40Gigabyte hard disk. Unlike similar products from Pace and Humax it features a programme guide that gives what's on information for up to a week in advance. The Pace and Humax recorders, to say nothing of the other digital TV decoders, only say what is on now and what is coming next.Another bonus is that for each programme it records it takes a screen grab every five minutes which it displays on the programme menu, enabling users to negotiate their way round individual programmes much faster than they can on a Sky+ unit. Users can also choose the quality levels they want for each recording, so they can store up to 60 hours of programming on the unit - 20 more than the Sky + box.Digifusion has a second model due later in the year that features a 120Gigabyte hard disk and some additional software tweaks.Sky PlusAllmimedia.comDigifusion
The object of your affection may not have come up with the goods this morning but rest assured there are plenty of other unlikely candidates vying for your attention this Valentine's Day.It is not just the florists and the chocolatiers who have been peddling their wares. Internet inboxes have been deluged with spam emails.Whether it be advice from St John Ambulance on what to do if burned by a candle during a romantic liaison, surveys on the nation's cheesiest chat-up lines and most kissable celebrity lips, or lists of aphrodisiac foods from stilton to pumpkins, the emails have just kept coming.192.com can apparently help track down the love of your life, Refuge wants victims of domestic violence to be remembered on the day of love and the British Heart Foundation urges donations to mend "real broken hearts".The onslaught will not be welcomed by the 74% of adults who, according to one report, feel Valentine's Day is already too commercial. It may, however, be partly responsible for the fact that 64% admitted they would still be buying at least one gift for their lover.Mintel retail analyst Richard Caines said: "Retailers have been marketing Valentine's Day gifts more heavily. This has made Valentine's Day seem more important to people and has put pressure on them to spend their money."The report also found people were spending more on romantic gestures, with jewellery now more than twice as popular as six years ago. "The whole thing is driven by the retailers and the marketing people," Mr Caines added.The Royal Mail also jumped on the bandwagon, claiming that posting a card was "still the only true way to send an anonymous greeting".Despite predictions that its postbag would exceed 12m cards, the organisation still enlisted the help of relationship psychologist Susan Quilliam to put together "an enlightening guide to choosing, writing, sending and interpreting your card". She advises: "It's risky sending an overtly sexual card to someone you've not yet formed a relationship with. Never, ever send an insulting card - Valentine's Day makes even lads and ladettes feel emotionally vulnerable."Interflora joined the fray despite predictions that Britons would spend more than &#163;50m saying it with flowers.The company compiled a list of dos and don'ts for men, such as don't buy underwear that's too small because she'll think you want her to be thinner, but don't buy it too large because she'll think you think she's fat.It also provided a "profiler" which helps men pick the right petals for her personality by matching her with a celebrity from a list including Victoria Beckham and Kelly Osbourne.Even those without any prospect of romance have been unable to escape the big sell. Waitrose advises the one in three who will be spending a Bridget Jones-style evening alone: "The key element to ensure a successful soiree is to enjoy fantastic food."
You're standing in the showroom admiring two identical cars, and just as the salesman spots you doing a few mental sums, he plays his trump card.Take the diesel car on the   right and you'll get at least 55mpg. Sure, it costs a little more to buy, but just think about how much you'll save at the pumps.This little drama will be played out in new and used showrooms across the country this weekend, and without doubt lots of peo ple will end up driving the diesel car home.And for many of them, it will make a lot of sense - particularly if they drive more than 20,000 miles a year. However, for the average buyer who simply wants the best possible car for the smallest outlay, it may well end up costing them more to run.SalesIt should be pointed out that modern diesels are very good, bearing no relation to the models that were produced as recently as five years ago. The old image of being slow, smelly and noisy has all but gone, and today's latest - common rail - engines offer refinement and performance that in many cases now exceeds that offered by petrol. But the key selling point is their economy - smaller diesel-powered cars now get well over 60mpg and many family saloons average 50.Compare that to the older petrol car you are trading in, and it can look very attractive. Also, if you are a company car buyer, in most cases you will pay significantly less tax by opting for a diesel-engined model.And they've certainly been selling. Buoyed, particularly by those last two points, sales of diesel cars have more than doubled since 2000. According to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, 27% of cars sold in 2003 were diesels, and it is already predicting that the figure will rise to 35% by the end of next year. But despite all this, they're not right for everyone.Buying newThe principle thing against the purchase of diesel is that they gener  ally cost more to buy. Although it varies greatly according to which model you are looking at, diesels cost on average 10% more than their petrol equivalents. In most cases this equates to at least &#163;1,000 - much more at the top end of the spectrum. For example, the Mondeo, Britain's best-selling diesel car, costs roughly &#163;1,500 more than its petrol equivalent (before discounts). It probably offers an no more than an extra 10mpg, which means you've got to be doing close to 20,000 miles a year to recoup the extra outlay - assuming you keep it for three years. And remember, petrol engines are more fuel-efficient than they were a decade ago.Things are clouded further when you consider other costs. Depreciation, the number one cost of car ownership, is now almost identical in percentage terms for most diesel and petrol cars (it used to be much better for diesels) so in real terms you are losing a little more. The other factor is servicing. Again, it really varies according to the model, but some diesel cars cost an extra &#163;100 in annual servicing. Add in the cost of the extra finance and the fact that you're sliding around diesel-covered forecourts at refill time, and it's starting to take the shine off the deal."People really need to look at the real-life costs over the period they intend to keep the car, rather than being blinded by good mpg figures," says John Maslen, editor of Fleet News, the bible for those who run large company car fleets."Unless they drive in excess of 20,000 a year, private buyers really need to do their homework before opting for a diesel - in fact any car. It will all depend on what deals are being offered at the time. Ironically, so many people are now buying diesels that some manufacturers are having to further discount the petrol models to boost their sales."Buying usedWhile the cost savings are marginal when buying new, the difference is dramatic when purchasing second-hand. Used diesel cars command an often ridiculous price premium, which should put off all but the most serious of mileage accumulators. Those canny enough to buy two- to three-year-old cars will probably find that their money will get them into a better or newer model, with a lower mileage, if they avoid the diesel option.A look at any car supermarket website will show the dramatic difference in prices for petrol and diesel cars. At one of the UK's biggest, Car Giant, diesel models currently cost between 10 and 20% more than their petrol equivalents.By the time you have factored in any extra costs of ownership, you probably have to be doing upwards of 25,000 miles a year to make a diesel purchase cost-effective.Plus pointsIt should be noted that there are some exceptions to the above. Diesel cars are much better if your vehicle spends all day in congested cities, or lives entirely on a diet of short runs. Petrol engine fuel consumption suffers dramatically when sitting in stop/start traffic, and if your driving fits that pattern, a diesel's best. Insurance costs can also be lower.Lastly, it should be said that lots of people now prefer driving diesel-engined cars and say they would never go back to petrol. If that's the case, fine - just don't expect to be saving any money.Crunch the numbersFor average mileage drivers (12,000 a year) try not to pay a premium for the diesel model when buying new.Buying nearly new, you will almost certainly be asked to pay a premium, does your annual mileage really justify it?Establish what the servicing costs will be and work out how much rival models will cost to maintain during your ownership.Fleet News' website,www.fleetnewsnet.co.uk, shows running costs for every car, both petrol and diesel, in pence per mile - you might be surprised at the figures.
At their giant Seattle campus tonight, Microsoft's executives will probably be happy to close the door on what has been an appalling week.It didn't start too badly - on Monday the company announced it had inked a deal with Disney to encode the entertainment giant's films for distribution online. Microsoft was essentially being entrusted with the security and the transport for Mickey Mouse and co's first (official) foray into online distribution.But by Wednesday Microsoft was finding itself having to admit - again - that a major security flaw had been found in the latest versions of its Windows operating system. The bug meant anyone with malicious intent could take control of computers over the internet. Users were told to download a patch from the company to resolve the problem.And now today, the company has had to issue a statement revealing another security problem. This time, around 14 million lines of source code for a recent version of Windows - essentially, the commercially sensitive DNA for Windows - has leaked out on to the internet. The FBI has been called in, while a curious geek community gets its first glimpse inside a secret garden of programming (peppered, as it happens, with profanities and references to long-forgotten Microsoft projects).At least this latest problem has no immediate impact for users, although some experts are warning that virus writers will find the code useful as they plot their next attack.As mishap after mishap strikes Microsoft, you might be forgiven for asking what has happened since the company announced, with some fanfare, its "trustworthy computing" initiative in 2002, which was supposed to patch up the holes that virus writers had so effectively started to expose.The company says it has spent $100m training its programmers to write more secure code, and it has vetted most of the Windows software for security flaws. Security now has a higher priority; in the next revision of Windows, for instance, the company will finally ship an improved firewall (internet security) program switched on as standard.But users can point to the continuing flow of problems - from server software problems to a fundamental flaw in the way Microsoft's email software works - as evidence of ongoing frailty in the company's products.Part of the problem, say critics, is that Microsoft enjoys a monopoly grip of the operating system market. MS has little incentive to patch up software quickly, and choose security over commercially valuable features, when rivals Apple and Linux are fighting between themselves for the fewer than one in 10 users who don't use Windows. Nor is government action likely - the Bush White House was reluctant to act even after the courts found MS guilty of abusing its monopoly position.Users of Apple's Mac OSX, or Linux, can smugly point to the fact their choice of operating system has suffered far fewer security problems. But Microsoft could quite easily point to a few mitigating factors. First, neither rival platform has been free of security scares. Second, had those scares happened on a Microsoft system, it would have been much more widely publicised, because Windows runs on more than 90% of the world's desktop computers. Third, because of its market share, Windows is - in the eyes of any attention-seeking virus writer - really the only OS worth writing for.This leads to an imbalance of risk. In the non-Windows world, a security problem can be reported publicly, and a fix issued a few weeks later, no harm done. In the Windows world, the problem is sometimes found only as a virus or hack emerges to exploit it, and already Microsoft is running against the clock.All this doesn't matter for users, who might begin to become warier of Microsoft and its software. Whole industries, such as the mobile phone world and the entertainment business, are already cautious of the company, mainly because of its voracious business practices. But adding security fears to the list can only make things worse for the company as it seeks to reassure customers.And this may point to the biggest long-term problem for Microsoft. For this was never supposed to be a bad week - that Disney announcement was a huge victory for Microsoft's Windows Media format in what will be a vicious war for dominance in the booming digital media world. But, instead, that announcement combined with the subsequent security scares have served only to heighten the Schadenfreude of many commentators. As Observer columnist John Naughton said on hisweblogearlier this week: "No wonder satirists are having such a lean time. You couldn't make this stuff up."If the word gets around that Bill Gates and co can hardly look after its own properties, its ambitions to provide online security for whole industries are going to look hollow.That makes security a problem that strikes at Microsoft's whole future, and is why this bad week at the office is about a lot more than red faces at Redmond.
This, really, is what net media is all about: soccer'soffside rule explained, brough to you by Guardian Unlimited. I only hope all those second division assistant referees I see each week take a look before kick-off tomorrow.
Software giant Microsoft was today facing new embarrassment after it emerged that a portion of confidential source code for its Windows operating system had been posted on the internet.The leak of the closely-guarded code to the Windows 2000 and Windows NT 4.0 operating systems, used in hundreds of millions of homes and businesses around the world, could leave users vulnerable to attacks from hackers.Even if hackers choose not to use the code to cause chaos with private computers, its leaking could offer rivals a competitive edge against Microsoft, which has always maintained strict security over the coding at the heart of its product.Source code is the intellectual property and lifeblood of any software company, because it is the basic language used to create software programs. The security level surrounding it is similar to that for the formula used in Coca-Cola's soft drinks.Microsoft has only shared its source code with close partners and carefully-chosen organisations, and threatened legal action in the event that any of is leaked.The leak is the latest worry to hit the company, which earlier this week admitted that there were serious security flaws in its latest edition of Windows, XP, which is popular with home users who are often unaware of security issues.Microsoft released a "patch", or software upgrade, on its website, and urged all users to download it and secure their machines against hackers.Last week, the company's servers came under attack from an email worm, MyDoom, which spread around the world and infected millions of computers running Windows operating systems.In a statement posted on its website, Microsoft said: "It's illegal for third parties to post Microsoft source code, and we take such activity very seriously. We are currently investigating these postings, and are working with the appropriate law enforcement authorities."At this point, it does not appear that this is the result of any breach of Microsoft's corporate network or internal security. At this time, there is no known impact on customers. We will continue to monitor the situation."Analysts said that such a leak had been likely to happen at some point. "I don't understand why it hasn't happened sooner, because there are so many organisations out there that have access to the source code," Marc Maiffret, of Californian firm eEye Digital Security, told the Associated Press.Security experts today warned that it was hard to assess what damage the leak could cause, because so few details were available.
 
Technology analyst Rob Enderle told AP: "It seems unlikely that this is going to create a material, significant security problem. It's more embarrassing than anything else, because it makes it look like Microsoft can't control its code."
BT yesterday signalled that the price of broadband access could be cut as it announced it would hit its target of getting 2m homes to use BT lines for fast, "always-on" service four months ahead of schedule.The success of the company's broadband rollout plan, with orders running at 45,000 a week, was one of the few bright spots in a lacklustre set of third-quarter results issued yesterday.Although pre-tax profits were up 1% at &#163;526m, revenues were a disappointing 2.6% lower at &#163;4.58bn as competition and regulation continued to bite into BT's core business. Turnover in BT's retail telephone business was down 9% at &#163;2.8bn during the last three months of 2003.The company is searching for new business from areas such as mobile services and IT to alleviate the pressure on its core telephony business. Broadband forms a crucial part of this drive.Two years ago it set itself a target of supplying 2m wholesale lines which any internet service provider could use to supply broadband by this summer, and 5m by 2006. BT said yesterday it had 1.93m users at the end of last week.BT chief executive Ben Verwaayen said the company would hit the 2m mark over the   next few weeks "and 5m looks a lot more do-able when you have 2m behind you".BT's own broadband ISP services, BT Broadband and BT Yahoo Broadband, supply a little under half of these wholesale broadband customers. Yesterday Pierre Danon, head of BT Retail, which runs the two ISPs, hinted that their prices could be cut to drive demand."There is clearly good momentum in the retail market in broadband," he said. "We might be a little bit more aggressive &#91;on price&#93;, so watch this space."BT is also understood to be planning a new telecommunications service, using a technology known as voice over internet protocol or VoIP, which will allow broadband users to talk to each other through phones attached to their PCs   for a fraction of what it costs using a traditional phone.Mr Danon must be hoping these new services are more successful than the last initiative launched by BT Retail - a return to the mobile phone market. By the end of January, three months after launch, it had attracted just 28,000 subscribers. "We have said we will have 1m customers and we will, but it may take some time," admitted Mr Danon.The best performing BT division over the third quarter was its global services arm, which analysts had called to be closed down two years ago. Revenues rose 9% to just over &#163;1.4bn as the unit clinched a number of large IT contracts.&#183;France T&#233;l&#233;com made a profit of just over &euro;3.2bn (&#163;2.1bn) last year, against the record loss of &euro;20.7bn in 2002.
TheTimesreports today that Apple computer has signed a deal to open its first store in Europe, in an impressively expensive 20,000 square feet of retail space in Regent Street, London. The newspaper says Apple will pony up £1.5m a year in rent for the space at 220-247 Regent Street, which is in one of London's poshest shopping locales. The store is expected to open in time for Christmas.
This will be of cold comfort to Jack, who has been struggling this week to get high-speed internet access in his room, despite his hotel's promises. But theEconomist(paid sub required) reports this week that "internet access in hotels is fast becoming a standard amenity", like free shampoo andin-room porn"pay-per-view movies".This, of course, is the dreaded "air conditioning scenario" where consumers get for nothing something that quite a few companies had bet on them having to pay for (early on in the days of air conditioning in hotels, people thought travellers would pay more to have a cooled room. But then every decent hotel got it, and the advantage was lost).It's good news for people who own broadband pipes, and it's very good news for consumers. But spare a thought - albeit brief - for people who set up businesses on the basis they could sell it on at anything from $10 to $25 a day. And - newsflash - the same thing is going to happen with Wifi, as I wrotelast year. But just not in time for Jack's visit, I'm afraid.
Cliff Stanford, who founded one of Britain's first consumer ISPs - Demon Internet - and made £30m from its sale, has been charged with conspiracy to blackmail and "interception of communications under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000."TheTelegraphreports: "Mr Stanford, who was charged by officers of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) at Belgravia police station at 4pm, said: 'I am more astonished than upset and I do not believe any crime has been committed.'"
"Today we became aware that incomplete portions of Windows 2000 and NT 4.0 source code was illegally made available on the Internet," said Microsoft spokesman Tom Pilla. "It's illegal for third parties to post Microsoft source code and we take that activity very seriously," reportsThe Washington Post."There was no indication that the code was stolen through a breach of Microsoft's internal network, Pilla said. He said the FBI is investigating the matter."
The BitTorrent file sharing system must be getting some traction because its inventor, Bram Cohen, has been interviewed inThe New York Times(free reg req'd).As the article notes, BitTorrent is less than ideal for copyright theft: "For his part, Mr. Cohen pointed out that BitTorrent users are not anonymous and that their numeric Internet addresses are easily viewable by anyone who cares. 'It amazes me that sites like Suprnova continue to stay up, because it would be so easy to sue them,' he said. Using BitTorrent for illegal trading, he added, is 'patently stupid because it's not anonymous, and it can't be made anonymous because it's fundamentally antithetical to the architecture'."
Email from Studabaker on February 13 2003:"I love you more than I ever loved anyone else, all i want is to know the truth about you and rob &#91;a 14-year-old boy&#93; ... i dont want no one else in my life as much as i want you."Feb 20:"I will do what it takes to be with you, I miss you a lot even though I have never been with you ... I too look for the day when we are together for good ... I look forward to the day when we ... dont have to worry about that either of us will get in trouble."March 4:"i hate sounding like i am obsessed with you, i can't stop thinking about you ... just the thought of you saying you dont want to be with me anymore drives me insane..."April 9:"...i dont give a fuck what my family thinks if they find out everything because they aren't me or us ... its been a long fucking 10 months but one more month and we can see each other and work on our relationship."April 28:"Does anyone in your family ever have twins?" She answers: "no". He replies,   "so we dont have much worry of having twins then, only my little brother had twins."April 29:"...when we first met and you told me how old you were ... &#91;I&#93; didnt know what to say ... i never regretted saying yes to you because i feel you are the one."June 9:"if you really give it a chance for me to be over there and get the relationship on a more personal level to it we would of really worked ... If you knew me in person you would think totally different..." The girl says: "well i dont ... because you wont let me ... and maybe i dont want to."June 12:"what would you do if ... someone found out we are seeing each other ... and they put me in jail? would you wait...?" She says: "yes."June 30:They set up webcam link. She sends an email saying she is getting changed. He sends: "put up your cam ... me want to see."July 1:"i haven't been any happier ... then i am knowing that not long from now i will be with you, holding you ... kissing you and being able to wake up next to you."
Zipless because when you came together zippers fell away like rose petals, underwear blew off in one breath like dandelion fluff. For the true ultimate zipless A-1 fuck, it was necessary that you never got to know the man very well.Fear of Flying by Erica Jong, 1973The lights are coming on in Soho. The crowds are queuing up for Mamma Mia, and the smile of early evening hangs over Old Compton Street. Inside, the bar is quiet, populated by a few early cocktail-drinkers, and a handful of pinafored staff chopping up lime wedges behind the bar. He is sitting in the corner. Denim jacket, chinos, trainers, nervous fingertips gripping a cold pint of lager tops. He is, as he had promised, six feet tall, medium- built with dark hair. "Please believe me," he had said in his email, "when I tell you I am very good looking."I wish now that I hadn't believed   him. I don't know his name, and he doesn't know mine. We sit together on the sofa while he tells me about his job for an unidentified greeting cards company and his schooldays in a faraway, unspecified town. We discuss film, music, the fact that he is engaged to be married. "I'm sure she is the one," he says earnestly of his faceless, hapless fiancee, "I just want to lead the single life for a little bit longer." He leans into me then, thigh pressed against me and his gaze nudges mine as if looking under stones to see what he might find.This evening's drink is all that comes of a rather timid advert I had placed on the casual encounters section of Craig's List, one of several online community websites. I suggested a little no-strings-attached fooling around on a weekday afternoon. My posting looked positively chaste alongside the other ads. Nevertheless, around 200 replies arrived in my inbox. Misspelled suggestiveness, photos of burly men sitting in nondescript houses full of   Ikea furniture. There were blurred snaps of erect gentlemanly bits, explicit accounts of precisely what they would like to do this very afternoon, with an eye for practicalities ("you would slip off your panties at the table," wrote one, before adding "or if this is too difficult, you can take them off in the loo, then return to the table with them in your pocket.").The phenomenal response to my lame little posting is hardly surprising. Far fewer women post ads than men, though the numbers are not insignificant. But what makes a woman want to post an appeal for casual sex in the first place? And what did women do before these sites existed? Did they dial a pizza and hope they got lucky with the delivery boy? Or is this a new development, thanks in part to the shenanigans of the Sex and the City gang? Have we reached a point in our sexual liberation where we have shaken off the stigma associated with casual sex, finally untethering it from the weight of Mills and Boon-style romance?According to Dr Pam Spurr, psychologist and author of Sex, Guys and Chocolate, for many women it usually starts as pure curiosity. "I think they want to know what goes on on these sites, how anonymous it really is. Then they get past that curiosity to placing their own ads."Those who do place ads or indeed answer them, seem to fall into two camps. "On the one hand you have the younger women, the Ibiza generation, for whom sex is a pastime. No-strings sex is something she and her friends are probably already doing on a Friday night or on holiday," says Spurr. "Then there may be the slightly older, lonelier, career-oriented women. The attraction for them is that it may be a way for them to command what actually happens - to say to someone, 'I have to be orally stimulated for an hour otherwise I won't orgasm'. It's a way to satisfy their desires when perhaps they don't have the time to nurture a relationship. They're the type of women who perhaps might have used dating agencies, who paid for escorts."In a fairly modern, detached house in Wimbledon, Lisa, 33, is sitting in her bathrobe answering her email. In the past couple of months she has posted on several different sites for no-strings encounters. "I got married very young, I was 18, and I'd only been with a couple of people," she says. "Even then, it was just a fumbling in the back seat of the car type of thing." Sex has never been a massive feature in Lisa's marriage - a combination, perhaps,   of over-familiarity and the fact that her husband, Robert, often works away from home. "We hardly ever have sex now. We'd rather just sit on the sofa with a Chinese takeaway to be honest. You get to the point in a marriage where you know pretty much every inch of each other: every lump, every bump, every mole on his body. There's no thrill."Thrills are what these sites offer in abundance, whether through the mild titillation and voyeuristic pleasure of reading the adverts, or the excitement of actually going to meet someone. "It is the riskiness," says Spurr. "Part of that may be the fact that it may not be the type of thing a woman tells her friends. If you go to dating sites there are all these rules about meeting somewhere public, and well-lit, and telling someone where you're going. If you're just meeting for sex, you probably won't want to tell people. I think a lot of people enjoy that risk."After several weeks of reading other people's ads, Lisa decided to post her own one morning in December. By lunchtime she had 50 replies. "The first time I met   someone we just went to a bar. I had a couple of glasses of white wine, we had a nice conversation, and then I said, 'Thank you very much, I've had a lovely evening, but now I'm going to go home.' I think I was just testing the water."The next time, she met someone they went almost immediately to a hotel near Euston station. "It was, now I think about it, fairly run-of-the-mill sex. But I felt, you know, liberated. I felt sexy. And I hadn't felt like that in years.""It's very hard to meet someone new when you're married," explains Sheila, 31, who has tallied up numerous casual encounters through online postings. "You're worried about who might see you if you go to a bar or a club. If you start chatting someone   up, will you find out you have mutual friends? And then there's your wedding ring. Do you take it off? Keep it on?"Online casual sex seemed the perfect solution for Sheila. "The thing about this kind of encounter is that the rules are there from the start - neither of you cares if you're married, or living with someone, or if you're   getting back at your boyfriend because he shagged some dolly bird behind your back. It's not about conversation or explanation or courtship. You're not looking for the love of your life."Suzanne, an administrator from west London, agrees. Having split up with her long-term boyfriend, she was weary of going out on the pull, being set up by friends and browsing through the lonely hearts ads. "I hated all that website dating. I'm 24. I don't want to meet Mr Right. I just want to have some fun."For Suzanne, it was also about sexual experimentation. "I wanted to try out some things I'd never done before. Maybe I wanted to be a bit perverted, a bit dirty, but I didn't feel I could do that within a relationship because a boyfriend would undoubtedly judge me."No-strings-attached sex with someone you've met online half an hour before and know nothing about save their vital statistics, is perhaps the closest we've come to Jong's infamous "zipless fuck"."The zipless fuck is absolutely pure," she wrote. "It is free of ulterior motives. There is no power game. The man is not 'taking' and the woman is not 'giving' ... And it is rarer than the unicorn."To Spurr, true casual sex is rarely achievable. "I'm going to sound very un-PC," she says, "but I don't think it's a good thing for either sex to turn sex into a commodity. There are really very few women who can detach their emotions from sex. The majority who think they can are the type who write to me - I can't tell you how many letters I get from women on this subject, saying, 'I thought one night stands were such fun, but now I just feel shallow and empty and I want him to call.' I don't like to reduce things to our genetics, but we are hardwired to nurture relationships because, at the bottom of this, we could fall pregnant. So it ends in tears for a lot of women."For some, the fantasy is scuppered by more mundane factors. "The problem," says Suzanne, "is that it's never how you imagined. You meet up, and much as you want it to be all intense glances, pure physical attraction ripping one another's clothes off, all the normal stuff keeps creeping in: you get distracted by the little things - his voice, his boxer shorts, wondering whether he waxes his shoulders ... By the time you've got from drinking mojitos in a bar to standing in a Travelodge in your underwear, you already know too much about him."
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server...Current host:Chris2Current topic:International regulators have warned of a highly dangerous nuclear "supermarket" supplying rogue states with equipment to build atomic bombs. Is the trade in nuclear technology now the biggest threat to security?LadeezMan:I got the dvdPashmina:u cant watch Friday the 13 on Friday the 13!!! Its 2x bad luckLadeezMan:not botheredBronco has entered the NewsRoomHost_Chris2:I take it you're not triskaidekaphobic, LadeezManPashmina:hi broncoLadeezMan:i dont care wot they do long as they dont try 2 chat me upBronco:hiPashmina:its not GAYS its phobia of 13Host_Chris2:how did you know that Pashmina?Bronco:I want to buy a atom bombPashmina:cos i got pills for it innitLadeezMan:wot 4Host_Chris2:Pashmina I didn't know you had a fear of 13Bronco:its personalPashmina:i dont i just needed more pillsBronco:do they do buy 1 get 1 freeHost_Chris2:"Supermarket" is just a way of describing the rampant illegal nuclear arms tradeLadeezMan:pash will u send me some pillsBronco:oh. is it nr bristolPashmina:ok but u have to pay this timeHost_Chris2:please do not sell drugs on this sitePashmina:oh but its ok for bronco to buy nuclear bombs!!!!Host_Chris2:he's not really trying to buy a bombBronco:yes I amLadeezMan:have u tried ebayosama_bin_laden:i will sell u a bomb infidelPashmina:osama u r lurking again!female19 has entered the NewsRoomBronco:hi female19LadeezMan:yoosama_bin_laden:hi female19 r u modestfemale19:any guys in here who isnt idiotsLadeezMan:well hellloooofemale19:NEXTosama_bin_laden:wot sort of music do u despiseHost_Chris2:this is a current affairs forum, female19. The topic is nuclear proliferation.female19:talk to the hand@whatever.comfemale19 has left the NewsRoomPashmina:she seemed niceLadeezMan:im in love&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
July 11Studabaker flies from Detroit to ManchesterJuly 12The girl leaves home, telling her parents she is meeting schoolfriends.Studabaker arrives at airport. After shopping, they fly to Heathrow and on to Paris.Late that night her parents report her missingJuly 13The couple go for a walk before returning to their hotel room.That night they drink vodka and have sexJuly 14Studabaker and the girl travel to Strasbourg. They watch a news programme about her being missingJuly 15They go to Stuttgart and check into a hotel, claiming to be married.That evening, Studabaker's brother Leo says he has been in touch to say the girl is safe. She phones her mother, but doesn't say where she is. She appears at easeJuly 16Early that morning she decides she is going home. Studabaker leaves her at the airport in Stuttgart. Meanwhile, police release CCTV footage of him arriving at Manchester airport on July 12.She flies to Amsterdam and then on to Manchester. He is arrested in Frankfurt
"She is a very bright kid," her headteacher said. "I don't think I would have ever said that she could have passed for 19. Afterwards, she just walked back into school as if nothing had happened."The girl had told police she had been telling Studabaker about things at school which had been upsetting. "She said one of the reasons she talked to the defendant was because she could tell him."David Spellman, a child and family clinical psychologist, said: "My own experience is that kids love paedophiles - they are great with children. I know it is an awful thing to say, but they know what to do and they are very skilled."The intimacy of a chatroom and email is seen as a relatively safe place without the interference of adults. The internet is a bit like a parallel world."He would look at the relationships the girl had in school and with her family. A vulnerable child who was troubled in some way would be at risk of forming a romantic attachment.He said officers and psychologists would avoid a confrontational approach. "The most helpful approach would not be trying to stop her, but to try and understand how she arrived at this point."David Wilson, a criminol ogist at the University of Central England, said paedophiles went for children because it gave them a sense of power. "We have got to stop looking at it as a policing solution and look at it more broadly," he said."One of the reasons these kids do what they do, even though the risk is enormous, is they develop a relationship online which provides them with something missing normally."If they have to choose between their life online - where they have status and power - and their reality, where they have no status and they are denigrated, then they are going to choose the latter."John Carr, of the charity NCH, said: "The Studabaker case illustrates how the internet has become a global medium and bad guys can travel."The victim was the absolute classic age range. Adolescents are interested in exploring love and relationships."He says it is crucial for parents to make sure they are aware such people exist when their children enter chatrooms. "People behave badly if they think there is little or no chance of being held to account for their own actions."He was in "no doubt" that such cases are under-reported. "We know of about 30 cases which have been to trial where the guys have been sentenced to jail."
Toby Studabaker, the former US marine who sparked an international manhunt when he fled across Europe with a 12-year-old English girl he met on the internet, admitted abduction and incitement to gross indecency yesterday. He could now face extradition to the US, where a federal grand jury returned a four-count indictment against him last December on charges relating to sexual exploitation of a child.Studabaker, 32, spoke in a whisper at Manchester crown court as he pleaded guilty to the charges. He will be sentenced on April 2. The stocky ex-marine with close cropped mousy hair held his head in his hands during the proceedings. He also glanced at the girl's parents at the back of the courtroom.The case caused concern after it emerged that Studabaker, from Three Rivers, Michigan, had been prepared to travel thousands of miles to meet his victim, whom he had met in an internet chatroom and groomed for 11 months. They began communicating by email when she was just 11 years and eight months old. He initally thought she was 17, and she thought he was 28.Several weeks later, both the girl and Studabaker admitted their real ages to each other, but continued to send emails. After his arrest in Germany last July, Studabaker had consistently told police that he thought the girl was a lot older. He denied any sexual activity had taken place.But the prosecutor, Beverley Lunt, said their discussions had developed into cybersex. "In particular, there is a long exchange where he, in graphic detail, describes himself performing acts of sexual foreplay and oral sex on her and then graphic detail of having sexual intercourse with her."Her parts of this conversation are all significantly more childlike, innocent, romantic almost, talking of kissing him, putting her arms around his back or neck ... looking into his eyes and saying he is beautiful. It is clear that even after all that has happened she has no concept that she was groomed by the defendant so that she would not object to the sexual activity that took place once they were out of the UK."The girl used her home and school email address to write to Studabaker. On the day before he arrived in the UK, he emailed her at an address on her school computer. He reminded her to bring hair dye for both of them.When she left home early on Saturday, she told her parents she was going shopping with two schoolfriends. But she had taken her passport and spare clothing. At 11.23pm, having not heard from her, the parents reported her missing. Her mother handed police officers a letter which had been returned in July or August 2002 having insufficient postage. It had been written by their daughter and was addressed to Toby Studabaker in America.A check in her diary found further references to Toby Studabaker, or Taz as she called him. One entry read: "Maybe if Taz comes over it'll be better, easier ya know? Well I need somebody who understands me better. The bright side right? Erm ... Taz loves me, he's coming over the end of June (I think) I'm going on holiday and ... I only have 26 hours before I have a week off school."Back in Three Rivers, Studabaker had told his unsuspecting brother Leo that he had met an English college girl on the internet and was going over to see her. "He'd even joshed that he might bring her back as his bride," Leo said in an interview at the time. A few days later, Studabaker telephoned and said he was "real mad" at the girl for hiding her real age.But a search of his home computer revealed that he had always known her true age. She had answered a list of set questions in an email in January 2003, in which she said she was 12. When he booked flight tickets for the girl, he told the travel agent that one of the tickets was for his 12-year-old niece.Studabaker is also accused of sending more than 500 emails to a 12-year-old girl from Fort Myers, Florida. He also was found to have written love letters to a deaf teenager. The relationship ended when the girl's mother turned up and confronted him, but no complaint was made to police.Five years ago, he was accused of making sexual advances to two young relatives. He was charged with criminal sexual conduct, but the case never came to court.He served in Afghanistan and described his experience there as "one of the best" he had had. He was discharged from the marines on Independence Day, July 4, last year with a shoulder injury. Within days, he was arranging to visit his 12-year-old victim in Europe.Ostensibly, Studabaker appeared to be respectable. He is a former Bible scholar whose wife Jenny died of bone cancer three years ago. But her sister, Dawn Roland, said in an interview: "He was very good at playing the grieving husband - but that was so far from the truth. He didn't have anything to do with her after the second round of chemotherapy treatment. It fried her brains and he couldn't be bothered to look after her."When he met up with the 12-year-old English girl, she was a bit nervous and Studabaker told her it was okay and they would get through it. They then flew to London, and from there to Paris.In the French capital they went to a hotel recommended by a taxi driver. They booked into a room with twin beds, but when they woke up on the Sunday night they had sex on her bed. "It just happened," she told police. "We were kissing and we were like on the bed and I don't know, it just happened." They also bought vodka to drink in the hotel.When he was arrested by the German authorities, he maintained that the girl had told him she was 18 or 19 years old. After meeting her in a chatroom, he told her he was finding it difficult to get over the death of his wife, and she told him she had family problems and was depressed.He said at no time did they have sexual intercourse, but forensic examination proved that Studabaker had sex with the girl. She told the police that they would email each other daily and she would use the computer for four hours a day, in the evening after school.Mr Justice Leveson said: "It is important to underline that neither of these offences concerns an act of sexual intercourse. Sentence will not be passed on the fact of his having sexual intercourse with a girl under 13."The girl's family said in a statement: "First and foremost, we would all like to thank everyone who has supported us through this terrible ordeal. We are very happy with the outcome today, which hopefully sends out a strong message to the public about the seriousness of this case."We feel that this is only the tip of the iceberg and in order to stop this from happening again there must be many changes, as we would not like anyone else to go through the things we have. The time that our daughter was away from us was absolutely horrendous and we hope that we can now put it all behind us and move on with the rest of our lives."
"The decision to abandon Mac desktop support in its new Palm Cobalt OS stemmed from the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based company's limited development resources, PalmSource officials said Thursday. They stressed, however, that Mac users will still be able to rely on third-party developer software for the important function of synchronizing data between their computers and Palm-powered handhelds," reportsAP.PalmSource is run by a former top Apple executive, David Nagel.
Dell beat Wall Street expectations with fourth quarter net profits up 24% to $749 million on sales that increased by 18% from $9.7 billion to $11.5 billion. Shipments of desktop PCs grew by 21%, and notebooks and servers by 40%. Dell said "fiscal fourth-quarter 2004 was its best operating period ever. The company achieved record product shipments, revenue, operating and net income, and earnings per share".For the full year, Dell's profits grew by 25% to $2.6 billion on revenues that grew by 17% from $35.4 billion to $41.4 billion.Results arehere
Helen Grunier, founder of iRobot, gave a keynote at yesterday's ETech -- possibly the first to show how you could get Cheerios off a carpet."Roomba, the saucer-shaped, ankle-high machine that circles the floor, bounces off walls and slips easily under furniture, is the most consumer-friendly manifestation of iRobot, the emerging market leader in the field of low-cost robotics. 'We are no longer selling to early adopters. We are selling to people who want to get their vacuuming done,' says iRobot founder and president, Helen Grunier, an engineer-turned-robotics-entrepreneur. 'Besides being robot geeks, we are very practical people'," reports Reuters. Morehere.
Red, white and blue balloons floated from the ballroom ceiling. The chairman of the Arizona Democratic Party announced that the state's presidential primary had just made world history by holding the first legally binding political election over the internet. Someone in the audience whooped: "Yeah - USA!"But that was in March 2000, and the victorious candidate was Al Gore. This year, the Arizona Democrats held another primary, picking John Kerry as the man to challenge President Bush. In February 2004, there was no internet option: voters had to turn up to polling stations, albeit equipped with federally funded optical scanning machines to read their ballot papers.In both American and British politics, internet voting is taking a step backwards. Neither the US presidential election nor the English local elections will offer internet voting options this year, despite the technology showing promise in earlier pilots.Last week, a devastating report by security experts killed off the biggest planned use of internet voting in the presidential race, by US armed forces and other citizens overseas. In Britain, the problem is logistics. This summer's local elections, where enthusiasts had hoped to extend last year's e-voting pilots, coincide with European parliament elections. Organising a combined e-ballot in time would be impossible.If the British government takes seriously the findings of the US security study, e-voting could be knocked further into the long grass. The study found that the internet and personal   computer technology are fundamentally unsuited to a secure e-voting system. "There really is no good way to build such a voting system without a radical change in overall architecture of the internet and the PC, or some unforeseen security breakthrough."The panel of experts recommended that the US Department of Defense cancel its Secure Electronic Registration and Voting Experiment (Serve), designed to carry 100,000 overseas votes this year. It was designed as a prototype of a system that would eventually handle 6m votes.The expert panel's report condemns electronic voting systems in general for being vulnerable to attacks from inside and having no audit trail that voters can verify. Systems based on the internet and PCs are also vulnerable to "a variety of well known cyber   attacks" including denial of service, spoofing and viruses.Elections would be a hugely attractive target to anyone wanting to make mischief against the US. "A US general election offers one of the most tempting targets for cyber attack in the history of the internet," says the report."Such attacks could occur on a large scale, and could be launched by anyone from a disaffected lone individual to a well financed enemy agency." The result could even reverse the outcome of a presidential election and go undetected. "Even if detected and neutralised, such attacks could have a devastating effect on public confidence in elections," asserts the report.All these vulnerabilities are fundamental, the report says. "It is quite possible that they will not be eliminated without a wholesale redesign and replacement of much of the hardware and software security systems that are part of, or connected to, today's internet."Because the danger of successful, large-scale attacks is so great, we reluctantly recommend shutting down the development of Serve immediately and not attempting anything like it in the future until both the internet and the world's home computer infrastructure have been fundamentally redesigned."This verdict conflicts with that of the British government's Computer and Electronic Security Group (CESG), the arm of GCHQ responsible for information assurance. After assessing the technology used in last year's large-scale e-voting pilots, the group found "a lot of risks out there"   but concluded that "we feel that it is possible for ballots to be kept secret and that a reliable and secure means of collecting, counting and auditing the votes can be devised".In Britain, enthusiasm for e-democracy (which includes e-consulting as well as e-voting) runs high in official circles. Last year's local e-voting pilot was the largest ever held, with 146,000 votes cast electronically. However, hopes for electronic voting in June's elections were complicated by the clash with European elections (apart from anything else, the need to include Gibraltar as part of south-west England).The government is still committed to offering e-voting in a general election "some time after 2008". The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister last month began working with local authorities to set up a system of electronic electoral registers, essential if people are to vote electronically while outside their own constituency.However, even though an English council or the mayor of London is a less attractive target than a US presidentcy, it will be hard for the UK to ignore the conclusions of the Serve security study.That report commends the project's efforts, and that of its contractor Accenture, which last year took over the e-voting company election.com. (Four years ago it ran the Arizona primary's e-voting service.) But it concludes: e-voting is "too far ahead of its time".
Today is the last day of this year's Emerging Technology conference in San Diego. For a guide to the web sites and blogs with the best stories, seehttp://www.oreillynet.com/et2004/
"Some users of the popular AOL Instant Messenger program were bombarded Wednesday with messages seemingly from friends that linked to a humorous Osama bin Laden game. Downloading the game, however, installed a piggybacking program that broadcast the advertisement from the infected computer to all correspondents on its AIM buddy lists."The program [called Buddylinks] is also clever in its use of social engineering to spread, extending a personal invitation that appears to come from what is typically a trusted friend," reportsAP."In addition to being a particularly slimy form of adware, is also a violation of the AIM terms of service," said America Online spokesman Andrew Weinstein. "We are actively investigating what legal options we have to prevent this company from doing this."
I have not caught MyDoom, but I have suffered from it. At the peak, my personal mailbox was being hit with about 1,000 virus emails a day. I am not a happy bunny. I'm not happy with the internet's na&#239;ve and inadequate mail protocols, I am not happy with Microsoft's na&#239;ve and inept mail security, and I am not happy with the irresponsible vandals and/or greedy criminals who write and circulate worms and viruses.I'm not happy with the users who fall for this sort of rubbish, either. No doubt each victim has a unique set of excuses, and yes, accidents do happen. But the people who were conned when the MyDoom worm was new should have cleaned up their machines by now.Business users are responsible for a lot of the problems. It seems   that many claim they are "too busy" to check attachments before opening them, and that they are "too busy" to download updated virus signatures. This is silly. Virus software can process mail automatically, and signatures can be downloaded automatically. This takes a lot less time than deleting thousands of email viruses.But business managers and IT staff are also to blame, in three areas. First, they should educate their staff about the risks. Second, they should be using server-side scanning or filtered mail services to reduce the number of worms and viruses that get through to desktop PCs. Third, they should have proper management systems, so that infected PCs are disconnected and cleaned up as soon as possible.Microsoft has been oh-so-slowly getting its act together over the past couple of years, using service packs and updates to make its software less vulnerable. The second big service pack for Windows XP, now being tested, is a big advance: for example, it includes an improved firewall turned on by default, and it stops HTML mail from downloading images.However, even if SP2 made XP invulnerable, it wouldn't solve the problem. There are still hundreds of millions of people using earlier versions of Windows. Further, tens of millions of XP users will find they just can't be bothered to install SP2. There's no chance of getting enough secure systems to create a sort of "herd immunity". While all these users could switch to Linux, that is a risky and   relatively arduous conversion: it also involves giving up most of their favourite software, and relearning replacements. I find it hard to see them making all that effort when they can't be bothered to click Start, select Windows Update, and let Microsoft patch their systems automagically.In any case, we're only talking about a tiny minority of problem people. Various reports have put the number of users infected with MyDoom at about one million, maybe more than a million. But with PC sales surpassing 150m units last year, there must be at least 500m Windows users, perhaps 600m. That suggests just 0.2% of Windows PCs are infected. I suspect it's higher, but perhaps I should feel grateful things are not much worse.Links - MyDoom removal toolshttps://information.microsoft.com/security/antivirus/mydoom.aspwww.f-secure.com/v-descs/novarg.shtml
Space Invaders AnniversaryPlayStation 2, &#163;29.99 Taito/Empire,&#42;&#42;&#42;A quarter of a century ago, waves of bizarre-looking aliens, accompanied by a soundtrack of bleeps, swooshes and a brooding, monophonic bassline, swept across the world, enslaving a generation and introducing us to the concept of videogames.Space Invaders (which, strictly, celebrated its 25th anniversary last year as it was launched in 1978) made a cultural impact that is difficult to overstate. Taito, its Japanese creator, has accorded it the reverence it deserves with this anniversary edition, as well as merchandising and a compilation of Japanese electronica.Load the game and you find a lobby containing virtual reproductions of every variation of the original sit-down and stand-up machines, plus a couple of attempts to update the Space Invaders myth. There is a 3D version, with pseudo-vector graphics and a first-person view, which is slightly more responsive than the original and introduces respawning Space Invaders.There is a very well thought-out two-player battle version, in which you attempt to shoot a ghost image of your opponent through the ranks of Space Invaders - if you hit your UFOs, you can acquire a death-ray. And there is a two-player cooperative version, in which the alien visitors again respawn, to stop proceedings from becoming too easy.Compared with modern videogames, the graphics are laughable, but it is remarkable how addictive and moreish the game remains. It is a slice of videogame history,   which marks the effective birth of the games industry as we know it today.Steve BoxerRogue OpsPS2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Bits Studios/Kemco,&#42;&#42;Rogue Ops may be a stealth game but it doesn't hide its influences. It snaffles the gadgetry and spy-sneaking from Metal Gear Solid and Splinter Cell. Unfortunately, it doesn't come close to either of these, offering a distinctly average secret agent adventure.On the plus side, there are some interesting ideas - such as guards who remain continually alert - and some detailed, varied graphics. The stealth kill mode, like Max Payne's Bullet Time, offers some stylish dispatching. And the journey takes in some unusual destinations, with enough gadgets to keep Bond fans happy. But all this can't save a game so frustrating that only the hardiest will succeed.The main gripe is the level design. Too often, solutions are obtuse, invariably involving a peek at a tips website. Then there are the inconsistencies that can see you interacting with some pieces of furniture and not others. Hair pulling is confirmed by time limits that test your patience. Those with super-human levels of perseverance will see out a relatively engaging plot, but Rogue Ops is an exasperating game whose promising moments are concealed by too many flaws.Greg HowsonSinbad: Legend of the Seven SeasPC, &#163;9.99 Atari/Small Rockets,&#42;&#42;As Ray Harryhausen knows, the Sinbad stories lend themselves perfectly to fantastical monsters, dramatic set-pieces and plenty of swash-buckling adventure on the high-seas. Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas is based on the DreamWorks film of the same name, and although we might be far from the days of clay monsters, this lacklustre effort may have you longing for the charm of stop-go animation.The game is aimed at seven to nine year olds, and the main campaign is very short and so repetitive it's unlikely to hold much interest for adults. The graphics are passable but unfortunately, the story is told via pictures and scrolling text, and there are no voice-overs from the film, which would have enlivened the game.The gameplay is almost entirely hack'n'slash, with Sinbad learning new fighting moves as he progresses as well as a couple of "super moves", which are handy for end bosses and groups of enemies. Alongside this, Sinbad can acquire some fun little power-ups that allow him to summon skeletons or do extra damage.Kids will get enjoyment out of Sinbad: Rise of the Seven Seas: it's easy to learn and reasonably priced, while the option to replay levels gives the game longevity. However, it's a very uninspiring adaptation of a film licence.Rhianna Pratchett
Rule one of reforming the NHS: don't load more work on to doctors. Rule two: especially GPs. Rule three: never forget rules one and two.And there lies the single biggest obstacle to the government's multi-billion-pound NHS IT upgrade. No matter how valuable the new systems will be in the long run, any change of IT requires a bit of investment up front, even if it's just a couple of days of frustration while getting used to new screens. To an already over-stretched doctor, that looks like more work.The biggest nightmare of the National Programme for IT (NPfIT) is that significant numbers of clinical staff just refuse to change. While the reign of Sir Lancelot Spratt and his real-life counter parts is long gone, NHS organisations find it difficult to sack doctors because they refuse to use computers. GPs, as independent contractors, are treated even more gently (though it's possible to argue that independent contractors are the one group whose behaviour the NHS should be able to change).So winning doctors' hearts, as well as minds, is crucial. Hence the top-level interest in the results of an independent survey of 1,000 doctors' opinions published this week. It was carried out electronically by Medix, a respected sampler of medical opinion.The good news is that three-quarters of doctors responding say the IT programme is an important NHS priority, and that two-thirds say they are either fairly or very enthusiastic about it. There is strong support for the   programme's core system, the shared electronic medical record.The bad news was a raspberry for the project with the highest political profile, e-booking. That scored bottom on the question "Is the focus on the right projects?", with 35%. Only 3% of respondents named electronic appointment booking as the IT project they would most like to see implemented in the NHS.Another worry is that doctors still believe they are not being told enough about the whole scheme. Predictably, 88% said consultation is "important". However, 77% said they were getting too little or no information. Worryingly, 13% of GPs responding said the survey was the first they had heard of NPfIT.Some may have been feeling bloody-minded, but the informa  tion gap is real. The programme, nearly 18 months old, has only just got around to publishing a brochure explaining to stakeholders what is going on. The programme'sdreadful web page, doesn't encourage casual visitors.If doctors really know so little about the programme, it is hard to take their professed enthusiasm with anything more than a pinch of salt. Especially when it comes to putting time into new ways of working. Certainly, when asked how much time they would have in the immediate future to "engage with NPfIT", 38% of GPs ticked "I'd like to but I haven't got time" and 6% said "none". On the other hand, 35% said they would be willing to devote up to two hours a week. To anyone used to asking favours of GPs, that is a result.
It used to be so innocent ... back in the early days. Good grief, you can download JPegs of ... Pamela Anderson! And email them
   to your friends. How cool is that? And just a few years on, Pammy was back in MPeg format - what a trooper!Online porn used to
   be a giggle among lads. We all did it, and none of us seemed scarred by the experience. 
   It's not like that any more. Online porn is the Thai chicken flu we allowed to mutate. It's out there, coming to your inbox, and each
   new web-related atrocity ought to hammer home the need for a better means of quarantine.The old arguments of why the web
   can't be policed may well hold true, but we need to throw some serious money at making sure of it - and Bill Gates ought to stump
   up the advance.In fact, let's widen the debate to include the true benefits of this so-called "information" superhighway. For brevity, we can
   dispense with the blue sky scenario, drummed into us throughout the 90s.When Gates proclaimed that the "internet changes everything", he was preaching the gospel of Dell and the dotcom boom, but
   mainly of Microsoft getting stamped across everything in sight. So yes, we got the message - email is fast, eBay is good,
   e-commerce shall set you free.So let's hear the worst-case scenario, albeit 12 years too late. And to keep it simple, we'll ignore the other three Horsemen of the
   Web Apocalypse (virus, piracy and spam) and concentrate on sex.The only unsurprising fact about the recently convicted cannibal Armin Meiwes was the place he met his victim. Where else
   would you find someone prepared to be eaten alive for a stranger's sexual gratification but the web - last refuge of the
   unappreciated pervert? Now we read the tragic tale of Jane Longhurst, caught up in one of a thousand kinky fetish rings that
   seem to feed off and bleed back into cyberspace at will.And so, the worst-case scenario is this - that the web is not reflecting sexual extremity but creating it, and online porn is a
   gateway to harder offences. The recent NCH report  suggested as much, albeit in the specific category
   of paedophiles.But how do we know it ends there? Perhaps, the web will eventually make perverts of us all. Conspiracy theorists are advised to
   watch Videodrome - David Cronenberg's polemic on the psychological effects of explicit sex and violence - and ask themselves
   whether it is sci-fi or docudrama.Of course, there is no concrete evidence to support his or my theory, simply because no one ever looked. Even games consoles
   were safety tested, albeit 10 years too late to discover that they triggered photo-epileptic fits. 
   And yet the world's most far-reaching and fundamental innovation was not even road-tested on rodents. Admittedly, it would have
   been tricky. Only one type of mouse could survive the bombardment of hardcore porn necessary to compile valid research, and
   it's attached to the laptop. But the point remains. There was no GM-style debate about the true long-term effects of the web, and
   there should have been. 
   So let's have it now.
Sure to be among the hottest gadgets of 2004 are the baby hard-disk MP3 players. The devices, which are more pocketable and cheaper than existing models, offer less storage and are shorn of a few features.Philips has reached the market first with its &#163;160 HDD060 player. While it is compact, lightweight and has a rather striking white-and-silver finish, it only contains a 1.5GB hard disk. This will hold 375 tracks, which is poor value compared with the forthcoming Apple iPod mini that has 4GB of storage and won't cost much more. Philips also loses points for including a slow USB 1.1 cable rather than the zippier USB 2.0.Still, the HDD060 has plenty going for it. Battery life is great at 10 hours and, unlike the iPod, it will play WMAs as well as MP3s. There are glimpses of Philips' audio heritage in a performance that is both powerful and detailed. If you'll never fill up an MP3 player with more than a few hours of tunes and you fancy its design, the HDD060 is ideal. If not, join the queue for the iPod mini.www.philips.co.uk
Portable PCs aren't particularly portable; the smallest and lightest models are still the size and weight of a hardback book. A PDA fits in your pocket, but you can't run standard Windows applications on it: few PDA word processors can open a Word file without converting it first.And even if you have got the development resources to port your company's custom software to it, you're going to have to leave out a lot of the power. And you can't plug in standard peripherals when you're at your desk, just Compact Flash and SD card devices, which are a lot more expensive; even if you could connect a printer, most PDA software couldn't use it.Hard drives are small enough to put 40GB in a device such as the iPod, and small, low-power chips such as Tranmeta's Crusoe chip mean that a PC doesn't have to be as large as a notebook. It's the screen and keyboard that make them that size; leave them out or shrink them and you can have a PC the size of a PDA, running a full version of Windows XP and all your applications.OQO announced its Ultra Personal Computer (UPC for short) which has been talked about for nearly two years but the company showed a new model last month and plans to ship in summer or autumn. A tiny PC doesn't mean a tiny price; a price somewhere between &#163;800 and &#163;1,200 will get you a 1GHz machine with 256Mb of memory, a 20GB hard drive, FireWire, USB, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. A keyboard slides out from behind the 5in touch screen so you can work with it on the move and then   connect it to a standard monitor and keyboard when you get to your desk.The Mini-PC looks more like a traditional notebook that has shrunk in the wash; the case is about the size of a paperback book and it folds open to show you a 5.8in screen and keyboard. Designed by Vulcan Ventures - a company set up by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen - the Mini-PC hasn't yet been taken up by any of the major PC manufacturers.The Tiqit doesn't slide or fold; it has a smaller 4in screen and a more basic keyboard underneath so it looks more like a PDA. Again, it's "in trials" and promised for this summer.Antelope is taking a different approach. The company is a spin-off from IBM's research into wearable computers and head-up displays for the military, and rather than a miniature notebook PC, it is producing a modular system. At the heart of it is the Antelope core; a 3in by 5in black box with a bronze top that looks like a giant version of the Crusoe chip inside it. This is a complete Windows XP PC with a custom connector on it. Plug it into the desktop dock and you get a PC with the    standard complement of ports and sockets. When you're ready to leave your desk, pop it in your pocket or plug it   into the rugged shell which has a 6in touch screen and cursor buttons, with a grip so you can use it in one hand (so it is ideal for engineers and field workers).There are plans for other shells that will let you plug the core into a laptop or the dashboard of your car, but Antelope is hoping that companies will come up with their own shells, too.With any of these pocket-sized PCs, the advantage is that you're not just taking your files with you - you are taking your whole PC. You don't need to worry about transferring files or synchronising applications and the company doesn't need to worry about   whether it has enough software licences for desktops and portables, because each user only needs one PC. With the Antelope system, there's also the advantage that once a PC is too underpowered to run the latest desktop applications, it is easy to reuse it elsewhere in the company - something that's not so easy with a notebook PC. You could even put a handful in a rack and use them for grid computing.Tiny computers aren't new; the Wearables Lab at Stanford University created a web server the size of a box of matches in 1999. But making them more than a novelty means having a way to work with them. The big piece that's missing from Antelope's system is remote connections to the core; it doesn't have Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, or even Ethernet, built in. Neither do the desktop and portable docks, and while you can plug a network adapter into the USB port or PC Card slot, setting up extra devices on a PC with no built-in CD drive takes that much longer.The OQO UPC and the Vulcan Mini-PC will have built-in Wi-Fi (plus Bluetooth in the OQO), which will be much more convenient for connecting, and the built-in screen and keyboard make them easy to use on the move. Combine that with a Network Attached Storage file server with built-in Wi-Fi (Sony and Linksys both have devices, though not yet for the UK market) and you can build a network in minutes and work anywhere. Antelope has one big advantage: you can actually buy the units now.
Opening remarksIt is staggering that computer viruses are still being propagated by users opening attachments. While excuses may be made for     first-time users, for any virus to succeed, a lot of people who use computers day in, day out are opening attachments that contain     executable programs. These executable binaries are hardly difficult to spot (exe, zip) and the fact that they are aimed at one     platform (Win32) should make it even easier.So. You receive email with an attachment from a known/unknown source that contains an executable binary. Don't open it. Wake     up your system administrator. Let him deal with it. Carry on doing what you're doing. If you're a home user, discard it. Either way,     no virus.      Regarding the comments on the MyDoom virus and the SCO lawsuit against Linus Torvalds/Linux (Anatomy of a virus, February     5), I recommendwww.groklaw.net.Phil DobbinCoventryArt v commerceIn reply to Dr Mark Paterson's comment about the "alarming" prevalence of mass-marketed computer games (Feedback, February     5), I was wondering if he was equally alarmed by the film and music industries?It has been obvious for some time that when big money gets involved in creative endeavours, originality is often squandered for     marketability. This does not mean, however, that creativity is foregone completely.      There are scores of game mods (modifications) that will extend a game's length, or reinvent the dynamics completely, normally     made by fans of the original game.Also, a lot of games are still being made in bedrooms. The difference is that these low-budget     adventures tend to lack the high production values of the more expensive purchases, as well as the billion dollar marketing     campaigns, and are duly snubbed by the buying public. However, this is not true in all cases- and since when were visuals a     crucial part of the playability of a game anyway?On the same note, people still make music in their bedrooms, and either distribute it freely or keep it for themselves. Once every     so often, a hit is born this way; check out Simple Kid's album created on his brother's laptop. Filmmakers still produce their     experimental films with little chance of being shown at the local Warner village, but some do creep through. I was keen on seeing     Elephant but it is not being shown in Reading, obviously because nobody wants to see it.      The ignorance of a nation is far more damaging than the lack of marketed variety, but the answer is quite simple. Be prepared to     experiment and don't rely on visual gratification as a way to measure a product's value.Mark DooneyReadingSites off the railsTravel websites certainly are inadequate, but their primary shortcoming was not mentioned in your article (A long haul, January     29). This is that they are totally geared to air travel. Ros Taylor (Cheaper fares a flight of fancy, January 29) rightly points to the     subsidy that airlines get, despite being the most polluting form of transport, yet few travel websites offer any alternative to flying.Ask them how to get from London to Paris and none will suggest Eurostar.      There is a real gap in the market for a website that offers end-to-end train alternatives for European destinations allowing     travellers to check routes, times and fares and provide booking for all train journeys that cross international boundaries. While     German Railways offers aEurope Rail Travel Planner, one cannot book end-to-end     tickets outside Germany through it.What a shame the web makes it easier to book the most polluting mode of transport rather than those that are better for the     environment.Simon TompsettRichmond and Twickenham Friends of the EarthConsumers firstI take issue with Victor Keegan (Second Sight, February 2). The criterion for judging Microsoft's conduct should be: does the     product benefit the consumer or not? The view that only competition produces the best results for consumers is often found     wanting. Competitors tend to fix prices. Microsoft has a very good record for producing quality products and yes, that includes     operating systems. So if Microsoft produces good products and consumers like them, but in the process another producer gets     hurt, then tough luck!Husam NasrallaNew MillsMicro economicsJan Frank questions the scheme for providing computers for employees for "as little as £5 per week" (Feedback, January 29), by     pointing to the comparative costs over four years and current retail prices. This may be the hard reality for people who lack     capital and cannot find sums that would constitute pocket-money for the well paid. It underlines the importance of credit unions.     In the developing world, microcredit schemes perform a similar function of providing very small sums to people who can use the     money to start small businesses and lift themselves out of poverty, without recourse to loans at commercial rates.Deirdre FleggPoole
Strip searchesThe biggest event on the web so far this year was Janet Jackson's right breast, exposed during the half-time show at the Super Bowl. TiVo owners took the opportunity to replay the incident many times, and there were stills and clips all over the net before the game was over. You wouldn't expect these postings to show up in search engines in such a short time, but vast numbers of Americans - perhaps trying to verify what they thought they saw - ran the searches anyway. A blog called Up 2 Second ("The place to go when something happens") seemed to be ahead of the game, then the parodists piled in. The editorials, complaints and lawsuits will probably keep this one going for a while, and as E! Online reported, there's lots of potential in that nice new phrase, "wardrobe malfunction".www.up2second.comwww.eonline.com/Newswww.drudgereport.com/mattjj.htmwww.campchaos.com/othershows/jaydonaldson/britney.htmlBetter trainedWhenever you run into a horribly unusable and badly designed website - which is roughly a dozen times an hour - you may think there's nothing you can do about it. Well, you could complain. Matthew Somerville is doing something much more interesting: he's writing usable front ends for some of them. Last year, I wrote about his Odeon redesign, and now he's completed an accessible version of the National Rail Enquiries site.www.dracos.co.uk/railway/timetablewww.nationalrail.co.ukwww.dracos.co.uk/odeonGreat ScapeHere's another news source, and it isn't new, but it is British. The NewsScape project is now four years old, and has indexed more than 7m stories, taking up 330GB of space. It works by making a list of "hot words" then finding stories that contain as many of these words as possible. Yes, the site   has two addresses. The first is the simple interface, while the second is a test version of NewsScape 2.www.newscape.comRandom factorIf you need to log on to a website you don't trust, it's not hard to make up a false name. However, if you need to make up a couple of dozen names, it is easier to get a program to do it. The Random Name Generator at Kleimo does the job using names from the US census. One neat facility is that you can set an obscurity factor from 1 (common) to 99 (totally obscure), and you can generate up to 30 names at once. Behind The Name is a similar site, which lets you generate names that are male, female or ambiguous. The attraction, however, is that you can choose names in lots of categories from African to Welsh, or a Biblical or mythological name.Games players could be particularly interested in categories such as Witch, Fairy, Goth, Rapper and Transformer. If you need to generate a porn star name, there's always My Porn Name, though you might be better advised to become a Super Hero instead. It's a scene the New York Times investigated last week, mainly because spammers also like to generate random names.www.kleimo.com/randwww.behindthename.com/random.htmlwww.mypornname.comhttp://home.hiwaay.net/~lkseitz/comics/herogenBelieve the HypeThe Hype Gallery is a real gallery on Brick Lane, London, formed with the idea of inviting students, designers and filmmakers to display their work. Anyone can drop in with their digital artwork or short movie on disc. People who can't get to London can submit things via the website. The project is funded and hosted by Hewlett-Packard's Imaging and Printing Group, which is naturally using HP equipment, and loves the idea of digital artworks being printed out.www.hypegallery.comAin't it cool?When the web was young, almost everyone knew that CSOTD stood for Cool Site Of The Day. It was such a good idea it spawned countless imitations. The original is now preparing to celebrate its 10th anniversary, and hopes to do it in style. The festivities will run from March 1 to June 30.www.coolsiteoftheday.com
Microsoft, the world's most valuable software company, is looking like a player in one of those computer games who is being zapped on all sides by alien missiles - and as soon as one is disabled another takes its place. Yesterday the Seattle-based giant announced a warning of yet another flaw in recent versions of its Windows operating system that is resident in over 95% of the world's computers. It lies deep within the code and could give potential hackers "complete control" over computers. Microsoft was warned about this flaw months ago but, understandably, waited until it had a fix before confirming its existence in case potential attackers got wind of it. This latest outbreak is separate from the havoc caused in recent weeks by the MyDoom virus that has led to widespread criticism of the company.It would be wrong to heap all the blame on to Microsoft for the damage caused. The main reason it is being targeted is that it is so big. Its main competitors (Apple and the free operating system Linux), though more stable than Windows, are too tiny to attract the attention of virus writers and hackers. The real villains are the vandals who wreak enormous damage on computer networks on which the stability of business and, increasingly, personal life depends. Corporations are clearly not taking the proper precautions by downloading the fixes that are regularly posted on the internet, let alone installing filters to ensure that the affected mail does not reach employees. Users, corporate and personal, are also at fault because if they took simple precautions - like not opening email attachments without proven provenance - then the problem could be contained. If the Trojans had not opened the gates and dragged the horse in (complete with internal attachments) the Greeks would not have gained entry to the city.But this doesn't mean Microsoft can step down from the dock. It is an enormous corporation with reserves of over $50bn accumulated as a result of a world monopoly, not only of operating systems but also of the word processing and spreadsheet programs that run off them - Word and Excel. Its wealth attracts many of the best brains in the business. Yet it has fallen short of the standards expected of such a powerful company. It has been found guilty in the US courts of illegally maintaining its monopoly (though not of illegally acquiring it). It ought to be throwing as much of its cash mountain as it takes to provide an operating system that is secure. If it does not then it should be unsurprised if there are fresh calls for it to forfeit its monopoly.
