I am uniquely qualified to comment on the "hacker hysteria" we now see in the global media. A reformed hacker myself, I spent nearly four-and-a-half years in federal detention in US prisons awaiting trial. For 49 months I was denied a bail hearing (unprecedented in US history according to my defence team's research) and denied release on bail.After learning of the prosecutors' "promise" to keep me in prison without bail and to retry me repeatedly in different jurisdictions until they obtained a conviction, I realised that pleading guilty to nine of the original 27 charges, eight of which I did not commit, was my only realistic choice.The whole world's attention has been focused on the internet in general, and on "hackers" in particular, by the recent distributed denial of service attacks (DDoS), which disrupted big US internet operations such as Yahoo and Amazon.com. Whenever large multi-national corporations see their operations disrupted, they pressure American officials to "do something" about it.And whenever the media sense a good story, they sensationalise it; to put it crudely, they want to attract more eyeballs that they can sell to their advertisers. Thus we witness the current media feeding frenzy on the term "hacker"."Hacker" is a term of honour and respect. It is a term that describes a skill, not an activity, in the same way that "doctor" describes a skill. It was used for decades to describe talented computer enthusiasts, people whose skill at using computers to solve technical problems and puzzles was - and is - respected and admired by others possessing similar technical skills.In the late 1980s the media began to use the term as a pejorative. The Los Angeles Times reported on my arrest in 1988 for computer fraud with dramatic bias, and repeated uncritically the remark of the magistrate in my case, Venetta Tassopolous, who displayed her own extraordinary bias when she labelled me - at my pre-indictment arraignment hearing as "dangerous when armed with a keyboard".Bruce Sterling documented the early history of the vilification of hackers in his book Hacker Crackdown in 1990. Katie Hafner and her then husband and current New York Times technology writer John Markoff contributed to the demonisation of hackers as a group, and hacking as an activity, when they libelled me in their 1991 fictionalised narrative Cyberpunk with the label "darkside hacker" without reason, justification, or proof."Cyberpunk." "Dangerous when armed with a keyboard." "Darkside hacker." Our brief examination of the manipulation of the honorific "hacker" immediately sheds light on the misuse of the term today, and on the role that media manipulation played in creating my current - and unsought - celebrity. Katie Hafner was desperate to obtain my unpaid cooperation in Cyberpunk after my earlier refusals: she went to my   grandmother's home in Los Angeles, uninvited and unannounced, to plead with my grandmother to convince me to cooperate with her and Markoff, the man who would later libel me on July 4, 1994 on the front page of the New York Times.The media's obsessive focus on computers and the extraordinary growth of electronic commerce on the internet has led to a "dumbing down" of the terms used. The media now uses "hacker" to describe individuals who commit crimes using computers, and "hacking" is now a pejorative used to label those crimes.The perversion of the terms resembles nothing so much as the diminishment of the term "liberal" in the United States, which once connoted people who believed in an honourable society that respects the rights of all to fair treatment, and that has been perverted to a meaning unrelated to its historical intent.Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs founded Apple Inc, which set the computing world on its ear with the Macintosh in 1984. In the 1970s, Jobs and Woz were famous throughout the "phone phreaker" underground in Berkeley, California, for their development of sophisticated "blue boxes" that enabled anyone to place long-distance telephone calls for free. "Wire fraud" is the name of that crime, the very same crime to which prosecutors forced me to plead guilty.Arpanet, predecessor of the internet, was refined for years by hackers who contributed their research in pursuit of distributed computing. Richard Stallman is a noted hacker and the founder of the GNU Project, launched in 1984 to develop the free operating system GNU. Another well-known hacker, Linus Torvalds, relied on GNU to write the software kernel Linux, used by an estimated 10m GNU/Linux systems worldwide.Should we fear hackers? Intention is at the heart of this discussion. The intent of the individuals who created the DDoS attacks has nothing to do with hacking, and they are vandals, not hackers. Unscrupulous lawyers commit crimes using computers in America every day, and yet the media has resolutely refused to label lawyers as a threat to e-commerce. Authorities recently arrested a doctor in New York City for allegedly carving his initials into the abdomen of a patient on the operating table, and yet the media haven't used a broad brush to paint doctors as criminals.Are hackers a threat? The degree of threat presented by any conduct, whether legal or illegal, depends on the actions and intent of the individual and the harm they cause. What threat did Linus Torvalds present when he hacked GNU software into Linux? Well, if you represent Microsoft, Linus Torvalds' completely legal hack presents a greater threat than any other hacker in the   world - in case you haven't heard, Torvalds' software has been adopted by IBM as their enterprise operating system of choice.What threat did I present when I hacked into Sun Microsystems' computers? In a letter to prosecutors that was solicited by "Angelfish," aka FBI Special Agent Kathleen Carson Antona, Sun's vice president of finance claimed that my alleged downloading of Sun's source code cost the company $80m, even though they never reported the loss to the federal Securities and Exchange Commission. Sun offers that very same source code to their educational buyers for $100 (that's right, one hundred US dollars - there are no zeroes missing).My actions constituted pure hacking that resulted in relatively trivial expenses for the companies involved, despite the government's false claims. But government prosecutors, and New York Times reporter John Markoff, grossly exaggerated the harm I allegedly caused. Mr Markoff has earned at least $1.4m for his book and its movie rights, and prosecutor David Schindler now works in private practice, with a billing rate reported more than $400 per hour. Co-prosecutor Christopher Painter has since been promoted to a prominent position in the computer crime and intellectual property section of the US department of justice.&#149; Kevin Mitnick, 36, was recently released from prison. He served five years after breaking into the computer systems of several multinational corporations.
Shares inDeutsche Banksoared yesterday after it took the wraps off plans to invest &euro;1bn (&#163;618m) a year to build up its online business.The bank is linking up with Europe's biggest software group SAP and AOL Europe in two separate initiatives as it attempts to establish a leading position in the internet-based financial services market."Our aim is to make optimum use of any new opportunities that arise. The first mover in this business has a real advantage and we want to exploit it," said Deutsche Bank's chief executive, Rolf Breuer.The net effect saw Deutsche Bank's shares climb almost 6% to &euro;85.22 yesterday, making it one of the few bright spots in an otherwise lacklustre Frankfurt market."It is important that Deutsche Bank is taking a comprehensive approach to business in the internet age," said a German analyst.Deutsche, which has spent heavily on investment banking, including the $10bn (&#163;6.2bn) acquisition of Bankers Trust, has increasingly sought to bolster the retail side of its business.Last year, for instance, it held talks with Dresdner Bank about a merger of their retail operations, although the talks came to nothing.Deutsche has reached agree ment with SAP, best known for its business to business products, which will allow the bank to offer financial and trading services to investors through web-based virtual exchanges.The deal with AOL Europe, a joint venture between AOL and German media group Bertelsmann which has been the subject of speculation about a split, will provide online banking and brokerage services.Later this year Deutsche plans to launch net start-up investment funds in the US and Asia. An internet portal named Moneyshelf.com offering services from investment to insurance is also planned.Mr Breuer said yesterday that the bank would fund its investment programme from the capital gains realised by selling parts of its large portfolio of industrial investments.The German government has recently announced plans for the withdrawal of capital gains tax on the profits realised by companies from the sale of shares in other domestic firms, making it more attractive to businesses to liquidate their holdings - which are often of long standing.Competition in German retail banking is increasing rapidly. Recently both HypoVereinsbank and Commerzbank announced online initiatives - the former through a &euro;100m investment programme and the latter through a portal deal with T-Online, the internet subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom.
"I'm only looking for 30m initially," whispered the anxious but determined-looking man who had just introduced himself as an internet entrepreneur in search of funds."I can't say much now," he said, lowering his voice and moving closer to ensure that no one else in the packed nightclub was listening. "But I have a unique idea for selling women's fashion on the web."There are not many places in Tokyo where a scruffy journalist can be mistaken for a millionaire investor, nor many dancefloors where people would rather exchange business cards than body fluids. But these are no ordinary times for Japan and this is no ordinary event.After years of hesitation, everybody in Japan suddenly wants a piece of the web. And Bit Style, a monthly gathering of internet entrepreneurs and venture capitalists, is where they go to get it.In 12 months, this event - held most recently at Velfarre, Tokyo's biggest nightclub - has become the most talked-about party in town. Against a background of techno music, flashing lights and lasers, it is here where Japan Inc is becoming intimate with the internet in a coupling that could decide the nation's future.It is a passionate but awkward embrace. Far from the cool and casual geek style of Silicon Valley, most of Japan's internet wannabes look stiff and uncomfortable out of the office. Dark suits and side partings - the traditional salaryman uniform - far outnumber jeans, trainers and ponytails."I sort of felt I had to wear a suit and tie," says Yoshikatsu Ezaki, a self-confessed computer  otaku  (geek) who names Bill Gates as his hero. "I know we have to change that way of thinking, but first impressions count. Maybe next time I'll dress more casually."Self-conscious young entrepreneurs hang together in twos and threes apparently uncertain whether they should try to seduce or be seduced by the slick money men.It is clumsy and uncertain,   but the intensity of the spectacle - in many ways, the sight of Japan trying to re-invent itself - draws a huge crowd.When it started 12 months ago, Bit Style attracted just 200 people - many of whom were computer geeks, returnees from America and others on the periphery of Japanese society. But 2,000 squeezed into the latest gathering, and among those who queued up for half an hour to enter were international investors and representatives from some of Japan's biggest corporations.Despite its reputation as a technological powerhouse, Japan is a late convert to the internet. Thanks partly to sky-high connection charges, the number of Japanese internet users is low at 18.3m, or 14% of the population - less than half the proportion of users in the United States.The culture of the internet could not be more at odds with the country's traditional social and business models. While the world wide web creates a chaos of horizontal links between consumers, Japan Inc is built on rigid group hierarchies and the pre-eminence of production.For years, this meant that the web was associated with  otaku  and outsiders such as Masayoshi Son, the Korean-Japanese founder of Softbank and now the world's most powerful e-investor."In Japan, the internet appeals to those who have been alienated or isolated from traditional practices. They are people who have nothing to fear or lose from change," says Noriko Hama of the Mitsubishi Research Institute. "In that respect, the element of revolution is much larger in the Japanese economy than in the west."This has made Bit Style an important stage for those seeking to lead Japan's nascent new economy. Last month Mr Son cut short a trip to Davos and spent &#163;150,000 to charter a plane so that he could share his evangelical message with the young Bit Style crowd."Our age is coming," the 41-year-old told the adoring throng. "This is a period of revolutionary change. In years to come, people will say that we were the ones who transformed Japan and brought it into the information age."But these days it is not just the geeks who are listening. Mainstream Japan is also paying attention. It has little choice, having waited in vain for most of the past 10 years for the US e-bubble to burst, while Japan's economy has been stagnating.In a sudden conversion, corporations, public agencies and trust funds have created an ocean of capital - by some estimates as much as 750bn yen (&#163;4.2bn) - for new internet start-ups.The Tokyo stock exchange has hurriedly established an over-the-counter market - the oddly named Mothers - for venture companies. Two other new bourses are in the pipeline that will make it easy for technology companies to list their stocks with few questions asked.Even the ministry of trade, which has guided Japanese industry for the past 50 years, has declared that the best way it can encourage the new economy is by non-interference. Deregulation is already starting to reap dividends in the field of internet-capable mo bile phones, where Japanese companies have taken a commanding lead.But with a huge amount of money now chasing a small number of internet stocks, few analysts dispute that a bubble is forming."Not many investors know what they are doing," said Hirohiko Sasaki of Netyear Group, one of the leading lights in the Japanese e-community, and a founder of Bit Style. "They are just throwing capital at the internet, not because they love the companies, but because they want to make money."With Bit Style now as big and frenzied as a Klondike goldrush, Mr Sasaki said the organisers have decided not to hold any more events on such a scale. "Our aim this year is to cool things down," he said.But that is likely to prove difficult. The dot.com revolution has generated a confidence and excitement that has been all too rare in Japan during the past decade."Japan has been well known for improving existing technology," said Veryan Allen, an investor at the Bit Style event. "Who's to say it won't do the same with the internet?"&#149;The number of Japanese internet users - now 18.3m - has been growing by about 20 per cent each year, but it is expected to surge to more than 45m by 2002 because of the popularity of web-capable cellphones.&#149;The amount of capital available for Internet start-up firms in Japan has surged in the past year from almost nothing to between 400 billion yen to 750 billion yen (&#163;4.2 billion) as investors, led by Softbank and Hikkari Tsushin, rush to stake a claim at the new Internet Klondike.&#149;Revenue from e-commerce in Japan is projected to grow from $3.2 billion last year to $66 billion in 2004, according to Andersen consulting.Despite the recession, the value of Internet advertising has almost doubled each year to hit an estimated 20bn yen (&#163;111m) in 1999.&#149;Hiroshi Mikitani - Founded Rakuten, a cybermall, in 1997. The company has since grown from 13 shops to 2,000 with 600,000 registered consumers. Preparing IPO in April that is expected to raise $100 million.&#149;Yoko Aoki and Kikuko Yano - Posted idea for a new Women's web site on an Internet notice board. Within a week, they had $100,000 in seed money for CafeGlobe.com.
WH Smith has opened a pilot store at Leeds city station offering customers everything from email facilities to airline and rail tickets - plus the chance to buy any book from the 1.3m currently in print, for collection as your plane touches down.If the trial is successful WH Smith plans to export the concept of books.co around the world. The group is already one of the biggest global airport chains and is working on plans for a second books.co outlet for Chicago.The initiative is just the latest in a series of e-commerce ventures for WH Smith, which is attempting to cash in on the strength of its traditional brand name. The chain last year generated substantial enthusiasm among analysts and investors, when it first announced its web plans, and its shares peaked at 792p. But they have since fallen back rapidly to 315p and the group has even been touted as a possible takeover target.WH Smith now claims to be the only retailer in the world to offer its wares through all possible retail channels - the high street, the internet, interactive television and the new generation of Wap (wireless application protocol) technology.The company currently has 10% of the UK online book market, which is thought to be worth some &#163;55m, but is committed to winning 20% within three years.The total UK book market - of which WH Smith controls about 25% - is valued at around &#163;1.2bn.It hopes to boost its online sales further with the introduction this week of its full range of stationery products to cyber-buyers.The new Leeds books.co store is believed to have shot through initial sales targets - partly due to the fact that it is located just a few minutes' walk from a nurses' home. Student nurses have been using the service to order speciality textbooks, which would normally take weeks to arrive or require a visit to a specialist medical bookshop.
Freeserve, Britain's largest internet service provider is planning a buying spree using its soaring share price as currency.The company, valued at &#163;1.5bn when it floated last year, is now worth nearly &#163;8bn - more than British Airways. Its share price has risen from 150p at its launch to 769p at close of trading on Friday.In reports over the weekend, chief executive John Pluthero said the decision to float had been a deliberate strategy to fund an acquisitions spree. Dixons, which has an 80% stake in Freeserve, is understood to have declined to put any more money into the operation."We floated to get a currency we could use. With the shares getting to the kind of value they are now, we can use that currency to put together the properties and elements we need," Mr Pluthero told the Observer.He declined to name targets but said several were under consideration. "We've identified a number of areas where we want to acquire the right kind of capabilities. Sometimes they're quite small and sometimes they're pretty big."Separate reports speculated that the German internet service provider, T-online which will be spun off from Deutsche Telekom this spring, could be Freeserve's first purchase. T-online already owns Club Internet a French ISP, and an alliance would make Freeserve the largest ISP in Europe.Mr Pluthero said yesterday that content was a big concern in its acquisitions strategy, pointing to the huge AOL-Time Warner deal as a model. "It was a smart move. When   you put content and platform together you create an even richer seam."Last month Freeserve played down reports that it had been in talks with the troubled children's publisher, Dorling Kindersley. Freeserve's current offerings include travel, insurance, books, electrical goods and an auction site.Mr Pluthero's other ambitions include introducing unmetered Internet access to the UK, along American lines. "I'm sure we'll get to the position soon where poeple are being charged between &#163;10 and &#163;15 for as much Internet access as they want."BT has already announced it plans to introduce an unlimited internet access provider in the spring.Launched in September 1998 as part of Dixons, Freeserve now has nearly 1.7m registered users. In January it produced the strongest set of figures in its short history, but like almost all internet companies, it is still trading in the red.Pre-tax losses in the quarter to November stood at &#163;3.6m on a turnover of &#163;3.8m.Analysts say a strong brand and its distribution network through Dixons helped it bounce back from the turmoil in the hi-tech stock market at the beginning of the year. Dixons preloads about 90% of its PCs with Freeserve's software, with the result that it is the ISP on almost a quarter of all new PCs in the UK.Mr Pluthero said that the company is planning anadvertising campaign next month, including using television spots for the first time.The company has also signed a deal to provide internet services to the new wireless application protocol mobile phones, (Wap) phones, due out soon.
Specialist internet mortgage providers are springing up almost daily, aiming to take the sweat out of choosing the best deal, with mortgage calculators and best-buy comparisons.E-Loanclaims to be the global market leader, offering 1,200 loans on its site. A rival offering an independent service, with a minimum set-up charge of &#163;150, istheloanhub.com.The web-based personal finance operator eXchange holdings, which runsmoneyeXtraandMoneyWorld, has launched a mortgage service,emfinance.    The Independent Association of Estate Agents offers information on mortgages and property atMortgageSeekers.Share dealer Charles Schwab is handing out commission-free trading for 30 days for investors who take out a self-select Isa through its online service,Charles Schwab Europe.Independent adviserChase de Veretomorrow launches an online Isa application service in conjunction with Fidelity Investments and M&amp;G.A new net stockbroker,Sharepeople, is charging a flat fee of &#163;17.50 per deal.Neville James, which buys and sells second-hand endowment policies, has launched a site providing information on trading, prices and quotations.Net shopping sitewww.bigsave.comhas expanded into car insurance, promising "some of the lowest rates to be found in the UK". It works with a panel of 18 established car insurers.Help with finding a private medical insurance policy is promised by a new service fromMoneynet.Leading Edgeoffers travel insurance for backpackers and travellers under 40. A month's cover for Europe will cost &#163;19.Direct Lineis also offering travel cover.An insurance database,The Research Department, has produced a best-buy table for single trip policies from across a range of online travel operators.
TroubledMarks &amp; Spenceris to expand its e-commerce arm in a bid to restore its fortunes. It will sell nearly half of its products online by the end of the year.The high street retailer, which is predicted to make around profits of &#163;500 million this year, compared with a peak of more than &#163;1 billion, plans to offer 3,000 of the 7,500 products sold in its stores. To   emphasise its online operation, M&amp;S is to put its Marks&amp;Spencer.com website address on everything from its plastic bags to its lorries. A major marketing campaign will take place later this year, once the online credentials have been established.M&amp;S started selling over the Internet just before Christmas but restricted its online inventory to around 300 'gift-style' products. The decision to expand the service, which will primarily sell   clothes and luxury food and wine items, comes hot on the heels of the appointment of the company's new executive chairman, Luc Vandevelde.At the time of his appointment, Vandevelde told  The Observer : 'E-commerce is not just a threat; for M&amp;S it is a fantastic opportunity.'The company's head of e-commerce, Peter Robinson, predicted the M&amp;S brand would become a powerful force on the Internet: 'We took &#163;6.6bn in the UK and   we've got 5.2 million chargecard customers. We're the most trusted retailer; all brands need to create their reputation in the online world.'The company is also testing an online grocery service, which could roll out nationally if it is a success.Robinson denied that the online expansion would threaten sales at the any of M&amp;S's 279 stores. 'Stores have walls. This gives us the opportunity to enter new markets.'
A glance at his CV reveals next to nothing about Freeserve's chief executive, John Pluthero. There are perfunctory details about his career path, but no colour. In the Internet world - where characters loom larger than life - this is unusual.In a similar vein, requests to bring a photographer along to Freeserve's HQ in Hemel Hempstead were flatly rejected. Pluthero has been doorstepped by journalists and is determined to resist being dragged into the spotlight.Nevertheless, Freeserve is the UK's largest Internet company: it currently has a market value of around &#163;8 billion - that's more than British Airways. So its boss has to step out of the shadows on occasions. And these occasions are becoming ever more frequent. Not a week goes by now without Freeserve announcing some tie-up or alliance with another company. Last week's news was that Freeserve had embarked on developing an online soap opera.Pluthero guffaws when trying to explain the premise of the new series.'Soap opera doesn't really do it justice. In terms of TV viewing, soap operas are the most engaging, the most sticky as we would say &#91;they keep people coming back for more&#93;. And people talk about them, so your customers are marketeers. People go to work and say "Oh did you see" and people want to watch it.'The beauty of the Internet, though, is that it gives the soap interactivity. 'You can e-mail the characters. You can suggest things and they may go and do them. When you say "Don't go out with him" they may e-mail back and say "Yes, but he's really cute". It's an enormous, tentacled beast of interactivity.'The idea came when three former BT guys knocked on Freeserve's door with an idea. 'They were as mad as they come. I've met a lot of strange people in this business, and they are the strangest by far.'These days Pluthero estimates that every week Freeserve hears around 100 suggestions, of varying degrees of sanity, from Internet evangelists, such is the pace of change. Five minutes spent waiting in the company's reception - watching the to-ing and fro-ing of earnest young people armed with laptops and briefcases crammed with presentation slides - gives a taste of how quickly the company is evolving.Launched by retailer Dixons in September 1998, Freeserve started out offering free access to the Internet. The company likes to give the impression that it was the first to do this, but this is not strictly true: there were already several free Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in existence. Nevertheless, the fact that Freeserve's software -which users need to load to gain access to its ISP - was easily available through any of the Dixons group's 1,000 stores, meant it soon became the online access provider of choice. Today nearly 1.7 million users in the UK choose Freeserve.It was little surprise, therefore, that when Dixons decided to float a near-20 per cent stake in its subsidiary, Freeserve's shares were 30 times over-subscribed. Back then, Freeserve was valued at &#163;1.5bn. Today it is worth around &#163;8bn. The massive rise in value is largely down to the City's appreciation of what the company is trying to do. Namely, move away from making money by providing Internet access and instead focus on turning Freeserve into a must-visit online destination - a 'portal'.Pluthero is slightly alarming when asked whether Freeserve has achieved this transition. With the precision of a smart bomb he answers, facts dropping at the speed of a racing commentary. 'Voted by Internet magazine best portal _ our reach figures _ page impressions _ metrics around how sticky our content is _ 45-minute dwell times in parts   of the site _ our chat rooms are the busiest chat rooms in Europe_ 100,000 portfolios registered on our money channel.'Nevertheless, it is clear that Pluthero, who started his career as a chartered accountant after graduating with first class honours from the London School of Economics, knows that more needs to be done to reinforce Freeserve's position as a mecca of the Internet. The company is to launch a massive marketing campaign next month which will put Freeserve ads on television for the first time.A major site redesign is in the pipeline and will also be unveiled next month. 'We're changing the architecture: it's going to be much quicker. People will see a different site when they come online. It will be cleaner. The current site hasn't really been able to deal with the growth in content.'A flat fee giving unlimited access - similar to the way ISPs operate in the   US, where Internet usage is dramatically higher than here - will also be introduced soon. Watch out, too, for further announcements about wireless Internet alliances, with more mobile phone operators and news that Freeserve is starting to develop faster services using the latest Digital Subscriber Technology. The latter transforms local telephone networks and will allow us to watch videos over the Internet.Also on the cards is a European expansion programme. Another share issue will help fund the plan. 'We're getting to the point now where we can use our currency to put together the properties and the elements we need to go forward.'Pluthero, who joined Dixons from Bass just over six years ago, admits to being slightly shocked at the pace of change. 'I remember reading a US magazine years ago when I was on a flight and seeing an extract of the president's   diary. And it's like, "10 to 10:07, briefing from the defence chief; 10:07 to 10:10 go to the lavatory", and his whole day was like that. I used to think that must be mad. And now I look at my diary and think _ the pace of what's happening means we are cramming years and years of development into months.'Each month it seems something conspires to tighten the Internet dynamic. Last month it was the AOL-Time Warner merger. A model for Freeserve perhaps? 'It was a smart move. When you put content and platform together you create an even richer seam. From a business model point of view that's pretty powerful. It's had an impact on everybody's thinking.'So would Pluthero look for something similar? He hints that this is now on his radar screen. 'It's there in the conversations everybody's having. We talk to lots of people all the time. The people we are talking to haven't changed, but the flavour of the conversations has.'ProfileSubject:John PlutheroAge:36Job title:Chief executive officer,	 	FreeserveOther directorships:NoneHobbies:Playing with his seven-year-old daughter; golf
Freeserve, the UK's largest Internet company, is preparing to use its rocketing share price to fund an acquisitions spree.The company is also set to shake up the online market by launching an unlimited Internet access service similar to the system in operation in the US, where users surf for, typically, two to three times longer than their counterparts in Britain. This will follow a major television campaign and website overhaul scheduled for next month.Freeserve, which was valued at &#163;1.5 billion when it floated last year, is now worth nearly &#163;8bn. The company's chief executive officer, John Pluthero, told  The Observer in an interview for today's Business section: 'We floated to get a currency we could use. With the shares getting to the kind of value they are at now, we can use that currency to put together the properties and elements we   need.'He hinted that a number of deals were coming. 'I would expect over the course of this year for there to be more than one. We've identified a number of areas where we want to acquire the right kind of capabilities. Sometimes they're quite small, and sometimes they're pretty big.'The fact that such a young company plans to use its paper to do deals is remarkable. It was launched in September 1998, a subsidiary of   electrical retailer Dixons. Today Freeserve, which started off offering free access to the Internet, is transforming itself into a 'portal'- a must-see destination for people trying to find their way around the web. It has nearly 1.7 million users, about 100,000 more than its nearest rival, AOL.The Freeserve site will be changed to make navigation easier. The rapid speed with which the company has secured alliances with con tent providers and e-commerce partners has meant that the site looks crowded. It has been criticised as sometimes slow to use.'We're changing the architecture so it's even quicker,' Pluthero said. 'People will see a different site when they come online.' To coincide with the site's relaunch, Freeserve will advertise heavily, campaigning on television for the first time.Pluthero admitted that Freeserve wants to introduce   a flat-rate unmetered Internet service. This follows a decision by BT to introduce its own unlimited access version, Surftime, in the spring.'The Nproduct takes us in that direction. I'm sure we'll get to the position soon where people are being charged between &#163;10 and &#163;15 for as much Internet as they want. If you get the pricing right, you will see a very substantial increase in the time people spend online. We've been working with a number   of network providers to come up with that.'Pluthero hinted that rumours of a tie-up between Freeserve and a major media provider could come true. Such a deal would mirror that of Net giant America Online and Time-Warner last month.He said: 'We always talk to people. The people we are talking to haven't changed but the flavour of the conversations has.'
Independent financial adviser Chase de Vere Investments is launching an on-line Isa application facility this Monday. The service - whose launch coincides with the busiest period for ISA applications in the run up to the end of the tax year - will let customers apply for a range of Fidelity and M&amp;G Iass on the internet.Fund managers Investec Guinness Flight are offering their e-commerce-focused unit trusts and Ias to on-line investors at a 2% discount.   The WIRED@INDEX fund invests in blue chip companies with significant e-commerce involvment. The products can be applied for, bought and maintained on-line. Investors will also be able to access prices, performance details, and a charting facility through the website,www.wiredindexisa.com.  Fund manager Fidelity Investments is offering customers discounts of up to &#163;149 on Gateway computers to encourage them to use the internet and manage their   investments on-line. The offer is open until April 5.Skipton Building Society is offering internet investors an annual return of 7% gross through a 3-year Fixed Rate Bond. The bond, which can only be bought via the internet, matures on March 31, 2003, and is subject to a minimum investment of &#163;5,000.If you are thinking of buying or selling an endowment policy, with profits dealer Neville James's website, accessible atwww.neville-james.co.uk, may prove useful. The newly launched site contains a guide to tradeable policies, a quotation request form and information on the prices Neville James is willing to pay for policies. A guide to the terminology is also available.If you want to buy travel insurance on-line but are baffled by the range of policies on offer, check out the Research Department's Best Buy table for single trip policies atwww.trd.co.uk.The table compares the prices and level of cover provided by more than 40 products available to buy online.Cable-based internet service provider ISP Telewest Communications is offering unlimited internet access for &#163;10 a month to 10 million UK consumers. The fee covers unlimited access to the web through Cable i-Net, Telewest's ISP. The service, Surf Unlimited, was developed after research showed that 36% of non-users are put off by phone-call charges.
Hope is dwindling that out-of- court negotiations in the Microsoft monopoly case will result in a settlement before next week's closing arguments, an unofficial mediation deadline.Neither the company nor the US justice department has given up on settlement talks before Richard Posner, the chief appellate judge in Chicago recruited to mediate.But two-and-a-half months into the negotiations the sides have remained so far apart that they continue to meet one- on-one with Judge Posner rather than face-to-face, people familiar with the talks said.In a sign that Microsoft is already looking beyond the settlement talks, it is cranking up a congressional lobbying campaign to fight a court ordered break-up of the software group.Microsoft and Justice also appear to be at odds over how any settlement or court ordered sanction would apply to the company's latest product, Windows 2000.Closing arguments are set for Tuesday before Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson in Washington, who has ruled already that Microsoft has monopoly power in personal computer operating systems with its Windows software.In his findings the judge said   that Microsoft harmed consumers, stymied competitors and stifled innovation. He has yet to rule on whether those actions broke competition law, and that will be the focus of arguments next week.If Judge Jackson does rule against Microsoft, he would then consider sanctions -ranging from breaking up the company to enforced changes in its business practices.Nobody has ruled out the possibility that Judge Posner, a widely respected legal intellect and antitrust expert, can come up with a solution that will be acceptable to both Microsoft and the government. Settlement talks can continue after closing arguments, but time is running out."I'm not optimistic about a settlement," said a source close to the talks. "There can't be a settlement between now and Tuesday - it's just too late."Judge Posner apparently has yet to give up on a settlement because he is still holding sessions with each side.Judge Jackson had warned attorneys that Judge Posner would end the talks if they seemed to be going nowhere.A good deal of time in those sessions has been spent reviewing the facts of the case, saving any discussion of actual settlement proposals for late in the process.Microsoft has argued to congressional staffers that it has put a good faith offer on the table - one that would require some sort of change in its conduct but which apparently has yet to satisfy the government. But industry attorneys advising the government are deeply sceptical about the potential of such plans to change the company's conduct."Nobody trusts Microsoft to disclose the information necessary to have the products of competitors inter-operate in a timely manner," one industry attorney said.Until now, Microsoft has avoided talks of a forced break-up and focused on discussing why it has not violated competition laws.But, in a fundamental shift in strategy, Microsoft lobbyists have begun outlining to congressional staff the problems that Microsoft believes loom with the government plan to seek a break-up of the group.Meanwhile, the two sides seem to disagree on how the fundamentals of the case relate to Windows 2000. Microsoft officials see significant code and product differences between Windows 2000 and earlier versions of Windows.But justice department lawyers and the 19 states involved in the case view Windows 2000 as the successor to the monopoly software Judge Jackson addressed.The importance of the issue arose last week when complaints made by competitors were aired by the European commission's competition directorate.They complained that Microsoft had bundled the desktop version of Windows 2000 with Windows 2000 for servers "in a way which permits only Microsoft's products to be fully operable".&#169; The Washington Post
The cost of buying car and home insurance may tumble after two of the biggest names in financial services this week announced ambitious plans for online general insurance operations.The Halifax announced it would spend &#163;150m on setting up "esure", which it claims will be the UK's first internet branded insurer focused on providing low-cost cover online to motorists and homeowners.And Direct Line, the company credited with revolutionising the insurance industry in the 80s, said it was developing an internet site   for motorists offering insurance, an auction facility and other services. Meanwhile, Tesco personal finance last month announced plans to provide online quotes for home, motor and travel insurance by the summer.Most of the major insurers have invested in websites which allow you to buy policies, or at least get a quote, online.The benefits of buying on the internet are self-evident. It is more convenient, allowing you to buy insurance when you want, and should also be cheaper, as buying online saves the insurer a huge   amount in overheads. But the same old rules of caution apply. To get the best deal, shop around. And remember to compare the level of cover offered by different policies, not just prices. Any search engine will help you find your insurer of choice. Or go to a website like Financial Information Net Directory(www.find.co.uk)which has links to main UK insurers' websites.Buying insurance online is usually as simple as submitting your details electronically, waiting for a quote to be e-mailed back to you and entering your credit card details. The biggest deterrent to buying online is having to fill in countless electronic forms depending on how many quotes you want.If this fills you with dread, try one of the internet insurance brokers. Companies like Screentrade, atwww.screentrade.co.uk,do the shopping around for you. Screentrade describes itself as the UK's first online general insurance broker. Its service is free and allows you to get a selection of quotes from leading names and then buy online.Using a broker may save you time but check how many insurers they   approach on your behalf. Some will send your details to more companies than others and may get you a better price.Screentrade currently has 17 firms on its motor insurance panel but only six on its home insurance panel and four on its travel insurance panel. Moreover, some brokers will only send you the cheapest quote they get, while others send a selection, letting you compare prices with the type of cover provided.
Sonyyesterday unveiled the machine that could make it the world's dominant player in home entertainment. The PlayStation 2 will not only be the world's most advanced games console, it will also play DVD movies.The company hopes that the new machine will become the focal point of a network of devices including televisions, audio systems and digital cameras, while also connecting users to the internet.Sony is already the market leader in the games console business. Since entering the market five years ago it has sold more than 70m PlayStations worldwide, including 5.7m in Britain. This suggests that a fifth of all British households have PlayStations.The system accounts for about a quarter of the company's turnover and up to 40% of its profits, according to Ray Maguire, the managing director ofSony Computer Entertainmentin Britain.The more powerful PlayStation 2 could do even better. Sony hopes to sell 2m units as soon as it goes on sale in Japan, and its factories are al ready producing half a million machines a month.When the company offered 1,000 machines for Japanese users to pre-order over the internet yesterday its website crashed after taking 100,000 hits in a minute.Frederic Diot, a senior analyst atDatamonitor, a UK-based market research company, said Japan is "voracious for any new consumer electronics". He expected Sony to sell 450,000 units in the UK this year, following a launch in the autumn. At a projected price of &#163;299.99 the same launch price as the original PlayStation, sales would be worth &#163;135m.However the real money is in the games, which sell for between &#163;20 and &#163;35.Mr Diot said that last year sales of console games were worth $6.4bn (&#163;4bn) in the US and Europe, including &#163;920m in Britain.Datamonitor expects the market to be worth $17.2 bn (&#163;10.7bn) by 2003.In unit terms, the PlayStation currently has more than 70% of UK console games market, according to Rick Smith of ChartTrack, which collects data from retailers.The rest is shared between theNintendo 64, Nintendo Game Boy andSega Dreamcast. Sony now has 40% of the software market tracked by ChartTrack, including PC games and CD-roms.The company hopes to capitalise on the strength of its software line-up by enabling the PlayStation 2 to run most PlayStation software. Unlike personal computers, next-generation games consoles do not usually run programs written for earlier machines.There have been five generations of console technology since Atari established a worldwide market with the VCS (Video Computer System) at the end of the 1970s.Each generation of technology has been dominated by one firm, with Atari, Nintendo, Sega and Sony succeeding one another as market leaders.The PlayStation 2 will undoubtedly be challenged by an improved version of Sega's Dreamcast, Nintendo's forthcoming Dolphin, and by the still-unannounced X-Box expected from Microsoft.Sony hopes the PlayStation 2 will make it the first company to dominate two successive generations of console technology.
Take the lumbering Halifax, a 49-year-old dour Scots banker and the tunes of Fatboy Slim and cook up IF, the Halifax's trendy new internet-cum-telephone bank.Incongruous, yes, but it has been one of those weeks for the Yorkshire-based former building society which is reinventing itself at breakneck speed.Well and truly bitten by the dot.com bug, on Wednesday the bank appointed trendy young things to its once staid board, Charles Dunstone of Carphone Warehouse and Coline McConville of America's Clear Channel, and on Thursday set up an e-venture with the not-so-young Peter Wood, inventor of Direct Line. Yesterday, Halifax let Jim Spowart out of his base on the outskirts of Edinburgh and presented IF to a collection of City analysts in a slick promotional video.The result was another leg-up for the bank's share price, sickly of late, with the new dot.com credibility adding &#163;4bn to its market value in just three days.IF, formed from the middle letters of Halifax's name and standing for "intelligent finance", is revolutionary, according to Spowart, whose looks are more old-fashioned, grey banker than youthful e-designer.But the marketing patter rolls smoothly off his tongue, with words such as "unique" , "innovative", "brilliant" injected at regular intervals in his broad Scottish accent. "It's going to take the market by storm. That's my own interpretation. It's more ambitious &#91;than anything I've done before&#93;," Spowart says.An unlikely revolutionary, the 49-year-   old is one of the few people to have started two banks from scratch, causing a step-change in the financial industry each time.His first was the telephone banking arm of Direct Line, the "little red phone" insurance operation which made its founder, Peter Wood, a multi-millionaire.The second was Standard Life Bank, which at times last year was snatching a 25% share of all new mortgages in Britain. It was causing so much pain to Halifax, the country's biggest mortgage lender, that its chief executive, James Crosby, hired Spowart last October to end his misery.Now Crosby expects steely-eyed Spowart to turn the torture treatment on his rivals.While IF will not go live until the summer after a &#163;30m advertising campaign, the agony has already started for some. Standard Life, in particular, has been hit for six by the outflow of its banking staff, who have flocked to Spowart's new start-up and forced the mutual insurer into offering knee-jerk bonus payments as golden handcuffs. He has even used the same Scottish marketing agency, The Union, which helped him create Standard Life Bank.But, despite claims to the contrary, Spowart insists he did not "poach" anyone and did not even try to match the bonuses, worth a year's salary in some cases, offered by his former employer."I've never ever said 'come with me to this venture'," he protests. So why have 50 followed him? "I give them leadership and creative thought," he says.He sees himself as "approachable" and a leader of a team. "The most important asset you have is your staff. Every day in   life I walk the floors. If you talk to your staff, they tell you what the customers are looking for."For Spowart, walking the floors translates in to patrolling the call centres which are crucial to his low-cost, branchless banks. Described by many as the modern version of the Industrial Revolution's satanic mills, they are, Spowart insists good places in which to work."People don't perform well in a boring environment. A number of people talk about the energy when they walk through the door," he says of the new operations in Edinburgh and Livingston, where he will soon employ 1,200 people. He has made his home in Livingston.He is proud of his record of creating jobs in his native country. Standard Life Bank employed a similar number of staff and Spowart says a Scottish base was the only condition he gave the Halifax when he took the job, running what was code-named greenfield.co until the unveiling of if.com yesterday.He reiterates that people are crucial to the operation. "They are the ones dealing with the customers. If you treat your people well they'll respond."Now used to being in the public eye - he says he gives interviews not for his profile but for his team and the banking operation - it has been quite a journey from Cowdenbeath butcher's son to creator of two of the most innovative banks of recent years. While fiercely protective of his wife of 25 years, Janis, he is still ambitious.Growing up near the Fife coalfields, he had a choice between going down the mine, working at nearby Rosyth shipyard or joining one of Scotland's prestigious banks.On leaving Beath high school he chose the last, joining National Commercial Bank which later became part of Royal Bank of Scotland. That was where, 20 years later, he got involved with Direct Line and it was from there that he decided to approach Standard Life with his idea for a new bank.Within six months Spowart's bank at Standard Life had snatched 17% of the cut-throat mortgage market and within 18 months had grabbed &#163;3bn of savings and &#163;2bn of mortages.This time, with Halifax, he reckons he can do it all over again and even better. He insists If is unique, and not a "me-too" version of the other, oddly named ventures on the net. While he refuses to reveal details of the five products - current accounts, savings, mortgages, credit cards and loans - he insists nothing like them will have been seen before.It will not be an internet-only bank: he is a believer in the telephone and the internet, citing research from the US to say that "the human element is very important".The golf-loving church elder is also used to the sceptics and the doubters. When he started selling mortgages over the phone at Direct Line, he was told it would never work. At Standard Life his "team" was selling mortgages in nine minutes. At IF  he will get the sales process down to just six minutes.His target audience now is the those who are hostage to the sluggish clearing banks rather than the trendy young things targeted by Prudential's egg.He has some tough targets. Turning IF's start-up losses into a profit in three years and making a 15% return on capital, an unusually precise ambition for an internet start-up.Few doubt Spowart's ability to bring in the masses - his target is to collect 500,000 customers in the first financial year- but many question his ability to create another bank that can turn in a profit. He knows his criticics' one-liners: "a one-trick pony", "pile 'em high and sell 'em cheap", "no strategy".He retorts: "When you're successful, a lot of people don't like you. You've got to grow a thick a skin. These people &#91;the critics&#93; have achieved nothing themselves. 'A man without a strategy.' I don't think you get &#163;4bn in mortgages without a strategy."He is open to fresh criticism with IF, which he says will be his last grand venture. "I'm not poor. I'm not a millionaire. Personally I haven't made a lot of money, Don't get me wrong there's more to life than money ... This is probably the last big one I'm going to do."His anxiety is that rivals will copy IF. The prototype website looks far from innovative, but it boasts of its title that "no word in the English language has more potential".Spowart refuses to be knocked off course or listen to the detractors who were out in force yesterday. "The important thing is that you know, hand on heart, that the thing you're doing is successful."
Interactive Investor International, a personal finance website, soared in value to &#163;550m on its stock market debut yesterday - even though it had sales last year of just &#163;2.6m and made a loss of &#163;6.3m.Shares in the company began trading at 150p and finished the day at 335p, earning its 35-year-old founder and 15% shareholder Sherry Coutu a paper fortune of nearly &#163;100m. But scooping the jackpot is Hollinger Telegraph New Media, a sister company of the Telegraph newspaper, whose &#163;5m investment 15 months ago (topped up by loans last year) is now worth &#163;156m.The share offer was 26 times oversubscribed, with 82,000 small investors - a record for a UK internet float - applying   for shares. But yesterday they bombarded the firm's chat rooms and bulletin boards with angry emails after allocations were scaled back to a flat 145 shares. By the end of yesterday's trading each parcel of shares was worth &#163;485.75, a profit of just &#163;268.25. For the 240 investors who applied for &#163;50,000 or more worth of shares the news was even worse - they will not receive any stake and their cheques will be returned to them.Many had expected windfalls of &#163;1,000-&#163;2,000 from the float. Small investors were particularly furious that 80% of the shares were set aside for institutional investors, even though the vast majority of applicants were the firm's own customers, who use the site to swap tips and information on hi-tech shares. Many threat ened to quit the site and switch to the firm's main rivals, Hemscott and Motley Fool.But Interactive Investor's chief executive, Tom Carruthers, said the proportion of shares set aside for retail investors was higher than in other net flotations. "We believe this &#91;20% allocation&#93; is entirely appropriate and reinforces our ongoing commitment to our users. In addition, we believe this proportion is significantly higher than in previous internet IPOs in the UK."Interactive Investor has 389,000 registered users for its service, which allows individuals to identify, compare and monitor financial products. Around half of its &#163;2.6m revenues last year came from advertising and fees from product providers who obtain customers through the site. The other half came from consultancy fees from designing and building an online capability for other financial services providers."The market is valuing the company appropriately considering that we have the largest number of users and the longest running personal finance website in the UK," said Mr Carruthers, who holds a 3% stake in the company through option schemes.
Stepstone, the Nowegian on-line recruitment company planning to float in Oslo and London, has been valued slightly below original expectations at &#163;365m.Adviser Morgan Stanley Dean Witter was expected to value the company in excess of &#163;400m but a spokesman for Stepstone emphasised that &#163;365m was based on a mid-point figure and the company is raising &#163;65m, which is more than first predicted.The grey market expects the company to be valued in excess of &#163;400m at the end of its first day's trading.The offer is for 54m ordinary shares at an indicative price range of 152p to 190p. Applications for shares can be made throughwww.stepstone.co.ukand must be received by February 28. Pricing is expected on March 1 with dealings set to begin the next day.Giles Clark, chief executive of Stepstone, said: "Stepstone's strategy is to become the leading pan-European online recruitment and career portal. Going public enables the company to build its European brand awareness further, enlarge its customer base, accelerate end-user traffic whilst continuing to enhance site functionality and features."Stepstone operates in the UK, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, France, Belgium and Italy, and claims it is market leader by revenue. Turnover in 1999 was &#163;7m and there was a net loss of &#163;15m. In January it had about 1.9m user sessions, 1,100 companies as annual contract advertising customers, and some 170,000 cvs and 63,000 jobs listed.
Abbey National plans to spend &#163;200m to recruit 1m internet customers for its newly created bank, cahoot, and its own-brand internet bank by the year-end.Within hours of unveiling cahoot yesterday, Abbey claimed the website was receiving six hits a minute from people wanting to register for the separately branded bank-cum-supermarket before its opening in six weeks' time.Joining its rivals' race for dot.com credibility, Abbey said cahoot would employ 50 people and might take investment from venture capitalists to help it roll out in Europe. The bank's shares rose 47p to 713p.Abbey said cahoot - so called because cahoots tend to be formed between friends rather than enemies - would initially offer credit cards and current accounts and would involve links with Blackstart for videos, Boxman for CDs, Thomas Cook for travel and Dell for computers.As it reported a 17% rise in 1999 pre-tax profits to &#163;1.8bn,    Abbey said it would also launch an upmarket bank, which would have a presence on the net and in its branches, later in the year. The business, codenamed Prosper, will target people with more than   &#163;50,000 of net assets - a market of more than 4m.The bank's internet service for existing customers will be begin next month and be accessible on digital television.Outlining its "multi-channel" approach to customers, Ian Harley, chief executive of Abbey National, said: "We don't believe there's too much room for internet start-ups which don't have a very visible parent."He played down speculation about Abbey being a takeover target, particularly for Lloyds TSB. He said it was "hard to see" why Lloyds would want such a deal.Analysts said the profits announced by the bank,were in line with forecasts. Abbey directors said profits outside its core retail bank - where they rose 8% to &#163;996m - were contributing 45% of the overall total and edging towards its 60% target.It will pay a total dividend of 40.25p. Analysts said the bank had clearly faced a squeeze on mortage market share."The bottom line was ahead of expectations but the market share performance was very poor," said Jon Kirk at Fox Pitt Kelton. He said the bank had repriced aggressively in the fourth quarter when its market share was 17%, against 6%for the whole year.
It's 7am, the sun is rising over north London and in a small flat in Chalk Farm Josephine Monroe is getting up. As editor and budding entrepreneur of the-bullet.com - a pair of websites catering for the TV and publishing industries - she has to move quickly.Switching the kettle on and booting the computer, she logs on to the net while leaving the tea to brew in her cup. Within two hours a full briefing of the morning's papers will be on the web - just in time to catch the-bullet's audience of media executives as they arrive at their desks. In less than a year, the self-styled "guerrilla force in UK media" has grown a modest, but significant audience that has left the fledgling company with an estimated value of &#163;2m, making Monroe, and technical director, Geraldine Billam, living proof that it is still possible to build a millionaire internet company without the help of venture capital, while still operating out of a back-bedroom. It has cost no more than the &#163;35 a month cost of hosting the site plus their lost earnings."When we started we didn't think we needed venture capital, we thought that between us we had the skills to do it," explains Monroe, who left her job as TV critic at Time Out to help start the company. Billam was a housing benefit   officer with Islington council."I still think that there are a couple of things more important than money. One is contacts, and the other is being able to get your message out. The most crucial thing is networking and telling everybody about what you do."Valuing net companies is far from a science. The &#163;2m valuation was based on the projected revenues of the-bullet through banner advertising.The-bullet.com/tvgenerates a regular audience of over 5,000, and the newwww.the-bullet.com/inkhopes to attract at least as much. The valuation was made by Kickstart Ventures on the basis that each customer adds &#163;200 to the value of the company.It might sound like a lot, but it is the same yardstick that has been applied to much larger companies like Freeserve and eBookers, both of which have a far less targeted audience than the-bullet. Unlike most net start ups - even those enjoying the benefits of venture capital - the-bullet has made modest profits for several months."We've just about managed to keep going on ad revenue alone,' says Monroe. "But it has been very difficult at times. Especially now that we are trying to expand. We think we've got a good opportunity here and a distinctive voice. It would be nice to be able to afford to take on some   staff, and to have some money to be able to speculate."What makes the-bullet so distinctive is how it edits news, paper round-ups and industry gossip into a series of bullet points.  Although it is rivalling subscription-based press cutting services like Early Bird, the-bullet claims it doesn't hope to compete with the trade papers and the media pages of the national press, but rather to serve them.   "What we hope is that our users will come to the bullet for the story, but still go to the paper for the real detail," says Monroe. The-bullet is full of links to other papers' websites and, where none exists, to relevant page numbers. "It's like we are a five minute cup of coffee and a sticky bun, while the more established players are more like a five course lunch at Quaglinos."Next month the duo will add the third Bullet, this time catering for the Australian media industry, before launching a raft of further bullets back in the UK in industries as diverse as banking, retailing and even farming. "It's an idea that works, its pretty simple to replicate   and you don't need to spend a quarter of a million. The web doesn't have to cost millions of pounds in consultancy fees and market research."Would Monroe and Billam recommend going it alone to other budding net entrepreneurs? "I can't tell you how many times I've wished there had been money behind us," admits Monroe. "And at times it has been very hard to keep the faith."Going it alone is definitely not the easy option, and I've nearly given up two or three times. But I would still say absolutely go for it, trust your instincts, work hard and you might just come up with something."With the growth of management incubators and web development agencies and an e-conomy that seems addicted to the wealth of venture capital, the-bullet does seem to be the exception to the rule. But its success proves that with a strong idea, distinctive design and a bloody-minded will to win, there is life beyond the venture capitalists.However, in the past few days the company has had unsolicited approaches from three potential investors. Only time will tell whether they both bite the-bullet.
Deutsche Telekom is linking with France's Lagard&egrave;re group in an attempt to expand its online reach into non-German speaking countries.Its T-Online subsidiary is acquiring 99.9% of Lagard&egrave;re's internet service provider, Club Internet, in exchange for the French group receiving a 6.5% stake in the merged online business which will have 4.2m users. That compares with AOL Europe, which has some 3.8m customers.Although the exact value of the deal will not be known un til T-Online is floated in the spring, initial estimates put a price tag of about euro1bn (&#163;610m) on Club Internet. That would value each Club Internet subscriber at just over &#163;2,000 - less than half the value of Freeserve subscribers.However, the deal could help T-Online command a higher value because it extends its operations outside its current confines of Germany and Austria but analysts are expecting further online deals from the German company."This is good news for the flotation of T-Online which we expect in April. It's really an internationalisation story -   Germany, Austria and now France," according to Holger Grawe, telecoms analyst at WestLB.Deutsche Telekom shares have soared in recent months but the group remains under pressure to put together an international expansion strategy in the face of the consolidation of the telecoms industry, exemplified by Vodafone acquisition of Mannesmann.It is protected from potential predators by its size - it has a market capitalisation in excess of &#163;160bn - and by the fact that the German state still owns about two thirds of the shares. The state holding has   proved a handicap in the past - notably when Deutsche Telekom sought to pre-empt Olivetti's bid for Telecom Italia only to be thwarted by the Italian government's concerns about state ownership.However, the level of the German government's control of Deutsche Telekom is likely to be reduced via the sale of further shares. The deal with Lagard&egrave;re underline's Deutsche telekom's strategy in floating the T-Online operation.News of yesterday's deal lifted Deutsche Telekom shares by 1.2% while Lagard&egrave;re shares ended a volatile day's trading up 2.9%.
A row is brewing between Britain's web pharmacists.Allcureswill launch its web service on Monday, offering prescription medicines delivered to the customer's door by Parcel Force and Securicor.   Its only competitor,Pharmacy2u, began serving its customers at the end of last year using its own fleet of vans. It is furious that Allcures is being allowed to use a standard courier service.Selling drugs over the net is not as simple as selling books    and CDs. The Royal Pharmaceutical Society's code of ethics forbids the use of "third party carriers" for medicines in an attempt to ensure that medicines are not stolen, and that patients are always properly informed about treatment regimes and   possible problems. When Pharmacy2u set up its venture in November, it also bought a courier company so that the society could not object to the service.But Allcures' distribution methods will work out significantly cheaper, allowing it to   undercut Pharmacy2u.Daniel Lee, managing director of Pharmacy2u, believes that his competitor's arrangements will compromise standards in the pharmaceutical industry. "It's against the code of ethics - it's important that the supply chain is fulfilled by the pharmacy," he says. Lee fears that medicines could get lost among other parcels, be left on doorsteps or with neighbours, or be held in unsuitable conditions in a depot.Alex Dickson Leach, project manager for Allcures, says its distributors will always get a signature for the medicines. The company has already secured the approval of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society. "They're very happy with what we're doing, and they've given us the go-ahead," she says. Stephen Lutener, head of pharmacy law at the society, could not confirm or deny that Allcures had the RPS approval.Allcures is delivering NHS prescriptions for free, and hopes to make up its deficit with a &#163;3.49 delivery charge on private prescriptions and other products, such as nappies and toiletries. Pharmacy2u is charging &#163;5 for delivery on all products and prescriptions.Using an internet pharmacy within the UK means filling out a health questionnaire and placing an order. However, prescriptions must still be sent through the post to the pharmacy premises before any shipment is made. Lee believes that the tight regulations will gradually be eroded by internet pharmacies attempting to cut costs and waiting times.The US is already facing problems with internet pharmacy. Some doctors are prescribing pills online without meeting patients and assessing their condition (a man with a history of heart   disease died after using Viagra bought online), and illegitimate online pharmacies are operating without licensed pharmacists. While some customers are left unaware of side effects or dangerous drug combinations, others are using the system to buy GHB, the date rape drug.The US government is now beginning a $10m effort to crack down on the illegal sale of pharmaceuticals through the internet. The initiative includes a public education campaign about the dangers of buying prescription drugs online, and the introduction of a mark to identify legitimate and approved internet pharmacies. Lee says he would like to see a similar move in the UK."We are ethical and professional, but we don't know what the next people are going to be like. I'd like to see some kind of kitemark, so they meet certain criteria and are actively policed."When Pharmacy2u was launched, there were no regulations for internet pharmacy, Lee says. "We did try and ask the society and the medicines control agency if what we were doing was legal; they didn't really have an opinion."Within three days of the launch the Royal Pharmaceutical Society visited Lee's premises in order to inspect the operation. The society then published interim regulations in January. Lee felt exonerated by the regulations which, he says, reflected his company's standards. But he now feels that he is going to pay for taking the ethical high ground.He has arranged an emergency meeting with the RPS to question the new stance on deliveries; if the standards are to be lowered, he will sacrifice his principles to stay in the market. "If it's being allowed then I guess we'll be going down that road," he says.
Not so long ago the cult novelist Douglas Coupland introduced us to Generation X. Over-educated, disaffected and unable to find satisfying jobs, these alienated twenty somethings drifted aimlessly across the bleak rolling deserts of California.Now the UK internet industry has discovered Generation Y. This e-marketing buzzword is a direct reference to the large number of UK teenagers who have grown up in a world of exploding technology and for whom being wired up is as natural as having electricity."Their bedrooms are usually filled with a computer, a scanner, a mobile phone, a pager, a stereo and their PlayStation. They are using all the latest technology to empower themselves. It's part of their life," explains the Cartoon Network's head of content, Dorenna Newton. "Their bedroom is like a virtual world. They have a social life out of their bedroom. They do not know a world without technology."According to the online industry's latest estimates, more than one in four UK teenagers regularly accesses the web, and the average 14- to 16-year-old has an annual disposable income, based on pocket money and part-time jobs, of  600.To win the loyalty of Generation Y, new services to encourage teenagers to spend online are being launched; a flurry of student portals have gone live; the BBC is planning to introduce a new online teenage service in the spring, and consumer goods giant Procter &amp; Gamble has just announced it is teaming up with Excite, the internet portal company, to create a major new teenage lifestyle site."The level of penetration among teenagers is growing higher and higher," says the director of BBC Online, Nigel Chapman. "They are very technology savvy. They are going to be large consumers of net material. They are the next generation and they are increasingly going to want to buy things online."The BBC foresees TV viewing habits declining among teenagers due to the competing and powerful influences of new technologies, and realises that if it is to survive the corporation has to build relationships with teenagers over the internet.Similarly, e-entrepreneurs have picked up on the fact that teenagers are often the key drivers of the purchase of hi-tech goods within British households. With computers being introduced into schools, technology is becoming a completely normal part of their culture.  "The big barrier has been that you can get teenagers to surf but you cannot get them to buy because they are under age for having credit cards," explains director of Fletcher Research, Neil Bradford.  This has been frustrating for e-marketeers because they know parents have been buying for teenagers but they have not been able to   capitalise on the growing online teenage market.But all this is about to change. New forms of internet payments and dedicated teenage shopping sites are being brought to the market.  But, as usual, the UK internet industry is simply following in the footsteps of its US counterparts, who have already introduced specific teenage shopping sites such as DoughNet.com, ICanbuy.com and the wittily-named Cybermoola.com, to name but a few.  In a direct pitch for Generation Y, a major teenage shopping service has been launched in the UK called Y-creds (www.Y-creds.co.uk).Billing itself as the ultimate online high street for Generation Y, the site allows teenagers to shop online without a credit card.  Y-creds operate like traditional offline book vouchers or record tokens. Parents buy Y-creds for their teenagers and set up online accounts for them. The Y-creds site is linked to various online retailers, and through a control menu parents can designate which shops their offspring can buy from. They cannot access their children's accounts: they are informed when a transaction has occurred but are not told what has been bought.  Each Y-cred is worth a modest penny and they can be bought in units of 500 costing parents a fiver.Goods for sale at this online high street are age-restricted so, for   example, a 13-year old Madonna fan would not be allowed to buy 15-cert videos.  Like most canny new online services, Y-creds has gone for a low key launch to avoid serious media scrutiny until the product has proved itself. The company is likely to begin seriously hyping itself at key commercial times such as summer holidays and half terms, as and when more retailers come on board.  "I would like to see Y-creds being used by as many different retailers as possible across the UK, empowering teenagers to shop online with their parents' permission," says founder Kevin Sefton.On the Y-creds web site, teenagers are encouraged to get their parents to "load up" their accounts so they can start spending, but Sefton denies he is whipping up online pester power to burn holes in the wallets of hard-working parents."I would say that parents will welcome Y-creds. They encourage financial responsibility. We are not advertising particular products. Instead we are   providing mechanisms for paying for them."  Sefton says many parents worry about how their teenagers spend money when they go shopping outdoors, and he feels Y-creds will put parents more in control and eradicate any fears of their children's pockets being picked.  The long term plan, if Y-creds take off, is to create an online teenage bank.Already Sefton is talking to potential online banking partners who will doubtless be keen to start a relationship with potential customers of the future.  Once, high street banks used to attend freshers' fairs at universities to win new accounts. Now they are taking part in virtual ones being organised by the new crop of student portal sites such as student pages (www.studentpages.com).Here students can visit online stalls of banks such as the Royal Bank of Scotland and click through to other sites to take advantage of specially-tailored discount deals.  Students might have a reputation for spending most of their time and grant (what's left of it) boozing and eating Pot Noodles, but online marketeers know these older teenagers will be the architects of future consumer spending patterns.One of the leading new student sites, NowNet (www.nownet.co.uk) has tied up with consumer brands such as Tango to run treasure hunt games across its site.  There is also a virtual NowNet bar and once you've clicked on the 3D bouncer at the door you enter an   environment which is like a film set. In the best traditions of Tinseltown, product   placement is finding a home on the student portals. In NowNet's bar students can click on a book which just happens to be lying around, and then go straight through to Waterstone's site where they can buy books.  Many of the new student sites are ISPs as well, and  offer free email addresses.The strategy is to hold on to students after they have   graduated so they take their email addresses with them into the real world of work. Then the dial-up ISPs still continue to make money out of them.The majority of student sites are positioned as entertainment zones and go all out to get on the side of the students, which underlines the importance of appropriate content. Getting the right image for its teenage service in the spring is preoccupying  BBC Online at the moment."Our teenage service has the potential to have credibility with teenagers," explains Chapman, who has two teenage daughters of his own. "But we have to be very mindful of tone and be very contemporary. It is not going to be po-faced."  Carving out its own public service niche against fierce competition from the e-entrepreneurs, BBC Online hopes to offer quality, trusted content for teenagers about issues such as drugs and health.But it won't be easy. What's more, the scramble to colonise the emerging online teenage audience is being waged across all platforms. Interactive TV is in the sights of most of the new teenage shopping sites and student portals. But the key gateway to teenagers is the mobile phone.The Cartoon Network is planning to introduce online cartoons and MP3 music files this year, and will be providing content through mobile phone companies as well. Asked about the importance of mobile phones for targeting teenagers, Cartoon Network's Dorenna Newton replies: "Enormous. Enormous. Enormous. They will be huge. Last Christmas was a mobile Christmas."Techniques for profiling and marketing to teenagers are likely to become far more sophisticated this year. Traditionally, when a middle-aged parent bought a present for one of their children it was impossible to build up a profile of that child. But as teenagers part with their email addresses to join new teenage shopping sites, they can expect targeted offers (virtual mail shots) to automatically appear on their computer screens or phones when they log on.Huge amounts of creative effort are going into understanding the online behaviour of teenagers. For the non-digital generation who are currently in charge of teenage online businesses, this is hard work. The Cartoon Network finds teenage focus groups wearying. "They always look pissed off, wearing their Nike caps the wrong way round and chewing gum," laughs Newton.But she says they come alive when they are given the chance to start testing computer games.  Games are a key way to generate affection for an online brand. But there are plenty of other ways. The   Cartoon Network has a Scooby Doo web cam on its site. They took a life-sized stuffed Scooby Doo toy around London and filmed it to keep their online teenage audience amused.  While they are logged on, laughing at Scooby, teenagers are also being encouraged to consume advertisers' messages for cereals and chocolate bars.  Sometimes e-marketing to teenagers sounds fun. But don't kid yourself. Online teenagers are commercial gold dust. These e-entrepreneurs are not playing around. It's a war out there.
In a National Opinion Poll survey last year, almost one million children claimed to have been "upset" by something they had found on the internet. Forty per cent said that they had found something "rude".A recent Mori poll showed that 56% of internet users are concerned about pornography and 75% will not let their children use the internet alone, for fear of what they might discover, or who might discover them via disguised emails.Unfortunately there are many pornographic sites which have deliberately chosen names very close to innocent, popular subjects. For example, if your children are looking for the Spice Girls website, a little mistyping could take them to a site that is highly unsuitable.What to do? One solution may lie in your internet provider. BothFreeserveandAOLprovide parental control as part of their monthly packages.Kids can surf pre-screened sites from the net on a Kids Only account, which cuts out upsetting ones. It provides dos and don'ts for children,   including advising them "never to meet up with an online friend offline, unless Mum or Dad goes with you".Adults can restrict access to specific activities, including chat rooms and different web sites and news groups. You can check up on what they're looking at in the "history" section, and argue the point when they get home later.Other options are software providers, such asNet Nannyand Cyber Nanny. A free 30-day trial of Net Nanny can be downloaded. With this system you can exclude sites you don't want your children to see.  However, type in a word like "sex" on an exclusion list and it will also exclude Middlesex, Essex, and Wessex.More sophisticated systems includeWeBlocker, which works well for a wide age range, not just children, and so also cuts out subjects like drugs, alcohol and gambling.KidControlis a snoop program. It keeps a log of a day's activities on the computer including shots of what's on screen at certain times.Another answer to this problem comes in the form of SurfontheSafeside.com, which recently launched an internet filter service to deny access to nine million obscene and violent websites. It costs &#163;2 per month to subscribe to a list that is updated each week. It is unique in the UK and is based on a black list that users can update.Alexander Best, managing director, says: "Having a black list seemed the best approach because it combined the balance of freedom of information and protection and is very extensive. On a professional level, if I haven't made that choice &#91;to look at pornography&#93;, then I don't want that thrown at me. For my children, I really don't want that."SafeKids.comandSafeTeens.comhave advice lists for teenagers and children   about using the net safely. They talk teenagers through how to get onto the internet and the more wholesome and educational sites that they can find. This week another site,KZuk.net, was launched claiming to be the world's first free and completely safe ISP for children.Computer giantHewlett-Packardis also getting into the protection business. On March 1 it will launch a private internet owned and managed by SilverTech Inc. The idea is to provide concerned parents with a safe, fun, educational environment where their kids can play learn and chat for a small monthly fee on the aptly named eKids network.If you still bump into internet nasties, while surfing, one final option is to pass on information of dodgy sites to the Internet Watch Foundation so others don't encounter the same problem as you. In its first year, the IWF received complaints about 5,000 items on the net and is committed to dealing with them.Its stated aim for this year is to set up a new international labelling and filtering system to protect children.
Web cureRe Sporting Chance of a cure (Online, February 10): If you want to know the mechanisms underlying typical injuries, including the healing necessary for your shin splints, have a look atwww.casualtyclinic.com.It is an information only site, very plain, very text-dense, which I am setting up for the sufferers, the emergency nurse practitioners and the young doctors in the accident/emergency department that I work in.With more and more patients being seen by inexperienced clinicians, they can all too often get an "X-Ray diagnosis"; ie: "nothing to see on the X-Ray , soft tissue injury, you can go". But that is not a diagnosis and is not helpful.Casualtyclinic.comis not all-singing all-dancing and is as yet unillustrated. There is a lot of work to do. But it is used. If you find it useful, let me know please.Philip Evans(Clinical Anatomist)gillian.evans3@virgin.netNo MP3 coupPaul Trueman's addiction to music for free (Online, February 3) must surely be a satire, in the finest Guardian tradition, on why MP3 really won't take over the world.Does he seriously think that large record companies will give him MP3 downloads for smaller profits than CDs, for a start? New formats traditionally command higher margins per unit, and the price doesn't fall much as   the volume increases (remember how much more expensive CDs were than LPs in the early 80s?).Free it won't be, nor as easily duplicated as the current compressed sound formats, if the companies can help it.  Remember, even if you reduce reproduction and distribution costs using MP3, recording and production costs remain unchanged - any idea what it costs to spend one day recording with a symphony orchestra and choir?If you can't break even on recording costs because so many copies are ripped off, you'll stop doing it, and there won't be anything left to steal.Using high-bandwidth work connections to download 20MB of MP3 or email it to friends is not a long-term prospect, either. Too many of the music-buying public don't have this access: teenagers who probably have enough arguments over phone bills as it is, and people who simply don't have the kind of job where they sit in front of a PC all day with Netscape and their email client open.Oh, and this emailing is illegal, and it wouldn't take more than a test case where a company is found liable for letting its employees distribute copyrighted material before Paul's company blocks MP3s, in and out.I'm not completely negative about MP3. For instance, Trueman makes a good point aboutwww.peoplesound.com, and the potential for unsigned independent musicians with minority appeal to sell in this way is clear.Nonetheless, the underlying assumptions of the article typify the ill-thought-out nonsense that surrounds the debate on MP3.Dominick McIntyresgbc350@sghms.ac.ukIt's a recordIn response to D. Cameron's question about recording MP3 to MiniDisk (Feedback, February 10) there is a very simple way.Plug one end of a male/male phono lead into the "line-out" socket (or ear-phone socket if more convenient) of your computer and the other end into the "line-in" of the MiniDisk recorder. Switch MiniDisk to record and play your chosen MP3 music through your computer's MP3 player.The output signal from the computer is analogue so the recording might not be as good as via an optical line-out, though I can't tell the difference!  You can also record on to tape this way too. It is worth remembering before we get too obsessed with digital that most music was originally recorded onto tape anyway.Jeremy Coulsonjeremycoulson@yahoo.comD. Cameron needs one of the handful of soundcards with SP/DIF output, allowing digital connection to his MiniDisk player. Then he needs to start (or download, if he isn't already using it)Winampand change the output setting to "disk writer", which will turn his MP3s into wav files. I believe these can now be sent straight to his MiniDisk player.Adam Williamsonadam.williamson1@btinternet.comSex appealI am extremely angry about the patronising last sentence of the Sims review (Online, February 10): "But it's a very addictive doll's house that should appeal to a much wider market than the average computer game, including women."I suggest Jack Schofield does an in-depth investigative journalism to find out why women do or do not play games. I suspect that women, unlike men, do not have the time to play games, rather than lack the inclination.Jane Evans< ahref="mailto:jane.evans@velindre-tr.wales.nhs.uk">jane.evans@velindre-tr.wales.nhs.ukStill there?Please, how do you square your assertion (The Me generation, February 10) that "Me will also see the final removal of MS-Dos" with the unequivocal statement on the website you recommend that "Dos is as fully entrenched in Windows Me as it was in earlier versions of Windows 9x."?Conrad CorkConradCork@TadleyEwing.co.ukCorrectionLast week we printed the wrong telephone number for ISP testing company NetBasics. The correct number is 01132 460 009. Apologies.
Bodies like Geek godsBill Gates has a lot to answer for. In response, the Sexiest Geek Alive Contest is attempting to redress the eternal problem of geek image - sadly, the world wants to believe computer fanatics are all juvenile-looking bespectacled nerds. Sponsored by the Time Warner multimedia show Geek and Guru, the pageant is accepting online entries atwww.geekandguru.comfrom anyone who can represent a tech company, and they say size - er, of the company - doesn't matter.A panel of fellow geeks will select 12 finalists from their online questionnaire responses, "knowledge of Star Trek trivia, and how well they wear a pocket protector". Finalists will then parade before a group of female judges, "all proven to have a geek fetish", including, they promise,    members of the Texas Bikini Team. The contest takes place in a bar on March 14, the final night of the South By Southwest (SXSW) Interactive Conference in Austin, Texas, and will be broadcast online atwww.clubcastlive.comThe sponsors hint that they may publish a Sexiest Geek calendar full of the delectable entrants. That certainly gives us all something to look forward to for our cubicle walls.Remember?Like most people, you'll probably agree that there are just never enough good neopop cyberpunk tunes to listen to when you need them. Or is that neopunk cyberpop? Whatever, the spacey band Remember is trying to remedy this dire situation with some MP3 downloads and a trippy website,http://remember.privatemoon.comfull of floating heads and other weird stuff to play with.Heil HaiderMr Haider's Austrian Freedom Party has its very own website atwww.fpo.atand as might be expected, it offers a vivid display of open-mindedness and cultural pluralism. Wait a moment for the initial page to redirect to the menu page, and the click on the "English pages" link at the bottom. The site does carry a warning that it was hacked into by cyberterrorists who set up a fake site. There is a link to the fake site which appears too outrageous to be true...ImperativeThe Net Imperative has launchedwww.netimperative.com, an information resource for "internet professionals". Its founders, all with new media industry backgrounds, say the site will provide in-depth, contextualised information for the business internet user. It also has data on industry trends, moves,   events, conferences, bulletin boards and mailing lists - but you have to be a Net Imperative member.Key issueMany privacy advocates, encryption supporters, businesses and everyday net users are furious at the government's new Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) bill, which critics say could imprison those who use encryption but say they have lost their "key" for decoding messages. It also requires internet service providers to build "reasonable interception capabilities" into their networks, to allow law    enforcement access to email. The bill can be read online atwww.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm199900/cmbills/064/2000064.htm. The Foundation for Information Policy Research offers a critique atwww.fipr.org/ripFeed backTen years ago, critic Robert Coover wrote a seminal essay for the New York Times Book Review examining literary hypertext - non-linear literary works in which words or sections of text link to other parts of a work. Since then, the web has opened more creative doors, allowing    writers to include links to sounds and images as well. Now, in the latest issue of consistently-good online zineFeed, Coover revisits the topic arguing that the golden age of hypertext is over.FashionIf you prefer a little catwalk fashion, Fashion UK has a website featuring highlights of London Fashion Week, taking place right now. Every day this week - as for the past seven seasons -www.fuk.co.ukwill provide catwalk reports, behind-the-scenes action and digital photography, as well as designer profiles, competitions, polls and so on.Six of the bestSwimmingThe online pioneerwww.swimweb.comBritish Masters Swimmingwww.jmeldrum.demon.co.uk/swimFor very cool swimmerswww.oceanswims.comInternational hall of famewww.ishof.orgYellow Pageswww.netutah.com/swimlinxA wet UK sitewww.swimnet.co.uk
Can websites ever provide a real sense of community?You go to the internet to visit those sites that have staked their future on entertainment information. Darkerthanblue.com, for example, tries to give people a compelling alternative to BBC TV's Songs of Praise. We stream a rap/hip-hop session from New York at around the same time. As for community, yes, we can register people's email address. We can also make the assumption that people who use our site are probably black or Afro-American, but that's not the issue. We want the affinity to be with the brand, not necessarily with the website.How viable is e-commerce?If you listen to Talk Radio you'd think that e-commerce is where it's at. The truth is, not a lot of money's made through e-commerce. If you're selling CDs or books, the margins on them hardly justify you washing your face! You can only make serious money if you have total ownership of the brand. The early pioneers of our business, like Amazon.com, went to the city and said it's not about making a profit, it's about the promise of making jam tomorrow. But they laid 50 people off the other week!How important are streaming and interactive technologies to you?Interactive TV will distribute our content to our target audience quicker than streaming. Digital TV gives small brands the chance to have a stakehold. But I'm probably more excited about the potential of WAP (wireless application protocol) than I am about interactive TV.Does it surprise you that "MP3" has overtaken "sex" as the most used term in search engines?I'm more interested in what's going to overtake MP3! In many respects, it bucks the sentiments of the major corporates which are keen for MP3 not to explode. That's the beauty of the internet, in its archaic fashion we do things as we please.Do you enjoy the anarchy of the net?The anarchy appealed to the first wave of content providers, but now we're going back to the old maxim of 80% of the world's revenues are owned by 20% of its companies. In years to come the net will be horribly uniform and controlled by the usual suspects. That's why one has to view the internet as a passing fad. Anyone with a wit about them will move off the internet and develop content around WAP or the next platform.Any favourite websites?I often look at what's happening in the US -Atomic Popis very good. I still go toCNNbecause they offer a great news service. I also dip in to theTottenham Hotspursite most days.Do all the new distribution technologies pose a threat to the PC?With better video-cards, DVD, and generally better bandwidth, PCs have the capacity to be much more interactive than they currently are. But I'd say that the future consumption of the internet will be through people's TVs doubling up as a net interface.
Really wickedResident Evil 3: NemesisPlayStation &#163;39.99 Eidos *****Cheesy dialogue, excessive weaponry and the walking dead. Resident Evil is back, with Nemesis the latest in the big selling zombie series.As you'd expect, everything is similar to before, but with added polish. So the pre-rendered backdrops contain more detail, the weapons pack a bigger punch and the bad guys are more numerous.In fact the relentless onslaught will overwhelm inexperienced undead hunters even with the handy addition of a new "dodge" button. Previously the series had used relatively simple puzzles as a way of breaking up proceedings and providing tension. Here, their usage has been downgraded, with the constant threat of attack from lumbering zombie or mutant freakoid providing little time to soak up the tension before being thrown into the next confrontation.You do at least have more choice about your destination now. At various points during the game irreversible decisions need to be made -down the manhole or up the ladder? - which help address the longevity problems that have bedevilled the series.RE3 also sees the topical return of Jill Valentine, the heroine of the original title,   though with the lines she's given to work with it is hard to understand her appeal. Perhaps her entirely impractical mini skirt and high boots have something to do with it?New PlayStation owners will struggle with the controls that show a flagrant disregard for the analogue controller   and the fixed camera will perplex as much as frighten.However, as with any well-established genre, most players will already be accustomed to this and will enjoy the best example of "survival-horror" so far. (GH)The voice of motor sportMobil1 Rally ChampionshipPC-CD-rom, &#163;34.99 Magnetic Fields/ Actualise/Electronic Arts ****Brrm. Brrm. Vrrrrrrrr, vrrrrrrrr! Rrrrrrrrrk! There are two reasons why you might find yourself supplying your own sound effects while playing Rally Championship. First, those with the game are more evocative of a Sunday afternoon pootle than of a blood-pumping polka with peril. Second, this is a visually stunning, ultra-immersive, generally excellent game.Twenty cars used in recent British rally championships are here, lovingly reproduced down to the last windscreen wiper blade. The graphics are smooth even on a mid-range video card, the customisable action replays are better than the original race, and some of the visual touches - such as the camera flashes from roadside spectators - are distracting enough to send you hurtling into the nearest tree.The cars all have perceptibly different responses, and performance is affected by damage during the race. Spend too long ploughing through a ford, for example, and your electrics could be history.M1RC will keep you hunched over the keyboard for a long time to come. Well, at least until you go hoarse.  (AB)Skateboarding on very thin iceThrasher Skate &amp; DestroySony PlayStation &#163;34.99 Z-Axis/Rockstar Games ***A year ago, TS&amp;D might have got credit for bringing a new level of realism to skateboarding games. Today, it's following an unexpected smash hit, Tony Hawk's Skateboarding, which looks like doing ollies, grinds and kickflips on its grave.Part of the problem is that almost everyone likely to buy TS&amp;D has already learned the   controls for Tony Hawk, and they're different.What makes it worse is that the skater in TS&amp;D is slower to react and harder to turn, so wipeouts are common. Maybe TS&amp;D is more realistic, but you can pull tricks in Tony Hawk that make you feel like Superskateman.Much the same applies to the locations (12 locations, 12 levels), which include a New York subway station, Venice Beach in Los Angeles, and London's South Bank. It's a straight choice between greater authenticity and fun.Before tackling a level, you can spend as long as you like exploring the location, and working on a routine that will score enough points. (You need anything from 5,000 to 25,000 to progress to the next level.)TS&amp;D - endorsed by Thrasher magazine - isn't a bad game: it has decent graphics and the sound rocks. You can also customise your skater's outfit, and accept sponsorship logos, which is cool.There are problems with "pop ups"as bits of scenery   appear from nowhere - especially dangerous when it happens with an underground train. But no complaints about the sound, which includes a great collection of rap and hip hop. The music tracks include Run DMC's King Of Rock, Public Enemy's Rebel Without A Pause, Eric B. and Rakim's I Know You Got Soul, Ultramagnetic MC's Kool Keith Housin' Things, and 10 more.Great stuff, but not enough.  (JS)
I've learned something about myself as a result of Vodafone's record $183 billion takeover of Mannesman - and so have you. According to Business Week, Vodafone spent a "startling" $12,400 to gain each new subscriber. So, it appears, we are all "worth" that amount each to a mobile phone operator.Why didn't someone tell us before? If we had known that mobile phone users were valued so highly, we could have all got together and offered our mobile souls to Vodafone for a cut-price $10,000 each.The practice of assessing a company's worth by dividing its market capitalisation on the stock market (ie the value of all its shares) by its customer base is rapidly becoming the standard way for city analysts to rate internet companies. There isn't much choice. The   standard way of comparing the value of a share with the earnings it produces is redundant because hardly any net companies make money.The current issue of Fortune, the other US business magazine, gives a list of internet companies based on market capitalisation per pair of eyeballs. This is an even more tenuous rating than one based on actual customers because eyeballs can become distracted and wander off, whereas mobile phone customers have at least paid for their phones and have often signed a contract, too.Fortune found that the $7.4bn market capitalisation enjoyed by the web portal Lycos valued each customer at $244 dollars, while online stockbroker Charles Schwab boasted a $30bn market cap - putting a valuation of $4,562 on each pair of eyeballs.And so it goes on. AOL customers are worth $5,781 apiece, those of Amazon, the online bookstore, $1,400 and those of Yahoo!, the most popular web gateway, $2,038.If you only subscribed to the top ten sites examined you would find yourself with a personal market capitalisation of more than $35,000 dollars. Perhaps we should all float ourselves on the stock market - or gather together in user cooperatives pledging to buy from certain specified sites. This would cut out yet another middle person - and remove the need of online traders to buy other companies to get our custom.This illustrates the mess that online valuations have got into. The entire exercise is  ex post. It doesn't look at what should happen: that is what a sensible way of valuing internet stocks might look like.   Instead it looks back at what has happened (ludicrous over-valuations) and tries to use this as a justification for current valuations. It doesn't seem to matter that most ordinary investors buying internet stocks haven't a clue how many eyeballs they may be buying.Amazon remains the most fascinating company. It has done brilliantly in establishing itself as the world's biggest bookseller. Its UK operation turns over &#163;100 million a year. Sales in the last quarter of 1999 were 430% above a year earlier.   But its overall losses are escalating, although it now claims to be making money on book sales while making losses in other areas.Analysts claim it has first-mover advantage because of the speed with which it has established a global brand. Time may prove that it has first-mover disadvantage. Unless it re-invents itself (which is possible), it is vulnerable. It exists because of the slowness of its real competitors to seize their advantage. However much Amazon buys in bulk there is one firm it can never undercut: the publisher. No publisher will sell books to Amazon below cost. It is only the failure of publishers to realise their potential that keeps Amazon in business.As more potential customers go online, publishers could put their lists on websites then sell directly from their warehouses or printing works. For people who know what they want to buy before they log on to Amazon, this is the obvious solution. And promiscuous purchasers can surf through Amazon's site, read the reviews, then buy more cheaply from the publisher. Or dispatch an intelligent agent around the   web to seek out a lower price.Even this may prove to be an interim solution - at least as far as paperbacks are concerned. In Helsinki there is an internet cafe where you can order a book, have a coffee, then collect it as you pay your bill. It has been downloaded from the internet, printed and bound in the room next door while you have been drinking. At the moment it is confined to out of print books and classics, but there is no reason why any paperback couldn't be distributed like this, removing the need for warehouses, printing works and all the intermediaries.And, of course, we will soon be able to buy electronic books, enabling us to download whatever literature we want from the internet on to a user-friendly device and read it wherever we are. Everyone agrees that at the moment you would have to be crazy to ready an entire book online. But that refers to the personal computer model. If you have something with you that looks like a book, with book-like print on it, you won't necessarily worry that it is electronic. If it comes to this I wonder who will be more likely to be delivering books to us - Amazon or Vodafone?
Bear with me for a moment if you are reading this on a PC, or indeed if you   continue to insist on accessing this data file on printed pages. It's the mobile-phone-enabled reader who currently carries the hopes of large chunks of the "content" industry. You are still a select bunch - a few hundred   reading the Guardian last week through mobile-phone screens, amounting to no more than 2,000 pages viewed a day - but you are the next electronic vanguard.Nokia says that mobile subscribers will rise from 600m to a billion by 2005 - compared with 130m computer-based web users. As we go about our increasingly mobile lives (43% of white-collar workers are "location independent", according to the Gartner Group), we want access now to the proliferation of data that net take-up continues to fuel.The wireless application protocol - Wap - is the industry standard for the delivery of mobile data, and it is creating opportunities that make the web look dated. Whether you are waiting for a train or sitting through a conference, Wap allows you to dial in and place a bet, book a cinema ticket, confide with a doctor and order a pizza.It is a challenge that has been taxing news providers such as the Guardian, whose editorial strategies have long been based on adding value to readers who are assumed to get their main news from the 9pm TV broadcast, or the 8am radio bulletin. In this new marketplace, they will check the headlines, respond to job ads and check the weather when it suits them.That is why this newspaper - through its Guardian Unlimited network of websites - has made a strategic decision to offer its content in as many ways as readers wish to gain access to it. You can now read the Guardian's view of the world on a phone, on a "personal digital assistant" (PDA) such as a 3Com Palm, and, from next month, on interactive digital television.     Just as we were getting used to the challenges of delivering to web browsers, along come a new set of issues, ranging from how we display a 2,000-word analysis on a two-inch screen, to whether we ought to see ourselves less as a text medium and more as an audiovisual way of delivering news.Reading the Guardian on a first-generation Wap handset is rather less speedy than flicking through a few broadsheet pages. But the interactive elements are growing. We're developing our film postcode search, for instance, so you'll be able to plan your evening out while sitting on the train, and also letting you personalise your news   interests and search the Guardian's job database.     The Nokia 7110 is the new model that has gained the most attention, but any Wap phone will work. If Guardian Unlimited is not on your   preset menu of choices (BT Cellnet subscribers will find Guardian Unlimited preset, Orange subscribers should do so within a week or two, and later Vodafone users), you can set up a bookmark by   enteringwww.newsunlimited.co.uk/wml. This will take you to the front page of our Wap menu, which will offer you a further set of choices, from business news to politics. It costs you nothing to access our content; the network carriers' standard charge is 5p a minute.You can get an idea of how the interface appears by pointing your web browser towww.gelon.net, and entering www.newsunlimited.co.uk/wml in the area that provides a Wap emulator.  A site such as AvantGohttp://avantgo.comwill let you plug your PDA into your PC and download whichever data feeds you select. The full News Unlimited content is available, although you may select, say, the politics and arts feeds for reading later  on a plane or where access is limited to mobiles. The industry estimates 5 million PDA units in Britain within three years.From next month, subscribers to Cable &amp; Wireless's digital interactive television channels will gain access to large parts of Guardian Unlimited, alongside other news providers such as ITN and the Manchester Evening News, and a range of other services from games to horoscopes. Click on the "interactive" option on your handset, and you can select news headlines from News Unlimited or from other sites (from cricket headlines to film reviews). Cable &amp; Wireless has already launched its digital service in places such as Watford and Bromley, and will roll it out in Kensington and Chelsea and beyond from next month.Will these new delivery channels eventually make the newspaper redundant?   Probably not - it remains as portable and cheap to access as any mobile device, and a fall in classified revenue, rather than growth in competing delivery channels, is what would ultimately determine the print edition's future. Will it change what the Guardian is? Probably, if fewer of you choose to access it in a medium that allows easy navigation of long and complex articles. But for the moment, as the techno-world moves rapidly on, it seems that you want your news to move with you.&#149; David Rowan is editor of Guardian Unlimited
When Michael Schumacher heads for the first corner in a Formula One Grand Prix, he could soon find more than 10 million people have beaten him to it. And if this makes the track sound overcrowded, there could be several million more would-be racing aces sharing the German's cockpit.The millions of drivers won't physically be present, but they will be immersed in the experience via their computers and simulation software. These "virtual" drivers will be racing in real time on a graphical representation of the track, thanks to positional information sent to their PCs via the internet. When the real Schumi brakes or swerves, his virtual rivals will have to take evasive action - though not, fortunately, vice versa.The online gaming system is the work of Jacques Levasseur and G&eacute;rard Benkel,   founders of a small French company called Sportners.Last week, Sportners announced a deal with the Bordeaux-based games developer Kalisto Entertainment, creator of Ultim@te Race and Ultim@te Race Pro, which will use its "advanced 3D racing engine" to create the software to simulate live sporting events.Levasseur says: "Sportners is a concept, it's not a game. It can be adapted to almost any type of sport - motorbike racing, car racing, yachting, maybe skiing - except team sports."The company is talking to numerous event organisers about using the system, and the first game could be a yachting simulation. No announcements have been made, but Levasseur hopes something will be launched by the end of the year."We are very happy to make this deal with Kalisto," he says: "it's a little victory for us after long years of hard work, when we had to go it alone."I had the idea 10 years ago, with my friend G&eacute;rard, when we were watching Grand Prix racing on television. We thought maybe it would be possible to put some kind of chip on a vehicle and send the data in   real time to different computers around the world, so anyone could participate from their home. That's the concept. But everyone said 'No, no, no, it's not possible'!"That was before "telemetry". Today's racing cars are full of sensors that record almost every detail, and send data back to the pits every lap. Similar sensors could be used with other sports. The technology is finally ready, although sending data over the internet could be a problem, because it wasn't designed for real time applications.Levasseur says the amount of data has been minimised: given the co-ordinates of a car 26 times a second, a computer can calculate its speed and acceleration. Nonetheless, the best results will be achieved by sending data by a broadband (high capacity) route such as satellite or cable, while using a phone line and modem to collect data from virtual players.Kalisto has developed an online version of Ultim@te Race that uses a broadband connection, and demonstrated it last year with Skybridge's satellite system.The virtual players won't   be able to see each other, but they will be able to compete against one another. At the end of a race, for example, the 100 or 1,000 best race times could be listed, with the best virtual players over a season winning a virtual championship.But simulating live events involves far more than tracking cars, bikes, boats or planes. What if a Grand Prix's organisers change the track by adding, say, a chicane made out of tyre walls? What if it starts raining heavily, perhaps on just one part of the circuit? What happens when there's a crash and the pace car comes out to slow everyone down? All these things and more will have to be reflected in the software simulation in real time.If virtual players want to drive a transparent "ghost car" to match themselves against real racing drivers, this should be relatively easy to program.But in simulation mode, they will want to overtake opponents, and in this case, reality will give way to game-play. In other words, the trajectory of the real car in the simulation will differ from the trajectory of the real car on the track. However, the AI (artificial intelligence) routines controlling the simulated car will be allowed a certain time to get the simulated car back onto the real car's trajectory. This "recuperation time", as Sportners calls it, can be set by the player. The shorter it is, the closer the simulation will be to the real race.Developing the software will be a challenge for Kalisto Entertainment, but founder and president Nicolas Gaume is unperturbed. "The trick is to make sure you've analysed the course that Mr Schumacher or Mr Alessi would take, and stored that in a database. Then we can extrapolate from where the actual car is what someone would do if you were to overtake him."It's like a parallel reality. We create a virtual world which matches the real world with some alterations," says Gaume. "It's all about making sure that the alterations sustain the gameplay experience, so that you enjoy it."If it works, the Sportners system will give players the most realistic and most immersive gameplay to date. But if it isn't fun, it won't attract enough players to cover the costs.
Ancient rightsHasbro, the toy company that bought the remains of Atari, has started suing software houses over the copyright to antique games such as Asteroids, PacMan, Missile Command and Centipede. Many of the arcade games that appeared in the early 80s were widely copied - Acorn, for example, published rip-offs of several classics, and its version of Defender was better than the real thing. But now Tom Dusenberry, Hasbro Interactive's president, has decided to get tough."Hasbro Interactive has the best brands and content in this business and we will vigorously protect what is rightfully ours," he says. "Consumers should be aware that the companies named in this suit are making games based on properties they don't own or control." A string of defendants including eGames, Xtreme Games and GT Interactive have been asked to recall and destroy copies of Intergalactic Exterminator, 3D Astro Blaster, TetriMania, TetriMania Master, 3D Maze Man, Tunnel Blaster, Xtris, Patriot Command, HemiRoids, Bricklayer, 3D TetriMadness, Mac-Man, 3D Munch Man, and 3D Munch Man II.Out of the darkRare, the UK's most respected games developer, has dropped the Game Boy Camera feature from its long-awaited Nintendo 64 game, Perfect Dark. But not because the technology was too difficult: the company says it wants "to avoid any controversy during the game's release". The original idea was to enable players to superimpose faces on game characters. Second thoughts may have been prompted by the idea that kids could put, for example, their teachers' faces on characters and frag them.Reynolds quitsBrian Reynolds, the lead programmer/designer on some of the world's greatest games, has unexpectedly left Firaxis Games, the company he founded with Sid Meier and Jeff Bridges in 1996. Reynolds worked on Civilization and Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, and was leading the development of Civilization III, under Meier's direction. C/net's onlineGamecentermanaged to get a few words with Reynolds. He said: "I don't want to discuss why I left. Things happened between Sid &#91;Meier&#93; and Jeff &#91;Briggs&#93; that I don't think need to be discussed."Net worth?GameCampaign, a start-up based in Bath, has started publishing a top 50 that purports to show how companies rank "in terms of internet coverage. It's derived from an algorithm combining breadth of coverage, amount of coverage, and comparisons to competitors." The list is headed by Microsoft (100), Sega (89), Sony (85), Nintendo (84) and Activision (78). However, some well-known names are well down the list. Hasbro (59) is 20th, UbiSoft (37) is 41st, and Codemasters (30) a horrifying 47th. Seewww.gamecampaign.comOn the wayLucasArts is working on a first-person shooter called Obi-Wan, based on Star Wars, while Activision is well advanced with a Spiderman game for the Sony PlayStation. Shiny Entertainment is developing a fantasy-based real-time strategy game called Sacrifice, and Take 2 is working on a science fiction adventure, Martian Gothic: Unification Explored, for the PC. In the UK, Codemasters is coding a PlayStation title, Mike Tyson Boxing, Bullfrog is developing Dungeon Keeper 3, and Rare is working on a Nintendo 64 game codenamed Dino, which could be "Zelda with Dinosaurs". Deep Red Games, in Milton Keynes, has signed a deal with SCi to develop Thunderbirds titles for the PC and PlayStation 2.
One point that was usually missed last week, in the furore over so-called Denial of Service (DoS) attacks on leading websites, was that we all suffered.We suffered because some useful websites, such asYahoo!andeBay, were not available for several hours while their routers and servers coped with a flood of spurious data. We also suffered because the internet slowed down, both because of the attacks and because of the extra traffic generated as people tried to find out what was going on.According to measurements taken every 15 minutes byKeynote, a US-based internet monitoring company, the net's average performance "degraded by 26.8%" on Wednesday, February 9. That assessment is based on Keynote's Business 40 Index, which includes only three of the websites attacked: Yahoo!, ZDNet and Excite.Although DoS attacks are, technically, old hat, this may be the first time they have been concerted enough to have a measurable effect.   Another point - though one less often missed - was that "innocent bystanders" made a major contribution to the problem.DoS attacks work by flooding the target site, and this involves using hundreds of computers around the internet to generate traffic. Each of these computers must be running one of the DoS agent programs, such as Tribal Flood Network, Trinoo or Stacheldraht, which has been put there by the attacker, undetected by the machine's owners. Each of these agents is also communicating with its master program in detectable ways.Matt Devost, a senior consultant with Security Design International in Virginia, put it like this. "Corporate executives are spending a lot of time worrying about whether they will be the next victim of attack," he said, "when in reality they should be worrying about whether their organisation unknowingly participated in the attack."Anybody can be attacked, and the victim can do little about it. But anybody with a computer attached to the   internet could be taking part in the attack. That is avoidable, and from now on, it's inexcusable.Just as companies routinely scan their computers for viruses and (if they have a clue) trojans such as SubSeven, they will have to start scanning for DoS agents or "Zombies".This week, Network Associates, an anti-virus company in California, announced a free web-based CyberCop Zombie Scan service, and has started notifying network administrators that their systems are infected. Users can access this service by going towww.mycio.com; no doubt alternatives will appear.It's going too far to say that the perpetrators of the latest DoS attacks, whether they were infowar experts or "script kiddies" having a laugh, performed a useful public service. However, they certainly got the message about DoS attacks right under chief executives' noses. This is something network administrators have never managed to do, even though they've known about the problem for years.
The internet is turning people into more solitary beings who can hardly be bothered to call their mother on her birthday. It is also causing them to spend more hours at the office and to take the office home with them at night.Those are some of the conclusions of a major new study of internet users conducted by Stanford university's institute for the quantitative study of society.But even before it was unveiled in Palo Alto, California, the survey of 4,113 individuals, carried out in December, was receiving extensive criticism."We're moving from a world in which you know all your neighbours, see all your   friends, interact with lots of different people every day, to a functional world, where interaction takes place at a distance," said Stanford political science professor Norman Nie, the director of the institute. "Can you get a hug, a warm voice, over the internet?"A quarter of the survey respondents who use the internet for more than five hours a week said they spend less time with friends and family, either on the phone or in person. Ten per cent said it had reduced out-of-home social activities.If personal interaction - and time with such old-fashioned media as newspapers and, particularly, television - were losers, employers benefited. One in four respondents said the time they spent working at home had increased, while their hours at the office had either stayed the same or actually gone up as well.It was no wonder that Ford recently said that it would give all its employees a personal computer and internet connection, Prof Nie said. "They just bought themselves hundreds of thousands of hours of   free labour," he said. "You no longer have to pack a briefcase to work at home. Now it's all sitting there waiting for you."Yet if people are doing work at home, they have also brought their home into work. One reason that they are not getting everything done at the office may be because they are so busy writing email to far-flung chums, ordering books from Amazon.com, sending cards via BlueMountain.com, checking on the price of shares, researching their holiday, gambling on electronic lotteries and gazing at Pamela Anderson Lee."Life becomes a continuous stream organised around the internet," Prof Nie said.But other academics do not believe that the internet is making employees more productive.William D Bygrave, of the Blank centre for entrepreneurship at Babson college in Massachusetts, used to monitor the daily traffic for the Drudge Report, which cyber-muckraker Matt Drudge would helpfully post at his site."I noticed his weekday traffic was much, much greater   than his Saturday and Sunday traffic, even though he was breaking new stories on weekends to heighten interest in his TV show on Saturday evening and his radio show on Sunday evenings," Prof Bygrave said."Workers read Drudge's homepage from their offices during the day rather from their homes on evenings and weekends." He noted, too, that eBay always seems to have traffic snarls during weekdays rather than on evenings and weekends."It's time that used to be spent at the water cooler or getting a cup of coffee. Except we're still doing that, too," Prof Bygrave said. "So we say, 'I can finish this project tonight or early tomorrow morning.' Before the web there was a lot more pressure to clear your desk by the end of the day. Now it's never cleared."Two thirds of those surveyed spent fewer than five hours a week on the net, and their behaviour had changed little. But the longer people have been hooked up to the internet, the more time they spend on it, the study found. So Prof Nie predicted that the anti-social   trends would only increase."The automobile promised a great many things and delivered them," he said. "But if we began to think of the negatives at the beginning of the last century, maybe we'd have done some things differently, and it wouldn't take two hours on a rainy day to get from San Francisco to Palo Alto" - the 40-mile route he drives every day.But critics dismissed most of what Prof Nie concluded, as well as his research methods."The assertion that the internet is socially isolating has not held up to serious scrutiny," said Donna Hoffman, the co-director of the eLab at Vanderbilt university in Nashville. "All of the research evidence I've seen points the other way - not to mention the anecdotal evidence."A similar, smaller study in 1998 found "small but reliable declines in social and psychological well-being" among heavy net users. But critics argued that part of the reason for those participants' depression might have been because they all lived in Pittsburgh.Washington Post
The chancellor, Gordon Brown, found himself at the centre of a row between British Telecom and Oftel yesterday after leaking a speech which disclosed plans by the regulator to open BT's local network for competition earlier than previously agreed.Excerpts from the speech wiped billions of pounds from the market value of BT in early trading after they were published in the Financial Times.The share price movement caused the stock exchange to take the unprecedented step of calling on the Treasury to publish the speech in full - it appeared on the exchange's regulatory news service in the early afternoon.Oftel, it emerged, is poised to appoint outside consultants to   examine ways of bringing forward the previously agreed date of July 2001 for BT to give up its monopoly of the "local loop". BT shares closed 42p lower at 971p.BT's chief executive, Sir Peter Bonfield, reacted angrily to the suggestion and the way the news was released. The episode seems certain to chill relations between BT and the regulator, which had improved with the departure of former Oftel chief Don Cruickshank."BT shareholders own the network and BT not only needs to be consulted but to agree any timetable with Oftel," Sir Peter said. "We have already agreed with Oftel a deadline of July 1 2001 and there will be no change to this date without our agreement. That would, anyway, be a matter for Oftel and BT - not for the treasury."Mr Brown met with Oftel director general David Edmonds on Tuesday where they discussed ways of increasing internet penetration in Britain. Mr Edmonds is understood to have asked for Mr Brown's support in bringing the deadline forward but could have exposed the government to accusations of meddling.The aim of opening BT's so called local loop to competition is to accelerate investment in the network to upgrade it for broadband applications including high speed internet access. That can be achieved by a new technology called ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) which supercharges existing copper wires."I know that Oftel believes this timetable can be improved," Mr Brown said in the speech delivered to business    leaders at the Smith Institute in London last night. "Let the industry be in no doubt that I stand full square behind Oftel in these aims. We will not al low any foot-dragging here." Five European countries have already "unbundled" the local loop - Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany and the Netherlands.Separately Mr Brown set targets to reduce the cost of internet access in Britain to US levels by 2002 and warned that regulatory action could be taken if prices do not fall.The cost of peak-rate charges in Britain remains roughly 20% higher than Italy, 50% higher than the US and 100% higher than Canada, according to government figures.The statement attracted further barbed comments from BT which is planning to launch an unmetered internet access product in the spring. "BT has had its Surftime package - the UK's first unmetered call package - on the table since December," Sir Peter said.Net costsBT:weekend 1p a minute, evenings 1.5p a minute, daytime 4p a minute (before Friends and Family discount)NTL:1p a minute at all times.CWC: 0.6p a minute to 1p evenings and weekends. Daytime 1.8p to 3p a minute.Telewest:&#163;10 a month for unlimited access.Modems:Standard phone line: up to 56kb.ISDN line:64kb.Cable modem:500kb to 2mb.ADSL:2mb.Current Wap phones:9.6kb.GPRS:up to 114kb.UMTS:up to 2mb
Fashion entrepreneur Shami Ahmed is to pass control of his Joe Bloggs jeans empire to his 25-year-old brother and devote his time to a new e-commerce investment vehicle which he plans to float later this month.Mr Ahmed, 37, set up Joe Bloggs when he was in his teens but will experience life as chief executive of a public company for the first by bringing Legendary Investments to the Alternative Investment Market. Broker Seymour   Pierce is expected to release details of a private placing of &#163;3m-5m next week.Kashif Ahmed will take over as managing director of Joe Bloggs, which turned over about &#163;50m last year. He has worked for his brother since he was 15. Mr Ahmed also plans to hand over control of his &#163;60m property portfolio although ownership will not change."I will be devoting my time and efforts to Legendary," Mr Ahmed said last night. "I want to act as a strategic partner not just an investor."Legendary plans to invest in   a number of technology companies that have strong products and cash flows and are likely to float within a year. Mr Ahmed is examining the British, American and Indian software markets.He will be joined on the board by Michael Fry, a former director of Thorn EMI, and Smit Berry, owner of Equity Link. Two other directors are expected to be appointed.Mr Ahmed will be the majority shareholder, owning around 50% of the equity. The three directors will control collectively around 80%.Mr Ahmed came to Britain at the age of two and left school at 16 to work on his parents' market stall. Joe Bloggs is the only domestic company to figure in the British top 10 for jeans.Two years ago he rescued haute couture designer Elizabeth Emmanuel from bankruptcy but their relationship ended in acrimony and threats of litigation a year later.Since then Mr Ahmed has made a series of investments in stock market listed companies, typically taking stakes of less than 3%.
Although bosses of bricks and mortar companies fret about the impact of e-commerce on their profit margins, central bankers have good reason to celebrate the net's arrival.It has become conventional wisdom that increased price transparency and competition will make their job of controlling inflation much easier.Why, then, are central bankers in the United States, Britain and Europe jacking up interest rates as if nothing has changed? The short answer is that the internet is still in its infancy, accounting for only a tiny proportion of business-to-consumer transactions.Estimates suggest that on line retail sales in western Europe amounted to around $5bn (&#163;3.12bn) in 1999, in a field where overall sales are counted in trillions.They are therefore too insignificant to have much impact on the overall rate of price   increases. The advent of "smart" mobile phones and cheaper telephone tariffs is, however, expected to boost on line sales dramatically in the coming years.Throw in the impact on prices of business-to-business transactions, and it probably will not be long before the internet begins to have a marked downward influence on the rate of inflation.Meanwhile, however, there is precious little evidence - other than of an anecdotal kind - that it is a significant factor for central bankers to take into account when determining interest rates.This may be partly due to data deficiency. In research published earlier this week, the American investment bank JP Morgan pointed that that, while many European statistical offices are musing about the impact of e-commerce on the data they collect, few are actively changing their systems. In fact, only the UK is planning to incorporate internet prices directly into the retail prices index.The process will take a couple of years to complete but the omens about what it will demonstrate are not necessarily all good.Mindful of the data gap, JP Morgan undertook its own survey of British high street and online prices. It examined the categories of goods and services where internet usage is most advanced.Goods bought online were much cheaper, even after considering delivery costs. "Indeed, considering goods alone, if all purchases in the categories considered migrated to the internet we should expect to see around 0.4 percentage points sliced from the RPI,"   JP Morgan says. Online services, however, were more expensive than those purchased over the telephone.JP Morgan suggests this could be due to smaller relative cost-savings for online service providers and the interactive nature of telephone service provision which gives buyers the opportunity to negotiate a discount.As online services develop a critical mass and the technology becomes more sophisticated, prices might fall - but it could take some time.Meanwhile, the internet could even have a perverse impact on inflation.In a recent research note Goldman Sachs said that business-to-business activity is enabling companies to achieve dramatic savings in the costs of production which will ultimately allow central bankers to let economies grow much faster. Growth in the industrial economies could be 0.25% higher a year on average during the next 10 years, it said.
TheStreet.co.uk today became the latest financial website to
launch in Britain, hoping to capitalise on the growing
enthusiasm for investing through the internet.TheStreet.co.uk joins an increasingly crowded field of financial
sites such as the brash Motley Fool site and more established
players like ft.com, the web operation of the Financial Times,
which relaunched this week.With 20 financial journalists, TheStreet.co.uk claims to have
one of the largest dedicated online editorial teams in Britain.
The team includes four former city editors of UK papers. The
site will provide investors with up to the minute comment and
analysis of breaking financial news. It has gained the backing
of major portals such as AOL UK, Compuserve and Lycos, which
have signed content syndication deals with the new venture.The prototype for TheStreet.co.uk is the TheStreet.com in the
US. TheStreet.com has established itself as a popular
destination for small American investors thanks partly to the
frequent appearances on TV of James Cramer, its opinionated
commentator. The UK arm is backed by Chase capital partners,
Barclays private equity, 3i, ETF group and Intel, the chip
maker.
The main reason the US is so far ahead of the rest of the world in internet usage is that they have flat-rate telephone calls. Users pay a monthly rental then surf as long as they like. Because they don't feel they are "on the clock" with charges mounting up all the time they spend much more time learning, chatting and visiting e-commerce sites. A report by Durlacher this week claims that the UK internet economy is being "dramatically held back" by the absence of unmetered calls. The research shows that average residential users could triple their use from 130 to 386 hours per year if unmetered access were introduced.In the US the driving force for cheap access was fierce competition whereas in the UK (and, to be fair, most other countries) domestic telephone monopolies were left largely unaffected by privatisation. It was never in their interest to risk something that might dent their revenues. But now the market is changing fast as BT faces new competition from   cable companies. In the domestic market Telewest, the UK's largest cable company, is to introduce unlimited web access for a flat monthly fee of &#163;10 (as long as subscribers make &#163;10 worth of ordinary calls a month). This makes BT's plans (from &#163;6.99p a month for free weekend access to 34.99p for unlimited access all the time) look expensive.In the business market, the American company Metromedia Fibre Network is laying high capacity fibre-optic cables (each hair thread of which can carry 4m phone calls at once) in central London. These will, for the first time, be tariff-free after rental payments. BT argues that, until recently, there wasn't the demand for unlimited access to the web. But in the internet world supply generates its own demand. And in the internet world delays of even a few months can be fatal. In the national and corporate interest BT should introduce affordable unmetered access now. Then it can sit back and watch demand booming.
Rupert Murdoch, chairman of News Corporation, is poised to make an aggressive move for a share in the internet goldrush with a plan to offer web services from his network of satellite operations based around the globe.Mr Murdoch, whose media empire includes the Times and the Hollywood studio that made the film Titanic, is planning to bundle his disparate satellite television assets into a single company with its own listing on the stock market.City analysts see the restructuring of Mr Murdoch's business as a means of attracting internet partners, such as Yahoo, which could use the network as a way into hundreds of millions of homes. Most analysts expect the chief route for internet access to migrate from the personal computer to the more ubiquitous TVs and mobile phones in the not too distant future.The assets which will be injected into the new business are made up of 40% of BSkyB in Britain, the whole ownership of pan-Asian network Star TV, and minority stakes in Japan Sky Broadcasting, Italy's Stream, Sky Latin America, Germany's Premiere and Foxtel in Australia. It could be worth more than &#163;20bn.News Corp has come under criticism for being too slow in moving into the internet market and appeared to have been caught out by the merger in January of its old media rival, Time Warner, with the internet upstart America Online.Mr Murdoch seems to be betting on satellite as a way of connecting to the internet which can rival "broadband" cable - a system that can handle large amounts of traffic - despite concerns over its ability to cope with two-way traffic such as e-commerce.A statement from News Corp said the plan, which could see the parent company hanging on to 60% of the satellite business, was "under serious consideration".A company spokesman added: "This float would create a worldwide digital platform. It would mean the distribution of TV, audio, video and data on a global basis."He admitted that the announcement of the America Online and Time Warner merger had "given renewed vigour" to the plans but said the group had been working on the project before the deal was disclosed.In the past 12 months, Mr Murdoch has found himself increasingly taken up with possibilities with the internet. News Corp has set up e-partners and a venture capital 
 fund to invest in web start-ups.Recently he also met executives of Nokia to discuss means of adapting News Corp content for internet-enabled mobile phones. And he has taken a stake in an Australian mobile phone network which is among the bidders for a licence in the generation of phones in Britain which will receive high-speed internet access and video clips.The Murdoch media empire, which also includes 20th Century Fox, the film business behind Titanic, the television production house which makes the X-Files, and Harper Collins books, last week poured cold water on suggestions that it may seek a merger 
 partner among the new breed of internet companies.Media analysts said the latest Murdoch move had merit. One commented: "A lot of internet companies are truly global businesses and to have a more integrated strategy for News Corp's pay-TV assets has a pretty compelling commercial logic."This is evidence of Mr Murdoch trying to regroup and get the best out of his resources. News Corp are trying to get back on the front foot and whenever Mr Murdoch puts his mind to something he tends to be fairly committed."BSkyB chief executive Tony Ball was said to have been astonished by the lack of any clear internet strategy when he arrived last year. He has since announced plans to plough &#163;250m into the development of online businesses using Sky brands.Although satellite systems can be used to send high "bandwidth" applications, including internet access, the reply from the consumer needs to be sent through fixed telephone wires or cable.BSkyB last week announced a venture with Hull-based telecoms company Kingston Communications to deploy a technology which upgrades existing copper wires for high bandwidth use without digging up roads.
Computers crash every day. Servers go down. Bandwiths get congested and networks clog. The IT world is as prone to breakdown and gridlock as our transport systems. But something unusual is happening. Since early February there have been a series of strikes on high-profile e-commerce and e-news targets:Yahoo!,Amazon,Buy.com,Ebay,CNN.The assaults have all followed a pattern - floods of data released by implanted saboteur programs in remote sites. The result, for a few hours, is overload and "denial of service": a jam. The raiders were initially assumed to be hackers; pointy-headed kids playing computer games in grown-up places. The authorities were not amused. After the third wave of assaults the raiders were relabelled "cyber- terrorists"; up there with Osama Bin Laden.The Justice Department warned of grim penalties: five years and $250,000 for a first offence; 10 years for a second. Attorney general Janet Reno declared: "We are committed in every way possible to tracking those who are responsible". Not since the Unabomber have the G-Men seemed so determined to get their man.Who are they? "Pranksters", cyberloonies, or a new underground army linked with the anarchists who pissed so spectacularly on the WTO party in Seattle?In a thoughtful editorial on February 10, the Guardian proclaimed itself alarmed but also "puzzled". Alarm is understandable. The US economy is booming on the strength of its grotesquely overvalued high-technology stocks. Amazon.com, whose shares have gone up tenfold in four years, has yet to return a cent's profit. No one is quite sure whether this is the Calgary stampede, the 1849 gold rush or Tulipmania. For two years Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has been trying, vainly, to take the heat out of hi-tech stocks. There's a terrifying risk, if e-commerce proves vulnerable to any computer-literate vandal, that investors will pull out their money and put it somewhere safer. If Wall Street catches a cold, we get pneumonia. What if Wall Street gets pneumonia? Puzzling aspects to this scare remain. How did the crackers suddenly get so smart, so organised, and why are they so hostile to cyber-heroes like Jeff Bezos? Nerds hangouts are buzzing with poisonous suspicion. The US government, they believe, is confecting an electronic Gulf-of-Tonkin pretext for going to war against them. The case is put by "jim the paranoic" &#91;sic&#93; on slashdot.org ("News for Nerds. Stuff   that Matters"). Jim's scenario runs thus: on January 27, Clinton announced in his State of the Union address that "electronic law enforcement" would be a high priority. Three days later, the National Security Agency announced that its mainframe had crashed from January 24 to 28.It boggles the imagination that this could happen and that the secretive NSA would embarrass itself by voluntarily making its incompetence public. They instinctively cover their "asses", they don't bare them to the world's press. A week later, Clinton's budget allocated $240m to expand, massively, the government's wire-tapping facilities ("wire" means world wide web; the FBI will be listening to you, Guardian- reader). Then began the February cyber-assaults on the electronic shopping malls and news services of America.What got less headline attention was that on February 8 the phone systems in Missouri and Oklahoma crashed. Why should those backwoods states be targeted by the new raiders of the net? As Jim darkly speculates: "It illustrated the horrors of vile cyber-terrorists, but without bothering 'important' people in Washington or on the east and west coasts. What better way to 'prove' the need for massively expanded surveillance, and create a frenzy of support for it?!"It may be that when the FBI crawls back through the net they will find some 15-year-old kid at his keyboard having fun. Nonetheless, two new and frightening entities emerge out of the panic.After this month, the FBI's National Infrastructure Protection Centre is going to be a main player. And behind it is something eerily reminiscent of the old military-industrial complex. Only this time it's e-commerce and government. It's enough to make anyone paranoic &#91;sic&#93;.
A 20-year-old German high school student yesterday claimed that he was the hacker who developed a computer program which last week shut down several of the world's largest commercial websites.But he denied personally carrying out the attacks. "I am not involved in attacks on US websites or in any other form of criminal activity," he told the German news agency DPA in an email message.The student, who is being sought by the FBI and German and Russian police, appeared on the internet under the pseudonym "Mixter" to declare: "I am in fact the only programmer to have so far published the attack program in question and I stand by it."Mixter made his statement to DPA after Der Spiegel magazine identified him as a Hanover student preparing for the German equivalent of A-levels.Der Spiegel said that the hacker was wanted in connection with last week's computer   attacks on the internet providers Yahoo!, Buy.com, eBay, Amazon.com and Time Warner which shut down their websites for hours by overloading them with a massive influx of computerised demands.The magazine said that Mixter had also developed a concept which enabled provider companies to protect themselves against his own attack program. The American website company, Packet Storm, is reported to have paid him $10,000 (&#163;6,250) for his idea.Mixter said that the program    thought to have been used in the attack, nicknamed  Stacheldraht (barbed wire), was a development of his own work, conceived by other German hackers who operated under the pseudonym "Randomizer".He claimed that he had developed the software for a program which was capable of massively overloading websites with so-called "data garbage" until they were paralysed. But he said he had developed the program and published it in "security circles" merely to demonstrate that such attacks could   theoretically be carried out.Insurance companies are reaping the benefits of last week's attacks and now charge around &#163;25,000 annually for &#163;1m worth of cover. Internet companies are being urged to divert some of the billions they currently spend in advertising towards security.The US attorney general, Janet Reno, is meeting President Clinton and around 20 top internet companies at the White House tomorrow to discuss internet security.
I know it's wrong. But to me, the most sobering aspect of the recent spate of hacker attacks on major American corporate websites is that the offenders and their indirect accomplices appear close to being punished.Amazingly, at least among my friends and students, our initial reaction to news of the sabotage was one of perverse glee. We just couldn't repress our feelings, however illogical we knew them to be.Admit it: for one brief moment, the campaign of denial-of-service attacks brought a smile to your face. What could account for such widespread ambivalence about a clearly illegal and destructive campaign? Because it's refreshing, that's why.Over a few days last week, a rather simple programme temporarily paralysed the most established and   profitable websites in the world. The attack programme worked by asking the target website for more information than it is capable of dispensing.With all its resources tied up, the website is forced to deny service to the millions of users who want access. The site goes down.This digital Molotov cocktail was distributed widely on hacker bulletin boards, so the perpetrator could be anyone, or even different hackers working independently. First, they incapacitated the most popular website in the world, the Yahoo search engine, which went down for hours as engineers struggled to restore order. Then they hit Amazon, CNN, eBay and buy.com.These are not randomly chosen websites. The hackers didn't attack schools, charities or communities. They attacked commerce. Why?Those of us who were enjoying the internet back in the 80s and early 90s remember a time when this technology was about communication. Businesses weren't even allowed on the net.In those days, the interactive media space felt like a cross between a college campus and the Wild West. It was a level playing field, where the size of your computer and the contents of your wallet meant nothing.The internet changed the way people thought about media and power. The net didn't seem like a particularly safe place - but since when are revolutions safe?The introduction of business to the internet changed all that. Corporate behemoths ignored the indigenous net population as they colonised our space.Companies conducting e-commerce needed to make   the online environment more secure - in reality and in appearance. They're asking for our credit card information, after all.The look and feel of the internet changed as users were converted into consumers. Buy more, talk less. This is not a playground, they meant to say; this is business."Technology has changed not only the way people do business; it has changed the way criminals do business too," US Attorney General Janet Reno explained in a press conference last week, contextualising the attacks in the prevailing American parlance of commerce.Her cause-and-effect analysis is backwards. Business has changed the way people do technology, and now the people are fighting back.Double-click and other   advertisers have no qualms about planting cookies on our hard drives and hacking or tracking us; maybe it's time they learnt what it feels like.Most well-known hackers have publicly distanced themselves from such denial of service attacks, calling them crude. Time magazine and other conglomerate-related outlets are only too willing to publicise these sentiments. But the fact is, this set of crude electronic pipe-bombs worked.They may be unsophisticated by hackers' standards,   un-American by the FBI's standards, and unsportsmanlike by free-market capitalist standards, but as far as changing public perception about the internet goes they were, at the very least, effective. Don't tell me that these attacks didn't make you give a second thought about the valuation of your Nasdaq portfolio.This month's attacks prove that the internet is not as impenetrable as the opaque interface of the world wide web might suggest.It reminds us that the online universe was developed with public funds, and that corporate America has been getting a free ride on a civic highway. They are guests, not landlords.It's also fascinating to watch how rapidly these Silicon Valley CEOs - outspoken advocates of smaller government and deregulation - run for protection under Janet   Reno's skirt now they are under attack.It will be public funds and resources that keep cyberspace safe for the techno-libertarians.Don't get me wrong: however much I'd like to, I can't condone cyber-terrorism. In the long run, we all pay for it. But the mere fact that our initial response is not one of fear, but rather of perverse joy, means that on some level we resent the companies that now dominate our information space.Rather than just looking for ways to shore up their defences, perhaps these companies should consider why they are under attack.&#149; Douglas Rushkoff is a professor of media theory at New York University. His book, Coercion: Why We Listen to What 'They' Say, will be published by Little Brown in April
Last week, 250 people crammed into London Business School's 'E-posium', a student-run enterprise fair dedicated to e-commerce. The week before, Cranfield Management School became 'the first in Europe', possibly the world, to make setting up a dot-com firm an integral part of students' MBA studies.After hitting big firms and consultancies, enterprise fever is now sweeping business schools and universities faster than a dose of Hong Kong flu. In the past year, LBS has spawned 10 businesses, some of them Internet-based, from its entrepreneurship courses and related start-up incubator.LBS, where entrepreneurship has just achieved parity with finance and strategy as a discipline in its own right, operates its own investment fund, Sussex Place Investment Management, which can share in the upside of the ventures created.Oxford and Cambridge are likewise in on the act. Oxford is planning its second Venturefest, an enterprise and innovation fair sponsored by heavyweights such as McKinsey and HSBC. Isis Innovation has produced a number of biotech start-ups, and the Said Business School has made new business development a major part of its MBA.Cambridge, New Labour's favourite enterprise model, is basking in applause for having landed an 'international enterprise partnership' with the US's Massachusetts Institute of Technology, set up with government backing of &#163;68 million.No one denies that the pace of development has been dramatically accelerated by Internet frenzy. 'Conventional approaches to research and teaching are too slow for Internet space,' says Gerard Burke, who developed the Cranfield project. 'We needed a new way to derive and disseminate knowledge quickly, and at the same time forge a leadership position.'To get its e-fledglings airborne Cranfield has set up an incubator which will provide access to third-party seed capital as well as other support for MBA entrepreneurs. In return it will take a small stake in their start-ups.Just a fad? The schools   accept that today's sky-high Internet valuations may be due an adjustment and that many of their Internet shooting stars will crash to earth - indeed, learning from failure, a small element in traditional courses, is an essential and salutary part of the experience. 'The first thing we impress on students is that an idea isn't the same as an opportunity,' says John Bates, who runs the LBS Foundation for Entrepreneurial Management.But the business schools are unanimous that, under the e-froth, something fundamental is changing. On the demand side, careers offices report that students no longer want to spend their careers working their way up through big corporations.And on the supply side, in business schools as in the economy as a whole, 'there's no question but that the time for entrepreneurship has come,' says Michael Hay, who set up the foundation.Historically, he says, entrepreneurship was the Cinderella of business studies, wrongly confused with the management of small businesses. But as Internet opportunities expand, it is coming into its own. The emphasis can only grow in the future as even large companies are forced to reinvent themselves along more entrepreneurial, Internet-enabled lines. 'Think of it as an underground river that has always been there,' says Hay. 'Now that it's had the strength to burst through to the surface, it won't go underground again.'For business schools, whose courses and products are running into increasing competition from internal company 'universities' and (ironically) the Internet, entrepreneurship is a godsend: it's slippery, it's difficult for companies to research and teach themselves - and it's something that everyone really, really wants.At Warwick Business School's centre for small and medium enterprises, Professor David Storey says that compared with North America, UK entrepreneurship initiatives, although growing, hardly register. Almost every developed country in the world is beating a path to the US to see how it's done.But it is still a 'hugely significant thing'. Storey argues - and aggregate figures don't contradict him - that past attempts to improve British management performance by formally training people already in business hasn't worked. 'The evidence that training reduces failure is very weak indeed,' he says.On the other hand, trying to influence people while they are in the education system seems a more promising   route. 'It's not a question of trying to convince everyone to set up their own firm - that's bizarre,' he says. 'But everyone should be aware of the entrepreneurial option.'Storey's prognosis is supported by LBS research which suggests that until now UK managers have been slow to spot opportunities.Remedying the entrepreneurship deficit would have a knock-on effect for the whole economy. 'Part of our problem in the past has been that bankers and advisers knew nothing about the entrepreneurial, small-business mindset,' notes Storey. 'But it's fundamentally different from   that of large firms. A small firm is no more a big one in miniature than a caterpillar is a scaled-down butterfly.'Cambridge is attracting praise for its innovative MIT link - even from normally jealous academics at competing institutions. 'Nowhere in the UK has there been a more successful clustering of science and business evolution, and the building of that into company formation,' says one. 'If it can learn from MIT's staggering success in generating firms that grow from small to large to world beating, it would be a massive benefit to the economy.'&#149;simon.caulkin@observer.co.uk
The chairman of Jellyworks, the Internet wonder stock, mysteriously walked away from a &#163;20 million profit on share options before he abruptly quit last week.The revelation comes amid questions over Jellyworks' investments, strategy and expertise. The firm floated on   the Alternative Investment Market just two months ago, but has soared on Internet fever since.Ed Guinan, 52, who left the company on Thursday, was entitled to 20 million shares at 10p each before January 31; the market price is 111p. But,  The Observer has established, he failed to take up the option and the chance to double the fortune he has already made.So far Jellyworks has been tight-lipped over Guinan's departure. Its broker, Fiske &amp; Co, also declined to shed any light on why he passed up the option. 'No comment,' said broker Deric Homes. He also stonewalled questions about a boardroom clash with the Barclay brothers, who have invested in the firm.Jellyworks' publicity machine made great claims about Guinan, an former US Toyota salesman-turned-Wall Street trader, and about co-founder Jonathan Rowland, the 24-year-old son of veteran City investor David Rowland.But  The Observer has established that most of Guinan's ventures listed in Jellyworks' prospectus have been less than successful. He left Transmedia, a restaurant payment-card operation, following poor   performance, according to ex-colleagues. Transmedia's UK operation accumulated losses of &#163;2.6m by 1998; Countdown, a discount card company, made losses of &#163;1.9m.A linked venture, Purchase Point, that aimed to supply restaurants online, never got off the ground. Guinan is understood to have raised funds for Purchase Point, but according to Companies   House, it has never traded.Fraser Milne, a water purifier supplier, made losses in 1996, the last accounts filed. The firm - which was owned by International Advance Inc, Guinan's Delaware-based holding company - was dissolved last year.Official filings also raise questions about one of Jellyworks' investments, MatchNet, a UK dating agency based   in Beverly Hills. MatchNet has raised over &#163;2m since 1998, but its UK website is still under construction and the two founders have sold most of their shares. A major shareholder in MatchNet is VMR, a German investment house, in which Jellyworks bought a &#163;21m stake last month.Neither Guinan nor Jonathan Rowland returned calls this weekend.
There is no better place to see the scale and immaturity ofAmazon.co.ukthan at its new distribution centre, Marston Gate, a warehouse with a solid, pedestrian design a world away from its voguish website. A 30-minute taxi ride from Milton Keynes train station, it is one of three grey monoliths on a building site just off Junction 13 of the M1. The warehouse is vast - about 250,000 sq ft - and has yet to be filled with items from the old warehouse in Slough. Next door, the JCBs are busy constructing another Amazon.co.uk warehouse twice the size. The current warehouse, however, still lacks a canteen.In many ways Marston Gate reflects the global operation, Amazon.com. Like the company, it is expanding so fast it can't keep up. Behind the sleek website and hype of e-commerce, there is a drab factory floor of a business, that needs to do such dull things as stack and post books, and even turn profits. Here, the seamlessness of the virtual world comes adrift.Last week the knives were out for Amazon, after the company was forced to admit a huge rise in losses and 150 redundancies at its distribution arm in the United States. If a company announces redundancies for 2 per cent of its workers, and has achieved a 543 per cent annual rise in its losses over the last quarter, one can be excused for thinking there's a problem.But Amazon is at the forefront of the school of e-commerce thinking that says that the more you're spending on marketing and developing your company - as opposed to declaring a profit - the better position you are engineering for yourself in the market. Last week it happily announced losses of $323 million; investors cheered and celebrated; the stock rose from $69.44 to as high as $79 in after-hours trading. But when the redundancies were (reluctantly) announced, the stock fell to $60.Few found the Internet madness of the first rise - or the slump that followed the redundancies - surprising. Amazon's history - the soaring stock, the relentless losses - epitomises the   story of e-commerce. The redundancies were to many the result of its trebling its stateside staff during the expansion of the past year, and, quite simply, doing a bit of housekeeping - growing up, so to speak.The current Amazon line, delivered with a taciturn confidence, is that the redundancies were part of an 'ongoing process of organisational review', and that we shouldn't draw any conclusions until the review is over. They'd diversified into selling DVDs, pharmaceuticals and DIY, and were now consolidating.Meanwhile, Amazon declared that it had finally broken into profit in book sales, despite the fact that books accounted for less than half of its sales in the last financial quarter. US books revenue has risen by 66 per cent in the past year; and net sales have increased by 169 per cent to $1.64 billion.Nevertheless, ran the rumours, if Amazon is sacking people, it has clearly miscalculated, and is struggling to make a flawed business model work. Such was the scope of Amazon's diversification that its ambition may   well have overreached itself. Rob Zegelaar, director of venture capitalist Atlas, is among those who believe Amazon's frantic diversification may have been a little unwise: 'It's not as knowledgeable about the new segments as it is about books. It will face fierce competition in these new areas.'Last week, Amazon chose to raise money by selling debts denominated in euros, giving investors greater security and securing a cash fund for the years ahead - one it will doubtless need.Amazon is already having to tackle the might of Bertelsmann's online bookstore,bol.com, and the associated m-commerce (mobile-based) competition that its merger with Vodafone will bring. But by undercutting its competitors on price, Amazon has retained an impressive market share. This served to strengthen its brand and made it the Net's first household name.However, it is unlikely that Amazon's prices will remain artificially low: the company has to adjust to a long-term presence in the consumer   market. 'Its margins were under pressure from day one,' says Zegelaar. He thinks investors are growing tired of consumer-oriented e-commerce, because it involves too many small transactions and high marketing costs. 'Amazon are suffering from this,' he says. 'The new interest is in business-to-business ventures.' Marketing costs are lower because the service has a smaller client base and a higher yield.So Amazon may have to change its working model. As Zegelaar suggests, it may have to split into several smaller, more focused companies (one for each product type, perhaps). These would be able to devote themselves exclusively to securing their own markets. It is as unlikely that the Amazon we see in two years' time will resemble the obsessively expanding hybrid of today, as it is that the company will be the 'Atari of the Internet age' - a dinosaur soon to be swept away by the next wave of leaner, e-commerce ideas. The brand and its market position are too strong.Dot.com companies repeatedly   emphasise that that profits are not a burning issue at this stage because money is constantly reinvested. Nevertheless, Brent Hoberman oflastminute.comdoes regard Amazon's breaking into profit within book sales, as important: 'It's a vindication of e-commerce. They've done it; they've proved it; they've taken market share from the established players. They are pulverising Barnes and Noble in that field.'It is important for both him and Amazon that e-commerce shows itself capable of turning a profits, if only to silence the growing crowd of sceptics. Hoberman sees little reason for Amazon founder Jeff Bezos to stop expanding while there are these online opportunities: 'Bezos would be stupid not to steal every march he can, and he's far from a stupid man.'But as the competition grows, those opportunities dry up. Few analysts doubt that Amazon will survive, and that its eventual model will become an industry blueprint. For this e-commerce can be grateful - Amazon will be learning lessons for the rest.
The 'denial of service' attack which broughtYahoo! to its knees last week prompted much editorial spluttering about the dangers of so-called hacking and e-terrorism. 'The fact that Yahoo! was taken down means,' said one alleged security expert, 'that nobody is really safe'. (Yahoo! is one of the biggest sites on the Web in terms of the number of virtual visitors it attracts every day.)Denial-of-service attacks attempt to overwhelm a server by flooding it with timewasting requests. Up to now they have been easy to detect and relatively simple to counter. But what made last week's attacks problematic was that the deluge of requests came not from a single source, but from about five sites around the Net. It was reported that at one point, the Yahoo! servers were trying to deal with bogus traffic reaching a thousand megabytes a second.The threat of such 'distributed coordinated attacks' has been well known and widely discussed for months, so it was only a matter of time before someone got their act together. The day after Yahoo! was hit, four other prominent sites were struck. The trouble is, the only way an e-commerce site can be completely safe is if it shuts down and disconnects from the Net, which rather undermines the case for getting into e-commerce in the first place.Then again, if lossmakers such asAmazonwent off-line for a while, think of all the money they would save! Maybe that will be the next twist in the dot.com spiral - companies shutting down their sites and seeing their share prices go even further through the roof.What the humiliation of Yahoo! demonstrates (not to mention the rout of,  whose share price has plummeted since its misguided attack on a group of Internet activists) is that the online community can be a fearsome opponent. The corporate suits and entrepreneurs who see cyberspace as the next Klondyke overlook this at their peril. The suits come from a culture where those with the most expensive lawyers and the deepest pockets tend to come out on top.But this doesn't hold on the Net, where the collective IQ of the programming community far exceeds anything the corporate world can muster. Most so-called 'hackers' are not much enamoured of the gold-rush mentality which is currently running riot in Wall Street and the City. Au contraire: many of them rather like the idea of the Internet as a meritocratic commons - what writer Richard Barbrook memorably called 'a high-tech gift culture' - rather than a capitalist jungle.So whenever the corporate world starts throwing its weight about on their patch, it can expect the same kind of trouble as brought Yahoo! down last Monday.&#149; A business asks me   whether he should be worried about the Net. I reply that unless he is an undertaker the answer is yes.As if to underscore the point, the Ford Motor Company has announced that anyone wishing to do business with it in future will have to do it via the Web. Daimler-Chrysler is following suit, and you don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand why. It costs these companies something like $65 to process a paper-based transaction, but they have to pay less than $5 for the online equivalent.Now the message has crossed the Atlantic. Shell Services International, for example, is putting all its procurement online. And National Power, having discovered that it was costing &#163;75 to purchase &#163;50 of stationery, is now buying online at an average cost per transaction of less than &#163;10.The time is rapidly approaching when the most fervid Internet evangelist in a company will be the purchasing manager.&#149;john.naughton@observer.co.uk
The German man who supplied the firepower for last week's attacks on major commercial websites says he did it for the good of the Internet.The 20-year-old from the Hanover area would only be identified as 'Mixter'. He said in an e-mail interview that he posted the devastating software and instructions on the Web four months ago.He denounced the use of his Tribal Flood Network package by unidentified hackers to attack at least seven major sites as 'stupid and pointless'. He said his motive was to aid security standards on the Internet.But Internet security chiefs denounced him as a 'bomb-maker' who had 'thrown a loaded gun into a room crowded with kids'.The FBI was last night continuing its hunt for those who planted Tribal Flood Network programs on hundreds of host 'zombie' computers, timed to flood the targets with messages.These are know as 'denial of service' attacks since they cause the target to crash under the volume of incoming traffic. They do not compromise data such as credit card details.The identity of the hackers, probably an organised group, who launched the attacks is unknown although a theory was that they were protesting against increasing political and commercial control of the Web, and the fortunes being made in Internet stocks. FBI investigators and   computer security experts traced the attack to two universities in California, a location in Oregon and one in Germany.A desktop computer at the University of California in Santa Barbara was used for Tuesday's attack on CNN while while on-line trader eBay was hit in part from an Internet router at Stanford University. In neither case were the university authorities aware of the use to which the equipment had been put.
The man who calls himself Mixter is a German who has been in trouble with the law, but claims to be on the side of the angels. He is the inventor of the cyberweaponry which last week brought chaos to at least seven of the world's most important websites.In an electronic interview with the New York Times,  Mixter, who identified himself only as a 20-year-old German from the Hanover area, said last week's attacks had been 'stupid and pointless'.He defended his publishing of the cyber disruption program 'Tribal Flood Network' on the Internet four months ago as a necessary step in the evolution of defensives measures which the Web must develop against the army of black-hat (malign) hackers motivated by mischief, spite, greed or, more honourably, by a desire to keep the Internet free from commercial and political control.While Mixter said he was 'not trying to play down the negative aspects and dangers of this decision', he called last week's attacks 'an inevitable price to pay to be able to develop counter-measures and fixes'.He said that security sites on the Internet were posting details which meant that 'everyone has an equal chance of informing himself about them and coming up with counter-measures'. This was 'only fair' because everyone on the Net could be affected by security issues.But security experts, and even other hackers, criticised his explanation as disingenuous. One said it was like 'leaving a loaded gun in a room full of kids'.Significantly, two of the computers believed to have been used to launch the 'denial of service' attacks - so called because they swamp target sites with millions of messages, causing them to crash - were located at universities in California, spiritual home of the Web as a liberating and democratic force.A desktop computer at the University of California at Santa Barbara was used for the attack on CNN on Tuesday, while eBay was hit the same day by data transmitted in part from an Internet router at Stanford University. Investigators were also 'zeroing in' on locations in Oregon. Another source was said to be a computer in Germany, since disconnected.The US Justice Department wants much tougher penalties for malign or mis chievous hacker attacks. FBI investigators - spurred on by the direct interest of President Clinton, who has called a 'summit' in Washington this week - are searching for the origins of the attacks.The 'cybervandals' planted 'daemons' (disk and execution monitors) on hundreds of unwitting 'zombie' computers. They were programmed to launch 'co-ordinated packet flooding denial of service attacks'.The US National Infrastructure Protection Centre posted a warning about 'Tribal Flood Network' earlier this month. It said it was 'highly concerned' because it had been reported on so many systems and appeared to be 'undergoing active development, testing and deployment'.Mixter is one of thousands of computer virtuosi who inhabit an ambiguous world in which good may masquerade as evil and vice versa.The computer industry has an established tradition of hiring 'tiger teams' of professional hackers who attack systems to test their security.But that tradition has grown to embrace unauthorised attacks in which programmers find a way to invade or cripple a system, publish the details of the vulnerability and often accompany them with software that exploits the weakness.The terms 'white hats', 'black hats' and 'grey hats' are used to classify hackers, but the lines are often vague.   White-hat hackers grew out of the tiger teams. Since the Seventies, a number of US government laboratories have deployed special groups of employees who try to bring down systems in 'digital war games'.Charles Palmer, manager of network security and cryptography at IBM Research, leads a squad of white hats who are paid by companies to attack their computer systems.'A white hat does it when asked, under contract, with a "Get out of jail free" card,'   Palmer said. 'We'll do the job, evaluate it, and tell the customer what we're doing.'The grey-hat hackers straddle both worlds, sometimes acting like malicious hackers but in pursuit of some greater good, real or imagined.Mixter says he is a grey-hat hacker who recently turned white hat. He said the conversion came when he crossed a few 'legal borders' in 1998 and 1999 and fell foul of German law officials.Now, Mixter said, 'I am a white hat, the definition meaning that I am trying to contribute to improving security by doing what I do, and completely acting within the law and hacking ethics.'Mark Rasch, a former federal prosecutor who is now a vice-president at Global Integrity, a computer security consulting firm in Reston, Virginia, said: 'There's always been a hacker ethos, and even the bad guys have thought there are some things you can do and some things that are off limits,'I think we've reached a point where this kind of activity is almost universally decried as being off limits.'Still, he added, even if Mixter had posted with the intent that attackers would use them, 'it's wrong, but probably not a crime'.A member of the hacker group Cult of the Dead Cow, who goes by the handle Death Veggie, condemned the attacks as 'digital vandalism'.'It doesn't take any skill, and it's purely destructive,'   Death Veggie said. 'Once a hacker starts becoming really destructive, they stop being a hacker and become a criminal.'Yet the Cult of the Dead Cow itself produced a program that enables a hacker to   control another computer from a remote location.Palmer consorts with such groups but refuses to recruit from their ranks, even if they claim to have gone straight. 'I don't hire reformed hackers because, let's just say, I've never really found one,' he said. 'It's like hiring an arsonist to be your fire marshal. Can you ever really sleep at night?'At the same time, Palmer occasionally attends Defcon, an annual three-day hacker gathering in Las Vegas. He said: 'A lot of these guys get enough money to keep them in pizza. So many of them are so talented and a lot of these kids are absolutely gifted.'Rasch, who was the lead prosecutor in a high-profile computer crime case from 1988-90, said he did not entirely agree with his former employer, the Justice Department, which is calling for stiffer penalties.'There isn't a single case that we can point to and say, "If only the penalties were greater, the person would not have done this",' he said.The denial of service attacks did not compromise data or sensitive commercial information like credit card details. But perceptions of Internet security took another hit on Friday when a small California Internet company said an unrelated hacker attack on its system last week had apparently gained access to consumer credit card numbers.RealNames, a business in San Carlos, California, said the extent of the damage was hard to assess because the attack had come through mainland China, and the connection appeared to have shut down while the hackers were downloading data.'Our best guess is that this was done by a traditional hacker, whose goal is not to steal but to prove that he has the ability to steal,' said RealNames chief executive Keith Teare, whose company sells an Internet address system.Clinton's summit is expcted to increase co-operation in a young industry that is growing fast but has not made security a priority. The industry, in turn, wants to give advice to federal regulators who are seen as too unsophisticated.Additional reporting by Katie Hafner of the New York TimesWhat drives the digital destroyersWhite-hat hackersSince the Seventies, government laboratories and some corporations have deployed special groups of employees who test computer security by trying to compromise a system or bring it down in 'digital war games'.Black-hat hackersAdhere to the philosophy that information should be free - including information about security weaknesses. For these people, 'breaking into a system or exposing its weaknesses is a good thing   because truth and knowledge must win out,' says Dan Farmer, a network security specialist.Grey-hat hackersThese straddle both worlds, sometimes acting like malicious hackers, but in pursuit of some greater good, whether real or imagined.Three days of web mayhemHackers paralysed seven service providers last week with a blizzard of signals.Monday:YahooTuesday:CNN, eBay, Buy.com, AmazonWednesday:E*Trade, ZDNet
'Dread' watches his PC boot up, then double-clicks his Internet service provider. He downloads a bulletin board for hackers and notes the day's latest tips. Minutes later, he's trying to rewrite the code for a university homepage, scribbling his name on the title page to prove his presence.'Tips on how to break into websites are all over the Internet,' he says. 'There are bulletin boards for them, discussion groups, chat rooms and web magazines. Almost all of them say the information is to be used solely for self-protection - rubbish. It's all there to be used.'Dread is 27, single, and working in the IT industry. His main targets are university sites. His motivation, he explains, is the sheer pleasure of knowing he can break into a site. Others have a more dangerous sense of mischief.The Internet, with its emphasis on free speech, undoubtedly encourages subversive behaviour and also provides access to hacking methodology.One revolutionary arm of the Internet is the bulletin board, where users swap gossip and expertise. Regularly updated information allows hackers to beat latest security measures.One bulletin board tells how to retrieve emails from Hotmail accounts. The instructions are easily discovered and downloaded and easy for even novice hackers to understand. Last year, Hotmail's global service was disrupted for five hours when hackers broke in, and closed it down. The ease with which even elaborate servers are infiltrated is worrying to those trying to implement security. 'Online security must be a priority for companies wanting to trade on the Internet,' says Jason Wu, head of NetFront Communications, a California-based security firm that provides privacy for firms who do business on the Internet.'Most of the hackers who have penetrated websites this week are amateurs,' he continues. 'None of them has resurfaced to boast   about their exploits and successes, which is really how professionals make a reputation for themselves. These hackers don't seem to have any agenda either. They just want to shut down the Internet to other people.'But these 'script kiddies' are increasingly chasing monetary gain. Last Christmas, CD Universe, a leading online music retailer, had its database of 300,000 accounts hacked into.The hacker demanded $100,000 in ransom. When the company refused, the hacker threatened to post its customers' credit card numbers on the Internet. The bank details of 25,000 stolen accounts were made available for free.Only the intervention of a service provider ensured the offending web page was removed from the Internet.
By the time you reach the Ikea megastore on the city outskirts, it is already abundantly clear that Pittsburgh has reinvented itself. The erstwhile crucible of US heavy industry, whose crumbling steelworks once embodied the term "rustbelt", has somehow become an urban flagbearer for the "new economy".The signs of radical change are everywhere. It is not just the Swedish furniture outlets and the other retail icons of middle-class prosperity. Alongside them in the Pittsburgh suburbs is a string of hi-tech firms drawn to the city over the past 10 years.Within a decade, Pittsburgh has been transformed from an industrial wreck to one of the leading "clusters" of computer-oriented companies considered the engines of long-term US growth.Pittsburgh is the fifth biggest producer of software in the country and markets itself as a "digital greenhouse", a centre for the emerging "system-on-a-chip" technology which is key to the miniaturisation of computer components.Driving into the centre from the surrounding Allegheny hills, there is visible proof that this is a new city rising out of the rubble of an older, discarded version. The art-deco skyscrapers erected by Pittsburgh's industrial dynasties - Carnegie, Mellon, Frick, Heinz and Westinghouse - still stand but several are home to management consultancies and "dot.com" firms.The furnaces which used to burn so brightly that planes travelling from New York to Chicago used them as a navigational aid, have gone cold and the city's air quality is cleaner than most other US cities of comparable size. It is one the city's selling points to the new breed of mountain-biking, hill-climbing internet entrepreneurs moving in.The old steel plants that remain along the banks of the city's three rivers are shells, used for warehousing vans, or partitioned into cheap floor space for small start-up companies. Sony has taken over an old Volkswagen plant.Less than 20 years ago, the city seemed consigned to the dustbin of industrial history. The recession of the early 80s destroyed the steel industry almost overnight. More than 80,000 steel jobs disappeared within 12 months in 1983."The recession hit Pittsburgh arguably harder than any city in America in terms of percentage of jobs lost. There was a real sense of crisis," Donald Smith, an economist at Carnegie Mellon university, said. "But the severity of the blow galvanised public opinion and public leadership."Mr Smith, who is director of the university's centre for economic development, believes that part of the reason for the city's renaissance has been the well-aimed intervention of the Pennsylvania state government, which set up organisations to finance and advise entrepreneurs.The other key to Pittsburgh's salvation lay in its industrial founders, who had endowed a string of universities. These were originally set up to soften Pittsburgh's hard edges, but have taken on the role of powerhouses, supplying skilled workers and new ideas.Carnegie Mellon has become a leading software research centre, specialising in computer security. Meanwhile, the University of Pittsburgh medical centre has become a world leader in organ transplants.Tim Parks, head of the Pittsburgh Regional Alliance, an association of local industries, said: "The intellectual capital of the universities and their research capacity gave Pittsburgh the basic tools for creating a 'knowledge economy'."Unemployment, which was well into double digits for much of the 80s is now about 4.5% - just above the national average. Ranked according to output per worker, the city lies behind only Seattle, Atlanta and San Diego. "The productivity gains are what's keeping growth going," said Mr Smith. "And it's not nearly played out - there is still room for improvement."Nevertheless, a slump in the hi-tech sector would hit hard."I don't think we've built a bullet-proof economy," Mr Smith conceded. "But it is a more stable economy and its a lot more recession-resistant than it was."
What does the bill allow the government to do?For the first time intelligence services and other agencies
would have the statutory power to intercept pagers, mobile and
satellite phones, and email, as well as private networks,
including office switchboards. Individuals or organisations may
also be required to provide the key or the plain text of encoded
internet communications if there were "reasonable grounds" to
believe these were related to criminal acts.What is the justification for the bill?Besides bringing regulations into compliance with the &lt;A
HREF="http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm199900/cmbills/
064/2000064.htm /" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;European convention on human
rights, the government says the bill will allow the police
and other agencies to keep up with sophisticated technology used
by criminal gangs. Paedophile networks, for example, were using
encryption to protect material on computers. The home office
said phone tapping enabled customs officers to seize 1.25 tonnes
of class A drugs during a recent 12-month period.Who will authorise warrants for surveillance?While the bill says that warrants for intercepting
communications would still be signed by cabinet ministers,
authorisation for other forms of surveillance would be given by
senior police officers or even local authority officials. The
bill sets up the post of covert investigations commissioner to
monitor the issuing of warrants and a complaints tribunal.What do civil liberties groups say?&lt;A
HREF="http://www.liberty-human-rights.org.uk/" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Liberty, the civil rights group, says the
European court of human rights has always emphasised the
importance of prior judicial sanction for warrants rather than
the authorisation by a politician or police officer. In their
current form, powers to recover encryption keys risk reversing
the burden of proof, it says, but overall it welcomes efforts to
introduce a consistent regulatory framework. Other groups are
more critical. Caspar Bowden, from the &lt;A
HREF="http://www.fipr.org/ecommpr.html/" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;
foundation for information policy research, said the law as
drafted was "impossible" and accused the government of ignoring
all the advice and lobbying it had received from the net
community over the past year.What is the situation in the US?The US equivalent to the British bill is the &lt;A
HREF="http://www.usdoj.gov/opa/pr/1999/September/408jmd.htm/"
TARGET="_NEW"&gt; communications assistance for law enforcement
act, which regulates electronic surveillance. The FBI has
been pressing for more surveillance powers which civil rights
group say exceed the 1994 law. Last year, the &lt;A
HREF="http://www.fcc.gov/" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;
federal communications commissiongranted further
surveillance capabilities requested by the FBI. The extra power
will allow police and other authorities armed with a court order
to obtain a mobile phone user's location at the beginning and
end of a call. The FBI will also be able to listen to
conversations between all parties to a conference call on
mobile and landline phones, even if some are no longer talking
to the target of the court-authorised wiretap.
