It looks like a great music service, and it's been in beta since March, I think. When you install the application, it downloads details of the entire music library -- currently 555,584 tracks in 41,281 albums by 12,924 artists -- as an 8MB file. The important thing is that there are also versions forNokia Series 60, UIQand Microsoft-based smartphones with at least 64MB. (Works with Windows 200/XP only.) Local incremental search is much nicer than being tied to an online system.Just one little problem:allTunesis being developed by the people fromAllOfMP3.com, the Russian service currentlyunder attack from the IFPI.Is alltunes compatible with allofmp3.com? Yes. Currently, all accounts that are available at alofmp3 may be accessed with alltunes. The items ordered with allofmp3 are downloaded with alltunes when it is started. You may use allofmp3.com accounts on alltunes.I guess you can think of allTunes as the next generation of Allofmp3 Explorer.So my questions are: Is anybody using it? How well does it work on a mobile (if at all)? And is the current attack on AllOfMP3.com's legal poisiton (see its statementhere) going to stop you from using it?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
They may not look as flash or as sexy as their modern, streamlined counterparts, but retro consoles are far from deceased. A whole underground of programmers is still churning out games for classic machines. The latest release from this subculture is role playing gameBeggar Princefor the Sega MegaDrive, Sega Nomad and the Sega Genesis, from themakersof Super Fighter Team. Yours for only $46, including shipping and handling (international rates may vary).You may want to reconsider before you contemplate sending your retro consoles to the car boot bin or to eBay.While you're on the retro kick, grab a copy ofConquer the Videogame Craze!(MP3 versionhere, from Dinosaur Gardens) for much-needed top tips on hot arcade sensations like Centipede, Dig Dug and the Pac Man family.Beggar Prince info viaAeropause.
Looking to create the ultimate HD gaming set-up? Two drool-inducing components have been shown-off at this week'sSociety for Information Displayexhibition in San Francisco. LG.Philips has its incredible100" HD LCD display, while Sharp is quite frankly defying logic with its brain-bamboozlingtwo-way LCD screenwhich displays two different images simultaneously to different positions in the room. Which means your other half can watch TV from the sofa while you play Gears of War on the beanbag in the corner.CNET has a videoof both screens in action.
ModelNissan Note 1.6 SVE (4-speed auto)Price&pound;13,395Top speed108mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.7secsConsumption40.4mpg (combined)CO2166g/km (road tax band E)At the wheelFormer Porsche owner, with tripletsOn the stereoThe Wheels on the Bus and other songsEn route forThe Science MuseumThey'd rather walkYour favourite footballerYou can tell by the name - that little touch of nonconformist whimsy - that this is a car that car people might describe as "segment-busting". It belongs to that burgeoning class of vehicle, alongside the Honda Jazz and the Fiat Idea, that is neither fish nor fowl, neither hatchback nor estate. It cannot easily be assigned to a slice in the pie-chart of automobile sales, at least not until segment-busting cars get their own segment.Such cars do have a few things in common. In each case the designers' main brief was clearly to scoop as much interior space out of as little exterior space as possible. So what if the result looks like half an avocado on wheels? It's good on petrol, easy to park and if you reconfigure the seats you can put a cow in it.The Nissan Note is a perfect example of the segment-busting genre - a sort of bloated hatchback, resembling a Micra shrink-wrapped in a new skin with some boxy luggage still strapped to the back. The Note is said to be shorter and lower than its contemporaries, but to have more space; in fact, it's meant to be bigger on the inside than on the outside. There are a few design eccentricities - knobbles on the headlights, high-mounted, wavy tail-lights, big goofy mirrors - bolted on to give it character, or perhaps so you can find it in a big car park. It's a busy little family car for busy little families, and it fulfils this function so completely that when I picked up my kids from school they behaved as if we'd owned it for years.The segment-busting car generally features a few novelties, some pragmatic, others deeply silly. In the Note's case, the rear seat bench slides back and forth, so you can opt for boot space or legroom. The boot itself has a two-piece false floor that you can remove to make it deeper, but it's unclear what purpose is served by the shallower option, and you're left with the problem of what to do with the pieces of floor once you've taken them out. Some models come with an "intelligent key" system, which I was not intelligent enough to master, but apparently you can open and start the car without the key, so long as it is on your person. Frankly, if you're in such a hurry that you haven't got time to pat your pockets, you're going to need a faster car.A car like this comes with a certain reverse snobbery. If you resent the SUVs and luxury automobiles that blight your inner-city roads, driving a Nissan Note is tantamount to wearing a badge that says: "I Am Urban. I don't need a car that's designed to negotiate difficult terrain, or one that holds more people than my flat. I just need something to get me up the road to buy this week's copy of the New Statesman." The Note is designed to appeal to men in a way that segment-busting cars generally do not, but I don't imagine Jeremy Clarkson has ordered his yet.Don't get me wrong. I think SUV-owning, city-dwelling alpha males should be made to drive cars like this, perhaps as part of a community punishment order for parking infractions. A special liveried fleet of them could be commissioned in the same scuffed-up-pound-coin shade as the one I drove, so that when offenders were stopped at traffic lights, other motorists could roll down their windows and shout, "Nice Note, mate! What colour d'you call that?" and they would have to answer, "It's called, erm, caffe latte."Perhaps, after a year or so, such men would get used to driving around in their new snub-bonneted, fat-arsed cars. They would realise that driving is not a sport, or a way of displaying status. They would see that driving is, much like life, little more than a series of futile errands. They would learn to admire the Note's slight lack of pep, the excellent visibility afforded by its large mirrors and high driving position, and the ease with which it navigates narrow urban roads. They would see that, in the end, a car like the Note actually makes driving less of a chore, not just for the owner but for other road users as well. Eventually, they would realise how selfish they had been all those years, and then resolve to do more charity work and pee sitting down out of consideration for their wives.The question is whether we need a car that makes city driving easier. I have always imagined that many urban SUVs actually spend a lot of time in their precious parking spaces because they're so unwieldy and generate so much opprobrium, whereas the Note's modest dimensions make it ideal for journeys of 100 yards or less. At least it got me out of the house.&middot;Giles Smith is away.
My legs are still sore from racing at the weekend. As you get older, one of the things you notice is that the recovery takes a little longer. But at 40, I should still have a few years left in me. Saturday's race was won by Malcolm Elliott, who, at 44, showed a clean pair of wheels to a field in which there were plenty of riders whom he is old enough to have fathered.When I first got into cycling, Elliott was king: a winner of the Milk Race and the Kelloggs Tour, he was one of the few domestic riders to make an impression on the continent - winning the sprinter's jersey in the 1989 Tour of Spain. His comeback illustrates a theory of mine, that there are two kinds of professional cyclist.On retirement, one sort locks the bikes in the garage and throws away the key. In the old days, they would open a bar or a shop; now, with more money in the bank, they'll buy a farm or go into business. Either way, nothing to do with bikes. And it's hard to blame them: after 15 or 16 years in which a seven-hour training ride or a 200km race in freezing rain was just another day at the office, that might be enough cycling for any of us.But then there are the types for whom the fitness that comes with racing is compulsive, the competition addictive. They retire as pros, but they can't give it up. That great Irish rider of the 1980s, Sean Kelly, still turns a pedal in anger now and again. In my part of the world, Sean Yates - at 46 still as whippet-lean as the day he won the yellow jersey in the Tour de France in 1994 - takes time off from his duties as assistant "directeur sportif" for Lance Armstrong's old team to show amateurs like me what racing really means. For my generation, this is like kicking a ball about the park on a Sunday only to discover that you're supposed to be marking John Barnes.And it's not only the ex-pros who are reluctant to hang up their wheels - there's a whole geriatric racing scene out there. I belong to an organisation called (I kid you not) the League of Veteran Racing Cyclists. Veteran here just means 40 and over, but there are guys still racing in their 60s and beyond - none of them slouches. And what's to stop them? Unlike soccer, cycling doesn't take such a toll on knees, ankles and groins. Looking around a room full of these "vets" is a bit like a game of exquisite corpse - grey heads and bald pates grafted improbably on to lithe, athletic bodies that would not disgrace a 20-year-old.It can be a bit dispiriting to keep getting stuffed in races, year after year, by the same old faces. But then again, there's something reassuring about it as well.&#183;On Your Bike! The Complete Guide to Cycling by Matt Seaton is published by Guardian Books, &pound;16.95.
Russian download site AllOfMP3 offers Massive Attack's best-of album at around &pound;2, massively undercutting Apple's iTunes which, at 79p per track, would price the album at &pound;11.07. A quick check on Amazon shows that the CD - with superior sound quality, all artwork and a bonus CD - can be bought legally for &pound;8.65.How can the music industry justify charging these prices for digital licences when it is considerably cheaper to get more for your money and buy a CD? Apple takes 27.5p of the 79p a track, while the band's record company take 51.5p. The band then receives 8-14% of that 51.5p (between 4.12p and 7.21p - less than 10% of the price of the track).If Apple, the band and the record company all made 7.21p a track, then tracks would cost 21.6p, making Massive Attack's album &pound;3.03 to download - substantially cheaper than a CD and cheap enough to tempt people to switch from illegal music download sites.Tom HandysidesHertford
"Google Spreadsheets, released in beta today, is being touted in both the print and online media as a challenger to the ubiquitous Microsoft Excel - part of Google's mythical 'Office killer' suite of online applications. The New York Times headline runs 'Google Takes Aim at Excel.' CNET says, 'Google Spreadsheets turns up heat on Excel.' John Battelle is more blunt, summing up the move as Google's way of saying FU, MSFT," writes Nick Carr in a post headedGoogle's Office add-on."This view, while understandable, strikes me as being a complete misreading of Google's intent. What, after all, is the single most important feature of Google Spreadsheets? The single most important feature - by far - is its compatibility with Excel. You can export an Excel file into Spreadsheets and import Spreadsheets data into Excel. Spreadsheets is not an alternative to Excel so much as an extension or an add-on to the program, one that, in essence, provides a simple web interface to the Microsoft application. To put it into terms I've been using recently, Spreadsheets is a complement to Excel. It actually makes Excel more useful - and hence more valuable. Let me repeat that: Spreadsheets makes Excel more valuable."Joe Wilcox weighs in on Jupiter Research's Microsoft Monitor withsimilar points:News media will be gaga with Google competing with Microsoft stories--two juggernauts set to collide. Yeah, right. I'd be shocked if Google ever released a Web browser, operating system or desktop productivity suite. Those markets aren't core to Google's business, contrary to speculation among news sites and bloggers.Microsoft's Don Dodgehas a bit of fun with it, pointing out that Google's spreadsheet is more likely competition for free offerings from the open source movement, such as OpenOffice.Google declares war on open source? Ho ho. But it still makes more sense thanThe New York Times.However, the prize goes to Wilcox's colleagueDavid Cardfor putting it through Jupiter's "Google initiative evaluator(score of 1 to 3: competitive disadvantage to core competency and leverage):"- Search affinity: zero - Habitual usage: zero - Platform potential: one - Marketplace leverage: zero - Leading to a net Google focus of: zero
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The never-knowingly-undersold Chinese news agency Xinhua is reporting that a team ofChinese scientists has solved Poincaré's Conjecture, one of the longest-outstanding mathematical problems that is also reckoned to be capable of solution.Two Chinese mathematicians, Zhu Xiping and Cao Huaidong, have put the final pieces together in the solution to the puzzle that has perplexed scientists around the globe for more than a century.The two scientists have published a paper in the latest U.S.-based Asian Journal of Mathematics , providing complete proof of the Poincaré Conjecture promulgated by French mathematician Henri Poincaré in 1904.But it's not as though they did it in their lunch hour, or indeed on a single side of A4. This has taken them years, after others worked on it - and achieved part solutions - for decades.Harvard mathematics professor Shing-Tung Yau, winner of the Fields Prize, said the excellent job done by Zhu and Cao was the final strike on a global collaborative work for a complete proof.Now it's at about this time that you start looking at the ceiling and saying "What was Poincaré's Conjecture again?" Come on, you remember - if in a closed three-dimensional space, any closed curves can shrink to a point continuously, this space can be deformed to a sphere.Got that? No? All right, here's the more easily understood version from theClay Mathematics Institute's Millennium Prizewebsite:If we stretch a rubber band around the surface of an apple, then we can shrink it down to a point by moving it slowly, without tearing it and without allowing it to leave the surface. On the other hand, if we imagine that the same rubber band has somehow been stretched in the appropriate direction around a doughnut, then there is no way of shrinking it to a point without breaking either the rubber band or the doughnut. We say the surface of the apple is "simply connected," but that the surface of the doughnut is not.Poincaré, almost a hundred years ago, knew that a two dimensional sphere is essentially characterized by this property of simple connectivity, and asked the corresponding question for the three dimensional sphere (the set of points in four dimensional space at unit distance from the origin).However, the claim doesn't amount to a proof. Even the publication doesn't amount to a proof. Only once it has been chewed over by mathematicians will we have confirmation on whether the conjecture has truly been solved.In fact, they're still chewing over a possible solution proposed in 2003 by Grisha Perelman, a Russian mathematician, which many have thought would prove to be true. (He'd already solved some special cases of the conjecture.)You're also wondering: what use is it? Well, Perelman seems to be active in string theory. If the conjecture is right, perhaps we'll be able to put a rubber band around the universe. Or not. Which would tell us what shape it is, which might in turn tell us.. something more useful.You can read the rest of theClay Millennnium challenges, but some do take degree-level maths even to begin to understand. Not like good oldFermat's Last Theorem, where any GCSE-level maths student could understand the problem, but only amathematician at the top of his gamecould hit the solution. (Which is: It's true. But you have to show your working. Still, it did bring the phrase "Taniyama-Shimura Conjecture" to deserved popularity.)You may also ask: what's this to do with technology? Well, it's got doughnuts in it, which are always popular with the geekerati. Plus we're sure this news will soon be followed by the release of Google Conjecture, a desktop program that will see whether you can slide rubber bands off differently-shaped objects drawn on your screen. And that will be closely followed by Microsoft Live! Bandstretcher, which will show you 3D graphics of rubber bands stretching. And a week later, Yahoo! will open a portal to the stock prices of differently-shaped rubber bands. We can hardly wait..
Here's adesparate and unimaginativesurefire way of grabbing some publicity for your Internet-distributed PC game: make it extremely controversial and hope the tabloids bite. This, I'm sure, is the reasoning behind Drug Overlord a strategy shooter in which you must protect your illicit plantation against waves of government forces. From today's press release:"...as your crop yields get higher and your weapons more sophisticated the federalies will be bringing all kinds of mean and nasty tanks, troopers, and arial assaults. Only a skilled marksman and a smart businessman will be able to survive the onslaught."I think there may well be a decent'serious game'to be made here, perhaps looking into the morally fraught domain ofAfghanistan's opium industry, but then that wouldn't provoke the required tabloid knee-jerk.Well okay, developerShoot First Gameshas exhibited akindof twisted genius in combining Harvet Moon with Redneck Rampage, but its probably not something that should be enouraged.
Technology can be great, but sometimes it takes away a little piece of history. In last Friday's Guardian, Tim de Lisle told the story of the demise of the gig ticket, which is being slowly replaced by mobile barcodes.How do we keep track of those little moments of our lives,he wondered:Tickets are humble, democratic, unpretentious. And they do the job, twice over: afterwards, they transport you back to the show as efficiently as they got you into it in the first place. Memory needs only a jog and there's something magical about the way a clerical little item can conjure up a pulsating night.So he's not likely to be pleased with the figures just published by mobile firm O2, who say they've sold more than £100,000 worth of "mobile tickets" for the upcoming Wireless Festival in London... basically bar codes texted to phones, and then shown to security to get you through the gates.Here's the corporate speak:"The success of O2's Mobi-tickets at the UK's first large-scale event demonstrates how music fans are truly embracing mobile as a means to enhance their overall festival experience," said Paul Samuels, the head of sponsorship at O2 UK.The same is happening with train tickets - over the years I amassed a huge selection of tube and train tickets for various journeys, marking various important dates and happenings. Now, however, things like the RFID-driven Oyster card mean you simply lose the physical evidence of your journey.But is this carping all just unneccessary sentimentality? Should we weclome our new technological overlords?
In Amsterdam at least, gaming addiction is considered as critical as heroin and cocaine problems.Aeropausereports that Smith &amp; Jones Addiction, based in the most infamous town in the Netherlands, has set up a special eight-bed centre for teenagers who can't control their playing habits. Compulsive gamers will be treated in a similar way as they treat alcoholism, drug and gambling addictions at their Wild Horses Centre. Think 12 step.Their blurb on gaming reads like classic 1930s filmReefer Madness:Many of these individuals have neglected family, romance, school, and jobs; not to mention their basic needs such as food and personal hygiene... all for a video or computer game. [...] What really worried us was that some of the cases we saw were as young as 8 years old. [...] In addition to obsessive thoughts and neglect of important life matters, gamers are often addicted to stimulants such Red Bull, coffee, cigarettes, soft drugs, speed, and eventually even cocaine. [...] Gaming can be a serious addiction and can even lead to death...The aim is to get some gamers to give up gaming forever. Pretty severe stuff. Taking away a gamer's library of games would be like taking away a reader's library of books, or a film buff's library of DVDs. Most games, like these other forms of media, are discrete entities. Unfortunately, they're not as well-regarded, and are vilified.My fear is that Smith &amp; Jones' approach pathologises gaming not because of pathological symptoms but because it is misunderstood. For example, their page explains,We began to see a need for such attention in this area in 2005, when a small number of clients being admitted into the WILD HORSES CENTER for drug and alcohol addictions were also telling us about their compulsive gaming behavior. This was new to our staff. We had never heard of people spending up to 16 hours on a game trying to "level up".Firstly, it's already pathologising gaming by associating their understanding of it with drug and alcohol addiction. Secondly, they're not giving us enough information. Was this 16 hour process all done in one go? Over a period of days? Thirdly, they don't explain if their gaming addicts are compulsive with one game, one type of game or all games. If they're talking about online games, then they should be explicit about it, rather than lumping them all into the same category. This lack of specificity just feeds the general public opinion about gaming and jumps on a bandwagon of fear-mongering. Fourthly, they associate "Xbox, Counter Strike, Quake and EverQuest" with "young people". Can't older folks be obsessed with games?While I have no doubt that Smith &amp; Jones are trying to help what they feel is an important problem in a place which has its fair share of problems, their categorisation of "game" is short-sighted and ill-informed. More material on their definitions and consequences of gaming addition is available of Smith &amp; Jones'website. I particularly like their choice of screenshots.
Backwards compatibility has worked its way back into the agenda recently. Last week, Microsoft bigwig Peter Moore caused a bit of an upset by claiming that "Nobody is concerned anymore about backwards compatibility". Hmm, I bethedoesn't have all his consoles stuffed in the corner of the living room causing a quite terrifying pile-up of wires.His comments came duringan interview with US game site Kikizo, in which he also criticised Sony's decision to build the expensive Blu-ray drive into PS3 and ridiculed the company's talk of 1080p resolution gaming. But that's a different story...Anyway, itseemsSonyistaking backward compatibility seriously. According to Japanese magazine Ultra One, the company is including a PS2 chipset in PS3 - at least until engineers can figure out how to get an emulator working.So, when you go next-gen - if you haven't already - will you still be planning to play your old non-high definition games? There are always a couple of classics worth keeping hold of. For example, I still have my PSone copy of Bust A Move 2 - it has a purity that later, more feature-packed editions have lost.
Relentless anti-videogame campaigner, Jack Thompson, has madeheadlinesin the States again. Last week, the Florida lawyer contacted police in St. Francisville, Louisiana, to suggest that a recent murder in the area may have been influenced by a videogame in the Grand Theft Auto series.In the incident, two teenagers are charged with shooting 55-year-old Michael Gore in the face when he refused to let them borrow his car. According to the report on Louisiana'sAdvocatewebsite, Thompson told police that the gruesome details of the crime "raised a red flag" in his head. He felt the incident resembled a 'scenario' in GTA. Acting on his comments, police searched the home of one of the teenagers, 16-year-old Kurt Edward Neher, and found several Mature-rated games. The report doesn't mention if the relevant GTA title was among them.While Thompson appears convinced of a link between the game and the crime (allegedly commenting that "Nobody shoots anybody in the face unless you're a hit man or a video gamer"), the local sheriff was not so convinced. "I think it goes beyond video games, but who's to say?" he told reports before adding that the question of videogame violence was, "more of a debate for the living room rather than the courtroom."This, of course, is unlikely to deter Thompson who has targeted GTAseveraltimesin the past.
In his heyday, Ryan Pitylak was one of the world's worst spammers. Twenty-five million messages a day - the kind offering mortgages and debt counselling - made him a tidy profit and a fearsome reputation among his peers. But he fell foul of the CAN-SPAM act in the States and had to sell his house, car and more to pay his $1 million fine and substantial legal bills.Now he's back, as a self-proclaimed "anti-spam activist" andblogger- and wants to advise companies onsecurity matters.The 24-year-old from Texas (profiledhere in the Chicago Tribune) says he has turned over a new leaf, and now wants to right the wrongs created by spammers. His blog, which promises to lift the lid on an industry "veiled in secrecy" does make for some interesting reading... there are posts about the playboy lifestyle of "alpha male" spammers, and notes on identifying spam. But here's his latest missive:"I am pleased to announce that I am now a part of the anti-spam community, having started an internet security company - Pitylak Security - that offers my clients advice on systems to protect against spam. Over time I have come to see how I was wrong to think of spam as just a game of cat and mouse with corporate email administrators. I now understand why so much effort is put into stopping it."Not everyone's so convinced by this turnaround. Graham Cluley of Sophos isn't sure that people want to work with a poacher-turned-gamekeeper."Spammers like Pitylak have shown themselves to be prepared to break the law in their eagerness to pump out unwanted marketing messages. Some companies may feel uncomfortable about working with someone who has shown a history of behaving unethically, without caring about the consequences for other internet users."What do I think? I certainly believe people can change their minds, but I wouldn't be the only one who remained suspicious of such a Damascene conversion as this. But my incredulity is stretched even more bythis proclamationjust a few months back: "I focus most of my academic time on issues related to the poor in developing countries. Many differnet aspects of the economy affect the poor (globalization for example) and a better understanding of these issues might lead to less people living in extreme poverty."The irony that this man, who spent so much time of his time trying to trick people who were in financially desperate position, is interested in solving extreme poverty, is almost too much to bear. Let's hope leopards do change their spots.
How was the weekend?
The gods of product placement will be smiling down on this one. At this year'sDownload Festival,home of rock, long hair and poncy pouts, fans of bands like Metallica, Guns N' Roses and the Prodigy will be able totake to the stagebetween acts to show off their finest fret action on the award-winning PlayStation2 game Guitar Hero.The title, which is frequently forced upon visitors to my home, demands that players strum and gurn to favourites from Franz Ferdinand, Ozzy, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Bowie and Queen using a special Gibson guitar controller. Everyone - from fans of Joni Mitchell to Celtic Frost - loses themselves to this game. A truly awesome piece of software.FromGamesindustry.biz:Guitar Hero performances will take place every day on the Third Stage between the main acts, and members of the public who register in advance will can reserve a performance. There may be limited opportunities for walk-up performances during the day.If you're going to be in Castle Donington this weekend getting your rawk on and fancy pounding the boards with some of the greats, register by sending an email toguitarhero@bhpr.co.uk.
Websites as graphsuses Java and was wirtten by a guy who plays in a band calledPhebus. ("We have just released our fourth album. The album is called Iceland Chronicles.") There's an example image atTinyScreenfuls.
The BBC's series on happiness is winding down this week with a look at the future, featuring yours truly, on Wednesday night at 7pm GMT, BBC2. The topic I contributed to covers whether people can actually find happiness via the internet. Check out thewebsitefor details, and say hi to my Second Life avatar in the screengrab!
"Nokia has ported the Apache webserver to Symbian, in order to enable mobile phones to serve content on the World Wide Web. Many mobile phones today have more processing power than early Internet servers, suggesting that "there really is no reason anymore why webservers could not reside on mobile phones," according to the company. The technique could also be used on Linux mobile phones," reports Ziff'sLinuxDevices.com.This is theRaccoon project.Nokia says it installed its experimental port, initially, on a Nokia 6630, which it then accessed over a Bluetooth PAN (personal area network). This proved somewhat useful, in that it brought "the possibility of accessing functionality on the phone using a big screen and proper keyboard." However, the project's goal was to enable access to the phone of the cellular network. This proved challenging due to firewalls explicitly deployed by operators to prevent such access.
Mark Pilgrim, the writer and programmer behind the Dive Into Mark blog, recently published a list of things he bought this weekend, including a Lenovo (IBM) ThinkCentre M52 with an IBM staff discount. As he notes in hisBye, Applepost:Astute readers will notice that this marks the end of my 22-year love affair with Apple. I actually went to the local Apple store this weekend -- checkbook in hand -- to decide between the new Mac mini, MacBook, and MacBook Pro. I walked out without buying any of them. Bye, Apple. Thanks for the memories.Naturally this created a minor storm in the local teacups, and he returned to the topic inWhen the Bough Breaksto explain what pushed him over the edge. Partly it's because he's using open source products that are better than Apple's limited offerings (Safari, iChat, QuickTime. iTunes, iPhoto etc) and partly because he wants to keep his data for 50 years, not have problems with Apple's proprietary formats -- even if that's just metadata. For example:I loved iPhoto until my iPhoto database got corrupted one day, and I lost all my ratings, keywords, and albums because that information is stored in an undocumented binary black hole. Yeah yeah, I know about AlbumData.xml. That has its own problems, and in my case it was already corrupted by the time iPhoto noticed.The resulting debate currently stands at 81 comments, many of them interesting.Incidentally, the Bye, Apple post says Mark bought "areal fucking keyboard, which I found via links from other bloggers. OK, technically it's called the Customizer 104/105 Black." However, you don't have to switch to get a usable keyboard for a Mac: there's theMatias Proavailable in the UK from MacHeaven. (But that may not be a solution if your crappy Apple keyboard is in your notebook....)
You plan to spend the day watching tennis at Wimbledon. Before setting off, you type 'SW19' into a website, which, while you are on your way, sends you a text message: 'Rain coming your way.' You decide tennis is not such a good idea and go to the Tate instead.Since the days of Michael Fish and stick-on black clouds, weather forecasting has never been an exact science, but a new service promises the world's first 15-minute forecast, tailored to your personal location. The website netweather.tv is to offer subscribers SMS text warnings of imminent downpours, sensitive to within a few miles and updatable every quarter of an hour.'If you're putting the washing out to dry, or thinking of having a barbecue, an SMS rain warning will make your life a lot easier,' said Paul Michaelwaite, managing director of netweather.tv.Among the potential beneficiaries are farmers, mountaineers, ticket holders at festivals such as Glastonbury, and, of course, tennis spectatorsNetweather.tv will receive an update every 15 minutes from the Met Office's network of 14 radar stations, which senses rain in the sky and gauges its intensity. Michaelwaite said: 'It's not a long-range forecast or a complex one; it's reporting what's happening at the time, so accuracy is not an issue.' The monthly subscription is likely to be around &pound;4.50.Once they have entered a postcode, weather-watchers can request alerts when rain is still fully 30 miles away.
Brian Jones, who looks after the XML file formats in Microsoft Office, hascommented on his blogabout the PDF spat with Adobe (below). He says: "In order to work around this, it looks like we're going to offer it as a free download instead. At least that way it's still free for Office users." He adds:This really is one of those cases where you just have to shake your head. Adobe got a lot of goodwill with customers, particularly in government circles, for making PDF available as an open standard. It's amazing that they would go back on the openness pledge. Unfortunately, the really big losers here are the customers who now have one extra hassle when they deploy Office.This is also surprising to me given that certain governments have viewed PDF as being more open than Open XML, yet Open XML is now proceeding through Ecma and there is a clear commitment from Microsoft that it will not sue anyone for using the formats. Anyone can build support for our formats, and we've already seen people starting to do this today (a couple weeks ago I actually referred toa demo we saw from the Novell folkswhere they had a prototype of a product using the Office Open XML formats). I don't think this was the intention, but Adobe seems to be saying that PDF is actuallynotopen (or that it is open for some, but not for others). I'm not sure that any of those government policy make[r]s could justify this outcome.Comment: Is this a reference to the hypocrisy of the European Commission? Surely not!Background: The standards for Office Open XML File Formats are being established by theEcma International Technical Committee (TC45), which includes representatives from Apple, Barclays Capital, BP, The British Library, Essilor, Intel, Microsoft, NextPage, Novell, Statoil and Toshiba, among others. Meetings have been hosted by Apple and the British Library. Seehttp://openxmldeveloper.org/Update: Brian Jones has now posted aFollow-up on PDF legal issues, to "help to clear up some of the speculation I've seen out there".Comment: I'd also like to spell out that Office 2007's PDF support is a one-way operation: Save. As Micrososft's Cyndy Wessling sayshere: "We are neither shipping a special viewer nor doing any work to make PDF files readable or editable by the Office applications." Under the circumstances it would be silly for Microsoft not to follow the standard. The sole aim is for PDF files produced by Office to be readable by other people's PDF readers.
Time to catch up? For the whole week's posts in a single page, clickhere.Highlights include:Apple loses case against bloggersJaron Lanier on the stupidity of the hive mindHow to comment (and please do)MIT's $130 one-per-child due in April 2007
The website for Jack White's garage pop supergroup the Raconteurs (theraconteurs.com) looks like a the opening screen of a primitive 1980s arcade game, and rather than clicking around with your mouse, you type and press the space bar to navigate. If a visit leaves you feeling in the mood for retro gaming tomfoolery, you might like to loiter atuncleclive.co.uk, which worships at the feet of Sir Clive Sinclair. Meanwhile,midishrine.comservices all your soundtrack needs, providing some interesting biographies on composers of game music;classicgaming.comhas a museum of old games (including instructions and covers), from such vintage computers as the good old Commodore 64, while ads for some can be seen atvintagecomputerads.com. Finally, give your new laptop a 1981 arcade makeover atmame.net.
Wedding BettingThat year 2000 phenomenon Hot or Not, in which visitors rated your photo out of 10, has spawned dozens of sites from the lewd to the daft. The latest twist on the format, Wedding Betting, is possibly the cruellest for those who have submitted their pictures - or had their pictures submitted on their behalf. Based on a photo of a couple, we are invited to rate how long their marriage will last, from "barely past the altar" to "happily ever after" and all points in between. Immediately after clicking on your selection, you find whether the other bastards on the internet with nothing better to do agree.weddingbetting.comBlue CatIt looks very unlikely that there will be a third series of Channel 4's magnificent medical comedy Green Wing, but there is a feature film Christmas Special. How do we know this? Because one of the writers, James Henry, has a blog - and a very funny one it is too. As well as information on Green Wing, Blue Cat offers us a view into the inner world of being a comedy writer, including meetings with top TV executives who ask questions such as "Who are you?" There's also advice on how to spot an evil agent, pictures of robins and the tale of his mum's dog disembowelling a baby rabbit in front of a group of small children.jamesandthebluecat.blogspot.comWe Feel FineHere is a beautiful thing that you can accept on a number of levels: as something pretty-looking to muck about with, as affirmation that the internet is overflowing with babbling fools or as a piece of art. Very cleverly, Jonathan Harris and Sepandar Kamvar have set up a system that searches for the words "I feel" and "I am feeling" across the world's numerous blogs and, when combined with details of location, age, gender and even local weather conditions, it results in a peculiar world map of emotion. The "madness" setting results in thousands of coloured balls bouncing around your screen and you can also see, for example, what photos people who are feeling happy are uploading - cats, flowers and shoes seem to do it for most.wefeelfine.org
TuesdayCultural stereotypes in gamesGod gamesVodafone head of content attacks 'dire' mobile gamesWednesdayNintendo launches new brand for casual gamers360 dashboard demoUser-generated content: the future of gaming?Real-life MarioWomen bring manners to online gamingThursdayForward to the pastComebacks and controversy"Game Boys" movieNintendogs celebrated by PETAPS3: the controller, the communityFridayTurn off your console!Lost Planet, lost interest?WoW chatHoliday brain training
I'm going on holiday next week and was planning to have a few days away from games. Normally the handhelds are one of the first things in the suitcase but as this is my first holiday as a dad it seemed only fair to leave Animal Crossing and Champ Manager PSP at home. The old, "it's my job" excuse won't cut it on holiday. Plus I want to stave off impending arthritis for a little longer - in 30 years time doctor's surgeries will be overflowing with aged gamers and their aching appendages. ButBrain Trainingarrived today and ruined my plans. I've been perversely looking forward to this ever since I got 8x6 wrong whilst playing on the E3 show floor. I blamed jetlag at the time but Dr Kawashima was having none of it, accusing me of having a brain age of a man much older than my 33 years. Yup, the DS and Brain Training are packed and ready to go.
Microsoft had been planning to support Adobe's PDF format in Microsoft Office -- it's already supported by Macs and OpenOffice.org -- but Adobe is now forcing Microsoft to withdraw it, according toThe Wall Street Journal(paid sub required). Its source is Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel. The story says:Adobe wants Microsoft to remove the feature and offer it separately for a fee. Microsoft has agreed to remove the feature but is unwilling to charge for it, Mr. Smith said."Adobe has threatened antitrust action unless Microsoft agrees to raise its prices, in particular for the software that would allow Microsoft Office users to save a document in the Adobe PDF format," he said.Since Adobe claims PDF is sort of open, it's not clear why. However, the WSJ says "Adobe declined to clarify its exact objections to Microsoft's use of the specifications."Microsoft has already developed what is potentially an open standards based cross-platform replacement for PDF in itsXPS (XML Paper Specification)format.Comment: Presumably Adobe realises that stopping Microsoft from supporting PDF will encourage it to develop a superior alternative. Is its long-term strategy to collect a few billions in anti-trust damages instead? Well, some might think it wouldn't be the first company to take that route....Correction: Error removed. Many thanks to Larry Seltzer for pointing this out in a comment (below).
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Forget PS3 or Wii, for 6 million plus World of Warcraft players the release ofBurning Crusadewill be the gaming highlight of 2006. Are Blizzard feeling the pressure? I chatted to Itzik Ben Bassat, VP Business Development and International to find out.How surprised were Blizzard by the success of WoW?We very grateful for the success. We worked for years and years on the game and we felt we had something really good on our hands. When we started playing ourselves and on the friends and families alpha we realised it was good. A friend of mine had never played games before and I got him to try WoW in alpha. After two weeks he said he liked the game but he would never pay subscription for it. So when the game was released I sent him a boxed copy. He got disconnected when the month's free trial ran out. After 20 minutes he was on the phone to me asking to be got back in! So we knew we had something good, but we were overwhelmed by the success. The population of Azeroth is bigger than the population of Israel.How do you balance the conflicting demands of this huge audience?That's the challenge the game designers have every day. We are trying to be attentive to what the players say and adapt the content accordingly. Look at the expansion. We have content for new players such as the new races, which make it more comfortable for new players to play a Horde character. On the other hand we have some really cool end content. Our VP of game design Rob Pardo was in the recentTime 100 listand he knows what he is doing. He and his team are creating great content that can appeal to both types of player.How are you getting new players on board?Two years ago at E3 we didn't even win online game of the show which was surprising. The buzz started with the Blizzard community and then it built up with word-of-mouth and it spread from there. There is also the other half situation, with plenty of wives and girlfriends getting involved due to the social and trading elements. Over 10% of World of Warcraft players are female, which is something we are happy with and would like to grow.Why do you think WoW has crossed over in the way it has?It's more than the game. WoW is an entertainment experience. The average American spends 25 hours a week watching TV. This is done for entertainment, and WoW is the same. You have your friends there and it becomes a social experience. There are a lot of elements, such as the social side, which make it more than just a game.How important was the lengthy development time?This was very important to us and we always take our time with products. We wanted to get a level where we were happy with the content and quality.How has Europe been doing? Any countries surprised you either with sales or lack of?We have been doing remarkably well in the Nordic countries, and it has been that since Diablo 2. The main countries are Germany, France, UK and the Nordic countries. We've traditionally been very successful in Spain but WoW hasn't done as well there yet due to language issues. The Spanish version which is due out at the end of the year should solve that.In ten years time the chances are that WoW will still be going - how does that make you feel?We are very fortunate at Blizzard that we have three strong worlds - Warcraft, Starcraft and Diablo. What I can definitely say is that in ten years time all these worlds will have been developed and extended. With WoW we still have stories to tell and places to show.What is Blizzard's opinion on the new wave of competitors such as Lord of the Rings online?First of all, as a gamer I want to play good games. If a friend of mine calls me and says he's working on a great game I'll always want to try it out. From our perspective we have been involved in online gaming for a long time now. It started withbattle.netwhich provided a great experience for narrowband users. Battle.net is the largest online gaming community in the world. We actually have more active users on battle net than World of Warcraft. Moving forward we will try to stay at the cutting edge of the gaming experience. If other companies want to copy that they can, or if they want to improve then they can. Our aim is to stay at the cutting edge of online gaming, especially with the growth in the market of online console gaming and the convergence between PC and consoles online.Any plans for a move into consoles?Consoles will become increasingly important to the online world and obviously as a leading company in the online world we would like to use the great tools that the 360 and PS3 offer to bring Blizzard quality to console owners. There is nothing confirmed yet though.How do you retain your "gamer" image when you are in market leading position?It's all about company philosophy. We honestly only want to make great games, that's all we want to do. Obviously we want it to be profitable and that is my responsibility, but first and foremost I am a gamer and I wanted to work for Blizzard because it was a life dream for me. The rest of the company feels the same way about the pureness of the brand and we all want to keep it the same way. Also we have a lot of top executives who have been with the company for ever. This means the philosophy is very consistent. I remember when I came up with a business plan and Mike binned it because he thought it wasn't right for gamers. It's all about company philosophy.What about the accountants? Lawyers?We don't have accountants in our company. We don't have legal people. We let Vivendi look after all the corporate stuff. There is a good relationship between us and the guys at Vivendi Games. We dress very casually at Blizzard. The developers wouldn't speak to you if you were dressed in a suit. Blizzard Europe has 23 nationalities on its staff but one culture, Blizzard.What were the challenges in launching WoW in Europe?When we started planning for Europe the market didn't exist. People didn't want us to launch there as the biggest MMO had 90,000 subscribers. We made a decision to do it right and that meant being local. So we set up a pan-European office which meant that everyone worked together. The marketing team know what the community team needs and the players know that we are serious. It was difficult at the beginning as we had 23 nationalities and there were cultural differences. The fact we are gamers bought us together and gave us unity. Plus we have language teachers and a real sense of community.How do you take WoW even further into the mainstream when subs number eventually stallThere's a lot we haven't done with marketing yet, but we are chasing our tails with hardware. We are buying thousands of servers and it is very hard for to get these in the supply we need. We're buying the best hardware out there but it isn't always easy to get everything quickly. As we open new data centres we will use marketing to expose the game to new people. WoW is a great entertainment experience and we hope when people try it that they'll like it.With WoW dominating at the moment is it hard to focus on your other IPI still play Starcraft, and Diablo 2 was dominant when it released. At the moment we are not announcing anything but we have several projects concerning the three worlds (Starcraft, Diablo and Warcraft) that we will announce when we feel comfortable that they match the quality of our previous games.
Has anyone else downloaded the two level demo of Lost Planet, Capcom's Xbox 360 sci-fi shooter? Set on a frozen planet populated by snow pirates and hideous insectoid monsters, it's a third-person action romp with a single player quest and multiplayer online mode. It's also devastatingly generic.Okay, the visuals are astonishing in places. The way your character's feet sink into the snow as blizzards blow flakes around you. The astonishingly realistic explosions. The intricately detailed glacial majesty of the environments. All as you would expect from a next-gen machine.But the gameplay is pure this-gen. Actually, it's more-or-less previous-gen. Pick up (extremely familiar) weapons, blast aliens, encounter bosses sporting clear weak spots, activate computer terminals, pick up bigger weapons, sneak about a bit, shoot a bit more.There were a couple of nice touches - the way you could either clamber into huge mech walkers, or take off their enormous machine guns and use them as your primary weapons. The way your energy bar is always going down and must continually be topped up (but guess what? energy orbs come from... yes... dead enemies). I also liked the flying aliens that swoop at you in formation - not because it was an interesting idea, but because it looked cool.The game was well-received at E3. It's also an important release for Microsoft, coming as it does, from a key Japanese developer. But from the admittedly limited demo, this looks like game design by numbers - a visually superior version of early PS2 survival horror shooter, Extermination.Perhaps I'm being naive, but I keep expecting new ideas from the big next-gen titles. I keep thinking they're going to show me something I've never seen before, something more substantial than lovely hi-res visuals.But no. There is nothing in the hardware specs of the next-gen machines that facilitates good ideas. They have to come from somewhere else. It's not good enough to point at the Katamari Damacys of this world as evidence that innovative thinking is still going on. Innovative thinking must be appliedacross the board, across the spectrum of genres, if this next-generation is to be more than a firework display.
As some of you may remember, I made it a bit of apersonalmissionto get people to behave electronically responsibly late last year in the run up to the holiday season. I admit, I was spurred on by reports of the Xbox360'sgargantuan power useage.Well, I'm pleased to see the results of an unofficial poll which Joystiq is currently running which suggests that over half of the 6,000+ respondents make a conscious effort to turn off their consoles when they're finished with them.From their post:In June last year, UK Environment Minister Elliot Morley revealed that people that leave their TVs sets and other gadgets on standby mode waste roughly "7TWh of energy" of the National Grid's energy per year. According to the Energy Saving Trust, CO2 emissions from the generation of energy required to keep game consoles on standby amounts to roughly 390,000 tonnes annually. That's a big waste and a large contribution to global warming, especially for something people aren't actually using.
The internet has offered many things in the years since its creation but the promise of immortality has not so far been one of them.But now a new range of new websites promise to help the dead to "live forever" by offering a place for those left behind to share their memories.Missyou.org.uk- relaunched today - is the most recent in a spate of such sites aimed at helping friends and relatives come to terms with the death of a loved one.Contributors can set up a site dedicated to somebody they have lost, sharing stories, writing a biography, uploading photographs and even lighting a virtual candle in their memory.The UK-based site is the latest in an American-led trend towards tribute sites, which range from those where people can write their own 'autobiography' before they die, such asposterity.com, toangelsonline.comwhere contributors leave messages to the dead festooned with brightly-coloured pictures of angels and flowers.But those behind missyou.org.uk say it is one of very few run by bereavement professionals who deal with relatives on a daily basis.David Burland, from the charity Help The Hospices - which helps run the site - said the original idea came from a hospice in Weston-Super-Mare in Somerset."Staff there thought it could be of service to people who had been bereaved," he said. "They had so much interest they came to us for help to launch the site nationally."We immediately thought it was a great idea. People are thinking of different ways to remember people and this is what the internet is good at. It offers an interactive way for people to come together and celebrate the life of someone who was special to them."Alan Wigmore, who lost his wife Pat 18 months ago, said the site gave him a chance to pay tribute to her. "It just gives you some peace," he said. "I feel she is closer to me when I am on the site."It takes around 15 minutes to set up a basic site in memory of somebody and most of the &#163;25 charge is split between the hospice charity and a charity of the user's choice.Mr Burland said people found the site particularly useful on special dates and anniversaries when the person they had lost was in their thoughts and for relatives who lived far away from each other.Organisers have already had interest from as far afield as South Africa. "We are not saying this is for everyone but it's there if people want to use it," Mr Burland said.
"Nicholas Negroponte showed off the latest prototypes of the fabled $100 PC. It's not longer a $100 PC, however. The ruggedized, two pound Linux desktop (Fedora) system, with mesh networking will sell for about $130 to $140 (sans shipping) to governments starting in April 2007," reportsDan Farber at ZDNet, with pictures.
Red Hat has launched a mould-breaking open source thingy calledMugshot, which includeslink swarming(join a bandwagon or participate in a 'herd effect'!) and music radar (let other people know what you are listening to!). Most exciting of all, will help geeks to get together and have parties based onwatching TV: a whole world of Lost, Desperate Housewives and re-runs of Friends beckons. (Well, let's not go mad: it may be enough just to haveonline chatswhile watching television.)Some early reports have mistakenly referred to Mugshot as a social networking site, possibly somewhat like MySpace. AsHavocpoints out on theMugshot blog:You'll notice that the advertised purpose of "Music Radar" is to show off music on your blog or MySpace page... which really makes no sense if Mugshot is a MySpace alternative.Based on what I know about MySpace users, Mugshot does not provide or substitute for any of the reasons they use MySpace.While your Mugshot account tracks a list of friends, you can't do any of the activities people usually do on social networking sites - such as blog, post comments on other people's profiles, extensively customize your profile, or "list infos".Since swarming (cf the Slashdot effect), music radar and watching bad TV make up roughly 98.4% of the average geek's experience of the world, Mugshots should do well. However, it's open source, so if it's missing something important -- probably something connected with extra large pizzas, diet coke and science fiction movies on DVD -- then you'll be able towrite the codeyourself, and run the whole thing on your own server.It's hard to say much about Mugshot as long as you can't try it (there's aFAQ), but so far it sounds like the ideal application for any half dozen guys who happen to share a house.As Red Hat'sBryan Clarksays:The effect is awesome, I'm not sure how else to describe it. You can try to slap feature labels on it, like comments or group chat but the effect is not any of those things. Saying you have to experience it is kind of a copout but I've tried describing how it works to others and I've failed. It's fun, a few people said it's "like crack" but they could have been on crack at the time and just talking about that.
Thursday's edition of chatterbox.
In case you've missed it, here is Sony Computer Entertainment Europe's VP of Game Development, Phil Harrisontalking to German site Spiegel Online. Importantly, the veteran exec denies accusations that Sony stole the idea of a motion sensing controller from Nintendo:"On one level I understand why people say that. But it's a little stupid, if you don't mind me saying so. When we launched Playstation in 1994 we introduced the concept of real-time computer-generated 3D graphics for the first time. That was the innovation that drove the platform. When Nintendo released the N64 in 1996 and they had real-time CG 3D graphics, did you hear us say, "Nintendo, you've stolen our idea?" Of course not. These innovations are things that become possible because of a combination of technology, price and manufacturing capability."There have been someincredulous reactionsto this statement across the blogosphere, but then Harrison has a point about the vagaries of innovation and intellectual property in the videogame sector. It is often impossible to pinpoint exactly who came up with an idea and when. But then, claiming that Sony invented 3D gaming is a little cheeky.Later in the chat, Harrison talks about his admiration for MySpace and hints that a similar social networking system could be introduced on PS3. The Blu-ray issue is briefly tackled, too, although sorting through the intricacies of DRM, security and HDMI compatibility is becoming rather tedious.
Thishas made my day.Nintendogs, the runaway success puppy simulation for the touch-screen Nintendo DS, has been awarded a "Proggie" for Best Animal-Friendly Video Game by thePeople for the Ethical Treatment of Animals(PETA). Hmmm, call me cynical, but isn't this just in time for the next Nintendog to be released later this month?Still, the partnership makes me chuckle. From the release:Nintendogs has today been awarded one of the inaugural PETA Europe Proggy Awards*, recognising animal-friendly achievements and progress in commerce and culture. The title, which lets owners train and care for lifelike puppies using the Nintendo DS system's touch screen and microphone, launched on the Nintendo DS handheld console in October 2005 was named Best Animal Friendly Video Game by People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) Europe in recognition of its animal-friendly achievements....PETA Europe's Lauren Bowey says, "Because dogs require a lifetime commitment of love, care and attention, getting a puppy on impulse or giving one as a gift can lead to disaster. But thanks to thoughtful products like Nintendogs, children and adults who love dogs can play with their 'pups' any time they wish with a simple flick of a switch."I expectAnimal Crossing: Wild Worldlost out because forcing little critters to pay off mortgages is considered cruel.I wonder if Pikmin, the game of sprouts, was up for an award from theVegetarian Society?
He's been the terror of Microsoft (OK, we exaggerate). But Mini Microsoft, who has been pushing the cause of a smaller (as in fewer-peopled) Microsoft,announced on Mondaythat he was going to go quiet:If doing something hurts, stop it. Same goes for something that's not fun. And, you know, currently, this oddly enough isn't fun. Thrilling certainly. Wildly educational, thanks to the comments coming in, absolutely. But not fun. There are other things going on in the world that I'm missing out on, and they are beginning to take a higher priority. For me.So far, so much like any blogger who's hit that point where other things intrude. Mini-Microsoft has been a consistent thorn in some part of his organisation, simply through his web presence; a big article last year byBusinessWeek interviewed him, and the journalistasked Steve Ballmerstraight out whether he read the blog. (He said he didn't.) But a recent "Town Hall" meeting reinstated free towels, and more importantly revoked the hated (inside Microsoft) "stack ranking" system - General Electric has it, Yahoo has it - under which it wasn't enough for your group to succeed; others in the group had to fail, else you'd face the chop. So his guns have been somewhat spiked. Though of course not before his epochal "Vista 2007. Fire the leadership now" post of late March.However here it is Thursday and he's posted twice more, most recently with links to analysis of Steve Ballmer's presentation about the organisation of Microsoft.We get the feeling that Mini really dislikes Ballmer. The feeling may be mutual. We think that as long as one of them is around on Microsoft's payroll, the blog will go on.
A message appears at boot-up saying my copy of Windows is counterfeit and asking me to buy a genuine licence. I have a legitimate copy of Windows - it came with the PC and a sticker with a serial number. Gerry CordonSeveral people have suffered from the same problem, and I suspect it may have to do with a quirk in a recent Windows update, but if you have a COA (Certificate of Authenticity) and valid serial number, it should not be a problem.Microsoft provides details of its COAs atwww.microsoft.com/resources/howtotell/en/coa.mspx.You can check your product key with a program downloaded fromhttp://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=52012, and if this does not match your COA, you can change the key with Microsoft's KeyUpdate.exe tool fromhttp://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=50346&amp;clcid=0x409.This information comes from Microsoft's Phil Liu, who posts in the official Windows forum devoted to WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage) Validation Problems.If your key is genuine and matches your COA but you still get the message, Liu suggests going to Start|Run, typingWgaTray /bin the box, and clicking OK. Then you "log on and off a couple times". If that doesn't work, ask athttp://forums.microsoft.com/Genuine/default.aspx?SiteID=25, where you might get a direct response from Microsoft.Trivia point: you can check if a copy of Windows XP has already been validated by typingoobe/msoobe /ain the Run box.
I have the same problem (seeLegally Windows?). I installed Windows myself from a legitimate copy (upgrading from Windows 98), but about 18 months ago the hard drive failed, and a local company -- no longer around! -- set up a new disk for me. Can I install my copy of XP over what I have now without damaging the applications and data I have installed? Cathy HarveyThis can be a problem because your current system is probably past the SP2 level of updates whereas your upgrade CD may be plain XP or, at best, XP SP1. Many programs will balk at replacing new files with old ones. Your best option is to use the new KeyUpdate.exe tool mentioned above. Otherwise, you could do an "in-place upgrade" (seehttp://www.michaelstevenstech.com/xp_in_place_upgrade.htm) or the riskier "XP repair install" (http://www.michaelstevenstech.com/XPrepairinstall.htm).I've done in-place upgrades with no bad effects, except for having to redownload hundreds of megabytes of updates. However, you must have your data backed up. Having had one hard drive fail, I'm sure you appreciate this already.
In spite of having Norton, Spybot and Adaware, I somehow installed SpyFalcon. I followed Symantec's instructions for removing SpyFalcon to no avail. Tony WilliamsSpyFalcon (formerly SpyAxe) is a nasty piece of work. To remove it manually, follow the instructions atwww.spyware-removal-guideline.com/spyfalcon-removal. Bleeping Computer has manual instructions and also an automated removal system that depends on having an internet connection. Seewww.bleepingcomputer.com/forums/topic43659.html#automated
A message allegedly from Safeharbor Department, eBay Inc, advised me my eBay account was suspended because "your account is associated with the following suspended account: cwpvt10070in" (a suspended user). As I have never visited eBay, I am puzzled. George KatritzkyeBay and its payment subsidiary, PayPal, are commonly used in "phishing" attacks: in other words, the use of faked emails to lure users to faked eBay or PayPal pages where their names and passwords can be collected for criminal purposes. Your "allegedly" suggests this is what you suspect. Users who are particularly concerned about this kind of attack can download a free anti-phishing toolbar from Netcraft (http://toolbar.netcraft.com/). It works with Internet Explorer on Windows 2000/XP, or with Firefox.
Can it really be true that Microsoft will be offering "no updates after June 2006" for Windows 98? John PalmerSupport for Windows Me was supposed to end on December 31 2003 and for the Windows 98 family on January 16, 2004. I suspect it won't be extended again. Anyone still on the net with these aged operating systems should ensure they connect via a NAT (network address translation) router or a router with a good built-in firewall. Seewww.homenethelp.com/web/explain/about-NAT.asp.
Regular readers - hi mum - will know howimpressedI've been with Sensible Soccer 2006. I'vereviewedthe game for the paper today and called it the comeback of the year. Any Take That fans disagree?ElsewhereDa Vinci Code and Table Tennis get the ratings they deserve. Or at least in Da Vinci's case. I won't get the chance to try out Table Tennis until tonight, but have heard good things from colleagues. Anyone else played it yet?Elsewhere, Aleks looks atSuper Columbine Massacre RPG. Tasteless? Yes. Educational? Possibly, but Aleks is right that games like this stimulate discussion. For starters, how many players are going to resist the urge to re-enact the events? Should we care if they do? Is anything off limits for gaming?
The Met Office is looking to expand its commercial work, its chief executive Mark Hutchinson said last week, despite losing &pound;4.5m in the failure of WeatherXchange, a joint-venture established in 2001 with private-sector partners to serve the financial derivatives market. It went into receivership last summer.The episode demonstrates the risks public-sector data providers run when entering the commercial world. The Met Office, which, as a government trading fund, is supposed to generate a return for its owner, the Ministry of Defence, invested &pound;1.5m, and spent a further &pound;3m in staff time and other costs, on the joint-venture.The WeatherXchange name, along with its data and forecasting business, was purchased from the receivers in April by Speedwell Weather Derivatives, to which the Met Office supplies paid-for data, but in which it has no investment.Hutchinson told the Commons defence select committee on May 23 that his organisation was dominated by public-service civil servants, and will need to bring in relevant expertise in order to build its commercial activities. "We don't have an awful lot of hard, private-sector commercial experience," he said.The day before, Peter Ewins, the chief executive of the Met Office from 1997 to 2004, told the committee he did not believe other participants in WeatherXchange made initial investments but had instead provided credibility and expertise. "That sounds incredibly naive and amateurish," said Kevan Jones, a Labour MP. "If you had done that in local government, you'd have been shot."Ewins, who remained chairman of WeatherXchange after leaving the Met Office, says the joint-venture was hit by poor European growth in weather derivatives. But he added: "After I left the Met Office, there was in my view not the champion of that relationship that was so necessary to its success."According to Jones, "the reason why the relationship broke down was the fact that the Met Office realised how lucrative this venture was, and was selling information directly to the market, rather than going through WeatherXchange."Responding, Ewins said: "You have pre-empted by about 10 seconds what I was going to go on to say."The next day, Hutchinson said: "Did we undermine WeatherXchange during 2004? The answer is categorically not," adding he had "spent many months" trying to keep the joint-venture going.But WeatherXchange had wanted to expand the areas of Met Office data over which it held exclusivity. "We simply couldn't respond in the way in which the company wished us to respond, as we are not allowed to put exclusivity on generic weather data," Hutchinson said, adding that the Met Office was already selling data in some of the areas to which WeatherXchange wanted exclusive access.Hutchinson said the Met Office aims to increase its commercial revenues from &pound;20m a year to &pound;29m by 2009/10. He told the committee: "We're not risk averse in the sense of once bitten, twice shy and never go near a joint-venture again."&#183;See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When we buy things, we generally make a trade-off between cost, quality and speed. In the popular slogan: "Cheap, fast, good: Pick any two."One of government's more worrying habits in managing IT programmes is trying to get all three. Political timetables usually demand speed, while the complexities of public service - government can't choose its customers - demand perfection. The public procurement process, meanwhile, drives towards low cost: in the initial contract, price, at least.Something has to give. Traditionally, it is cost, usually with the supplier's tacit collusion. Where the cost is nailed down - as in the current NHS IT programme, which by sticking to its guns on "payment on delivery" has actually managed to underspend its budget - either the deadline or the system specification must be compromised.When the system spec is vulnerable to politically imposed "function creep", and the deadlines the subject of tabloid headlines, you're doomed. Welcome to the Home Office's IT programme. Many of the department's embarrassments over the past few weeks have been down to IT, or at least to IT's failure to keep pace with ministerial policy.The latest imbroglio involves the Impact programme, which was ordered to improve police forces' management of information in response to failures identified by the 2004 Bichard inquiry into the murder of two schoolgirls in Cambridgeshire.Last week, the Home Office revealed that, although one component of Impact, an index of individuals known to police, has appeared on schedule, the programme as a whole is in a mess. The give-away is in the sentence: "The Impact programme has evolved to encompass a comprehensive process of business change." In other words, the spec has exploded, taking with it the deadline (three years' slippage) and the expected cost (which has more than doubled over the past year).By Home Office standards, this isn't a bad performance. The Impact admission was overshadowed by a spate of headlines about the department's inability to keep track of foreigners released from secure hospitals. Again, this represents specification creep. Prison IT systems, like their counterparts in health and social security, were designed for a previous era, which assumed that foreigners were dealt with by border controls. Once inside the fence, everyone was treated the same. Now the politicians have decided this model is unacceptable, IT systems have to catch up.Another programme, called Sirene UK, will connect the police national computer to a Europe-wide database of alerts about people, vehicles and property. It won't end there. Sooner or later, an appalling crime will be committed which an inquiry will show could have been prevented by the sharing of yet another category of data - CCTV images, for example.IIn short, the pressure on the Home Office and its agencies to develop new systems for gathering and sharing data is unlikely to let up. Neither will the outcry when it gets things wrong. Someone needs to get a grip on where this is all going. At the moment, the Home Office seems to be looking for salvation through the most ambitious IT programme of all, the national identity register and card.For example, last week's report on progress towards the Bichard recommendations cites the card scheme as a reason to put on hold work on some other data-sharing arrangements. The card would also seem to offer a solution to the problem of identifying foreigners discharged from prison.Regardless of other arguments about the identity scheme, relying on it to extract ministers from short-term political crises seems unwise. Given the choice between cheap, good and quick, the government should dispense with quick.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
News of a new game-related film often results in a mixture of hope and despair from the gaming community. Well, the Jerry Bruckheimer-helmed projectGame Boyslooks downright dreadful. I have no hope for this one. FromSciFi Wire:The story revolves around two thirtysomething video-game junkies recruited by the Department of Homeland Security to lead a geeky army of gamers in a battle against creatures that have come to life from a video game they have mastered.Someone please tell me this is a joke.
