So you have a product to sell and a website to sell it from. Now all you have to do is post up the details, add some nifty sales-speak, and wait for the orders to roll in.Except that you don't want to get involved with issuing invoices and chasing debts: you'd like cash (or at least a credit card payment) with the order. Offering an instant payment facility is likely to increase your sales volume by between four and 15 times, depending on what you're selling and whose market research you are reading. So, you really do need to offer payment by credit card on your website.  This is surprisingly easy to do, as it happens.Merchant accounts for beginnersThe conventional route requires you to have "merchant status" - meaning that you have signed with a bank (in the jargon, an "acquiring bank") that offers credit and debit card processing services. The bank "acquires" the money from the customer, processes the transaction and credits your account.Many of the well-known high-street banks in Britain run separate operations to offer merchant services. NatWest's Streamline is the market leader, Barclaycard Merchant Services is another established provider, Cardnet is the Lloyds TSB brand and HSBC has HSBC Merchant Services.They charge a set-up fee as well as a percentage of the transactions processed. As an example, it might cost around £250 for the card-swipe machine, plus £15 a month rental, plus 2% to 4% on each transaction. The banks may vary their charges and/or apply other conditions depending on your turnover, credit rating, the type of business, and just about anything else they choose to include.These services are geared for use in shops when the customer is present. So you'll need to apply separately for an internet version that covers transactions generated over the web.If you've signed up with an acquiring bank to take face-to-face credit card payments, you could apply for an additional internet merchant service ID. Barclays runs its online merchant services under a separate brand, ePDQ (the card-swipe machine in shops is called a PDQ - the online transaction processing service does all the same things in terms of verification and billing, hence 'electronic PDQ').In addition to the bills for standard merchant service, you'll probably have to pay a further set-up charge and a monthly usage fee. The percentage that the bank takes may also be slightly higher than for in-person transactions. EPDQ, for instance, charges £25 a month, plus 2% of all turnover up to £10,000 per month (above that it's 1%).If you don't currently take credit cards, things get stickier. To sign on as a merchant, the bank will probably require trading records and maybe a business plan. It will certainly run a thorough credit check on you. All this could take four to eight weeks, and then you might be turned down.Links:www.streamline.comwww.barclaycardmerchantservices.co.ukwww.lloydstsbcardnet.comwww.bankofscotland.co.uk/business/as/creditcards/cardprocessing/index.htmlwww.epdq.co.ukProcessing paymentsIf you already have merchant status you don't have to use the internet merchant services provided by your bank. You could just invite the shopper to fill in a form on your website that includes credit card details. This is emailed back to you and you manually enter the card name and number on your PDQ machine.This is an easy but fairly crude solution, which requires that the form page is on a secure server so that the card details are protected from prying eyes. It's also labour-intensive, not a great attribute if business takes off. Card details aren't verified before acceptance of the order. And, in any case, your bank acquiring service may prohibit the use of an "offline" merchant service.There is a better solution: use a third party to process payments. There are lots of middlemen who can do this, and generally they're no more expensive than the banks. Furthermore, you can usually set up the service very quickly. The disadvantage of this system is that you lose the comfort factor of dealing with a big-name brand.DataCash believes it is the UK's leading payment solution provider, handling more than 1.8m transactions a month. Others to check out include NetPayments, Protx, SECPay and SecureTrading.SECPay's SEC-Card service is pretty typical - set-up costs £50, there's a £10 monthly fee, and transaction charges are either 1.9% of value or a fixed rate of 39p per transaction. Protx has a spectacularly simple alternative: no set-up fee, no monthly or annual payment, no minimums, just a flat rate of 5p per transaction. CI-Card, which will only work with Barclays Merchants, charges £125 for set-up, £15 per month administration costs and 1.99% on transactions up to a monthly total of £2,000.Links:www.datacash.co.ukwww.netpayments.co.ukwww.protx.comwww.secpay.co.uk/seccard.htmlwww.securetrading.co.ukwww.ci-card.comPayment bureauxYou don't have any kind of merchant status with any kind of acquiring bank? And you don't want to wait? In that case you need a payment bureau, the ideal option for a business's first experiments with e-commerce.A bureau service is the simplest way to begin taking payments online. Basically it's an easy-to-use one-stop shop - no separate agreements for merchant status and an internet merchant ID, few forms to fill in, simple-to-understand charges, acceptance within a few days.All you'll need is a business bank account (Abbey National is still doing its no-charges-at-all current account), some indication of what you're selling and where, and a business-like address. The bureau runs its own acquiring service to collect funds from holders of credit or debit cards. It minimises the risks simply by hanging on to the money for longer than a conventional acquiring bank - most fraud and refunds occur within 30 days of a transaction, so the bureau will often pay out a month or more after the sale.You'll probably be charged more for the service, too. On credit card payments the fee could be 4% or more, compared with around 2.5% from a bank. Debit card transactions will carry a fixed fee, typically 50p a time.The two big bureau services are WorldPay's WorldDirect and NetBanx Bureau (both companies also have payment processor services for businesses with a merchant ID).WorldPay, which is part of the Royal Bank of Scotland group, says it accepts over 90% of applications and can get you trading in 48 hours. Its WorldDirect service has a one-time £85 setup fee plus an annual £160 charge. The per-transaction rates are 4.5% on credit cards and 50p for debit cards. The money is remitted to you in 4-6 weeks. NetBanx does not have annual fees and charges a maximum of 4% on transactions (less if you're selling more than £2,000 a month). There's a £10 per month minimum. Setup is £75 for the basic service.Links:www.worldpay.co.ukwww.netbanx.comAmerican alternativesYou might also consider a US-based bureau service. Some are happy to accept international clients, though your customers will probably be billed in US dollars. You'll probably be paid in dollars, too, so there will be currency conversion changes.Although the US options have lost much of their appeal now that the likes of WorldPay are so well established over here, there are some advantages - easy online application, quick acceptance procedures, no particular bar on newly established businesses.The downside? Transaction fees can be as high as 13%, and check the terms carefully - there may be restrictions on what you can sell via their services. For instance, one of the better-looking examples, CCNow, will cover only tangible goods: downloadable software or e-books are excluded. In contrast, Verotel will only accept websites offering content - tangible products and services cannot be sold. And if you want to sell software, consider RegSoft: it is designed specifically to sell downloads, and charges a simple 10% on each transaction (there's a minimum of $3).CCNow's rates are better than most; $11.95 per month plus 11% of all transactions beyond a total of $100 (anything less is uncharged, presumably out of sympathy for your poor sales). Transaction fees at Verotel are much higher, ranging from 12% (on prices over $20) to 19% (for prices under $10).Links:www.ccnow.comwww.verotel.comwww.regsoft.comHow it worksShoppers select their purchases, probably using a shopping cart of some kind - you can buy off-the-shelf packages such as Actinic Catalog or Shop@ssistant that are easily integrated into your website. Most of them will also link easily with the better-known payment processor services, but it makes sense to check how much integration work (if any) will be required.   You could write your own shopping cart pages, and if you don't have many products to sell that might be worth considering. In most cases the shopping cart could simply be a web form that POSTs parameters to a CGI script on the payment processor's server, so if you're happy with that level of technology the DIY option is available.When they're ready to pay, the purchaser clicks the check out button and is taken to the payment pages - which are actually on secure servers run by the payment processor or the bureau, even though the pages may have your look and feel. The buyer enters a card number and contact details, then clicks the make payment button.The payment processor runs an online check to verify the information supplied. A few seconds later, the transaction will be authorised and completed (or rejected and denied). Both the shopper and the retailer will probably receive confirmatory emails from the payment processor to acknowledge that the transaction has taken place. The shopper is returned to your website, probably (preferably) to a 'thank you' page.The beauty of this approach is that you never see the credit card details and they are not stored anywhere on your web space. The middleman handles all the credit card information, and their systems will probably feature the best anti-fraud measures around. The downside is that the charges may be prohibitive on large-value sales.Help panel:which payment method?It can be tricky to work out your best option. Fortunately Scottish Enterprise and UK Online for Business have put together a neat calculator that should help to identify the most cost-effective online payment methods for your business - it's atwww.electronic-payments.co.uk.
So how's your website looking? Yes, we're making the assumption that you have one by now. The net has matured enough so that all but the start-ups who haven't yet had the chance to establish a web presence, and the laggards who aren't going to, and the extremely small local businesses who may never need to, have some sort of internet presence.And the good news is that websites are getting better. New research from e-commerce specialist Actinic indicates that 71% of sites are currently profitable, that companies whose sites are profitable value their customer relationship and service and that bespoke design doesn't increase profitability. Bearing in mind who commissioned this report, that last point is perhaps unsurprising. Other information worth noting is that no site with an investment of less than £1,000 was profitable but that investing more didn't necessarily produce better results.  So far, so good, except that there are still many sites out there that don't do much for their business, particularly at the cheaper end of the market. There are numerous reasons for this, but one of the most telling is a company's attitude to its website in the first place."Stupidly, we still regard click-throughs and hits as a good thing," says Patrick White, founder of the Web Design and Marketing Association (WDMA). "If someone's in Addis Ababa they're not going to buy from you. If you're in Birmingham you're more likely to be selling to someone else in Birmingham, so the thing is to build up a sense of local community."This can be achieved in a number of ways. The first is to make your site "sticky", to use the industry's terminology. In other words, to keep people coming back. One way of doing this is through a newsletter; get people's e-mail addresses and communicate with them at least monthly."Don't tell them it's a newsletter, ask them to sign up for hints and tips or something," says White. "And look at the positioning of your invitation to join. I don't go to the web to sign up to a newsletter, I go to buy or research something, so if it's on the first page only I'm blind to it. It's like Mars bars in petrol stations; it's an impulse buy and needs to be in the right place."   John Lyons, interactive director at web design company Egovision, agrees with the points about visibility and says that what people can see isn't always the same as what the search engines see when they're compiling their listings."Small business owners should beware of web designers who don't optimise for search engines," he says. "They sometimes like to put a flash front door on with animations and all sorts of stuff, but it won't get you into the search engines because the content isn't right." Content is king, according to the clich&#233; and nowhere is this more true than in cyberspace, except that the sort of content you might be in the habit of presenting to your customer might not be the correct way of getting them to buy from you. Think of the number of sites you've seen that start off with a picture of the MD and a mission statement, then ask yourself how many products you've ever bought because the head honcho's a looker and they promise to deliver what you've paid for. Unless you're mightily peculiar, the answer is probably none.The keyword that normally applies to websites is "usability" and it's surprising how many people, some quite prominent in business, get the basics of making their site accessibility wrong. The days when companies lost sales because their site didn't accept credit card numbers with spaces in them are mercifully gone, but there are other daft reasons for losing customer interest. Marty Carroll, director of usability practice at The Usability Company, did some research on Amazon.com and found that even a major internet brand like that was losing people: "Amazon calls its homepage 'welcome', which is fine; the thing is a lot of customers will use the homepage as their base while they're on the site and we found people were pressing the 'back' button up to 30 times trying to find it just because of the new name."The other trap to avoid is what Carroll calls the "disease of functionality" or making the mistake of assuming that everyone knows what the hell you're talking about. "People use language that means something to them and it's difficult for them to understand that it might not mean much to the customers."Essentially it's a matter of old-fashioned marketing principles. Business managers will be familiar with the "Kiss" principle; keep it short and simple. Robert Stevens, commercial director at the consultancy firm Bunnyfoot, has a number of ideas to help small businesses that can't afford formal consultancy.   Firstly, forget any idea of your customers being sophisticated people with loads of time to understand your site and instead regard them as starving rabbits looking for carrots. Second, forget the idea of selling to everyone; consider who is most likely to buy and offer them the biggest carrot you have. Remember: they don't care about your company, these are fans of carrots and nothing is going to persuade them that something else tastes better. "Don't ask me for stuff you already know," adds Stevens. "Don't ask my address; ask my postcode and auto fill the rest. Use cookies to remember my details." Software that does this auto-filling isn't difficult to attain. Allow for mistakes occurring and have some sexy carrot pics around for when your site is down, so at least they don't get a 404 error (the one you usually get when a website's not working).In essence, getting a website right isn't difficult as long as you keep it in proportion to the size of your business. As Egovision's Lyons suggests, keep your branding consistent but don't just put a brochure on the web. Research indicates people skim-read rather than read in depth on screen, so remember that bullet points are good and reams of articles aren't. And as the WDMA's White adds, don't forget that your commitment to marketing your site has to happen in the outside world.Your website address, once you've got the content right, needs to be on your letterheads, business cards, carrier bags; anything that represents your business.You do want people to find it don't you?Disability Discrimination ActThere will be people thinking: 'OK, it's nice to have a clear website but if mine's a bit clunky it doesn't matter.' And, of course, they will be entirely wrong, partly for commercial reasons but also because the Disability Discrimination Act covers the online world as well, and the relevant commission is currently auditing 1,000 websites to see if they comply. If they don't then their owners will be liable for legal action if they fail to remedy the situation.Robert Stevens, the commercial director at the consultancy firm Bunnyfoot (www.bunnyfoot.com, where you will find a user-friendly guide to the Act) explains some of the simple things that can be done to allow people with minority needs to use a site fully. "Don't use fixed font sizes," he says. "If you go to many websites, say the BBC's sites, and hold down the control button then move the wheel on your mouse, the font size changes. If you use fixed fonts that doesn't happen."There are even simpler ways of improving usability for some sections of the community, he says. "If you look, say, at the Abbey National site they have some of their small print in upper case. A dyslexic person will struggle with that more than with lower case, and it adds nothing to the design or the look." The rule is if it looks bad, it is. The answer is testing, and not the costly sort. "Everyone has family and friends, just ask them."Help panel: things to bear in mind&#183;Don't get carried away being a 'website owner'.&#183;Watch out for designers who want a big, flash opening page on your site. The search engines hate them.&#183;Don't mistake a visitor for a customer.&#183;Change your website often.
&#183;Palm has beefed up its Tungsten business PDAs with two models. The Tungsten-W is top of the range, with a small, built-in keyboards and a phone, approved for Vodafone, which will no doubt acquire the rights to use other Sim cards as well (they'll all work). The Tungsten-C, which has WiFi built in, is intended for people working on sites with hotspots rather than out on the road. Neither has Bluetooth but the Tungsten-W will pick up emails through its mobile phone connection; it's just tough if you wanted to send a document from your laptop without buying an extra Bluetooth card. The C will cost £399 plus VAT, and the W will be around £449 plus VAT, without a contract. New pricing will emerge once it's available with a phone contract.&#183;E-commerce specialist Actinic has published its third annual survey of the e-commerce market for small business, and it's looking healthier than expected with 71% of online sellers remaining in profit over the last 12 months. Over half of the small and medium sized businesses approached confirmed they would be investing further in technology over the coming year.&#183;Dell Computers is looking to the lightweight laptop market with its new Inspiron 500M and Latitude D500 systems. The Inspiron is aimed at the very small business or the consumer - someone who has a laptop for business but will also want to watch DVDs and listen to music. The Latitude series is more for the "serious" professional, so you're talking data security and less of the fun stuff. Both support Intel's Centrino technology and include WiFi, with Bluetooth connections available as an extra. The Latitude starts at £899 plus VAT and the Inspiron comes in at £1113.91 including VAT and delivery.&#183;The drive to help businesses who find broadband just a little too baffling continues. UK online for business, the government agency that aims to get businesses trading electronically, has issued a free information pack about getting online permanently. Called the Broadband Advice Pack, it aims to give a practical overview about what's on offer, and how to measure its potential role in your business, and when and where to start in terms of taking the service up. It also includes a set of 12 case studies so you can see what other people have done. It's available from the UK online for business infoline on 0845 715 2000.&#183;Do you think your employees are wasting time on irrelevant emails? It can happen and research from Waterford Technologies claims it's costing businesses dear. The company says that 100 employees spending 20 minutes a day would cost a business £32,000 per year; scale the problem down for smaller companies and it's still enough to make quite an impact. Waterford is using the data as a hook for its new email management software MailMeter 2.0. The company says that as well as lost productivity - which, let's be honest, will also happen if you allow a few personal phone calls or let your employees go to the lavatory - unmanaged e-mails can leave businesses liable for lawsuits if their employees were to make improper use of their systems and, say, commit libel. A fully functioning 12-day time-limited version of the software can be found atwww.mailmeter.co.uk.&#183;One of the major issues that comes up when people are considering implementing e-commerce in any form is that of trust: how do you know the equipment you're buying will be secure enough for your purposes? With this in mind, a number of manufacturers - IBM, Hewlett-Packard, AMD and Microsoft to begin with - have formed a group called the Trusted Computing Group. The aim will be to ensure more security goes into hand-held systems as well as desktops, laptops and mobile phones. It aims to complement the work being done by the Trusted Computing Platform Alliance.&#183;Epson has extended its range of projectors to include the potentially PC-less and networked EMP-735. Coming in at £3499 it has WiFi connection capabilities, is lightweight and will happily take information on a credit card-sized PCMCIA card rather than a PC if you don't want to carry the whole lot around. Slightly less portable is the EMP-7800. As you would expect for £4999 it has a better picture and is more robust, but it's aimed at the "move it from one desk to another" market rather than the "sling it in your briefcase and get in the car" school.
Last June, the home secretary, David Blunkett, came a cropper over which government officials could have access to information about our communications.His proposals would have given access to detailed data on your communications to an array of organisations - including local authorities and the Post Office. Such data would previously only have been released to the police, customs, the Inland Revenue and MI5.To cap it all, the proposal also included the Information Commissioner's office: the body that is meant to protect privacy was apparently getting the right to invade it.The story caught fire, and the legislation (adding to the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, or Ripa) was named the Snooper's Charter. Blunkett backed down: as he writes in the introduction to the revised plans, now open to public consultation: "I admitted that we got it wrong and said that we would have to think again."This consultation does not cover the contents of phone calls, emails and the like, but information about them, known as "communications data". The Home Office estimates that this kind of data is requested 600,000 times a year - it admits there are no precise figures. Parliament's All-Party Internet Group (Apig) estimates that a million requests are made to telephone companies alone."Currently, there is no explicit oversight," says a Home Office spokesperson. "Ripa will establish explicit oversight for communications data."The Home Office says that when a version of the secondary legislation is finally in force, access to communications data will be regulated by the interception commissioner, who can publish exact figures.Such access will only be allowed under Ripa. An investigator will apply to a senior officer using a documented process, saying what data they want, why they need it and why this is reasonable.If approved, it will go to the organisation's single point of contact ("Spoc"), someone trained in the   nature of communications data. If the Spoc approves, he or she will contact the telephone or internet service provider. This already happens in police forces.If a rogue official abuses such data, he or she can already be fined and could be sacked. But the Home Office is considering a recommendation in a January report from Apig, suggesting an explicit criminal penalty.The consultation paper lists every kind of public body that wants access, and why. Many already get this data by asking telephone companies and internet service providers.The police and security services make 96% of communications data requests. But local authorities make about 17,000 requests a year for trading standards, environmental health, housing benefit and planning. These are mostly for subscriber details, getting a name and address from a phone number or email account.Royal Mail Group applied for subscriber data and itemised telephone records 418 times in its 2001-2 financial year, while investigating theft of mail or benefits by staff, and robberies from postal workers.As for the Information Commissioner's Office, it applied for subscriber and itemised records 88 times in the 12 months to last September. It uses this to investigate invasions of privacy, such as unlawful selling of personal information.Human rights group Liberty says all these requests should be approved by a judge. The Home Office document argues that this would be "inappropriate and burdensome".Ian Brown, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research (FIPR), says that subscriber information access (at least 90% of all requests) could be internally authorised by major users, but believes that requests for other kinds of data, as well as all applications from organisations that only make a few, should go through a judge.Overall, privacy groups gave the access paper a guarded welcome. The same is not true of its sister consultation on retention of communications data.The retention consultation paper   contains a draft of this voluntary code. At the moment, communications data can only be held for business reasons - keeping it for longer is illegal under data protection law.This produces big disparities. ISPs don't charge by the email, so delete email records within weeks. But BT, which charges largely by the call, keeps billing data for seven years.Some investigators want several years' retention. The consultation paper includes examples in which the police asked for communications data after it would have been deleted under the draft code - a point not lost on privacy campaigners. "When they get these powers through, they will point to these examples and say, we need it for just a bit longer," says Ian Brown.The retention periods are roughly in line with phone company practice: among the mobile networks, only   Orange says it keeps such data for less than a year. But Richard Clayton, treasurer of FIPR and an industry expert, says ISPs keep email data for up to three months, and some don't keep web activity logs.The costs of retention would vary, but AOL says it would cost $40 million to set-up such a system (&#163;26 million), followed by $14m a year to run it. Apig says the industry might need in excess of &#163;100m."Our members want to help government achieve its aims," says the ISP Association (Ispa). "At the same time, they don't want to go bankrupt. The Home Office should be paying for this."Then there's the issue of legality. The law says communications data can only be kept for national security, but the Home Office says if it's there, it makes sense to use it for fighting crime.However, this is open to legal challenge. The ISPs and telephone companies may therefore prefer a mandatory code, so they will not be liable. "Once a scheme became mandatory, the legal position would become understood," says Ispa.The Home Office seems genuinely interested in gathering the public's views on all this. The consultation papers are available online (see links), and you can then email your comments to commsdata@ homeoffice.gsi.gov.uk until June 3. These may be published unless you ask otherwise.You can't say you haven't been asked.Useful linksHome Office consultation on access:www.homeoffice.gov.uk/ripa/part1/consult.htmHome Office consultation on retention:www.homeoffice.gov.uk/docs/comsdatacontacts.htmlAll-Party Internet Group:www.apig.org.ukInterception Commissioner's latest report:www.official-documents.co.uk/document/deps/hc/hc1243/1243.pdf&#183;The consultations will be discussed at Scrambling for Safety at the London School of Economics on Wednesday 14 May.www.fipr.org
Last week, the Bank of Ireland announced it would be transferring the management of most of its computing to Hewlett-Packard, for around $600m (&#163;380m) over seven years. This means that 500 staff - 350 in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, 150 in Great Britain - will stop working for the Bank of Ireland and instead start working for the US technology giant.Announcements of this kind of "outsourcing" deal have become common. According to analysis firm Ovum Holway, IT outsourcing in the UK grew from &#163;5bn a year in 1999 to an expected &#163;8bn this year.In fact, it has become unusual to hear of a company deciding against such a deal. When Barclays Bank said three weeks ago that it had decided against outsourcing 1,000 staff and technology to IBM Global Services, the trade paper Computing made this its front-page splash."In no way are we in a position where we dislike outsourcing," says Toby Broome, Barclays' chief operating officer for IT: the bank has outsourced several activities in the past few years. "But we don't think it's an end in itself."Barclays Bank, along with Lloyds TSB and HSBC, passed its cheque   management to Unisys. Broome says that customers are writing fewer cheques, so it makes sense to share investment in new facilities. He says that economies of scale are one of three reasons for outsourcing, the others being access to skills you don't have, and levels of investment you don't want to make.The Bank of Ireland's reasons for going the other way fit Broome's guidelines. "What drove our initiative was a view that on the IT-infrastructure side, efficiency and cost-effectiveness were becoming a function of scale," says the group chief information officer, Cyril Dunne. "We don't have that scale, and we might suffer as we don't."Enforced staff moves across the European Union take place under the transfer of undertakings (protection of employment) regulations, usually known as Tupe. These protect employees' terms and conditions, but are not comprehensive: for example, they do not cover pensions. "We have agreed with HP that, from a pension perspective, they are absolutely as well off in HP as in the Bank of Ireland," says Dunne.Peter Skyte, national secretary of the IT Professionals Association, which is part of the union, Amicus, is negotiating for 2,000 Royal Mail Group IT staff. They are likely to   transfer from Royal Mail Group to the US IT services firm CSC, Xansa (the UK equivalent) and BT, under a planned 10-year, &#163;1.5bn outsourcing contract. Royal Mail staff currently enjoy a final salary pension scheme."In most outsourcing, employees are going to oppose it," says Skyte. "They joined a company of their own volition, and are being transferred against their will. The issues are job security and pensions, although there are lots of others."These two worries are particularly strong in the public sector. The NHS's giant IT-outsourcing programme will be managed by a division of Halliburton, formerly run by US vice-president Dick Cheney - not known   for his support for health care free at the point of delivery.But this causes fewer problems than one might expect. "It may be slightly less pronounced in IT than in other areas, because people follow their skill as much as their employer," says Skyte. One reason is that computing staff may get better career opportunities. "IT departments are often seen as cost centres, under endless pressure to cut costs," says Roger Cox, a vice-president at analysis firm Gartner. "&#91;This way&#93; you move to being the core of the business."At the same time, their old employer can reduce IT staffing levels as their former employees move internally to other clients of   the services firm - without paying redundancy, although this matters more in continental Europe, where redundancy payments can be much higher than in the UK.But this trick may not work for much longer, says Cox, as it needs a growing market, and Gartner's research shows outsourcing across Europe shrank last year. Furthermore, the research suggests that such actions rarely save money."This is partly because of problems managing these deals," he explains. "The customers will continually change, as will the service provider, and I see deals that are out of date before they are signed."The more you become dependent on outsourced firms, the more the corporate glue - how you knit it all together - becomes important," he says, adding that shareholders are passing a critical eye over outsourcing arrangements. "Companies are doing this for cost-reduction, often immediate, through financial engineering." Services firms invest in new systems up-front, while the customer pays steadily for usage. "It's a bit like having a mortgage," Cox points out.And mortgaging something vital to the running of your business may not be wise. But rather like house-buyers, many firms feel they can't afford to do their computing any other way.
The good news is that BT, after spending so long preventing users from running two broadband ADSL connections for the price of one, is falling over itself to enable you to connect up to 10 computers or laptops in your house. And all for the price of one &#163;199 Voyager 2000 wireless (Wi-Fi) kit as long as you have a broadband subscription.BT advertises it as a "plug and play" service. A better description would be "retrospective p&amp;p". Once you have figured out - or, in my case, stumbled across - the reason why it was not working, then it  may turn out to be p&amp;p the next time.Getting a wireless signal was no problem: we plugged the ethernet and phone lines into an existing broadband installation and a strong wireless signal could be received from any wireless-enabled laptop in the apartment. BT claims a 50-metre range indoors and 250m outdoors. However, a strong signal is not much good without an internet connection - and that was not happening.The service is aimed primarily at the PC market, but the connectivity instructions for other systems looked simple enough for our Apple   Mac. Several hours later, it suddenly connected to the web after we had survived a number of navigational diversions to come across a screen that gave a default login and password (rather than our BT broadband login we had been using).That still didn't work until we experimented with both logins at different stages - then suddenly we had internet access. The helpline - at 50p a minute - was not used.But the end was worth the effort. Getting broadband connectivity from anywhere in the house is addictive. If your laptop is on "sleep", it will start working at the touch of a key, bringing to an end the disruption caused by a few members of the household wanting to use a single connection at the same time.Every laptop receiving signals from the base station must have a wireless card or airport card for the Mac. BT's wireless card cost &#163;69.99 (which I had tested in an expensive Wi-Fi hotspot in a London hotel) also worked well . So did the alternative aimed at desktop computers - the BT Voyager 1010 USB adaptor.&#183;More from &lt;A HREF="http://www.bt.com/homenetworking."" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.bt.com/homenetworking.
Project ZeroXbox, &#163;39.99 Tecmo/Microsoft ****The main star of Project Zero is a camera with "mystical powers". Sadly, these powers don't work on celebrities, but do allow you to fend off ghostly spirits and solve puzzles.This may not be particularly useful when stalking celeb hangouts, but it's crucial for surviving in Project Zero - probably the scariest videogame ever. Not that the plot suggests anything other than cheese, as you guide your avatar - a young Japanese girl called Miku - into a mysterious mansion. This is a survival horror very much in the Resident Evil/Silent Hill mould. The creepy environments, laughable vocal acting and detailed visuals are all in place. But in Zero, you shoot your assailants with film rather than bullets.These ghostly apparitions - far more frightening than the lumbering zombies of Resident Evil - can only be seen through the camera, with well-timed snaps needed to defeat them. The camera can be upgraded for more powerful ghostbusting, which is vital for later in the game.Project Zero transcends its influences in another crucial factor - a   sense of unease. This is a bleakly unnerving experience: think Luigi's Mansion directed by David Lynch.Sudden movements in the corner of the screen or ghostly confrontations as a creaking door opens are typical. But it is the heightened feeling of palpable tension, caused by the marvellously atmospheric sound effects that really engages. Some of the controls can be fiddly and the initial thrill of spirit contact does recede, but Project Zero is a cult classic that deserves a wider audience.GHBaldur's Gate: Dark AllianceXbox, &#163;39.99 Interplay/VU Games/ Snowblind Studios, ****PC users have been spoilt rotten when it comes to role-playing games (RPG). The famous Baldur's Gate series may have its spiritual home on the beige box, but it is only fair that the consoles get in on the action. Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance on the Xbox may only have a passing resemblance to anything bearing the BG prefix on the PC, but it is a direct port of last year's successful PS2 version.You take on the forces of evil as one of three different warriors: Human Archer, Dwarven Fighter or Eleven Sorceress. The character you choose has an impact on the way you play through the game. As a fighter, you will use lots of up-close and personal melee fighting, while archers opt for more long-range killing.Dark Alliance is all about unrestrained combat and, for that reason, the traditional RPG features such as statistics juggling are kept to a bare minimum, leaving you free to unleash hell on anything that looks at you suspiciously. It is a good-looking game with nice details, including realistic-looking water. There is also a fair amount of replayability with three difficulty levels and two unlockable modes, plus great voices from the likes of John Rhys-Davies.Those expecting an in-depth RPG would be advised to stick to some thing like Morrowind, because Dark Alliance has much more in common with such hack'n'slash games as Diablo and Dungeon Siege. That's no bad thing, because the sweet repetitive sound of blade meeting monster and the tinkle of falling treasure is an extremely addictive serenade.RPPanzer Dragoon OrtaXbox, &#163;39.99 Sega/Infogrames, ****Japanese games are renowned for having weird names, but Panzer Dragoon Orta must be the most misleading title in history. Rather than a second world war effort in which you are press-ganged into piloting German tanks, it is an airborne shoot-'em-up in which you fly around on the back of a heavily armed dragon. Panzer Dragoon Orta is a curious mix of cutting-edge visuals and old-skool gameplay.Although you can manoeuvre small distances, you are essentially dragged through each level on rails: the skill involves loosing off homing missiles at hordes of enemies that come from all directions, and orienting yourself carefully to hit the bosses' weak spots. It is very similar to Rez, down to the control that lets you highlight multiple enemies. Complexity is added by the ability to transform your dragon into three states (one enhances firepower, another manoeuvrability); there are also a few power-ups to collect and, when charged up, a Berserk Attack that obliterates everything on screen amid a glorious psychedelic solarisation visual effect.But Panzer Dragoon Orta's graphics set it apart: they are gorgeous, and you could argue they are the best seen in a game. The painstakingly created landscapes and freakish monsters are reminiscent of the best RPGs, yet the gameplay is full-onaction. There is no multiplayer mode, and the main game is rather short, although you can unlock all sorts of sub-games, which put you in radically different scenarios. Not a ground-breaker, but near essential for Xbox owners.SB
Spotted MacThe monitor on a new Apple G4 has a visible dead pixel or pixels on the display. The retailer and Apple technical support say their policy is not to replace machines with one dead pixel. Can they sustain this legally?Peter Paul CurranJack Schofield replies:The law says that goods must be of "satisfactory quality" and free from defects except when they have been brought to your attention. I think this would be taken to mean "within normal manufacturing tolerances", rather than literally perfect.The average LCD screen today displays at least a million pixels. Each pixel is made up of three subpixels (pels) for red, green and blue. Even if manufacturers achieved a defect rate of one in a million, the best screens would still have some malfunctioning pels: the odd dead pixel is likely. The number of dead pixels considered acceptable varies between manufacturers, and none talk about it. My experience is that Apple TFT screens are well above average quality and tend to have fewer defects. For Apple's view, see theAppleCare documenton what it calls "pixel anomalies".To find out how good your screen is, Ekim software offersLCD testing softwarefor Mac OS and Windows. Dead pixels can sometimes be brought back to life with a gentle massage. See Charles W Moore's article,Dealing with Dead Pixels in TFT Displays.Save to webI have about 250K of Microsoft Publisher documents that I want to put on the web. If I save each page as HTML, each page is about 150K, totalling 2.5MB.Peter RoweJS:Microsoft has provided some templates for Microsoft Publisher, and if you create a newsletter based on one of those, it will make a reasonable go ofconverting it to a website.However, you have to understand the purpose of HTML support in Microsoft Office programs. The first aim is to retain the integrity of the document, so anyone can load it, edit it and save it without worrying about the file format. The second aim is to deskill the process of putting something on the web."Save as HTML" saves a huge    amount of time, you don't need to buy new software, and you don't have to learn new skills. The file sizes are larger but this rarely matters because mostly they will only be available on intranets or published on low-traffic websites. It is not, and is not intended to be, the right way to develop a serous or high-traffic website.If that is what you want to do, get a proper development package, learn HTML, and do the work. Having said that, you can delete a number of the supporting files, if any, without changing the way Office documents look in a browser (eg Header.htm, Filelist.xml, Oledata.mso, Editdata. mso, Preview.wmf, *.emz and *.png). Try downloading Microsoft's OfficeHTML Filter, designed to remove Office-specific code from HTML to make the files smaller.TV controllerI have been trying to find software to use with my Mobile Action MA620 infrared transceiver so I can use my PC to control hi-fi and TV equipment in my living room. I have found software designed for PDAs and for use with an infrared device plugged into a COM port, but none for a USB device.Jamie KeddieJS:A typical blurb for theMobile Action MA620and the company'sdownloads pagesuggest this device is aimed at mobile phone users. I can't find anything for TV sets, but if any readers can, please let us know.SMS email?Is it possible to send SMS messages via email?David WoodJS:The only system I know is ICQ, which lets you email a message by using the phone number @icqsms.com or @icqmobile.com etc as the address. It works with some networks in Brazil, India and other countries but does not seem to be supported by UK operators. SeeICQ help.If your aim is to avoid entering messages on a phone, you can send an SMS from a PC, via the web. Visitwww.textmefree.comfor a guide. You can apparently transfer a text message from a PC to a mobile using the Mobile Action MA620 infrared device mentioned above.HistoryI regularly delete Temporary Internet Files and Cookies, and routinely clear History. However, suddenly nothing seems to happen when I go to Tools|Internet Options and try to Clear History.David PughJS:Internet Explorer's History files are stored as shortcuts in a folder    called History, which you can find by searching the C: drive. Try rebooting your PC without starting the browser, then use Windows Explorer to delete these files manually. If you clean up often, it may be worth getting a program such asWebroot's Window Washer. There are several free utilities such as File CleanUp orClean26,PC CleanerandeCleaner.Not autorunningThe auto run feature on my DVD and CD drives has stopped operating. How can I get them to launch their programs automatically?Simon LoveittJS:Go to the tickbox for what Microsoft calls Auto Insert Notification. Go to the Control Panel, double-click the System icon, then click the tab for Device Manager. Open the CD-Rom section, highlight your drive and click Properties. The tickbox is under the Settings tab. You may find it is already ticked. If so, untick it, close everything down, and restart your PC. Go back to the Settings tab, tick the box, and restart your PC again. This process uninstalls then reinstallsautorun, which usually works.Backchat&#183;Graeme Talboys copied thousands of back-up files from CD to his PC hard drive and wanted to change them from being read-only to readwrite files in one operation. Simon Scholey from First4PCs has a better answer, which works in all versions of Windows. In Windows Explorer, go to the folder where all the files are stored. Right-click the folder icon, and select Search. Make sure the Search Subfolders option, under Advanced Options, is ticked. Type *.* in the search field: this will find every file within every sub directory. Use Ctrl-A to select all the files in the right-hand pane, right-click the highlighted files, and select Properties.Now you can untick the Read-only box to change all the files in one go. Don't worry if the search box turns white and looks like it has crashed: Explorer may not update the box until it has finished the operation, which can take several minutes. Matthew Carey pointed out that if you zipped the files first, they did not become read-only when written to the CD.&#183;Steve Waller wanted to correct some mistyped entries that Internet Explorer was offering via its AutoComplete function, and I suggested a PC Magazine utility, AutoWhat. John Traynor, Greg Snow, Andrew Steed and others pointed out that it may be easier to delete the incorrect entries, which you can do by selecting them and pressing the delete key
Ben Hammersley's gone and dug upa very interesting storyfor us during his travels in California: the people behind Movable Type, the popular weblog builder, are about to take aim at Blogger in a big way. They plan to create an easier to use, hosted version of their sophisticated software, meaning even dunces like me should be able to use it. Ben's taken a look at the software, calledTypepad, and is impressed.This, of course, could have big implications for Blogger. It's the market leader, but has failed to develop much since launching the Blogger Pro service early last year. More than a few users - including me, I must say - would be tempted by the thought of moving across to the pretty funky MT platform...Mena Trott, one half of the husband and wife team behind MT, has (needless to say) justbloggedher thoughts on their big announcement.
Online auction site Ebay last night underlined its credentials as one of the few truly profitable businesses to emerge from the dotcom boom when it revealed soaring revenues and said it had sold over £3bn-worth of goods in the first quarter of 2003.For the first quarter of this year Ebay had net income of £66m, more than double the £30m it made in the same quarter last year.The news from the Silicon Valley company, a virtual car boot sale offering everything from holiday homes to soft toys, caused the company to raise its earnings and revenue targets for the rest of the year.The total value of goods sold through the site around the world came to an astonishing £3.37bn, up from £1.97bn a year ago. And the amount that Ebay made from charging users a fee to sell goods through the site rose 118% to £290m.Revenues were also boosted by last year's acquisition of PayPal, a payment service that allows Ebay users to send money to each other electronically."Q1 was a terrific quarter for Ebay, delivering record results across every part of our business," said the chief executive, Meg Whitman. "We are now more confident than ever in Ebay's long term potential across every facet of our business."EBay now dominates the online auction sector around the world, with 68.8 million registered users, 31.1m of whom actively used the site during the past year.According to analysts, the only cloud on the horizon is the question of whether the company can maintain its current growth rates.According to the calculations of some, Ebay will need to persuade a third of all Americans to sign up by 2010 if it is to achieve its growth targets.They also warn that Ebay's still-soaring share price may be difficult to sustain in the long run. Even against the backdrop of a struggling market, Ebay shares have risen by a third in the year to date, causing some analysts to question whether they are over valued."This is very similar to the late 90s when we did crazy things to justify valuations &#91;of internet companies&#93;. I don't think this is any different," George Sutton, an analyst at Craig Hallam Capital Group told the Wall Street Journal.Ebay shares currently trade at about 70 times the company's new 2003 earnings estimate. In comparison, shares in software giant Microsoft trade at around 26 times estimated earnings.
An electronic age verification scheme designed to crack down on paedophiles who use the internet to groom child victims was launched today by the UK's largest photo ID card scheme, CitizenCard.The scheme, interactiveAgeCheck (iAC), which CitizenCard claims is the first of its type in the UK, will allow internet companies - such as chatroom operators - to check the age and identity of their users.Underage users will not be able to access adult-themed sites, such as gambling, that sign up to the iAC, and paedophiles who "groom" potential victims on the web will find it more difficult to gain access to iAC-subscriber sites designed for children.CitizenCard's chief executive officer, Andrew Chevis, said: "We believe that iAC will make the internet a safer place for young people, adult consumers and retailers alike."It will allow people of the right age to access the services they are entitled to, while denying it to those who aren't, or preventing them from under-age purchases."iAC also ensures that websites can be identified as protected for retailers adhering to their legal and social responsibilities."The card will also be used on interactive TV and G3 mobile phone services.CitizenCard claims that the scheme will also allow the estimated 35% of consumers aged over 18 who do not have credit cards to buy goods online.iAC is backed by the Home Office as well asGamCare(which provides neutral advice and information on the social impact of gambling) and internet chatroomhabbo.com.John Carr, internet adviser to the children's charity NCH,  said: "Being able to establish the age of internet users is truly the holy grail for those concerned with child safety on the internet."We are now sadly all too familiar with those cases where children have gone in to an internet chat room and met someone there who has lied about their age as part of a strategy to ensnare and entice them into an online relationship with the aim of meeting them in real life to abuse them."
The US financial watchdog has extended its inquiry into the alleged overstatement of advertising revenues at AOL Time Warner, according to reports.The securities and exchange commission is investigating deals signed by America Online, the internet arm of AOL Time Warner, around the time of its $106bn (&#163;67bn) merger with Time Warner in January 2001.The inquiry has widened to include a $100m deal with recruitment website Monster.com and smaller agreements with online healthcare firm Drkoop.com and marketing services company Catalina Marketing, according to a report in the Washington Post yesterday.The investigation started last year and has already resulted in the company reducing advertising income figures by $190m over two years. A $400m advertising deal with German media group Bertelsmann is also under investigation.The SEC is investigating allegations that the Monster.com transaction was in fact a profitless "round-trip" agreement, whereby each company agreed to promote the other on its website, but the advertising revenue still appeared on the bottom line. The deal    was detailed in millions of pages of documents turned over by AOL Time Warner to the SEC in response to subpoenas and other requests.   The US justice department has also been investigating AOL's accounting for revenue from some advertising and commerce deals.A spokeswoman for AOL Time Warner would not comment on the report but said the group would give an update on the inquiry when it announces first-quarter results today.Separately, the New York Times reported yesterday that the SEC was investigating a $25m advertising deal signed in 2001 when AOL Time Warner bought Vivendi Universal's stake in AOL France. The SEC is questioning whether Vivendi's payment was a form of rebate used to increase AOL Time Warner's revenue, rather than a legitimate purchase of advertising.Last week two lawsuits filed by disgruntled investors alleged that AOL Time Warner executives, including vice-chairman Ted Turner, were guilty of insider trading. The latest revelations will come as an embarrassment to AOL Time Warner chief executive Richard Parsons, who is focusing on cutting debts of $27bn and revitalising the AOL operation.
I've just been playing withIntro, which its authors think is a "cool" idea. You fill in a load of information about your skills and interests and the software matches you with other people with similar skills and interests -- great for a conference like Emerging Technologies. Every participant is positioned somewhere in a 2D space and you can zoom in to find the people who are "most like you", look up their details and send them a message. Unfortunately, like a very large proportion of the online applications written in Macromedia Flash, it ignores usability standards, Windows standards, Web standards, and the whole principle of the Web, which is that the client software should decide how to display data. Intro, in contrast, enforces an overlarge fixed screen that comes nowhere near fitting on my humble (small, light, cheap, obsolete) 800 x 600 ultraportable. Want to resize or scroll a window? How old fashioned! "We designed it to take advantage of the newer computers that everyone seems to have these days," says the helpful person doing Intro's support. Well, I don't object to applications designed to exploit overpaid fashion victims with boat anchors, only the clueless stupidity that renders them almost unusable by everybody else.
Douglas Engelbart was mentioned here last week (below). Apparently a friend of a friend is working on atelevision documentaryabout him.
That's the date CNet is tipping for the launch of anApple music serviceand new versions of the iPod.
In CNet's Perspectives series, Ray Ozzie looks at the move from the personal to theinterpersonal computer. Ozzie developed Lotus Notes (yuck) and has spent the past five years working onGroove Workspace.
The first release ofChandler-- an open source personal information manager -- is now available for download for Windows XP, Mac OS X and Linux. The site says: "this is to provide an architectural and technical overview of Chandler, give the community a chance to review a skeletal framework and tentative APIs, and to provide more details about future Chandler plans including a few cool features to give a glimpse of what is possible. In general, this is a chance to show that OSAF is 'for real'." Chandler is backed byMitch Kapor, of Lotus Develpment and Electronic Fronter Foundation fame.
Web artists Joan Heemskerk and Dirk Paesmans, otherwise known as JODI, are presenting last year's European show at Eyebeam in Manhattan, reportsThe New York Times[fre reg req'd].
There's a button marked "valet" on the dashboard. I resisted the temptation to press it - because I prefer my own company when I'm driving and, to be honest, I'm not all that comfortable with the idea of servants.It is impressive, though, that Jaguar engineers have found a way of concealing a valet somewhere behind the fascia or under the floor. One imagines a panel opening and the arm of a tail-coated flunky appearing, preceded by a silver tray with a cut-glass tumbler of gin and tonic borne aloft, accompanied by a sonorous, Jeeves-like: "Sir?"Or would that be the butler? No doubt the owner's manual resolves such questions of distinction, but what is very clear is that this is a car that will do absolutely everything it can for its master. It probably stops short of holding out a flask if you're caught short between junctions on the motorway. But perhaps I just didn't find the right button.I can vouch that there is a rear-facing radar to help with reversing. It beeps away at you in a slightly officious manner, but it is amusing to be able to parallel-park without turning your head - or scarcely a hair. There's the satnav system, of course, which is available with either 2D or 3D views on the TV screen; you can probably get a fourth dimension as an optional extra. Even if you choose to find your way by dead reckoning, the rear-view mirror has a little LED display to tell you which point of the compass you are heading towards.Naturally, adjustment to the hand-stitched leather armchairs provided as seating is electric - and to think that the sunroof, windows, wing mirrors and boot-lid would be operated in any other way would be a solecism. But this Jaguar also shines lights to help you to your seat in the dark, like an usher at a genteel, old-fashioned cinema. And then the steering wheel rises and withdraws when you wish to leave, like a well-trained footman. You half expect some gadget powered by near-noiseless servo motors to change your shoes for slippers and to cut and light a cigar for you when you take your seat. I'm quite sure that if you leave your shoes outside the door overnight, they will be shined by morning.Idle fancy you might think. Possibly, but then this is a car whose whole raison d'&#234;tre  is to envelop you in a fantastical blanket of upper-class luxury. It flatters and encourages you in a dream of lordly ease and leisure where work is banished and life becomes a serene succession of long summer days spent at the golf club, smart cocktail parties in the evening, and elegant nights at the opera. Because the Jaguar was and is, above all, a gentleman's conveyance.I say that advisedly: as a casual observer, I'm not sure if I can remember ever seeing a woman at the wheel of an XJ (not so, perhaps, the XK sports car). The saloon has so much the air of being part of a gentlemen's club that one suspects its owner-members have successfully repulsed all attempts by ladies to gain access. "They may have got into the MCC but, by God, they'll never drive the Jag!"But whereas the Rolls-Royce has come to be seen as a historical anachronism, the end of a dying line forced to resort, as our Royal Family has done in past times of crisis, to new blood from Germany in an attempt to revive its flagging fortunes, the Jaguar rides smoothly on. The reason is that it offers class sans snobbery, absorbing new social elements without fuss. In fact, provided you can write the cheque, getting a Jag is one of the fastest ways of shedding the mucky associations of "new" money. (Of course, with the price list rising to &#163;68,000, buying an XJ is a pretty efficient way of shedding any kind of money.)The extraordinary thing is that this air of gentility trickles down to the very way a Jaguar drives. You can definitely drive fast in a Jag, but it won't be hustled. It is most content cruising at high speed, with the engine ticking over somnolently - but always with the promise of immense reserves of power. If you then stamp on the throttle brutally, there is just a moment's delay while it registers the shock of such an uncouth gesture before the gearbox kicks down and the car stretches its legs in earnest - with an appropriately predatory growl from the V8 beneath the bonnet.A shopping trip reveals just how big a car the XJ is - it simply doesn't fit in the parking spaces (nor in other ways: the supermarket is decidedly not a Jaguar's natural habitat). But for a large car, rather like a businessman in an expensively tailored Savile Row suit, it wears its girth lightly - seeming sleek, if well-fed. The answer, apparently, lies beneath the skin: the use of aluminium rather than steel in the construction enables the Jag to retain considerable nimbleness and athleticism despite its size. The brakes are impressive, needing a very light touch. The steering, too, is effortless, but with a surprisingly good feel.All of which reinforces the view that, if you wish to have a lesson in how to apply that quintessential English upper-class genius for succeeding without breaking into sweat, look no further than the Jaguar. I think it might be time for that G and T after all.&#183;Giles Smith is away.
ExtremeTechhas reviewed SafeType's vertical keyboard in the first of what looks like being a fascinating series. Comment: "Just about every computer comes factory equipped with a standard flat QWERTY keyboard," says the article. Having visited a couple of European PC factories I can say this is not strictly true. Machines roll off the lines with at least a dozen different keyboard layouts, and with large markets to supply in France and Germany, they certainly don't all start with qwerty....
I'm spending this week at O'Reilly'sEmerging Technologiesconference in Santa Clara, so it isn't 5.30am local time ... though it is for me, since I've spent all day on a plane. The good news is that theWestin Santa Clarahas broadband to the room for $11.95 a day and Paramount's Great America® theme park and 72-par championship golf course are "right across the street" (though I don't expect I'll make that). The bad news is that the phone charges are even worse thanMarriott's(which may have gone up since I last stayed in one). According to the Westin price list, if I dial my own international call, the hotel adds a surcharge of $4.50 (it must have bought an expensive switchboard) then charges me 110% of the operator-assisted day rate for the duration of the call. I think I'll send my wife an e-mail rather than spend £25 telling her I've arrived. It's a compelling argument for the use of VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol).
The most annoying thing about spam - unsolicited email - is that people feel powerless to do anything about it. They see their inboxes filling with an ever-rising tide of trash and have to wade through it, hitting the 'delete' key until they reach a real message.Most email programs have spam filters, but they vary in effectiveness. I've been running one for a year and although it is supposed to be 'learning' as it goes, it still misses 20 per cent of the invitations to enlarge various parts of my anatomy, win incredible prizes, earn $2,000 a month without leaving my armchair and other brain-dead wheezes.The problem with conventional spam filters is that they attempt to solve a system-wide problem by fixing only one component of the system. As James Gleick argued eloquently in these pages a few weeks ago, spam is no longer just a private nuisance. It has become a systemic threat, choking the communications channels of the internet with pernicious dross. It will have to be dealt with. But the only approach that will eradicate it will have to address the problem at a systemic level.There are several reasons spam is spiralling out of control. First, the architecture of the net facilitates anonymity, making it easy to conceal your identity. And, as humanity has found from time immemorial, when people think they cannot be identified they often behave irresponsibly. Spammers feel safe in annoying you because they think you will be unable to visit your displeasure upon them.Second, even when they can be identified, they are immune from prosecution because the laws of most countries do not deal with spam. And third, spamming is cheap. Sending out junk mail in meatspace costs money - one has to pay database companies for lists of addresses, printers to turn out the stuff and the post office to deliver it. Even a simple snail-mailshot can   cost &#163;10,000. But you can send an email to 50,000 victims for a few pence.Now comes an interesting development. Last December, a notorious spammer named Alan Ralsky gave an interview in the course of which he made a silly mistake. He mentioned his new home in West Bloomfield, Michigan. The interview was posted on Slashdot, the world's leading geek website, and some enterprising reader found Ralsky's snail-mail address in a database.Egging each other on,   Slashdot readers then subscribed him to thousands of catalogues, mailing lists, information requests, etc. The results, according to security expert Bruce Schneier, were devastating. 'Within weeks he was getting hundreds of pounds of junk mail per day and was unable to find his real mail amongst the deluge,' he said.Deeply satisfying, eh? But there is more. A trio of computer security experts then discovered a way to automate this kind of attack. Basically, it involves using Google to search for web pages containing online forms for subscribing to mail-order catalogues. According to Schneier, there are something like 250,000 such pages in the US alone. You then write a program to enter a victim's address details in each form - and sit back and watch the target's home get buried in an avalanche of junk mail, faithfully delivered by the post office.There are some interesting technical problems in making this work but it's only a matter of time before someone does it for real.Now I don't want you to get the idea that  The Observer advocates this kind of cyber-vigilantism. But it's an intriguing illustration of what can be done by combining the technology of cyberspace with the marketing systems of meatspace. I suspect that if this kind of thing were to become widespread, the issue of spam would suddenly appear on the radar screens of our politicians. And then the rest of us might get some legislative help in keeping our inboxes clear.&#183;john.naughton@observer.co.uk&#183;www.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
It has been a busy few months for Microsoft with three key technologies - a trio it hopes will shape the future of computing - finally heading for the stores.At the end of last year it debuted the Tablet PC (billed as the successor to the laptop), while later in 2003 will see the launch of the entertainment application-rich Media Centre version of Windows XP.Microsoft's third key technology for 2003, the Smart Display, has received less of a fanfare. The evolution of the company's long-talked about Mira project, Smart Displays are billed as the future of the PC monitor.They are essentially LCD slabs that - when placed in their base station, connected to a desktop PC - function as a standard monitor. But pluck them from the base station and, via a wireless Wi-Fi (802.11b) network, they morph into a kind of tablet that can access core functions of their host desktop PC as the user roams around their home/office.As they are tethered to the host PC, unlike Tablet PCs with Wi-Fi functionality, Smart Displays won't work outside of the network they are tied to.This week I took delivery of the Philips DesXcape - the second Smart Display to reach the UK. Viewsonic got there first with a pair of displays launched at the end of February.A first glance this is a very impressive piece of kit. It's a 15-inch monitor, which delivers the high-resolution performance the company's screens are noted for. The screen is also fairly light and portable.Surprisingly, given the complexities of wireless systems, the DesXcape was very easy to set up. Philips brings its no-nonsense consumer electronics approach to the installation, which means that if the user carefully follows the instructions their DesXcape will be up and running within twenty minutes.Pretty soon I was wandering through my house tuning into an internet radio station while keeping an eye on my e-mail via Outlook Express.Interacting with the monitor is also reasonably simple. Philips supplies a stylus that operates an on-screen keyboard. For more text heavy application like sending e-mail I was quite pleased that Philips had bundled a RF wireless keyboard Philips with the monitor. There's also a handwriting recognition system for users to master too.So far so good, yet while I expect friends will be wildly impressed by a monitor they can use to surf the web in the bathroom, anyone who spends too long with a Smart Display will soon uncover its weaknesses.The first occurs during set up. To function, the displays require a feature called Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) to connect to its host PC. As standard Windows XP is without RDP, the displays will only work with the Pro edition of the operating system.Philips does supply this with the monitor, but you will have lost an hour of your life installing XP Pro before you get anywhere near having wireless fun with the monitor.Second, Smart Displays are inevitably compromised by the limitations of the 802.11b standard. This runs at up to 11Mbps - fast enough to stream audio, but video? Well, fed by an ultra fast 2Mbps broadband Internet connection I could stream rather shakey video (in this instance MPEG4 standard) from the web on the DesXcape.Yet users who want to watch a DVD video remotely from their PC will get a blank screen. They will have to wait until a faster version of the Wi-Fi standard (802.11a or 802.11g) emerges later in the year, and sadly this Smart Display cannot be upgraded.Another disadvantage is that if the DesXcape is in use wirelessly the host PC is locked. So, for example, if the user's main PC was a laptop they wouldn't be able to use it at the same time as the Smart Display was roaming.Microsoft's EMEA product manager for Smart Displays, Nancy Nemes, admitted that this issue, termed concurrency, was uppermost in the company's mind and it was something the company might address when the second version of Smart Displays is launched sometime in the future.In spite of the above reservations my first week with as Smart Display has been a positive one. I can see a market for the product in consumers who want to upgrade their monitors and yet don't want to deal with the complexities of setting up a full wireless network.There's also a second market for tech-savvy consumers who will incorporate the DesXcape as part of their existing wireless network.At the current time though, the DesXcape's price of around £1000 will probably be enough to put most potential buyers off.However, even though that is still way above the normal cost for a 15inch LCD monitor, Microsoft's Nancy Nemes is confident Smart Displays will become more affordable as LCD monitors tumble in price.A monitor that enables its user to operate their PC anywhere in the home is clearly an appealing idea. The ease of use and installation of the DesXcape is also to be applauded. Quite how many takers Philips will have for the monitor at this early stage of the technology's life cycle though is another matter.
Seldom has Sony put itself in the media firing line quite so much as when it applied to register the military propaganda slogan "Shock and Awe" (originally coined to describe the bombing of Baghdad) as the title of an upcoming PS2 online game.After a flurry of media attention Sony has backtracked on its decision, admitting in a statement the application had been "an exercise of regrettable bad judgment".However, Sony is by no means the only one to try and cash in on the "Shock and Awe" phrase. The US Patent and Trademark office is currently showing 18 applications to trademark the phrase for use in everything from teriyaki sauce to ballpoint pens. And yes, computer games as well."Operation Iraqi Freedom" has also been earmarked by the developer battlefront.com (makers of the RTS Combat Mission series) for use in computer games software.Tasteful or otherwise, the rush to cash-in on enormous world-changing events is symptomatic of the present consumer orientated climate. You've only got to look at the number of books that were quickly released in the wake of September 11th to see that the boundaries of an acceptable grieving time are being blurred. They're no match for the tide of commercialism.Sony's move was interesting for several reasons. Firstly, because of the attention it got - and the slow realisation by the wider media of a something we gamers have known for years: namely that games aren't just for kids any more.Secondly, there was a general lack of knowledge displayed in the shocked protests condemning games and gaming. Few seemed aware of the regulatory bodies, including ELSPA and the BBFC, who censor computer games and rate them accordingly, in a similar way to film censorship.Lastly the outcries brought home to developers just how closely their actions are being scrutinised by the world, which is only too happy to make them accountable for their commercial decisions.Ultimately we will most likely see computers games based around the recent Iraqi conflicts, not least because it's happened before with the first Gulf War, for example SCI's Conflict Desert Storm or EA's Desert Strike, but also because realistic modern warfare games are very popular with gamers.But what do you find more disturbing: playing realistic games depicting real-life conflicts, or finding your kids putting Shock and Awe Sauce on their chips?-----In slightly lighter news, Black Flag and Rollins Band front man Henry Rollins has been chosen to play the voice of Mace Griffin in Vivendi Universal Games' upcoming title, Mace Griffin: Bounty Hunter.This futuristic title follows the adventures of Mace Griffin, a lawman who is framed for the death of his colleagues and becomes an intergalactic bounty hunter bent on revenge.Rollins, who once famously sang "I've got no values Nothing to say I've got no values Might as well blow you away" seems a perfect choice for the rough and ready Mace.However, he's certainly not the first star of late to be taking the side step into games. Tom Baker, Brian Blessed and Sean Pertwee have all lent their vocal talents to Fire Warrior, another futuristic RTS, this time from THQ, which is set in the Warhammer 40,000 universe.-----Ever felt like you were carrying the weight of the world on your shoulders? Well how about doing it virtually with Age of Mythology: The Titans, Microsoft's recently announced expansion pack for their epic RTS title?As many strategy gamers will know, the "Age of" pedigree is an illustrious one and with Age of Mythology Microsoft took the game to new heights with gameplay based around Greek, Egyptian and Norse mythology, a beautiful 3D engine and a surprisingly good storyline.The new expansion will bring a new race, the Atlanteans, into the mythical fray, with units and powers to make your computer screen look like an explosion in a Ray Harryhausen workshop.-----CompetitionIf you fancy meddling in the affairs of gods and mortals then we have a copy of the PC Collector's Edition of Age of Mythology to give away, which includes added extras such as a "Making of" DVD, posters and a copy of Bullfinch's Mythology. Just email us at Online.Competitions@guardian.co.uk with your name, address and the answer to this question:Who was the Greek goddess of love?
As expected, Dell has got back into the top spot as the world's biggest PC manufacturer, after being briefly displaced by the merged HPaq (Hewlet-Packard and Compaq). On Gartner Dataquest numbers for the latest quarter, Dell took 16.9% of the world market, an increas of 24.4% compared with the same quarter last year. Worldwide PC shipments grew by 5.5% to 34.5 million units (including about 0.7 million Macs), though rival research group IDC reckoned growth was only 2.1%. The world's Top 5 is now: Dell, HP/Compaq, IBM, Toshiba and NEC. "Dell accounted for 30.7% of the PCs shipped in the United States, an increase of 23.9% from [the same quarter] a year ago, according to Gartner."Comment: Interesting to see that there are now two Japanese suppliers in the Top 5. Their progress has been helped by the decline of once-popular US brands such as Apple, Gateway and Packard Bell, which is now owned by NEC, and by the shift from desktops to notebook PCs, which favours Toshiba, NEC, Fujitsu and Sony. Although the American IBM Thinkpad is the number one notebook PC brand, at least in terms of prestige, IBM only got into that position by doing development in Japan and by combining with local suppliers, eg with Toshiba for LCD screen development and manufacturing.
Microsoft's research labs have just had some open days.CNetgot an update from Rick Rashid.
America's Federal Trade Commission is hosting aSpam Forumin Washington, DC from April 30 to May 2, and the announcement page offers some educational background materials. The FTC has also filed a lawsuit against an alleged spammer for deceptive subject lines that sent users to porn sites such as Shagweb. According to theIDG Newsreport, the FTC received 46,000 complaints about the spams.
The latest Pew Internet study has revealed that 42% of American adults don't use the net -- and some of them are "net evaders".The New York Timeshas the story [free reg req'd]
Britain is renowned as a nation of animal lovers but our furry friends have their downside. Along with the affection comes chewed furniture, wet paw prints and a whole range of interesting odours unlikely to impress visitors. Today's city lifestyle, where people leave for work early and stay in the office late, is also hard on the poor pet left at home.Scientists think they have come up with a better solution - robots. No mess, no hassle and you can even switch them off. What's more, they can be adapted to fulfil a range of household chores, something that Fido and Felix will never manage.Last month, technology giant Toshiba unveiled the prototype of a new robot which can carry out a number of tasks around the house. It is possible to carry on an admittedly stilted conversation with the ApriAlpha robot and it can also recognise up to 100 different individuals. It even acts as a watchdog. While it cannot bite an intruder, it can hide under the stairs, take photos and send them to its owner's PC or mobile phone.ApriAlpha can even phone the police, although with a price tag likely to be in the many thousands of pounds when it makes it through to production - hopefully by 2005 - it may turn out to be the most obvious target for a tech-savvy burglar.But robots in the home are nothing new, according to Brian Duffy, of MediaLab Europe in Dublin, who has spent years developing social robots. On a basic level, such common appliances as washing machines and vacuum cleaners can be considered robots. "However, robots are becoming advanced enough that they will be useful in a household as tools," he says.The ApriAlpha robot makes use of several different technologies, developed by Toshiba in various parts of its business and brought together over the past two years by a team of 10 engineers.Alongside complex voice recognition and synthesis technology sits face recognition and a range of basic communications tools such as a wireless connection and a Bluetooth chip that enable the robot to interact with other household appliances.Toshiba hopes the robot will ultimately become a "life support partner". But such a relationship between man and machine demands the sort of connection that humans have with domestic animals, something that MediaLab's Duffy thinks is still some way off."Whether robots will become long-  term pets necessitates the understanding of the social bond between people and their pets," he says.In essence, the current generation of robots lack the spontaneity people expect from domestic animals, especially cats and dogs. As a result, robots can fall foul of what he terms "disposable consumerism"."As a machine with such behavioral limitations, it is very difficult to maintain a deep relationship over time - another key aspect in pet ownership. There is always the off button," says Duffy.Jonathan Elvidge , founder of the high street retailer Gadgetshop, has spent the past 12 years scouring the world looking for the latest gizmos, and believes that for the time being, household robots will be more like toys or entertainment robots than home helpers or real pets.But they make expensive toys. The closest consumers have got so far to the robot as pet is the Aibo range of walking dog-like robots from Sony, which Elvidge   admits are out of the reach of most people's pockets."I got the original one which cost something like &#163;2000 at the time," he remembers. "I bought it purely because it was so ground breaking - here was something that could walk. But I am in the fortunate position of being able to afford to spend a bit more on something that has no real use other than to entertain me and my mates."Technological advances are likely to reduce the price of robots to a point in years to come where they become a viable mass market product. But Felix and Fido should not panic, according to Dr Ken Young, principal research fellow at the University of Warwick and chairman of the British Automation and Robot Association.As well as an expert in robots, he is a keen animal lover and spends his weekends working with shire horses and walking his dogs. "If you want a robot get a robot, if you want a dog get a dog. Personally, I have both and I would not be without either of them."
Continuing the theme below, Tom over atPlasticbagis thinking interesting thoughts about instant messaging, another good extra-browser application, and the implications of a few tweaks to the way iChat (the Apple IM app) does things...
A very interesting piece onNews.comtoday asking: Is there life after the browser?. It takes a look at the need to do things over the internet which browsers can't deal with. Perhaps it shouldn't really be called lifeafterthe browser, moreoutsidethe browser, because web browsers will - I suspect - be around for a wee while yet.But it's clear that the net's early adopters are moving away from the web browser for some tasks. And that creates big issues for everyone, especially if it catches on in the net's mainstream. Let's take, for example, one out-of-browser experience: reading RSS feeds using programs like the excellentNetnewswire. This is a program that takes a bare-bones feed from all your favourite weblogs and arranges the contents in a neat, orderly way. The rise of RSS has happened very quickly - in the space of just a few months, most people who read this weblog have moved to doing so via RSS rather than through a web browser, doubtless because it's a much easier, faster way to keep up with a selection of frequently-updated news sites and weblogs.But that creates a whole bunch of issues for publishers of content: it means, already, there's a ratings war going on for the eyeballs of RSS-using readers, for instance, but I'd wonder how many new media owners are really aware of it. RSS is not destined to remain an obscure technology for long, either: it could be the best way - medium term - to deliver to PDAs, tablet PCs, mobile phones, as well as some desktop users. Banner ads over RSS, anyone?
The recent Slammer worm brought much of the internet to its knees because many companies hadn't kept their server software patched and up to date. Even Microsoft was caught with its corporate pants down. And with impeccable timing, Surrey-based GFI Software has just released a product that could help avoid this.Bugs are a big problem. Next time you find yourself in a computer store, take a close look at the software boxes on the shelves. You'll find a list as long as your arm describing the wonderful features. What you won't find is the other list - the one as long as your leg, cataloguing the faults.All software has bugs. That's why some key military systems work on the "two out of three ain't bad" principle. Three defence contractors write versions of the software. All three programs are then run alongside each other. They are fed the same data, and action is only taken when at least two give the same answer. If one system has a bug and gives a wrong result, the other two should still agree. It sounds fine in theory, but even this isn't infallible. Missiles still land in marketplaces.The Slammer worm exploited a security bug in Microsoft's SQL Server database software. Once a server had become infected, it would rapidly seek out other vulnerable servers, creating a cascade of network traffic. Large parts of the internet simply couldn't cope.Microsoft had issued a security patch for this bug six months beforehand. The company's initial response was very much of the "told you so" variety. Then word leaked out that Microsoft's own servers and network had been seriously affected by Slammer. They quickly changed their tune, and accepted the need to make patches much easier to install.So why doesn't everyone keep their software updated with all the latest patches? Sometimes it is the inconvenience, but often, it's because people don't realise they need to do it. Many users didn't know that they had SQL Server running.Not long ago, a database management system (DBMS) was seen as a mystery box of tricks looked after by a round-the-clock team of specialist operators. These days, you'll find SQL Server everywhere. It will be sitting somewhere on most corporate networks, and on the hard drive of many programmers and web developers. A cut down version called the Microsoft Data Engine (MSDE) - unfortunately not cut down enough to defeat the Slammer worm - is included with some versions of   Microsoft's ubiquitous Office suite.Still, those who know about patches don't always install them. At least, not immediately. When a new version of Windows is released, it will have been tested by tens of thousands of users over many months. When a patch is released, however, it may only have been tested by a few boffins in a lab. As a result, patches sometimes cause more problems than the bug they are supposed to fix.Only recently, Microsoft released a patch to fix a security problem in its web server software. Many people dutifully downloaded it, only to find their machines would no longer start. They could only be rescued by following a series of complex steps.Some software, including recent versions of Windows, can download patches automatically as required. In general, this works well, but don't accept updates immediately. Wait a day or two, and see whether other people report problems.People who look after servers should not rely on the Windows update facility, because patches for such products as SQL Server aren't included. They should sign up for support bulletins from the software vendors, and pay regular trips to the support section of the relevant web sites. There are tools available to help, including GFI's LANguard Network Security Scanner 3.2. It claims to offer "total patch management" across a corporate network, alerting network staff to missing patches in a wide range of products, and then helping to deploy them.As software becomes ever more complex, our reliance on such tools is likely to grow. Either that or we'll have to start running three versions of everything.
Apple has just announced its latestquarterly resultswhich, as expected, show profits plunging by 65% to $14 million on revenues that declined by 1% to $1.475 billion, compared with $1.495 billion in the same quarter last year. Apple shipped 711,000 Macs in the quarter, and sales of the slow-selling iMac and eMac computers fell by almost a third. Apple says it sold 256,000 iMacs and eMacs in the quarter, compared with 372,000 in the same quarter last year. However, Apple increased its gross margins to 28.3%, against 27.4% last year, and increased its cash pile to $4.5 billion.
Michelle launched a Web site to raise $4,500 for aboob job, and she's made it: "Maxim Magazine was sweet enough to link to me from their site, pushing the boob fund over the top," she says on the site. (The photo section onfake boobshas a couple of funnies.)
Apple CEO Steve Jobs, in a statement, said, "Apple has never made any offer to invest in or acquire a major music company," reportsUSA Today. However as someone on MacSlash has pointed out, Apple apparently registered the AppleUniversal.com domain name, as you can seehere, but as Onlineblog reader Nick Miners points out, this looks more like a late April Fool joke.
Until this week, if you asked someone in the music industry about Apple, they'd think of the Beatles' record label.That was before news broke of the computer company's long-running talks to buy Universal Music Group - the name behind a host of the world's biggest recording artists, including U2 and Shania Twain - for between $5 and $6 billion.Discussions between Apple and Vivendi, the French conglomerate that owns Universal, have gone on for several months, according to a report in the Los Angeles Times.Neither company would comment, and Apple is now attempting to damp down the speculation. But it is understood that investment bank Morgan Stanley looked through Universal's books on Apple's behalf, with a view to a bid being tabled before Vivendi's next board meeting at the end of April.Were the purchase to go ahead, Apple would acquire the world's biggest music label - and take a big gamble on the future of online music.Apple has long had an interest in music, although never before on this scale. Its iTunes music-playing software has been shipped with every   new Mac since January 2001. Later that year, the company launched its iPod music player, which allows users to carry around hundreds of hours of music "ripped" from CDs.Now Apple is planning its own music download service, which will sell music over the internet to users of iTunes and the iPod - possibly on both PC and Mac platforms. It is thought the potential for Apple to buy Universal was first spotted during talks between Apple and Vivendi over music rights for this service.According to sources quoted by the LA Times, Vivendi approached Apple chief executive Steve Jobs in December, proposing that Apple buy a stake worth around $1.5bn in the label. By last month, Jobs was considering purchasing the entire division.But, despite the fact no formal bid has been made, grave reservations are being expressed by analysts, some of whom compare it to the ill-fated merger between AOL and Time Warner. Apple's shares lost around 8% on Friday, prompting more suggestions that Jobs had got cold feet.Why are investors - and the company itself - so cautious? First, there are concerns that Apple could splash most, if not all, of its $4bn cash pile on the acquisition. Some   onlookers worry that the company needs this financial cushion: Apple recently filed its first back-to-back losses since 1997, and has struggled to stop its share of the personal computer market sliding below 3%.But there are also concerns about what state the music business is in today - and what kind of business downloadable music might become.Record companies claim that music piracy, fuelled by online sharing of MP3 music files, has sliced off a quarter of their revenues since 2000. Figures released last week by the London-based International Federation of the Phonographic Industry made glum reading: a fall of 7% in value, and 8% in unit sales. This is blamed on mass downloading from the internet and a "massive proliferation" of illegal CD-copying.Sales in the net-savvy UK have remained stable in the past year, however, and some observers argue that falls in sales could be better   attributed to the state of the world economy, and a dearth of new pop music talent. Either way, the music industry is in difficulty, with Apple's apparent target taking its share of the hit: profits at Universal fell 23% last year.What might be Apple's plan? Universal's roster of talent could form a strong backbone for the new downloadable music service. Apple knows it will have to offer an impressive service to beat the illegal, but free, online trade of music.But Jobs is said to be convinced that a combination of technology - mainly improved digital rights management - and the kind of legal tussles that closed Napster could clear the way for legitimate, revenue-generating alternatives - including Apple's new music download service.Were it to take the plunge and buy Universal, Apple would certainly be acquiring an enviable depth of content, with some of today's biggest names, and a huge back catalogue.But it would still be an immense gamble. There has not been any serious attempt to gauge the value of the market for online music, and the company could discover that, after years of getting music free, internet users are unwilling to pay.Any move by Apple could also harm its attempt to build a successful online music platform. The company already has agreement from four of the five big music labels to offer their acts on its service: it is hard to imagine receiving such backing if Apple suddenly became a competitor.These concerns could be what has cooled Jobs', and Apple's, interest.Even if it did go ahead, there is one battle Apple might have overlooked: one with the original Apple, the Apple behind the Beatles. In 1990, Apple Corps extracted a promise from the computer company that it would never enter the music business, to avoid a clash with its trademark. Assuming that this restriction is still in place, snapping up the world's biggest record label might just spark a few complaints from the representatives of the fab four.
As so often in life, it helps to be rich, young and English-speaking. Most of the world's leading e-government countries seem to share at least two of these characteristics.They also tend to be a little dull, in popular imagination anyway. In the fourth annual "mystery shopper" test of e-government services around the world, published last week by management consultancy Accenture, Canada and Singapore were at one end of the scale, Brazil and South Africa at the other.No prizes for guessing which end was which. Canada, which has now held the championship three years running, is in an e-government league of its own. According to Accenture, its government has moved beyond publishing information and conducting transactions on the internet, and into a phase of "service transformation".The report enthuses in consultancy-speak about Canada's "service vision focusing on client-centric service delivery across the range of service-delivery channels". This means that citizens don't need to know which department they're after, and they have a choice of going on the web or telephoning for service.It costs money. The Canadian Government On-Line project will have spent $880 million by 2005. Nearly three-quarters of Canadians think this is a good use of their taxes. Few other governments would dare ask. But the Canadians are an internet-savvy lot: more than 60% of the 31m population are regular internet users.What of Britain? As befits a transatlantic member of "new Europe", the UK ranks higher than its garlic-belt neighbours, though behind Denmark and Finland. Although we slipped two places this year to number eight, the UK is still second among "big" countries, behind the US and ahead of France and Germany.While always a pioneer (the UK's e-government programme dates back to John Major's Government.direct initiative in 1996), Britain's position "seems to have stalled somewhat of late". Only one UK resident in 10 has used an online government service, compared with half of Canadians.Diplomatically, Accenture attributes the lack of public take-up to the boring British habit of putting the right structures, such as the Government Gateway authentication engine, in place before publicising what you can do with them. One bright spot is Jobpoint kiosks displaying job vacancies in job centres, super-markets, prisons and pubs.The big shock of this year's report is Belgium. In 2000, it ranked 18th in the league: since then, it has steadily progressed to ninth position. A "superportal",www.belgium.bewent live on time last November. The bad news is that with continental levels of internet usage - 35% - Belgium has "a significant challenge in increasing take-up among citizens".What e-government enthusiasts would love to prove from these rankings is a correlation between quality of life, economic success and e-government progress. But, like samba on the beach in New Brunswick, that would be too good to be true.
Award-winning museum portal&lt;A HREF="http://www.24hourmuseum.org.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.24hourmuseum.org.ukThe top 100 April Fool's day hoaxeswww.museumofhoaxes.com/top100.htmlThe Natural History museumwww.nhm.ac.ukBritish Library&lt;A HREF="http://www.bl.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&amp;gl.ukJames Lileks' odd collections&lt;A HREF="http://www.lileks.com"" TARGW"&gt;www.comAn experimental, multinational online museum. Interestingwww.alternativemuseum.org/home.html
No privacyI recently registered my own .com website. As a condition, I had to provide my address and telephone number details, which now appear atwww.whois.net. My web host says it is a legal requirement for this information to be posted online for everyone to see. Is that correct?Name withheldJack Schofield replies:The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) requires that all domain names must have valid contact information. It also requires that this information be made available to the public via an interactive web page and a "port 43" Whois service. Providing false information to Whois can be grounds for cancelling your domain name registration. In other words, the owners of "virtual properties" are treated in much the same way as the owners of real ones. However, privacy and other problematical aspects have been discussed in a report by the Whois Task Force, published in February (www.icann.org/gnso/whois-tf/report-06feb03.htm). This says: "Registrar's access agreement shall require the third party to agree not to use the data to allow, enable, or otherwise support any marketing activities, regardless of the medium used. Such media include but are not limited to e-mail, telephone, facsimile, postal mail, SMS, and wireless alerts." In sum, people can trawl the Whois database for email and other addresses but are forbidden from using them for spamming. I don't know why anyone would expect spammers to take this restriction seriously, but it's already too late for many of us. You could always provide a unique email address for Whois use only, but you will still need to check it for renewal and other important information. And if you register as an individual, your other details will be published.All changeI often have to change the file name of every file in a directory, sometimes by adding a single character or punctuation mark to the beginning of each name. Do you know of an automated way to alter many filenames at once?Tom BlakesonJS:There are dozens of rename utilities for Windows. Fortunately, most are free, so you can try a few until you find one you like. Examples include 1-4a Rename (www.1-4a.com/rename), THE Rename ( &lt;A HREF="http://www. herve-thouzard.com/therenamea.phtml"), Rename 3.3 (www.albert.nu), and Rename It (http://fileutil.tripod. com/Rnameit.htm). Power Renamer (www.powerrenamer.com) is powerful but costs $15.95. A Better File Rename (www.publicspace.net/windows/BetterFileRename) adds a Rename command to Windows Explorer for $14.95 and is also available for the Apple Macintosh. Finally, you can do bulk renames in Windows XP by highlighting a group of files and pressing F2 or using a wild card at a command line prompt, eg in MS-DOS.A winner!I am used to receiving scam emails from Nigeria asking for my assistance in getting large sums of money out of the country. I have now received what seems to be a similar scam telling me I have won a lottery, but it is difficult to see how anyone can gain from this.John SmithJS:The scam is that you will be asked for some sort of facilitation fee in advance. It can be anything from &#163;25 to &euro;5,625. The Metropolitan Police website has information on this scam atwww.met.police.uk/fraudalert/briefings/apr2003.htmAutoCompleteLast week, you described how to turn off AutoComplete in Internet Explorer. How do you edit individual entries, eg where I've previously done a typo, etc?Steve WallerJS:The information is encrypted, and Microsoft does not provide a way of editing these entries. However, PC Magazine has published a program, AutoWhat? 2, which allows you to make corrections. You can download it fromwww.pcmag.com/article2/0,4149,4509,00.aspCD changerI back up my data files to CD. Can I prevent them becoming read-only files in the process? I recently had to reinstall more than 3,000 files after a crash, and you can imagine how long it took me to go to Properties on each one and untick the read-only box.Graeme TalboysJS:Files become read-only on a CD because (usually) it is a read-only medium, but you can change them all back in one operation. Copy all the files from the CD to a folder on your hard drive. There must be at least one ordinary file at the top level of the new directory, and it must be protected. (You can create an empty file and write-protect it if required.) Position the cursor in the new folder and select everything (eg press Ctrl-A). Now, right-click the dummy file with the mouse and select Properties. Untick the box next to Read-Only, to unprotect the files, and click OK. A box will pop up. Select the lower radio button that says: Apply changes to the selected items,   subfolders and files. Click OK. Since you selected all the files and folders in the directory, Windows will now change all 3,000 files in one go.Backchat* John Beardsworth wanted a way to create shortcuts to cut down keystrokes and I suggested some macro programs. In an email, I mentioned Shortkeys Lite (www.shortkeys.com/lite.htm), which is free, but I left it out of the published answer because I could not download it. Beardsworth says he downloaded it and likes it.* Also last week, I mentioned RegCleaner. Harry Kirk reports that he tried it "with astounding success", removing an unwanted parasite from his desktop. Alan Fletcher had been unable to redownload Norton SystemWorks 2002 until he used RegCleaner to remove the SystemWorks entries from the registry. David Evans said RegCleaner was very good "but jv16 PowerTools from the same guy, Jouni Vuorio, is better. See his comparison table atwww.vtoy.fi/jv16/ shtml/registry_test.shtml.* A teacher wanted to avoid overwriting old lesson plans when developing new ones in Microsoft Word, and this produced a wide range of responses. William Hudson, Robert Ward, David Jowers and others suggested turning on Always create a backup copy (a tick-box under Tools|Options|Save). Then when you save a file, Word renames the previous version with bak and stores a new one. However, I recommend using Ctrl-S to save files every five or 10 minutes so the original would not survive long. William Hudson, Tony Mackie and others suggested using the Open as Copy or Open Read-Only options on the right in the File Open dialogue box. Robert Ward, Robert Candlish, Richard Curtis and Colin Leeds suggested using Properties to make files Read Only before loading them. David Jowers and Shawn Fleet suggested using Tools|Customize to replace the Save icon on the toolbar with the Save As icon. Both Shawn Fleet and Scott Matthewman thought it might be better to start with a lesson plan as a Document Template (dot) instead of a document (doc) file. Colin Leeds's third and final suggestion was to use Word's Versions feature. "Go to File|Versions and tick the box marked Automatically save a version on close. Previous versions will then be saved in the same document."
Last week, Dan Bricklin, Bob Frankston and Mitch Kapor got together to give a talk for the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California. If you just said "spreadsheets!" you are showing your age.The spreadsheet was the "killer application" that got PCs into businesses. Once users had seen how a spreadsheet worked, they could usually think of lots of ways to use it. The format was familiar - the spreadsheet's grid of numbers was everyday accountancy - but paper versions had no way to provide the PC's interactive calculations and rapid recalculations.Bricklin was the man who thought up the idea while studying at Harvard Business School. Frankston was the friend he   recruited to write the software, called VisiCalc. Kapor was the man behind Lotus 1-2-3, which became the standard PC spreadsheet for most of the next decade.There is no doubt that the spreadsheet has been, and is, a boon. It puts tremendous power in the hands of the people - or at least, the ones rich enough to have personal computers.However, the attractions of the spreadsheet are also its major drawback: spreadsheets are both powerful and easy to use. Giving businesspeople spreadsheets is like giving children circular saws.No programmer would sit down and write an important program without spending a lot of time planning how the parts fit together. Programmers also tend to work out and test their algorithms in advance, not create them on the   fly, as the need arises. The sensible ones also build in numerous cross checks, to ensure internal consistency, and test their finished programs with a range of data. Finally, their code is formally checked by experienced testers. But even so, as we all know, most serious software has huge numbers of bugs.The average spreadsheet programmer does little or no advance planning, has no idea whether his or her algorithms are correct (unless they are obviously wrong), builds in few or no cross-checks, and does little or no testing. Finally, spreadsheets are rarely reviewed for correctness by independent auditors, or even by auditing software.Since it is impossible to believe that untrained businesspeople make fewer programming mistakes than expert programmers, it   is a cast iron certainty that the vast majority of spreadsheets contain errors. Some may be very serious errors. Yet, every day, individuals and companies act on the results.There are lots of things companies can do to develop more reliable spreadsheets, such as provide pre-written templates and spreadsheet-checking software. They can insist that all serious spreadsheets are written by a team: they are less likely to cut corners than individuals, and should catch a higher proportion of each other's errors.IT departments can also offer to check and rewrite important spreadsheets, much like skilled secretaries turn rambling dictation into polished, well-presented letters and contracts.How many companies do all this? I'd like to think I'm wrong, but I suspect the answer is none.
Pay your respectsShen Mue 2Xbox, &#163;39.99Sega4/5 starsSega might be a declining force these days, but now and then it can still remind us of how it ruled two empires (video and arcade games) for the best part of a decade. The original Shen Mue may have been repetitive and ultimately disappointing, but for attempting something truly original, it deserved (and received) considerable respect.In the sequel, your quest again involves a lot of wandering, talking, uncovering clues and solving simple puzzles. The new Hong Kong locations are again beautifully rendered   and the sound effects still excellent,.This is basically the next chapter of the same game. The locations are more diverse and the engine can now handle many more characters on screen, but over time, the same ennui sets in. Furthermore, since the appearance of Morrowind, the idea of a realistic 3D world in which you can truly do anything is no longer unique.Having said that, this is still a hugely impressive arcade adventure quite unlike any of its rivals. It may not be a classic, but Shen Mue 2 still deserves plenty of respect.MALow TideYagerXbox, &#163;39.99THQ3/5 starsIn a valiant attempt to differentiate itself from existing games, Yager mixes flying-and-shooting action with 3D action-adventure sequences. You play Magnus Tide, a freelance pilot rebuilding his life at the tail-end of the 21st century, when (in a disappointingly predictable plot) big corporations have taken over from governments.Tide embarks on a satisfyingly lengthy set of missions which gradually expand their scope and variety. There are stealth missions, too, and a fairly involving storyline (just as well, since the game has no multi-player mode). Graphically, Yager is beyond reproach - it looks absolutely lush - and the control systems of the various ships have been well designed. But the third-person sequences feel a bit tacked-on, and Yager never convinces you that it has invented a new type of gameplay. Well executed and pretty absorbing, Yager just feels a bit soulless and generic.SBMonsters on topWar of the MonstersPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99Sony3/5 starsUFOs, mutated insectoids and green goo were B-movie staples. By using all three, War of the Monsters nails its schlocky colours to the 50s horror sci-fi mast, producing an entertaining fighting title.It's safe to say that War of the Monsters doesn't take itself too seriously, but that doesn't mean it is easy. The AI of your enemies is impressive even at lower skill levels, and the boss characters are decidedly tough. And whether it is destroying buildings to cover your opponent in debris or lobbing cars and boats in their general direction, the cityscape is a willing playground.The bane of all fighting games is the single-player mode. To counter this, WoM includes an adventure mode with ever-increasing numbers of mutant weirdos standing between you and glory, but it is multiplayer where the real fun is. There is a surprising amount of skill needed for a game as deliciously over-the-top as this one. Random button bashing will only go so far, with the more effective moves requiring some dexterity. It won't trouble the end of year "best-of" lists but, while it lasts, War of the Monsters impales more serious games on skyscraper aerials.  GH
No antiqueI read with surprise the Wintel advert of Jack Schofield (Online, April 3). The gap between home and office PCs is more an issue of need than finances or standardisation.That office users do not have 3GHz boxes with XP everything is clearly related to requirements. The usual tasks within an office do not make   high demands on the processor. The average office PC is wasting 95% or more of its processor cycles as a 600MHz box; upgrading to a 3GHz box would not offer measurable improvements.The benefits of XP - "more reliable... versatile" - are not that clear cut. The XP interface is not a significant advance over Windows 95, 98 or 2000. In wider terms, reliability is a property of Unix and usability is a property of Mac OS. Windows falls uneasily between them.To condemn Office 97 as antique is also unfair. The main task of Office is to simply take and display keyboard input, and 97 is no worse than Office XP at this.The bells and whistles of Office suites are widely ignored and many users disable the "helpful" features Microsoft adds. The better imple mentation and integration of Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) is a clear improvement, but one that few users ever exploit.Conrad Hillsconrad.hills@ntlworld.comHello thereI read with interest the article about Scott Thomson's Smart Vouchers (Online, April 10). I, too, have invented an online payment scheme, called HeyPal. This undercuts even Smart Vouchers. It uses a currency proof against devaluation, incurs no charges or commissions and is available now.You can get more details here:www.office-futures.com/heypal.htm. Any resemblance to any other well-known scheme is, of course, entirely deliberate.Roger Whiteheadrgw@office-futures.comChip creditIn Victor Keegan's article on digital radio (Second Sight, April 3), he refers to the importance of the Chorus chip, which was developed to enable a digital radio to come on to the market at &#163;99 (the Evoke 1). This chip was developed jointly by Digital One and Imagination Technologies.Although, as you point out, the BBC has been instrumental in developing digital radio as a medium, I think Digital One rightly claims the credit for this particular initiative with this significant step in chip development.Samantha Dawesamanthad@thinktank.org.ukShort cutI got tired of typing "guardianunlimited" and thought "why not justwww.gu.com"(or "gu" Ctrl-Enter if you use IE, though I use Phoenix)? So I tried it and guess what? You've already done it! I don't remember seeing this mentioned in all the years I've read the Guardian. Shout it from the rooftops!(Name and address withheld)
Cuban activistsWhile the eyes of the world are turned towards Iraq, Cuba has imprisoned 80 dissidents, including a group of journalists who work for the online organisation Nueva Prensa. Other prisoners include librarians and human rights activists. Some jail sentences are 27 years.Nueva Prensa, an umbrella organisation which sells on stories to the international press that may be critical of Castro's government, has now given over much of its home page to the catastrophe. Like China, Cuba has a repressive state system, and like China, court cases can be held in secret, with neither charges nor evidence released. Reporters San Frontieres says that a 22-year-old girl with no political history has been secretly held for four months: she is believed to have used the internet to express frustration at her lack of freedom.www.nuevaprensa.orgwww.rsf.orgNovel ideaNovelist Matthew Branton, in an attempt to express his frustration with the state of publishing in this country, is going to give his novel away for free on the internet. If you've already looked at the site, but found Branton's formatting unbearable, let him know that a fan known as RJReynolds - who, judging by his own site, seems to have a clue about programming - has offered to design the whole thing free.home.hawaii.rr.com/matthewbrantonwww.eastwest.nuNot OKRemember music? A squall has erupted over the latest Radiohead album which has been widely leaked on the net: Radiohead were famously on the side of the angels in the whole Free Music debate that took place when Napster was at its mostenormous, but this time round they're extremely annoyed.Apparently the leaked version consists of unfinished songs, very early in the studio process, and as their producer put it: "It's not really what I'd want the world to hear, frankly". For any fans out there, according to a radio station which played a couple of the songs on air before apologising, Hail to the Thief "is a special album. This is going to be a big hit for them." Didn't they say that about the last two? Reviews are already online.www.maths.tcd.ie/~mogwai/radioheadnews.htmlwww.ananova.com/news/story/sm_766981.htmlFree Mike HawashAn internet campaign has sprung up in the US campaigning for the release of Mike Hawash, an American citizen who has been detained by the FBI and the Joint Terrorism Task Force: he is currently being held as a "material witness" rather than being charged with a crime. All the warrants and subpoenas that relate to his case are sealed. The campaigners suggest writing to a senator: I'm tempted to point them to the wonderful Faxyourmp site, which has made a huge difference to campaigning in the UK.http://www.freemikehawash.orghttp://www.faxyourmp.org.ukOverwhelmedIf you've been trying to get onto the unbelievably popular We Love the Iraqi Information Minister site (a celebration of the heroic words of Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf: sample: "My feelings - as usual, we will slaughter them all!") but have been unable to, don't worry. Brought down after receiving 4000 hits a second, there is now a mirror site available.www.WeLovetheIraqiInformationMinister.comhttp://64.39.15.17New &amp; noted&#183;Measuring death rates, bomb fallings, and much much more in Iraq:http://www.iraqometer.com&#183;Who knew? The collected poetry of Donald Rumsfeld:slate.msn.com/id/2081042&#183;The complete outrageous backstage demands:www.thesmokinggun.com/backstagetour&#183;At last, a real political alternative:www.nigelhaversalliance.com
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premiere online current affairs forum!connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:It now appears that the "five tests" used to assess Britain's entry into the single currency have not been passed to the chancellor's satisfaction, and a referendum on the euro seems unlikely before the next election. Is this a strategic delay, or has the government simply abandoned the idea of joining the single currency? What do you think?Bronco:go on then ask me anythingLadeezMan:but u dont know anythingHost_Chris2:OK I've got one -   name 3 of the 5 treasury tests for joining the single currencyPashmina:BORINGLadeezMan:be faircapitalistpiglet:cough coughBronco:whether business cycles in UK &amp; Europe have converged...Pashmina:wots a business cycleLadeezMan:they fold up for the trainHost_Chris2:that's one...capitalistpiglet:cough cough coughBronco:...whether the system allows for sufficient flexibility...Host_Chris2:yes...Pashmina:wot!!!capitalistpiglet:coughBronco:&amp; whether joining creates   better long-term conditions for UK firmsHost_Chris2:I'm speechlessPashmina:something is fishy goin onBronco:ask me anotherHost_Chris2:which group boycotted recent talks on Iraq's future government?capitalistpiglet:cough cough cough coughBronco:the Shia MuslimsLadeezMan:wrong!Host_Chris2:no he's rightPashmina:he must of actully read the paperBronco:moreHost_Chris2:OK, name the cabinet minister who criticised US troops   over the chaos in postwar Iraq?capitalistpiglet:cough coughBronco:Clare ShortPashmina:its a cheat piglet is signeling him by coughs!Host_Chris2:how can you cough "Clare Short"?Pashmina:easy! 1 cough for clare 2 for shortHost_Chris2:I'm impressed. How does it work?Bronco:simple - we just agreed to switch usernames for the morning. I'm really piglet.capitalistpiglet:&amp; i am BroncoHost_Chris2:permachat.co.uk frowns on the use of multiple usernames.Pashmina:piglet will u be me tomorrowBronco:certainlycapitalistpiglet:it was my idea to coughconnection to server has been terminated...
The volume of words and images produced by the war in Iraq is unprecedented. No war - no event in human history, surely - can have been better recorded. And this time, a new kind of record joins the miles of video tape, reams of newsprint and stacks of stills in the war archive. Weblogs, from every conceivable viewpoint - even from within battered Baghdad and from the frontline itself - make this the most reflected-upon conflict, too.Weblogs take many forms but, mostly, they are oral history. Immediate, personal, from the grassroots. The usefulness and veracity of much of this stuff must be in question ("never mind the quality, feel the width") but its immediacy and emotional truth is undeniable. The weblogs offer a rolling people's history of the war that will be of incalculable value to future historians.If, as a historian, you could, from a point in the future, reconstruct the state of the weblogs at any one moment as events unfolded, you'd get perhaps the best snapshot possible of an event in history and its context.As the weblogs multiply, your snapshot gets finer-grained, more detailed and more useful. With thousands blogging, reading and commenting, the picture you'd get would be interesting but not complete - little better than reading the papers.With hundreds of thousands or even millions, the picture will be completely different, more detailed and more authentic. But will historians get the chance? The short answer, given the current state of weblog tools, is "no". No one is systematically recording the activity of the bloggers as history.Weblogs are already recorded and archived - by their authors as well as by search engines and web archives - but what these archives can't realistically do is provide a useful, properly linked, minute-by-minute record.What we need is a collective memory tool - a giant rewind button for the web - that allows us to spool back through the blogged record, preserving the linked structure of the material and allowing a reporter or a historian (anyone, really) to dial up a point in time and follow links around the stored information to build up a picture of the time and the place in a way never before possible.A curious surfer should be able to search the archive as it was one minute before Saddam's statue fell and then again an hour later, a month later, three years later. Nothing like this has been possible before. It could completely change the way history is written.But who should do it? Should we expect the benign Mr Kahle (owner of the Wayback Machine web archivewww.archive.org) to keep throwing hard disks at the problem until his database is big enough to provide our minute-by-minute history? Should we hope that the nice people at Google can take care of it for us? Or should we make a start ourselves, perhaps pushing the BBC to spend some of that huge inflation-protected budget on a collective history tool that could change our view of the past entirely?
Is there life in the ebook?I've always said that the ebook is a flawed concept as it's like trying to transpose one medium into another. If you look at something like MapQuest (www.mapquest.com) it's definitely a replacement for an atlas. What we're trying to do with Safari (http://safari.oreilly.com) is to see what kind of service you can make if you have access to thousands of books online. My feeling is that ebooks are alive and well, they're just not where people are looking!Is the net living up to its early promise?Absolutely. It's funny because people don't give the net credit for all the things it's responsible for. Without the net how would a guy   from Finland have been able to work with a guy from Wales on the Linux kernel? That's the source of a company we started called Collabnet (www.collab.net),which is focusing on internet collaborations.What other emerging technologies excite you?I'm really interested in multi-player online gaming - we're starting to build some virtual worlds that are extremely rich and immersive. They're crossing into the real world in odd ways - there's a whole economy of people building up characters on games like EverQuest, then selling them on eBay!Portals?Google is a portal but it's a very different kind of one. The idea in the past was to be "sticky" and get people to stay on your site, whereas Google makes itself useful enough so people keep going back.Wi-Fi?The 802.11 (www.weca.net)came out and we saw our customers, the hackers, working to extend its range. By hacker I mean someone technically proficient who seeks to solve problems and glitches. Rob Flickenger, an employee, made an antenna out of a Pringles tin! People then tried out all different types of cans to see which worked, which is hackerdom at its best! Remember, Steve Wozniak made the first Apple out of wood!Is warchalking big in the States?It goes in stages. Certainly there's a subculture that's into warchalking (www.warchalking.org)but it's still a pretty underground thing. Wi-Fi is still fun and experimental - people think hotspots are a new thing but hackers were building hotspots five years ago.What about Microsoft's intention to "take on" Google?You never want to   bet against Microsoft! If I were Google I'd be nervous. They're actually very alike in many ways -though I don't mean Google is an aggressive monopolist! Microsoft cleverly went out and hired the smartest people they could find and Google's done something very similar. It's not the same as Microsoft versus Netscape was or Microsoft versus AOL - you have some pretty similar cultures this time around.Mac OS X?For years we had this idea of a productivity application - things like Microsoft Word or Excel. Now, with its iLife suite (www.apple.com/ilife),Apple is saying that productivity these days is managing people's personal digital assets. That's aninteresting vision and it's saying just how far we've come.www.oreilly.com
Last week's announcement of the nominations for the annual Webby awards in San Francisco tells us two things about the world in which we live. First, the war in Iraq has meant that the internet is being used as never before as a political organising tool and alternative source of news. Second, it has been officially confirmed that the British are the weirdest people on earth.Just as the Oscar nominations are examined for what they tell us about the zeitgeist - Chicago won because people supposedly sought escapism at time of war - so, in a much simpler way, the Webbys are a way of taking the temperature of the internet and its users.Perhaps the most significant development reflected in the nominations is on the political front. MoveOn.org, a front-runner in the politics section, has been one of the main organisers of anti-war protests in the US. Founded in 1998 by Wes Boyd and Joan Blades, two Silicon Valley software entrepreneurs, to encourage the nation to "move on" from the Clinton-Lewinsky affair, it now has a database of 700,000.It organised the virtual march on Washington, when more than a million people emailed, phoned or faxed their representatives in an attempt to halt the war. MoveOn could now have a greater mobilising ability than the Democratic party. "MoveOn has done an amazing job of using the web," said Maya Draisin, executive director of the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, which runs the Webbys. "They have really taken off and are a great example of what can be done."On the political front, something can be read into the fact that the United Nations wins a nomination for its website in the government and law category, while the White House - or, more accurately, Whitehouse.org - appears only in the humour section. The site has President Bush extending "a heartfelt olive branch to Iraq's proud population of newly liberated, soon-to-be-Christian, petroleum-pumping eunuchs".The other effect of the looming war had been a desire to find, via the internet, infomation that people feel is not being provided by national or local media. "There has been a huge explosion of that use," said Draisin. "I think people are looking for alternative information."This year's ceremony of the online Oscars - the seventh - heralds a drift from its Bay Area roots. "This year, 87% of the nominees come from outside the Bay Area. When we started it was the opposite, about 80% came from the Bay Area," said Draisin. "There are also a record number of 24 international nominees."There are British nominees in the news, community and spirituality categories (all for BBC sites), in fashion (SHOWstudio), youth and education (both Sodaplay), but the UK dominates only one section - the weird section. "I don't know what this says about Britain, but three of the five nominees are from there," said Ms Draisin.The weird section trio are the venerable Fortean Times, Rathergood.com - "your one-stop shop for good and evil" - and Pole Shift Preparation, which really requires a site visit and a stiff drink for a full appreciation of its weirdness.In the last two Webby ceremonies, in the wake of the dotcom collapse, some of the winners had already gone bankrupt by the time they reached the podium. So far this year, all nominees are still in business. Many of the usual suspects, such as eBay, Amazon and Google, are nominated but there is also the arrival of new sites from New Zealand, Japan and Italy.The Academy, which has around 480 voting members, including internet co-creator Vint Cerf, Oracle chairman Larry Ellison and Simpsons' creator Matt Groening, will hold the ceremony in San Francisco on June 5. The acceptance speeches are stilllimited to five words, which means that somewhere today, nominees for the 30 categories are desperately working out something pithy and witty in less than six words.
Chip on holdIntel released the fastest PC chipset on the market on Monday, then stopped shipments while it investigated an "anomaly" in the processor's front-side bus interface. The new system is based on a 3GHz Pentium 4 with the 875P chipset. This increases the bus speed from 533MHz to 800MHz. Systems that run at the slower speed are not affected. Several PC manufacturers announced PCs based on the new chipset, including Dell, Hewlett-Packard and Gateway. Dell put the Dimension 8300 on its UK website with 256MB of memory, a 60GB hard drive, a 16x DVD drive, a 17in monitor and Windows XP Home for &#163;1,549.CE sourceMicrosoft has expanded its Shared Source initiative by allowing partners to modify the source code of its Windows CE (Consumer Electronics) OS and, for the first time, to ship the modified code in commercial devices. Improvements and enhancements have to be fed back to Microsoft, which hopes to benefit from the feedback. The Premium (CEP) licensing programme covers Windows CE3 and CE4.net but not the CE-based Pocket PC and Smartphone platforms. Companies supporting the CEP include ARM, Mitsubishi Electric, Samsung and Toshiba. Under the standard CE Shared Source license, users can download, modify and redistribute CE code for noncommercial purposes.www.microsoft.com/licensing/sharedsourceTeleclinicChorleywood Health Centre in Hertfordshire is being held up as an   example to other NHS clinics in its adoption of new technology. Its systems now include handheld PDAs and wireless networking, videoconferencing, and broadband connections. Medical staff can update patient records while on the move, and get diagnoses in real time without sending patients to regional hospitals. The system has been developed by Brunel University Health Systems academics.Library rightsPublishers are criticising the legal deposit libraries bill, currently going through the Commons, which would require them to give the six legal deposit libraries in Britain and Ireland copies of everything published electronically in the UK. Angela Mills, chairman of the Digital Content Forum's copyright group, says there   should be more consultation on issues including how quickly paid-for content would be available within libraries, and the status of legally problematic articles - these are usually deleted from websites, but could live on in library copies.The six libraries - the British Library in London, the national libraries of Scotland and Wales, and the university libraries of Cambridge, Oxford and   Trinity College, Dublin - are legally entitled to every book published in the UK and Ireland under a 1911 law. A voluntary code for collection of non-print material started in 2000.www.bl.uk/collections/britirish/depintr.html&lt;A HREF="http://pamediapoint.press.net/services/media_law/updates/2003/library.html"Data-sharingThe lord chancellor's department has opened a new consultation on data-sharing between government departments, after only three members of the public responded to its first attempt. The consultation, which includes a quick questionnaire, closes on June 27.It is based on last year's report from the government's performance and innovation unit (PIU) which said that sharing data between departments could improve efficiency and convenience for users. It also noted public wariness of such sharing, and the consultation includes a draft code for departments. But privacy campaign group FIPR said this amounts to a watering-down of the code suggested in PIU's 2002 report.www.lcd.gov.uk/consult/datasharing/datashare.htmSony PDAsSony is beefing up its range of Palm OS-based Cli&#233; PDAs with two new models. Ostensibly aimed at business users, the &#163;300 PEG-TG50 has a large screen and full keyboard. The slimline model has 16MB of internal memory (with potential expansion via a slot for a Memory Stick storage card), rechargeable batteries and Bluetooth for wireless connections.It is also one of the first Cli&#233;s to feature the innovative Remote Camera, which uses Bluetooth to control some models in Sony's digital camera and camcorder range.Sony has also added a no-frills Cli&#233; to its range. Targeted at first-time PDA buyers, the &#163;160 PEG-SJ22 features a colour display, a Memory Stick slot and a selection of Sony's image viewing applications.www.sony.co.uk
The announcement by Microsoft last Wednesday that it was to introduce new versions of Windows XP and .NET Server for the AMD Opteron and Athlon 64 processors has lifted 64-bit computing into the public eye. An obvious question is whether the time is right to make the move to 64-bit systems, and if it is, would one want to go with the established Intel Itanium, or new AMD processors?Both manufacturers offer viable solutions, but as both are aiming their offerings at different markets, choosing between the two will depend on what you are trying todo. Intel's Itanium and Itanium 2 offerings are aimed at the large enterprise   server market. AMD's Opteron is more for middle-range servers and workstations, with the Athlon 64 aimed squarely at high-end desktops.With 64-bit operating systems such as Linux, Solaris, and Panther either here or just around the corner, Microsoft was hardly going to want to be left out in the cold, and the Intel Itanium was never going to get them a 64-bit hold on people's desktops. There really should be no surprise therefore that they have chosen to support the new AMD processors, even if that did mean producing two versions of 64-bit Windows for the different processor architectures.This need not raise alarm bells in terms of compatibility, however, as you can take existing 32-bit Windows   applications, and run them on either the Intel or AMD processors without having to do anything to them at all. In performance terms, the AMD processors will run existing 32-bit Windows applications faster than the Intel Itanium.Currently, 64-bit Windows applications are a little thin on the ground, with Microsoft SQL Server an obvious exception. Anyone contemplating an early move will therefore be more interested in understanding how difficult it will be to convert current applications to 64-bit operation.That will depend on how the application was written. New applications written to the Microsoft .NET Framework, and in any of the 20 or so .NET languages, should run as 64-bit appli cations. Applications written for the older Win-32 Application Programming Interface (API) format, such as Microsoft Office, will need to be recompiled to utilise the .NET Framework. This isn't as daunting as it sounds.This announcement may be the catalyst that lights the touch-paper under the .NET Framework, and .NET languages overall. Many software houses who have been considering recompiling might now be galvanised toward making this a reality.It would thus be surprising if there were not multiple announcements of 64-bit software in the months after the AMD processor launch, and the arrival of the 64-bit versions of Microsoft Windows XP, and .NET Server 2003.This raises the question as to whether it will be worth making the move to 64-bit at that time. At first glance it would seem that the new AMD offerings have just made this apossibility. Low price, combined with the performance boost you will get from the new 64-bit processors (don't fall into the trap of making size comparisons between high-end processors in the 3-4GHz range, and the seemingly lower 800MHz to 1GHz+ offerings at 64-bit - they are like chalk and cheese) should see people making the move as soon as they can, and reaping instant benefits, especially if there are more 64-bit applications ready soon after the launch.
AMD will launch its long-awaited 64-bit Opteron processor in New York next Tuesday, hoping that it will be the start of an industry move to a new level of computing. Intel, the market leader, also has its own 64-bit processor, the Itanium, which is not compatible with AMD's chip. But AMD thinks it has seen an error in Intel's strategy: inadequate support for existing 32-bit software.The Opteron is AMD's first 64-bit microprocessor, and will be aimed at high-end workstations and servers. However, there is also an Athlon version on the way for desktop PCs. And whereas current 64-bit processors have been niche products, used mainly in high-priced systems, the Opteron and Itanium offer the possibility of more affordable 64-bit hardware.All the microprocessors used in current desktop and notebook PCs are 32-bit chips - a measure both of the size of data they can conveniently deal with, and the amount of memory they can handle. A 32-bit processor can have a maximum of 4GB of memory, which is already an issue for high-performance computing and servers running large databases. It is   likely to become an issue for desktop computers too, because software gets bigger over time.Windows 95, for example, had a recommended minimum memory size of 8MB, whereas Windows XP has a recommended minimum of 128MB. If this trend continues, desktop PCs will be reaching their limits in another five years or so. A 64-bit processor can, in theory at least, allow up to about 18.5 billion billion bytes of memory.We have been in this situation before. In 1981, when the IBM PC was launched, the market was moving from 8-bit machines such as the Apple II to 16-bit processors, with traumatic results for most of the early manufacturers. Early PC processors used some hardware tricks to increase memory space to 1MB, but this was already inconveniently small, and by 1985, PCs had moved on to 32-bits with the Intel 80386. From the point of view of users, this was relatively painless. Users needed new software to take advantage of the extra computing power, but the old software continued to work.This time you might expect the same thing to happen - the new 64-bit processors will be extensions   of the old 32-bit ones, and current software should still work well. In AMD's case, you would be correct, because its engineers have chosen to extend the old 32-bit system to 64-bits. However, Intel and Hewlett-Packard, working together, have chosen a much more radical solution.The problem is that the PC architecture is massively complex and it has been added to piecemeal over the years. All modern PC processors now translate the old complex architecture into a simpler internal one, but this is not a good way to use limited chip space. So the old architecture has become a liability, and Intel has designed a new one to replace it.Adopting the 64-bit Intel Itanium has important consequences for users and developers. Intel has had to include extra hardware for backward   compatibility, and in the first versions, at least, this is much slower than current Pentium processors.Also, the change means Intel is discarding lots of expertise - its own, and that of developers. Consequently, when it finally appeared in 2001, the Itanium was very late, and its 32-bit and 64-bit performance was disappointing. It earned the nickname "Itanic" in some quarters. Performance has been improving, however, and it's far too early to write off the Itanium line.AMD has chosen a more conservative route, and its 64-bit processors should run current software at least as well as today's 32-bit chips. The expertise of programmers remains relevant, and the best ways to build the hardware are well understood. Though less radical than Itanium,   Opteron is still an ambitious chip with its own problems - and it's also very late.In the long term, AMD may suffer because it will still have to live with old problems that Intel has left behind. But the company is hoping that either the advantages Intel is expecting won't appear in the Itanium, or if they do, that it will be too late.Who will win? It is not clear at the moment - it's more clear who is going to lose. The specialised 64-bit chip suppliers are going to have trouble justifying their relatively expensive products in the face of the supplies of cheap commodity chips from AMD and Intel.This is not an issue that will immediately affect most mainstream IT users, and we can expect that traditional 32-bit processors will be Intel and AMD's main business for some years. However, the likelihood is that we are all going to change to 64-bit computers eventually - and by then, let's hope we'll know which one to choose.&#183;Neal Harman is a lecturer in computer science at the University of Wales Swansea.
