Over at the Google blog, you can nowcompareGoogle, Windows Live and Yahoo's search results, for a given input. Except that you won't know which result comes from which engine (because it only shows you one result, without branding).It's an interesting idea, though the restriction to one result does make it hard to decide: is that how one would normally do search - clicking on the top link? (Personally, I never use Google's "I Feel Lucky" button; not because I don't feel lucky, but because relying on one link as the answer to a search is, well, about as sensible asrelying on Wikipedia for obituary details.)(ViaTim Anderson, a regular contributor to the section.)
Apple has acknowledged that some users of the new iMacs are having problems following a software update in which the interface freezes. Wecovered this yesterday, and now the company - sorry, corporation - hastold Macworldthat "We are tracking down the root cause of this bug, and will issue a software update which corrects it as soon as we can — most likely later this month".An addendum to Jack's post: the gleaming iMac that lurks in our office has not had theiMac Software Update 1.1applied, so its lack of crashiness could be due to that (since people are complaining on that front). Except.. theApple discussionslink began back in August, so this is hardly a new thing; whereas the software update is from September 13. So it can't be in the software update.(One could wish for just a touch more information about what's in the update than "This update provides important bug fixes". I mean, I don't know offhand precisely what the natural vegetable colour Circumin is, nor what Emulsifier E471 actually does better than E472, but having it on the packet gives me something to think about when I'm eating a biscuit. Similarly, having a long list of twiddles and tweaks does instil a warm glow while the progress bar inches across the screen, even if the emulsifier is turning my intestines to gloop and the software update is doing something similar to my hard drive.)So, iMac owners and would-be owners, stay tuned, and keep reading the cereal packets.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
I onceaskedGoogle's head of open source how much it would cost the company if it ran Windows on its servers, rather than Linux. I recommend it as a question to Googlers if you want to see eyes bulge.When he'd regained his breath, he replied: "Think of a big number, a big number, and then multiply that by $1,000 each for a copy of Windows Server. It's safe to say it would be hundreds of millions of dollars at least."Ask yourself this: if Linux didn't exist, would Google? Would Facebook, without that and PHP, the free scripting language that even people like me can scrape by in (my PHP is about as good as my French), and Apache, the free web server, and MySQL, the free (and open source) database? "Free" underpins a huge amount of effort on the internet now, and that translates into real world commerce: Amazon uses those free building blocks too for its business, which is largely about shipping atoms, not bits.The commentator and noted bloggerDoc Searlshas repeatedly described Linux and the other pieces of free software as being like part of the construction industry. There are no particular secrets about putting up buildings; indeed, there are lots of regulations telling you how you must.Using those free products, Google and Amazon and hundreds or thousands of other companies out there generate real value, real money, real taxes; we've featured one, Alfresco, inyesterday's edition.OK, so you get the point: free products can generate real money. Now, what if Linux had been written as a UK government project? Would you still be happy that it was given away for free, with a licence that let anyone edit and change it?Or would you want it to be paid-for, like Windows, so that we, the taxpayers, got a direct measure of its worth by seeing how many people would stump up for a licence? Obviously, you'd have to have the same licence inside and  outside government - can't have preferential terms.The obvious answer to the above question might seem to be "charge for it": after all, if you give it away, how can it have any value?This is the argument that Ordnance Survey's head of communications, Scott Sinclair, was espousing in the Guardian's Response column (where people can reply, unedited, to topics affecting them in the paper), under the heading "These maps cost us £110m. We can't give them away for free".The object of his criticism isGuardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign, which has been running since March 2006. Its thesis is simple: non-personal data that government collects should be made available for commercial re-use for free, with a non-limiting licence. That would mean that, yes, Ordnance Survey's maps would be given away for free. And that's what the argument is about.At this point, one particular group of people says: "Forget Ordnance Survey - we can do this ourselves." That'sOpenStreetMap, which generates its own maps through volunteer effort and licenses them without restriction; as itpoints out, to re-use (or build on) Google Maps would actually be to re-use the Ordnance Survey data.What I do find ironic though about the (very laudable) OpenStreetMap model is how it's acquired. The key element is Global Positioning Systems, aka GPS, aka sat-nav. GPS didn't just fall into the sky. It cost a lot of money to put it up there, and a fair bit to keep going - about $400m annually, including satellite updates.But here's the thing about GPS: it's free to use, and in the short time that it's been available outside the military, its use has exploded. Figures for the value of the market are hard to come by, but EADS-Astriumestimates(in the graph at the end of the link) that this year it's worth about &euro;40billion. That's a hell of a multiplier on something that you give away for free, given a comparatively small investment.Ordnance Survey is, of course, defending its position - which any bureaucracy does. But when you consider the business benefits of Linux, and the enormous benefits that GPS derives from data given away for free, you can see that adding &pound;110m to our overall tax bill would probably generate very much more than that in taxes from the jobs, services and businesses created by doing it. That's why it does make sense to give the data away for free.And if you want the counter-example, you only have to look at the BBC story I linked to above (where the EADS-Astrium graph lies at the end). That talks about the Galileo project - which was intended to be a GPS-like project where people (or businesses) would pay for the GPS-style signal.It's been a flop. Nobody lined up to buy a signal they could get from GPS. And there's no sign that it would generate more value in a market where "free" is already creating huge amounts of value.We know why making our data free matters: because it will benefit so many of us, in ways we might not guess now. But Linus Torvalds didn't know how Linux would benefit everyone. The only pity is that Linux wasn't a British government project. Then we could say that not only did we provide theinventor of the world wide web- but also the software that runs about half of it.
What's your favourite piece of technology?Still the phone. Not a mobile phone, just the phone.What impact has it had on your life?I was brought up in the bush, and that was how we kept in touch with relatives. When you live in the bush you're separated from a lot of people and not everyone can get to you every weekend. And that's how I spoke to my mum and my dad when I got a job in the city. And when I'm travelling and I'm away from my son, the phone is the thing that gets my son in my ear, and gets my voice to his ear.When was the last time you used it?To ring my son, just a few hours ago. To make sure he was going to bed. And yes, he has done his homework – I checked. But kids can lie, especially when you're 22,000 miles away.What additional features would you add if you could?A beer tap and a toaster - that way it's good to me in the morning when I wake up in the morning and good to me just before I go to bed.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years time?No. But having said that, if the kids of today have their way, nobody will be talking into them, they'll only be sending written messages.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a bit oblivious to a lot of it, if not nearly all of it. I'm intrigued by technology, but I think I'm oblivious to it.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A long time ago it used to be televisions. But if I swapped my television for beer, I'd be lucky to get half a glass. It's still an old valve one, and I can't believe it's still got colour. People talk about pixels – mine's got pixels the size of my fist.Mac or PC?I'd probably choose McDonalds over … what's the other one? PC? Haven't heard of it.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?I don't have an iPod, but on the top of my list of all time favourite songs is I Did It My Way.Will robots rule the world?Only if humans ask them to.What piece of technology would you most like to own?An aeroplane. It would give me an opportunity to take my son around the world.The filmKennyis now showing at cinemas across the UK.
What the hell happened to FIFA? Once an appalling arcade kickabout not fit to lace Pro Evolution Soccer's unlicensed boots, FIFA '08 is - whisper it - pretty good. Ok, I still can't see myself playing it much when PES arrives but there is enough here, especially online, to suggest a revisit or two.FIFA finally feels like football - sort of. The pace has slowed right down, so you can at last build up some patient moves. More realistic for sure, but not initially that fun. The majority of players run as if trapped in treacle and as your striker runs into yet another sturdy challenge it's easy to get nostalgic for the zippy wing play of yore. But after a few games it got easier and while the whole game could do with a speed boost I prefer it to the 7-7 horrors of, say, FIFA 2003.Online is perhaps the biggest win, with numerous options, stylish presentation and, er godawful menus. Oh and the whole signing-into-EA-before-you-start thing is an annoyance too. But get over that and you have leagues etc that kick Pro Evo's clumsy online efforts into touch.It's not all good though. Players still don't feel totally under your control and they often make stupid AI decisions. Initially I thought it was an attempt to replicate Southampton's dozy defence, but a game with Man Utd was still as intermittingly frustrating. Shooting is still a bit of a lottery too. But the game as a whole plays far better than you may expect and the potential of some of the new features, particularly the control one player only "be a pro" mode, suggests FIFA is on the right track. It's still PES for me though, but a lot rests on how PES 2008 turns out. FIFA or PES then - where do you stand?
Dan at theGolden Joystick Awardsemailed to let us know that they're celebrating their 25th anniversary this year, when the gongs are distributed in London to the top in interactive entertainment on 26 October. In that illustrious history, he and the editor of CVG argue, there have been ten landmark games which have led us to the release of Halo 3. You may not agree with them, but here they are:1.Space Invaders(1978) (YouTube)The original space shooter. Halo 3 could not have existed without it.Discuss.2.Pac-Man(1979) (YouTube)Wandering around mazes, picking up power packs and avoiding/destroying enemies. Pretty classic Halo moments.3.Elite(1984) (YouTube)This isn't really on my radar, having grown up in the US. The only association I can see between this and Halo is that, again, it's in space. I suppose you could make an allusion between the tactical aspects of the games...4.Tetris(YouTube)I find it tough to see how Tetris is related to Halo 3, but a landmark game in the puzzle genre nonetheless.5.Super Mario Bros.(1985) (YouTube)It may seem a far cry from Marioland to the ringed planet, but the platform-y aspects of the Halo series do have some relationship with the boingy thing this little plumber does.6.Doom(1993) (YouTube)First person shooter. Space. Big guns. Maze-like corridors. Yes.7.Tomb Raider(1996) (YouTube)The grown up's Super Mario. See boingy bits above. I mean in Super Mario, people.8.The Sims(YouTube)Except for the Sims-like conversations between the characters in the Halo-based Red vs. Blue machinima series, I'm having trouble seeing the link with this one.9.Grand Theft Auto III(2001) (YouTube)My favourite GTA in the 3D iteration of the series, I think the link here is sandbox gaming. And the odd tank driving.10.World of Warcraft(YouTube)Nope, I can't see the Halo 3 in this one, but it is a pretty darn landmark game in Western gaming history.So while the list appears rather arbitrary and more a celebration of the 10 most landmark games over the past 25 years than a build up to Halo, I still find it fascinating that I can make even a tenuous association between each and a modern-day first person shooter. What does that say about gaming? That we're stuck in space? That we're obsessed with boinging and leaping? That we spend a lot of our time whatever we're doing on the console wandering around mazes and picking up power ups? Surely there's more to it than that?As for theGolden Joysticks, unlike almost every other game awards event on the annual calendar, they are voted for games by gamers. So despite what you feel about their list of the ten steps to Bungie's first person shooter, you can hit their website and have your say. Gohere. Be counted.
BT has teamed up with Spanish technology company Fon, backed by Google, to try to persuade its more than 3 million British internet users to open up part of their home wireless broadband networks so that other people can use them.They are hoping it will push wireless broadband access, or wi-fi, into suburban and even rural areas. In return for letting other BT customers use part of their broadband connection, anyone signing up to "BT Fon" will have free access to the networks of other British "Foneros" and more than 190,000 Fon-enabled wireless access hotspots across 50 countries including the US, Japan and France."The UK will become the country with the most pervasive and ubiquitous wi-fi service in the world as a result of this deal," said Fon founder and chief executive Martin Varsavsky. "When you are a BT Fonero you can roam the world free. It is like an alliance of people across the world who have seen there is much more value in creating a network than in a standalone wi-fi proposition."BT broadband customers will be able to opt in to the service from Monday with their existing  home wireless equipment.The idea of sharing part of a home network is likely to raise security concerns  among consumers. BT's head of consumer services, Gavin Patterson, however, said the service splits a user's broadband connection in two, reserving just 512kbps or about an eighth of the average broadband connection, for the public service.The rest of the connection remains under the control of the homeowner who can put any security access - including passwords - on to it that they want.
It's been a quiet couple of months for mobile coverage on Gamesblog so to make up for it, here's a selection of the most promising titles heading for the small screen over the next few months. It's taken me quite a while to select and post this lot so I hope it's of interest even to the sternest mobile gaming skeptics. I've stuck to titles I'm sure will be featured across all the network operator portals - most are due out in October and November. They're all worth looking out for.Anarchy 2087 (Handy-Games)German developer Handy-Games has a strong background in effective real-time strategy titles with its Townsmen series and the recent Panzer Tactics conversion. Anarchy 2087 presents a bleak futuristic Europe blighted by global warming and over-run with refugees and rioting Mad Max-style factions. You take on one of these desperate groups, gathering resources, building battle units and fighting through a series of themed, well-conceived missions against the Orwellian-sounding European Crisis Team, a sort of psychotic NATO. The visuals are neat and the scenario is certainly topical, although the AI has beencriticisedand there are question marks over the unit controls. Nevertheless, an impressively deep micro-RTS.Championship Manager 2008 (Eidos)This series has just been so brilliantly handled on mobile, with Scottish studio Dynamo Games opting for a modest but well-presented experience that harks back to the intuitive roots of the Champ Man experience. CM 2008 promises to be even more easy to use with team rosters, transfers and balance sheets all designed to look like your phone navigation menus and a 2D pitch display that reveals match stats as they take place. And of course, you've got a huge database of player stats, a full transfer system and a customisable training regime. Nowhere near as exhaustive as the PC version of course, but there's more than enough detail here to create your on imagined narrative, which was always 80% of the fun before Football manager came along to render into explicit reality every nuance of the manager's life. Eidos won't have the market to itself though: Gameloft has just released a management version of its long-running Real Football series. It'll be interesting to see what the talented French publisher/developer does with the format.FIFA 2008 (EA)PES has some major competition on mobile. The impressively in-depth Real Football 2008 is already out and plays a mean tactical game. But for gamers who don't want to learn dozens of key presses the soon-to-be-released FIFA 2008 plays a nice fluid game with a minimal, context-sensitive control system. It also features a widescreen mode (so you can turn your phone on its side and play) and packs in well-thought out features, like injuries and suspensions which carry through a season, forcing the sort of tactical switches that Steve McClaren has become a dab hand at. And of course, this being a FIFA title you can rely on all the latest player and team stats showing up to make it feel authentic. I'm not sure about the addition of text punditry from Andy Gray, though. Given that each comment can only be about 10 words long it doesn't give the garrulous Sky presenter a lot of room for in-depth analysis. A pointless gimmick, really - and probably an expensive one. Apart from that, this is a good, easy to play sim. Whoever thought there would be one decent footie game on mobile, let alonethree?God of War: Betrayal (Sony)Already receiving hugely (sometimesbegrudgingly) positive coverage in the States, this miniature re-rendering of Sony's flagship hack 'n' slash adventure is set after the events of the original PS2 title, pitching Kratos against the gods after he mistakingly slays Hermes. It's essentially a scrolling platformer with plenty of puzzles and traps, but also a reasonably advanced combat engine and smooth character animation, allowing a range of moves and combos. As in the console titles, Kratos can also trade in orbs to upgrade his weapons and magic attacks. It looks great, easily up there with Gameloft's best mobile platform titles.Heroes Lore: Winds of Soltia (Hands-on)This traditional 2D RPG is apparently the biggest mobile game franchise in its native South Korea, spawning not only a multiplayer sequel, but a dedicated comic book series. It's fairly familiar stuff - choose a character class from knight, rogue or guardian, then explore a diverse fantasy realm, collecting over 120 weapons and spells and using them on a range of 80 monsters. Unless you've been lucky enough to sample the Final Fantasy mobile conversions (or own a smart phone and a decent NES or SNES emulator) this might be your first opportunity to enjoy an old skool RPG on your phone. Heroes Lore 2 is also set for UK release through Hands-On at some point in the near future.Hexic (I-play)Another ruthlessly addictive block-sorting puzzler from Tetris creator Alexey Pajitnov, which has already proved successful on theMSN Games siteandXbox Live. Just organise the hexagons into same-coloured groups while looking out for bonus Star tiles and game-ending bombs. Yep, it's a natural fit for mobile and I-play has bagged the distribution honours alongside similarly compelling MSN puzzler,Mozaki Blocks. If you don't already own a hundred slightly different colour-matching games these are worth considering.Kamikaze Robots (Digital Chocolate)Digital Chocolate is great at creating these daft, but incredibly compelling games based around entirely unpromising themes. Having already succeeded with fun human cannonball challenge, Johnny Crash, and the excellent wind sim, Tornado Mania, here's a game where you roll robots down a hill as far as you can before they explode. Looks like controls consist of just left and right to balance your 'bot as it rumbles down the incline. I'm almost entirely sure this is going to be fantastic. Obviously on a roll, the publisher also has Crazy Penguin Catapult out this winter. It looks like the movie March of the Penguins re-imagined as a cross between Lemmings and Abe's Oddysee. This can only be a good thing.New York City Tycoon (Gameloft)City managing fanatics should look out for Gameloft's take on the genre, which allows you to rebuild the Big Apple to your own economic, political and ecological specifications. Sounds like recognizable Sim City-type fare - line up housing, business and industrial areas, consult planning experts and ensure civil order is maintained. The isometric graphics look crisp and detailed, and Gameloft is promising (and usually delivers) an intuitive control experience. It's also worth looking out the publisher's extremely pretty conversion of The Settlers, which is launching next week to coincide with the latest PC title, Settlers: Rise of a Nation. There's also Glu's excellent translation of Age of Empires 3, developed at the company's London office under the watchful eye of Ensemble Studios.PES 2008 (Glu/Konami)Konami's Paris studio, set up very recently to concentrate exclusively on mobile development, had its work cut out with this one. Converting the world's most sophisticated football simulation to mobile seems like the stuff of corporate folly. Yet, judging by the near-complete code I've played, it works incredibly well. The 2D visuals quaintly recall the early days of the ISS series, while the control system retains the bare bones of the Pro Evo experience without demanding you use the entire keypad - indeed, you can select an ultra casual mode which uses just one button for every kick and tackle. Somehow, the 'feel' of PES has been captured - especially in the reliance on running down the wings and crossing into the box.Sim City Societies (EA)The latest edition to EA's Sim empire looks to combine the two strands of the series - Sim City and The Sims - into one holistic socio-architectural experience. This time you're creating urban communities, looking to develop nightmarish Communist city blocks, hippy communes or fairground-like fun towns, depending on your mood. A new form of resource known as 'social energy' is generated depending on how you embrace factors such as industry, wealth, obedience, knowledge, devotion and creativity. Naturally, the mobile version will lack the depth of its PC stablemate, but last year's mobile conversion of Sim City workedreasonably welland EA is dead serious about developing on this format, transporting all its major console and PC titles.SolaRola (Eidos)Clearly influenced by LocoRoco (just look at that screenshot with its simple unshaded environments), this cute little puzzler, developed by veteran Danish outfit,Progressive Media, gets you to guide two blobby characters named Wiz and Waz - stop giggling - through 25 levels by moving objects like rocks, bombs and trampolines and creating a safe route through. There are also enemies to avoid and a physics-based gravity system to contend with. The provision of seven original songs ramps up that LocoRoco feel - no bad thing. This'll certainly do until Sony creates its own official mobile conversion of the PSP oddity.Urban Attack (Vivendi)Two years ago Vivendi came to the accurate conclusion that first-person shooters don't work on mobile: the controls are too complex, the demands of the visuals too much for under-powered processors. Unperturbed, the company started work on Urban Attack, an FPS designed with the limitations of the platform in mind. Hence, interesting vector-based graphics that run smoothly on most handsets and a shooting system that divides the screen into six sectors, each represented by a corresponding key on the phone pad. There's also a separate sniper mode that zooms in on distant enemies and a selection of mini-games. The visuals are really quite stylish taking me back to old vector classics like Elite and Mercenary. There are some teaser trailershere.
Although Sony Computer Entertainment Europe is yet to officially confirm it, a stripped down 40GB version of PlayStation 3 is coming to the UK, almost certainly within the next three weeks. With an expected price point of £299.99, the machine isrumouredto feature just two USB ports and no memory card reader. The US version of the cheaper machine is also set to lose its hardware backward compatibility. Thelatestreportssuggest the possibility of a cheaper 40gig unitanda price drop to the 60GB machine.Speculation about a reduced price unit first surfaced online two weeks ago, but rumours were quicklyquashed by Sony, which has been sticking to its 'no price cut before Xmas' line. However, earlier this week news site Engadgetobtained documentsfrom retail chain Best Buy detailing the new hardware spec. Similar documentation later turned up on a European games forum (morehere), and now retailers and insider sourcesthroughouttheworldare confirming the imminent release of the re-priced, re-fitted machine.Sony will of course try to spin this positively, but the move will be widely seen as a last ditch attempt to boost sales of the troubled machine ahead of Christmas. While the company has previously stated its intention to fight on specs rather than price, particularly highlighting PS3's multimedia and online capabilities, the lack of triple A game releases, together with the comparatively high price point has seen the console losing ground to Wii and Xbox 360. Microsoft's machine has received a massive boost thanks to Halo 3, with the latest figures suggesting Xbox 360 sales havedoubledsince the launch of the much-anticipated shooter, even besting Wii over the last week in the US according to somesources.Also, theemphasis on Blu-rayis clearly not working. Consumer apathy toward the medium, and HD discs in general, remains solid: Zack Snyder's movie, 300, hailed as the first release to really take advantage of the HD formats, sold just 6564 copies on its first day in the States - and that figure includes both Blu-ray and HD DVD (it's also worth pointing out that out of the two, the HD DVD version has the more interesting extras, featuring an interactive 300 game not present on Blu-ray). Also, the decision by Paramount and Dreamworks to pull out of the Blu-ray family certainly won't have helped matters for the technology.So will a price drop save PS3?It's difficult to tell. There are some immediate PR issues - current owners will no doubt feel peeved they paid full whack for the machine, but then, they're already in the bag. Any negative press online - and there will belots- will be counteracted by the reams of advertising put out by the major retail chains. At this stage, it's not hardcore gamers and forum-lurkers Sony is after, it's the mainstream, and the mainstream doesn't pay much heed to anti-Sony bile.The real question is, are the games there to support the price slash? Heavenly Sword and Lair have garnered mixed reviews although the former looks lovely and is being aggressively marketed. Folklore and Warhawk are critical hits, but don't carry the weight of well-known legacy brands. PES and Gran Turismo: Prologue are the big-hitters here, but delays to SingStar, Metal Gear Solid and GTA IV will be keenly felt. There's a definite lack of trusted old skool oomph. Sure, it's great that Sony is introducing new 'franchises' for the next-gen era, but safe, trusted names are vital too, especially in the formative months. On the other hand,some analystsare suggesting that PS3's strong 2008 line-up may help the brand in the longterm - it'll mean that the thousands of gamers currently sticking with PS2 may well migrate in their droves just as Xbox 360 is looking a little long in the tooth.The key, for now, is probably in how the big retailers push PS3 in the Christmas run-up. With Wii in short supply, a decent selection of bundle deals featuring an extra controller and a well-known title - say FIFA or PES, or maybe a well-hyped newcomer like Assassin's Creed - could provide the incentive that gadget-loving blokes are waiting for to make the PS3 plunge. We'll see.One thing's for sure, Sony has finally realised that it's going to have to roll up its sleeves and start fighting. Hype and bluster have failed - mostly because the PlayStation brand is facing its fiercest ever competition. Back in 1994, the original machine was up against the Saturn and 3DO, two hulking, yet under-powered products lacking universal publisher support. N64 came too late to do and any real damage. As for PS2, Sega lacked the money and sheer global clout to give Dreamcast the support it needed - western developers never clambered aboard. Gamecube was always too cute, too niche to make much headway. But Wii was a brilliant idea and Xbox has the might of Microsoft behind it. If Sony originally failed to comprehend the threat to its ten-year hegemony, it certainly understands now. But understanding isn't the same as competing. The real fight has only just begun.
iRobot Roomba costume frommyRoomBud, a company started and run by kids"A newly released Georgia Tech study shows that some Roomba owners become deeply attached to the robotic vacuums," reportsAP.Beki Grinter, an associate professor at the school's College of Computing, "decided to study the devices after she saw online pictures of people dressing up their Roombas, disc-shaped, self-directed vacuums made by iRobot Corp."One more thing about the Roomba:it seemed to make males more excited about the chore of vacuuming. And that could have profound implications for the future of vacuuming."Forty years of women's liberation hasn't done much for the redistribution of vacuuming labor," Grinter said. "But robotics -- that has promise."
The LG Voyager mobile phone announced by VerizonUS mobile operator Verizon Wireless answered the question "what'll they think of next?" when it unveiled a new model clearly intended to compete with Apple's iPhone.Some analysts, though, questioned whether Verizon's effort would capture much of the $155bn-a-year (£76bn) American mobile phone market.Verizon said its Holiday Collection of new phones, to be in stores by the end of November, includes the Voyager, which attempts to take the iPhone a step further with a Qwerty keyboard and a second, non-touch-sensitive, screen. Like the iPhone, it also has a touch screen.The iPhone's lack of a hardware keyboard has been a turn-off for some consumers, said Andy Castonguay, a director at The Yankee Group, a Boston-based market analysis firm."With any handset device, there are going to be characteristics that appeal to certain people and others that don't," he said. "The heavy users of email and (instant messaging) are probably not going to be satisfied with a touch screen because of speed and accuracy factors."But the Voyager trails the iPhone in two areas: tt does not have a large built-in memory for songs and video (rather it has a slot for memory cards up to 8GB) and the iPhone's screen is larger.Charles Golvin, an analyst at Forrester Research, said the iPhone is a tough competitor, with a beautiful form and excellent software."This is a defensive moved by Verizon," he said. "They need a device to prevent their subscribers from migrating to AT&amp;T to get the iPhone. But nobody is going to confuse this device with the iPhone."Prices for the Voyager and three other models in the collection are to be announced later, Verizon said.Verizon's somewhat tardy arrival for holiday shoppers could be critical, Castonguay said, depending upon what new products Verizon's competitors offer them. "The last quarter of the year is far and away the largest" for new cell phone activations, he said.At the same time, he said, the Voyager targets the fastest growing part of the market - data transmission, including messaging, music and video. "We estimate that will be close to 60% of all growth by 2011," he said.
In war, truth is the first casualty. And that's being proven many times over in ongoing controversies about George W. Bush's Vietnam-era military record. During the 2004 US presidential election, Bush faced renewed accusations that he had benefited from family privilege to obtain a coveted position in the US-based Texas National Guard during the Vietnam war, yet did not even fulfil his minimal service obligations. New memos "proving" the charges surfaced, and were used in a CBS news story, presented by veteran news anchor Dan Rather.But the memos were quickly shown to be fakes. It led to a major media scandal and was a serious blow to the reputations of all involved. Rather was sidelined, and last year left CBS. Now he has reopened the wound by filing a lawsuit (tinyurl.com/2mrqvl) against CBS for how it handled the aftermath and treated him.CBS's use of quickly discredited evidence was the impetus for a blog firestorm, which to this day fuels rhetoric over bloggers v journalists. But "new media" guru Dan Gillmor has said: "By the way, the blog triumphalism that emerged after 'Rathergate' was misguided, too. The traditional media (and at least one PR firm) played significant roles in this event" (tinyurl.com/3e574w). As one examination by the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project (a PDF attinyurl.com/e2dte) concluded, "the capacity of blog operators to make buzz and influence decision-makers is circumstantial: dependent on the sorts of information available and contingent on the behavior [sic] of other public voices" - usually voices that are politically well-connected.The documentation scandal had aspects of an Agatha Christie novel, where the denouement would be Miss Marple giving a speech about how typewriters couldn't do such fancy printing decades ago, so the documents are phony. Except in the Miss Marple novels people don't start arguing with her, claiming that she's an old biddy and that nobody knows anything for certain anyhow.And there should be no reasonable doubt that the material used (the "Killian Memos") was indeed forged. As Joseph Newcomer (who says he is "not a fan of George Bush") points out atflounder.com/bush2.htm, they have sophisticated proportional spacing, and a fine superscript ("th"), characteristic of modern word processing but not of typewriters. The Washington Post offers a detailed view (tinyurl.com/6v258). Sometimes people have become confused since some old typewriters did have simpler proportional spacing or rough superscript approximations, then made a thinking error that the older crude v modern complex versions are identical since they're both in the same category.Sadly, this confusion reflects a profound statement about the nature of finding truth: the internet increasing the availability of primary sources and ability to find experts doesn't help as much as one might hope. There's a pessimistic argument that in some ways, things can get worse. While such sceptical views are hardly original ideas, the difference between curmudgeonery and accuracy is in examining reality.In reaction to its error, CBS released a 224-page report on its internal investigation (www.tinyurl.com/6edua688KBPDF). Buried among its minutiae is a tense drama worthy of a novel. It turns out some document experts had raised issues of forgery during the vetting process, only to be overridden and ignored by the CBS story producer. In one email, that producer, Mary Mapes, wrote she was "over that whole little 'th' problem I had ... and if [examiner Emily Will] had not brought it up, I wouldn't have obsessed about it." Mapes made the classic error of listening only to people who told her what she wanted to hear, and then digging in when evidence mounted against her view.There's a software project management adage: "Adding people to a late project makes it later." Similarly, adding interpretations to a noisy controversy makes it noisier. We cannot escape the complicated calculus of determining truth from falsehood by simple addition. And the CBS internal report, and now Rather's lawsuit, offer us a glimpse into the inner working of society's processes for determining what is regarded as accurate, and refutation of many myths around it.sethf.com/infothought/blog/
Ask Jack got letter from a reader complaining that his brand new 24in iMac "crashes multiple times each day," andhe's not the only one. Charles's first comment was that it "sounds like a video driver issue," whichAppleInsiderseems to have confirmed. It says:The issue appears to be related to the ATI Radeon HD graphics hardware and its drivers, but has proven unpredictable. While some customers have said they can reliably trigger the freeze by running games, iTunes, or other programs that push the video chipset, others have had the lockups occur at seemingly random intervals or after running the iMac for a long time.Our review iMac is still OK, but others have got worse following Apple bug-fixes, says AppleInsider:Some users' systems even appear to have been made worse by the latest of the updates. AppleInsider's own review unit, while stable during the review period and for weeks afterwards, now suffers from the same issue since the 1.1 update and will occasionally refuse to respond regardless of what was running at the time.Also, the site says:However close Apple may be to a fix, the widespread nature of the problem is making some prospective buyers think twice before purchasing the system so soon into its release cycle.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ever played a mobile game and thought 'I could do better than this'? No wait, don't answer that, I know what you lot are like.Anyway, Channel 4's 4Talent initiative has got together with Future'sGolden Joystick Awards(vote now!) and Electronic Arts to offer budding game developers the chance to pitch a mobile game idea at a panel of industry experts and 'gaming gurus' - in other words, Channel 4 Education Commissioning Editor, Matt Locke, O2's Head of Games, Despina Kaparaki and two top chaps from EA Mobile. The winner gets £2,500 and the chance for 'a short hothouse placement with EA Mobile's game division', which involves them helping you to realise your dream. Not quite a spa weekend at Babington House, but possibly more useful to your career.If you're interested in trying your hand at this Java application equivalent of Dragon's Den, go to the4Talent websitefor more info. The closing date for applications is October 17 and the winner will be announced at the glittering Golden Joystick event on October 26, set to be presented by David 'Peep Show' Mitchell.I think we should come up with a collective Gamesblog entry. Maybe something that combines the lucrative brain training, block sorting, pet sim, poker and ironic TV license genres.
GrIDsureis claiming a breakthrough with "a revolutionary new protected ID verification system (patent pending)" to make Chip and PIN banking more secure. It seems that instead of picking a Personal Identification Number:Users create a simple pattern by choosing a set number of squares on a grid, in a shape of their choice -- such as an 'L' or a 'tick'. Because the grid is then filled with random numbers at authentication time, new 'PIN' or pass codes are created each time. Best of all, GrIDsure can work without the need for extra hardware such as tokens, generating one-time codes that are more secure and resilient to spyware threats.The company also claims that the idea "works with ANY device (where a display can be shown) and is therefore ideal for mobile phone-based solutions." Presumably it caters for the fact that mobile phone keypad layouts are different from computer and ATM layouts....But I must admit I'm sceptical. Seems to me that the number of "memorable" patterns that people will naturally choose is likely to be very much smaller than the number of patterns created by random number generation. And we already rely on "motor memory" to some extent when entering even awkward PINs.
Gordon Brown covered a lot in his conference speech last week. But one word absent was "broadband". Indeed, I am pushed to think of an occasion when the word has passed his lips, though six years ago he was reported (by his then e-envoy) to be sceptical of the benefits of broadband because of low takeup. Broadband acceptance in Britain has improved since then, not because of market forces but because Ofcom, the regulator, broke BT's distribution monopoly. There are now dozens of suppliers offering speeds up to 4.6 megabits a second or sometimes more, cutting prices and even, like TalkTalk, pretending it is free. It's great for customers, but not a free lunch. Profit margins are so tight that suppliers can't risk investing in super-fast broadband, a key engine of future economic growth.Which is why Ofcom, suffering from its own success, last week urged the industry to spend billions to prevent Britain being left behind as other countries unveil plans for optical fibres (with huge capacity) to replace ageing copper wires to the home or a box nearby. Ofcom is right, but has to tread delicately between being a regulator and an evangeliser for broadband. Its Delphic guidelines (ofcom.org.uk/about/sdrp) require it to operate "with a bias against intervention, but with a willingness to intervene firmly, promptly and effectively where required".Is now that moment? Not if you listen to Ovum, a consultancy: "Do we really want to spend billions of taxpayers' money so that people can watch 'a dozen high-definition' channels? Would that really make our lives more fulfilled and drive the UK economy?"Well, er ... yes, on both counts. Watching high- definition television will definitely improve the viewing experience, and if Britain is an early mover, could help sell programmes made for the medium. And high-definition television is a minor part of the benefits of fast broadband.Brown's scepticism of six years ago predated the YouTube revolution and the large-scale exchange of films and video on peer-to-peer networks. With broadband, supply creates its own demand. Companies are already so worried that the net might buckle under the weight of data transmission that they are campaigning against the admirable ideal of net neutrality in favour of a two-tier scheme enabling premium users to pay more. We are entering a period of heavy data transmission as films and TV shows (often high definition) are transmitted and exchanged, when remote medicine is around the corner and when a new generation of virtual worlds is being planned.But if you are worried about Britain losing out, look at South Korea. Here are some statistics from Digital Korea, a new book by Tomi Ahonen and Jim O'Reilly (digitalkorea.futuretext.com): 43% of its population has a personal profile in the virtual world Cyworld, which recorded $10m (&pound;5m) worth of trade per month last year. The most popular online game there, Lineage, has 14 million users worldwide, twice as many as World of Warcraft. The second most desired car is not a Ferrari but a "Solid Pro", a virtual car from the online game Kart Rider.Is this is a cultural anomaly happening "over there" with no implications for us? No. It is a technological phenomenon driven by proactive governments which realise that speedy adoption of broadband generates economic growth. In South Korea, 90% of homes have broadband at, wait for it, a standard speed of between 50 and 100 megabits a second (compared with the UK's average 4.6 megabits). South Korea is already rolling out pilot connections at 1,000 megabits a second. The authors observe: "To add insult to injury, South Koreans pay for their broadband at the lowest rates in the world." In this game, who dares wins. Memo to Gordon Brown: learn to spell broadband.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
After an insane night at theFuture of Web Appsconference - including the filming of an episode ofDiggnation, which I feel is likely to make material for an entire article - I'm back in Docklands for the second day of talks.First up isPaul Graham, web entrepreneur and the man behindY Combinator- a seed investment group that's put weight behind sites likeReddit. Paul's set to talk about "the future of web startups".He promises this is going to be a good talk.Believe it or not, you already know what the future of web startups is. It's to undergo the same change that happens to technology when it becomes cheaper - initially there's some kind of device or material that's very expensive to make, then somebody works out how to make it cheaply. That makes it possible to use it in ways that were impossible before.This pattern's been around for a long time: steam, mechanical power, clothing manufacture, agriculture. Now it's happening to startups; they've gone from scarce and expensive to cheap and common. If that pattern holds true then we'll see some remarkable things.My first prediction's straightforward. There'll be lots of them. Starting up is hard, but having a 9-5 job is pretty hard too - and perhaps a worse kind of hard. In a startup you have more control and maybe you make more money. We now think of it as normal to work for a company, but historically that's the thinnest of veneers. Two or three lifetimes ago most people made a living through farming.Standardisation follows mass production.We often tell startups to release a crappy 1.0 product and then design it around the users' needs (not the users' wants). That's what we've been doing ourselves AS Y Combinator. We treat our company like a startup, we want to find out how to mass produce startups. Funding will start to become standardised - not at mass level, but at angel level.There will also be a new attitude to acquisition, so it will be just as easy to buy as it will be to hire somebody - just more expensive. Google's leading the way here. There's always a stigma attached to acquisitions - why aren't our developers able to make this? Well, Google has by far the best programmers of any public tech company, and it's not scared. However many acquisitions Google's doing, Microsoft should be doing ten times more.We often tell startups to release a crappy 1.0 product and then design it around the users' needs (not the users' wants). That's what we've been doing ourselves AS Y Combinator. We treat our company like a startup, we want to find out how to mass produce startups. Funding will start to become standardised - not at mass level, but at angel level.There will also be a new attitude to acquisition, so it will be just as easy to buy as it will be to hire somebody - just more expensive. Google's leading the way here. There's always a stigma attached to acquisitions - why aren't our developers able to make this? Well, Google has by far the best programmers of any public tech company, and it's not scared. However many acquisitions Google's doing, Microsoft should be doing ten times more.Basically if Chuck Norris can wear pink, any man can.There'll be more risk. Crazy ideas like shopping a search engine in 1997 or turning down a billion dollar offer. Venture capitalists appreciate risk, founders don't. But the more startups there are, the more this works out.There will be younger, nerdier founders. They will be able to start more companies in their lifetime. There starts to be another way to convince investors - instead of approaching VCs with aplan, you can start a company with seed funding and then approach the VCs with acompany. This is much better suited to hackers.Will we still need Silicon Valley? Yes. It's true that you can start a startup anywhere, but you also have to make it succeed - which is more likely to happen in a hub. The increasing cheapness of starting up might actually make it more necessary to be in a hub. The benefits are face to face meetings; visiting a friend down the street; happenstance. The question is not whether you need it, or whether it offers any advantage at all. Your competitors can take that advantage. This may be an uncomfortable idea.But, a startup that's just a couple of people can be moved more easily. We make people move for Y Combinator, the advantage of working face to face for a few months outweighs the cost of moving. This means that seed funding can be a national business, not a local one (unlike venture capital). Is seed funding international? If it is, it'll be harder to set up new Silicon Valleys. All you'd end up with in your local one are the ones who couldn't be driven enough to move to the real Silicon Valley.We'll also need better judges: better investors, better acquirers. What do we do when we get 10,000 seed funding applications per year? Acquirers will have to get better at picking winners - right now they're not bad, because they pick later in the game when there's more evidence. But closing the deal is tough: acquirers are assholes - they'll make you pay, even the nicest companies will make you pay.Eventually companies may have a chief acquisition officer. It'd be great if there were people or groups who identified potential acquisitions and seal the deal. But at the moment there's nobody who gets in trouble for buying a company for $200m when they could have bought it earlier for $20m.Colleges will also change, if people startup earlier. College is warped by the idea that you'll be judged in a job afterwards. But perhaps "after college" may change to graduation to leaving. We don't encourage people to startup in college - but some of the best founders are people who were still in school. No switch flips when you take that last exam: the need for university degrees are driven by administrative needs. This will matter less.It will also matter less where you went to college; users care whether your software works. So elite universities will play less of a role. It's a scandal how easy it is for . The solution may not be to reform universities, you just go around them. We're used to this in technology. The greatest value of these universities is the people you meet; but as startups increase, you may see people concentrate on trying to meet other potential co-founders. Instead of trying to get good grades, they may try tolearn stuff.[This is really interesting, by the way. He's not the most charismatic speaker in the world, but hardly a sentence goes by that's not intriguing and challenging]Increasing the number of startups means you can't sit on an idea. If somebody else has your idea - and somebody does, believe me - people will get right to work on them because it's easier. Microsoft is having a hard time discovering web apps - we are like the audience in a movie who can see something bad about to happen to the character on the screen; the monster's looming over them about to WHAP! them straight out of the door.One person measuring performance found that people were 1/13th less productive once they'd been acquired. There's something about big companies that sucks the energy out of you. There's an enormous latent energy in the world's hackers that nobody realises is there. So...Starting up is like the plumbing in an old house. Eventually it will be replaced by a single, big pipe. The water will still have to get from A to B but it will get there faster and with less risk of spraying out through some random leak. The force of being measured by one's performance will propagate back through the system. It's currently the ultimate measurement, but there are so many kinks in the plumbing that it gets lost.In answer to some questions. He makes the point that not every new company is a startup: you want an exit. Not every kind of company needs to be in startup hub, it's possible for some sorts.Does this model face competitors? Seedcamp and Y Europe are the only seeding companies he knows of in Europe, and none in Asia. But it's too early for anyone to rationally get into the seed funding business, because it takes at least five years to work out what your returns are going to be.Is there stuff big companies can do to act more like startups? It's hard to reproduce the chance to earn huge amounts of money, but they suck so badly that there must be opportunities. Just release stuff. We're like a refugee camp for people traumatised by working for bigcorp. Big companies don't realise that hackers just like to build stuff. Big companies are excessively worried about their brand. But companies are probably judged by the best things they make, not the worst.What convinces people to startup is seeing other people doing it: hey, that guy doesn't seem so smart - I could do that.What makes startups work is angel funding. What makes Silicon Valley is not the VCs, it's the angels. Startups wouldn't get to the VCs without the angels. So angel investment can help you get over many humps. We need to cultivate more angels, that's why we want to open source our angel investing paperwork.
Another virtual world is loitering on the horizon, but the Google bods whomaybe building it are keeping hush hush about their plans for a (reported) avatar-based, Google Earth mashup. The blogosphere is buzzing with false sightings and rumoured projections. But "My World," as it's been dubbed, may be closer than we think.Terra NovaandCNNreported on a potential Goggle virtual world last year, but since then, the internet giant has been pretty quiet, watching the froth surrounding the other, already released virtual worlds. The incident that has tongues wagging (and fingers typing) is a possible prototype sign-up/focus group at Arizona State University in the US. Fromars-technica:...it makes sense for Google to mesh a bunch of its tools into one, thus creating a whole new advertising opportunity aimed at people, er, avatars, who are "walking" down virtual (real) streets to check out virtual (real) stores and businesses. And if Google wants, it could incorporate some of its more social ventures, such as social networking site Orkut and Google Talk, in order to motivate users to spend more time there. Whatever "My World" ends up being, we think that Google will go much further than just competing with Second Life--if the company makes it functionally useful and ties it in with services that people already use, it may have a chance of succeeding at getting average Internet users to participate.Metaversedexplains why people think Google wants to get into this business:Speculation about Google creating a virtual world began last year in part because they've created all of the tools necessary to put one together. If one ever needed a proof-of-concept for that you could look to Everyscape. Between Google Street-View, Google Sketch-Up and Google Earth, we have all of the tools necessary to mash-up several varieties of virtual world.Whereas over onTN, Greg Lastowka amusingly posits that, "the virtual avatars will be wearing sandwich boards bearing geo-targeted Google AdWords."Whatever the outcome - a Second Life-style immersive virtual environment or an enhanced Yahoo! Avatars - it sounds like the application will be released later this year.
No, it really doesn't - and the financial impact is going to be minimal. Microsoft has just staged a reasonably graceful retreat from its plans to drop Windows XP in January, saying it's "extending availability ... for an additional five months to June 30, 2008".Putting a gloss on the climbdown, Mike Nash, corporate vice-president, Windows product management, said: "As a practical matter, most of our previous operating system releases were available for about two years after the new version shipped, so maybe we were a little ambitious to think that we would need to make Windows XP available for only a year after the release of Windows Vista."Microsoft had already reduced its sales forecasts for Vista. In July, chief financial officer Chris Liddell told analysts that Microsoft had tweaked its fiscal 2008 numbers on the assumption that Vista would account for 78% of Windows sales, down from 85%. He didn't say how much this would cost, but the figure for "undelivered elements" was off by $120m (&pound;59m), or $10m a month. This is rather small beer for a Windows division that makes an operating profit of around $1bn a month.Most Windows sales are made when people buy it preinstalled on a new PC. Financially, it makes little, if any, difference to Microsoft whether it's XP or Vista. The main benefit comes from what Microsoft calls the "OEM premium mix" - how many customers pay extra for XP Pro (&pound;234 on Amazon) instead of XP Home (&pound;176), or Vista Home Premium (&pound;185, or &pound;120 upgrade from XP) instead of Basic (&pound;180, or &pound;80 upgrade).Microsoft makes a lot more money from premium versions, so the trick is to make the standard version just unattractive enough to stimulate sales of the premium version. Microsoft certainly managed that with Vista. However, it may also have made the standard version too unattractive to people who'd just as soon have XP. Another factor has been the arrival of ultra-low cost but low-spec laptops. These typically don't have the extra memory and fast graphics required to run Vista well. PC manufacturers can't achieve the same low price points with Vista that they can if they ship Windows XP instead.Vista's stumbles contrast with the success of Microsoft Office 2007. Last month, US analysts at NPD reported that retail sales of Office were up 59.6% compared with the first six months of last year. However, part of that resulted from sales of an older version of Office to Mac users, many of whom could be switching from Windows.Such "switchers" can be good business. If they buy both Mac Office and a full copy of Windows to run under Parallels, Microsoft can make $500 to $1,000 per head, compared to between $50 and $100 for a bundled PC user. The problem for Microsoft is that it's not a business model with much of a future.
Besting GoogleBoth Microsoft and Yahoo! have just upgraded their search engines to give better results.tinyurl.com/yozkgzDVD-on-demandSonic's Qflix system enables video and other downloadable content to be burned to DVD in CSS copy-protected format, potentially creating a new burn-on-demand business. Home users will be able to burn their own movies with new DVD burners and special blanks.qflix.comEurope's new leafThe European Commission has started a project to develop a digital library.tinyurl.com/2el4bdPick a card ...Apacs, the banking industry body, has produced guides on choosing and using plastic cards for under 18s and parents.choosingandusing.comapacs.org.ukTV GuideLocate TV, which tells you when you can see series such as House and Friends, has gone into public beta.locatetv.comGive a FolkSony is holding a competition to design a new Netherworld character to appear in Folklore for the PlayStation 3.tinyurl.com/yrcpckWe're all losersThe Responsibility in Gambling Trust has launched a website.gambleaware.co.ukMobile educationThe third annual Handheld Learning conference will be held at Central Hall Westminster, London, on October 10-12.handheldlearning2007.com
The word on standardsProfessionally written, useful content will only be able to compete against hastily written, clueless gibberish if search engines are somehow able to identify the latter as such (Word farms of the web, September 27). That sounds like a big responsibility for Google with its motto, "Don't be evil".lockergnome.comSome of the best and biggest websites thrive off low-standard content written by non-professional writers. Academics and journalists plagiarise content all the time, but simply get round it by citing their reference material. I don't mind if I land on a badly written site, or end up reading rewritten content as long as it's informative or entertaining.assertica.co.ukHow to make a differenceWhile the One Laptop Per Child project's intentions are admirable ($100 laptop scheme extended to help boost 'disappointing' sales, September 27), allowing US consumers to purchase two laptops - one for personal use and one for a child in a developing country - proves once again that the venture is too expensive. By listening to Michael Dell, who pointed out in July that the millions of functioning PCs that come out of circulation annually offer a much more realistic - and affordable - option for the world's poorest children, the industry could make a real difference. Computer Aid, the world's biggest not-for-profit supplier of professionally refurbished PCs to developing countries, has already shipped more than 95,000 PCs to the developing world.Tony RobertsChief executive, Computer Aid International, LondonBlock partyI resent advertisers that try to grab you by the internet balls with ads that obscure the page you are accessing, play loud videos without permission, or pop up ancillary pages with the advert, in the process taking focus away from the page you are on; and ads that freeze my browser (Read Me First, September 27).Tony AllawayLondonAdblock is good; however, FlashBlock is my most treasured addon. Getting rid of blinking, flashing, brain-destroying  animations is one reason I use Firefox.Geoff HawkinsBy emailWatery grave for EarthThere is only one thing wrong with using tidal energy (Entrepreneur makes waves, September 20). It is not renewable. The tides get their energy from the rotation of the Earth and, were it feasible to utilise all the Earth's tidal energy, within a generation we would have a 36-hour day. Not only that, but the reduced rotational speed would make the Earth unstable in its orbit and cause it to move nearer or further from the sun. This would mean the end of all life on this planet as the oceans either boil dry or freeze solid. In fact, we do not know just how unstable the equilibrium of the Earth's orbit is. Just the effect of Severn barrage might, just might, be enough to cause the instability to become critical. This prospect makes man-made global warming look very small beer indeed.John BarrettCirencesterLinux does workWhile I hate to contradict my uncle, I've just plugged my memory stick into a Linux box and dragged and dropped "2.1Gb file with spaces in the name.iso" on to it without moving my hand off the mouse or crashing the machine (Letters, September 27).Luke SudberyLondonBig Mac gloatCouldn't you just print a "nur nur" number on the letters page which counts up how many letters you've received this week saying: "I have no problems with viruses BECAUSE I'VE GOT A MAC!" (Does antivirus have a future?, September 20).John StoutAughton
There are people on the internet who hate each other because of games. I once wrote a Gamesblog criticising Doom3 and received an email that just said "Die! Die! Die!" over and over again. I'm willing to bet it wasn't from anyone even remotely involved in the project. I'm hoping they've got better things to do.The rise of the online gaming community has proved both a boon and a source of stress and bemusement to game developers. Take Halo. The third title in the series has just enjoyed the biggest entertainment retail launch in history, but a week after the big event, geeks have caught on to the fact that the game renders in 1152 x 640 pixels, not the native 720p resolution supported by Xbox 360. A firestorm has erupted - "the game isn't even high-definition!" some have screamed - even though a recent survey suggested that 70% of Xbox 360 owners don't even know that their machine is HD-capable.Halo developer Bungie's response was both refreshing - and a risk. Having explained the decision to use the unconventional resolution to boost the lighting effects, the company wrote on its website: "We would ignore it entirely were it not for the internet's propensity for drama where none exists. In fact, the reason we haven't mentioned this before in weekly updates is the simple fact that it would have distracted conversation away from more important aspects of the game, and given tinfoil hats some new gristle to chew on as they catalogued their toenail clippings."Developers rarely make this sort of public attack on gaming nuts, because gaming nuts are a vital commodity. Community management is a key element of the game publishing process, with teams of staff now dedicated to romancing the online fanbase. It used to be about staffing the dedicated forums and multiplayer game servers to ensure everyone played nice. Now developers produce podcasts and newsletters, run extended public betas of forthcoming products and hold events like Quake Con, a huge get-together based around Doom-creator iD which generates the sort of religious zeal and devotion that might embarrass a TV evangelist.In a horrendously uncertain business where most products lose money, building a dedicated user-base around your product means a guaranteed revenue stream, flowing with add-on packs and sequels. The online devotees have become even more valuable. The dark side of the internet - the 24-hour, seven days a week global nitpicking and rumour-mongering - are seen as minor inconveniences. Because when a community says "Die! Die! Die!" to a game, it usually does.
The head of a British high-tech start-up went in to the old Department of Trade - one of whose roles was to help business - to make a pitch for his new program and how it could help save taxpayers' money while fostering the local software industry. It turned out that both these factors were irrelevant. The reason for dismissing him? "Oh, well, of course, we'd only ever select a US-branded product."A story from the bad old days, you might think. But this meeting took place just over a year ago. "I couldn't believe that someone from the UK government was saying that to me," says John Powell, who co-founded Alfresco (alfresco.com) in January 2005. He received the astonishing reply when he was making a pitch for Alfresco's enterprise content management (ECM) software, which helps manage office documents, web pages, emails, images and records.Things are no better today. "We're doing just over 50% of our business" - already running at around $10m a year - "in the US, just under 50% outside of the US," Powell says. "But when you drill on that piece that's outside of the US, the bulk of it is coming from continental Europe. We've had massive take-up in France, Benelux, Spain and Italy." By contrast, the UK represents a slim 5% of Alfresco's business.That poor uptake in the home market is particularly ironic since it was a determination to become a UK-based global enterprise that shaped the company. "We decided that the only way to build a major software company out of the UK was with the open source business model," Powell says. "To build a global software company, you have to be successful in the US."  However, "it costs a huge amount of money to start a marketing operation in the US when we're here [in the UK]".Open source gets round this because prospective customers can download the product and try it - Alfresco has been downloaded 700,000 times. If they like it, they can pay for support, much of which can be provided online. Powell says: "When you get into it, you recognise that open source makes virtually every aspect of writing software and selling software and acquiring customers easier."Benefits of collaborationIf the business model was determined by the choice of location, the particular market sector that Alfresco would serve was largely a consequence of the career of the other founder. John Newton is a Silicon Valley engineer who had decided in 1987 to move to the UK. Where Powell's background was in running and growing divisions of software companies such as Oracle and Business Objects, Newton was an acknowledged expert in designing ECM systems: he co-founded Documentum, which grew to be the first giant of a sector worth around $4.5bn today.As Newton says, the strategy of using open source to create a global software company based in Europe was not a complete leap of faith: "We were very lucky when we started. We were able to study the business models of the likes of MySQL and JBoss and see why they had been successful." The MySQL database is the "M" in the popular open source web platform usually abbreviated as "LAMP" - Linux (operating system), Apache (web server), MySQL (database), Perl/PHP/Python (scripting language, to generate web pages on the fly); it drives many top web 2.0 sites, and its Swedish-based developer is on course for what is expected to be a very successful IPO. JBoss is an open source application server created by  Marc Fleury, who sold his company to Red Hat for $420m in April last year.Not only could Alfresco's founders look at these forerunners, it could ask them for advice. As Powell says: "What you recognise in open source is a completely different mindset. To be successful, you have to have this community approach. That  means we work very successfully with the other open source companies."The benefits of collaboration were also available at the technical level, since Newton could take existing open source components and adapt them to his needs. "It allowed us to move four or five times faster, because it was like pulling together Lego rather than building everything from the bottom up," he says.Powell and Newton initially funded the company themselves, but soon they were looking for venture capital. It was here that the gulf between the UK and the US became clear. "Because of our backgrounds, we had interest [from UK venture capitalists]," Powell says. "But you just knew, from the type of conversations you were having, that they were sceptical." Things were very different when they had the same conversations in the US: "We did a one-day tour of a place called Sand Hills Road, met half a dozen VCs, and came back with two or three offers." Alfresco closed $8m in funding as a result.The initial reaction of customers to Alfresco's product was strong. Powell says: "If you look at the revenues of enterprise content management [companies] since 1999, the growth has been OK - it's been like 10%, 15% per annum. Whereas the growth of content is astronomic - it's just an exponential growth. So we had the sense that there were a lot of people who needed the techniques of enterprise content management but weren't prepared to pay the ticket price and found those [proprietary] solutions much too complex."Fear of riskAlfresco's cost, customisability and lack of vendor lock-in have been popular with European public bodies: locally in Paris and Munich; regionally in Andalusia and Catalonia; nationally in Belgium; and at the pan-European level with the European Union. Everywhere, it seems, except in the UK. So what's the problem?Powell says: "What's happened over the years is that [UK] government has tried to develop its skills in IT, and has been highly influenced by a small set of consultants of large global companies. They've really played on the government's fear of risk. So whenever we go and talk to government here in the UK, whether that be local or central, the risk thing is the first thing they always talk about. They don't look at any of the benefits. The cost, the ease of deployment, the speed - none of that matters: they just focus on the risk."Of course, as long as you're going to do that, then you're only ever going to choose the biggest company. Yet when you look at the projects in the UK, these projects are failing. The more they fail, the more it drives [the UK government] down this weird behaviour of only selecting the biggest people - even though they've failed two or three times before."Powell says that the solution is openness - at all levels. "It's all kept among this cosy cartel of a few firms, a few consultants. It's all swept under the carpet. I think we just need to bring it out into the open" - to go al fresco, as it were.&#183;Glyn Moody writes about open source atopendotdotdot.blogspot.com
The auction site eBay has denied that any of its internal systems has been compromised after an incident last week in which 1,200 users' details - including name, email and physical address and home phone number - were posted along with faked credit card details on its "Trust and Safety" forum (tinyurl.com/yle2vj).The sight of hundreds of entries led to amazement and then outrage within some eBay user forums. But the company insisted that the credit card details, while convincing, had not come from any of its own users' accounts, and suggested that they may have been fakes that were generated automatically. "None of the card details matched any of those of any eBay user," the site said. "We have contacted every one of the people whose login details were posted by phone, and it appears none of the credit cards was theirs."He said the purpose of the postings seems to have been to spread fear and uncertainty among eBay users. Judging by some of the postings in the forum, it achieved its aim: "I cancelled my cc [credit card] on file. Ebay isn't trustworthy enough to have my personal financial information," wrote one on a thread (tinyurl.com/ys99zx) where eBay tried to reassure users.The company's assumption is that the user details belonged to people who have responded to phishing emails, which pretend to be from an organisation but lead to fake sites, and have been used to collect data about the user. There is a strong suspicion in some quarters that the postings were the work of "Vladuz", reckoned to be a Romanian hacker who is thought to have penetrated the accounts of some of eBay's customer service staff. Over the past nine months he has tormented eBay by inveigling his way into user accounts, apparently through phishing, and then using them to set up fake auctions.Despite attempts by international law enforcement agencies to locate and arrest "Vladuz", he remains at large.
Within a whisker of meIf you had whiskers, how would it feel? A team in Japan has created a "haptic" (touch) interface that alerts people when an object comes close to them. Now to get them through the cat flap ...tinyurl.com/3xsekwSteve Ballmer sells Windows 1.0In 1985, in his best "Crazy Eddie" car salesman style, the then head of the Windows division gives it that huckster pitch. Originally intended only for internal use, it has since spread far and wide.tinyurl.com/yc8pl5What is hypertext anyway?It's easy to forget the immanent power of hypertext and links. Got four minutes and 33 seconds? Here's the digital world.tinyurl.com/yw8rvu&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
This is a tale of two cities. The first is Nablus in the West Bank of the occupied Palestinian territories, a city of picturesque ancient buildings and winding alleyways - and fierce resistance to the Israeli presence.  The second is virtual Nablus - a city of monitors, keyboards and cables where the residents of Nablus can experience a freedom they do not enjoy in real life."Without the internet I would die," says 29-year-old Mahmoud, a journalism student at Nablus's An-Najah National University. Last year he tried to visit the United States, but the Israeli authorities would not let him leave the West Bank."I had a visa for the US but when I got to the bridge [the Allenby Bridge over the River Jordan to Jordan; Palestinians usually cannot enter Israel so travel via Jordan] the Israelis said I couldn't go out."Mahmoud is establishing an arts project near his home in Balata refugee camp but his American co-founder has been denied entry to Israel, and therefore the occupied territories, by the Israeli authorities. So now the pair conduct business meetings via the internet, using Skype, Microsoft Messenger and email.Internet serviceBetween 160,000 and 175,000 people live in around 50,000 homes in Nablus. Of those, according to Paltel, the Palestinian telecoms provider, 28,500 are landline subscribers, and 5,300 of those have Paltel's ADSL service. The company recently launched a subscription-free dialup internet service, through which anyone with a landline can access the internet for 1.2 shekels (around 14p) an hour. ADSL starts at 2 shekels a day for a 128Kbps connection for residential users, and 400 shekels per month for a 512Kbps connection for business subscribers. That compares to an average net daily wage of $17.90 (&pound;8.76) for men and $16.50 for women employed in the occupied territories.Nablus has 14 internet cafes, offering around 150 terminals between them, all charging around 3 shekels an hour. Internet cafes are especially popular with An-Najah students such as Mosab, who is from the village of Salfit, which is separated from Nablus by two permanent checkpoints, Huwarra and Za'atara. These, plus an occasional "flying" checkpoint at Yitzhar, can together can add an hour or more to a journey.Says Mosab: "My home is only about 15km from Nablus, but I live in Nablus during the week because of the checkpoints." So he turns to the internet to keep in touch. "I use chatting to find out news from home. I talk to my friends about things I would talk to them about if I were in Salfit: their work, their lives, and I also ask them what's happening in Salfit, and about my family."It's not just young people who use the internet to keep in touch: Huda, 60, is another regular user of the internet. A native of Jerusalem, she moved to Nablus with her husband in 1967, just after the Six-Day War. As Palestinians from the occupied territories are, with a few exceptions, barred from entering Israel, and holders of Israeli ID cards - including Huda's relatives - cannot enter areas under the control of the Palestinian Authority, the internet is a lifeline. "You know the Gethsemane garden on the Mount of Olives?" she says, "Well, my family lives just behind there. But I can't go to see them. We email each other. They want to hear about the soldiers, especially when they hear there's been a big incursion into Nablus, and about my children."She adds: "I play dominos and games online, too, because there's nothing else to do in Nablus; I've made friends from all over the world doing that."The internet helps younger people get around cultural restrictions, too. Nablus is one of the most conservative cities in the occupied territories, meaning that reputations, especially those of young women, are very important. As a result, many spend their evenings at home, away from "damaging" contact with young men. Unable to meet their friends in person, they chat online instead. Socialising between unmarried men and women is frowned upon, so, as Ilham, a 21-year-old female student, puts it: "Sometimes the only way to get to know someone is to marry them." But Ilham is getting to know her boyfriend Mohammed via the internet. Although Mohammed also attends An-Najah, Ilham cannot speak to him if she sees him there, so the pair chat almost every night on Messenger. "Now we know a lot about each other; what we're thinking, how we like each other to act," she says. "Because of social attitudes here I couldn't do that any other way."There are times when internet access becomes especially important to the people of Nablus: during curfews imposed by the Israelis. In February Israelis occupied the city for some four days, putting  the city centre under curfew, which shut down the whole city, including An-Najah. Remembers Ilham: "Everything closed. The only entertainment we had was the internet. Me and my sisters chatted with all our friends, and I kept in touch with my boyfriend, to see if he was OK. "I 'talked' to people over the internet as I would have talked to them at university but couldn't. We talked about how boring and depressing the situation was, and how much we missed university and our classes."Ala Yousef, the co-ordinator of the Zajel Youth Exchange Programme at An-Najah, remembers the Israelis putting Nablus under curfew for weeks in 2002. He recalls: "I was stuck at home. I couldn't even go on my balcony, but I had a great time chatting with my friend in New York. Without the internet, my mood would have been much worse."Without the internet, Zajel probably could not exist. Ala says he and his colleagues founded Zajel - Arabic for "carrier pigeon" - seven years ago to promote an image of Palestinians and Palestine  different to that given in most of  the mainstream English-language media.One arm of Zajel maintains a website carrying academic papers by staff and students. The hope is that researchers will find the website (youth.zajel.org) while searching for something else, then stay to read some of the hundreds of articles on Palestinian news, culture and history also posted there.Establishing relationshipsThe other arm seeks to increase contact between Nabulsis and people around the world. One way of doing this is to organise work placements at the university for international volunteers. The majority of these volunteers learn of Zajel from the internet, and all contact with them prior to their arrival in Nablus is done through email and chatting online.Zajel also tries to build links between the university and organisations around the world. Says Ala: "Before the internet, it would take a very long time even to make contact with a western organisation, let alone establish a relationship."We would have to have face-to-face meetings, workshops, seminars and so on, it would all take a lot of time and effort, and as there's not really a postal service here, it was difficult to send letters. Now it's as easy as accessing a website."For Maria Khayat and her Nabulsi husband, Amer, the internet has made it much easier to find suppliers and customers for their Holyland Industries toiletries business. "All our research is done through the internet. We order our raw materials - such as oils - on the internet, and we communicate with customers through it too," she says.The Holyland Industries website, launched five months ago, now generates around 60% of the Khayats' business. Although her husband has been able to travel to trade shows around the region, his wife says he is often given "a hard time", even in other Arab countries. "Suppliers often won't buy our products because they are made in Palestine. We're up against prejudice in other countries, but the internet allows us to go direct to our customers," she says.Revolution"People used the interent before, but during the past two years, it's been like a revolution," says Nameer Khayyat, general director of Nablus Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which has more than 6,000 registered members in Nablus. He says: "The number of businesses using the internet hasn't doubled; I'd say it's tripled."The internet means more to business people in Nablus than a way of finding suppliers and markets, though. Says Khayyat: "You have a meeting in Gaza, but you can't go there because the Israelis prevent you from going there. So you do the meeting by video conference instead."But there are still difficulties getting supplies into Nablus and products out. Palestinian business people sometimes have to wait months for merchandise to pass through Israeli customs and into the occupied territories.In addition, all goods entering and leaving Nablus must pass through Awarta commercial checkpoint, near Huwarra. Cargo is taken off one vehicle on one side of the checkpoint, inspected by soldiers, then loaded on to another vehicle on the other side. Items get lost and damaged; the checkpoint is sometimes closed and, according to Khayyat, Awarta can process just a fraction of the 170 or so vehicles approaching it each day. Delays are long - and expensive. "There are some problems even the internet can't solve," he says.
Next time you're caught in a Pythonesque game of "my family was so poor that ...", here's a trump card: your ancestor's Victorian workhouse record. Documents revealing grim details of life in Southwell workhouse in Nottinghamshire between 1834 and 1871 became available for free this summer, in the latest phase of a marathon programme to put Britain's information heritage online.Workhouse records, archived by central government, are the latest items in National Archives' 175km of shelving to be digitised. The work didn't cost taxpayers a penny: it was carried out by a local history society. The records are available on the National Archives website (seetinyurl.com/3y98mm).Natalie Ceeney, chief executive of the National Archives, says the project shows the possibilities created when the government teams up with outside expertise to unlock the value in its archives. Of 1,000 years of records, the archives has so far digitised less than 10%.Nearly all the work has been carried out by private business, which gets non-exclusive access to the archives' original documents (which remain available to personal callers at Kew). Over the past five years, this model of working has paid for at least &pound;45m worth of digitisation work, Ceeney says.However, commercial operators are interested mainly in the part of the archives where there are proven customers for online information - family records and wills. The challenge now is to find businesses willing to digitise what Ceeney calls the "long tail" of documents where there is little obvious interest. "We've done the low-hanging fruit. We're now looking at innovative models for the rest." One possibility, as with the workhouse records, is to involve history enthusiasts. Another is to work with academics.The challenge, as Ceeney points out, is that the government has neither the resources nor the will to digitise the whole archive itself. That would cost something like &pound;40bn, she says, which is half the annual cost of the NHS: "I'd rather spend it on the NHS," she says.The next big release of public records will be the 1911 census, parts of which will start to go online from 2009. For the first time, the digital record will show the actual handwritten entries. "It's the biggest digitisation project we have done - 20,000 document images per day. It adds up to half a petabyte of data - a quarter of a million iPod nanos," Ceeney says.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign likes the National Archives model because it shows the value that can be created from government information when it is released freely to the knowledge economy. While not every public record has the immediate appeal of a Victorian workhouse report or a census form, there must be many opportunities for mashing the depth of the archive with the width of the web. Any takers?&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Timex iControl watchTimex has created the first watch that has the ability to control your iPod, and has aimed it squarely at the sports user. It includes a wireless dongle to connect to the bottom of your iPod, and the watch itself, with buttons for play/pausing, volume adjustment and skipping through tracks. The dongle fits any iPod with a dock connector and is about the size of half a matchbox. There are the additional functions you'd expect from a sports watch, such as a lap timer, three alarms and a countdown timer. While the connection is usually strong between the iPod and watch, you are obviously at the mercy of the length of your headphone lead - this is not true wireless listening. There's also the aesthetics of the watch itself. For &pound;80 you might be expecting something a little more flash than the swimming-bath-esque plastic strap. The watch also doesn't tell you what you're listening to - the screen displays the time and not much else.Susi Weasertotallyfitness.co.ukDisgo camcorder"YouTube generation" is one of the most overused phrases in the English language, but it doesn't stop people creating products for this supposed market sector. The defining characteristic of this camcorder is that it's cheap, at just &pound;29.89. It's designed to appeal to those who don't need all the bells and whistles, and are unlikely to get too involved in the editing of their creations (although there is simple editing software included). Rather than recharging power from the mains, this camera takes two AA batteries. The only functions available to you are record, playback and delete - there's no zoom, no additional light and no inputs for peripherals such as microphones. But it does come with a 1GB SD card. The LCD screen on the back is small and not very bright, and the casing is distinctly plasticky. However, rather than detracting from the product, this adds to a certain fun, disposable feel. The videos themselves are not bad quality. The audio is relatively clear and although filming in low light is a problem, the camera focuses quickly. Recording at 30 frames per second, it's more than adequate for uploading to YouTube.SWcurrys.co.ukSamsung SGH-G600Mobile phones with 5 megapixel cameras aren't new - the Nokia N95 has been on sale for nearly six months - but so far all have been housed in rather bulky top-end mobiles. Samsung's slider style G600 bucks the trend in that it is skinny - it is marginally fatter and longer than previous D series mobiles - and isn't a hugely specified phone. So while you do get a decent selection of features including a music player, email, 40MB of storage and a mini SD card slot, there's no 3G connection and no GPS. The camera itself is easily the rival of that on the N95 in that it takes quality pictures with superb definition - for a mobile camera, anyway. It performed better in low light and indoors than the N95, though the Nokia delivered stronger colours and better resolution outdoors. The screen is a little smaller than many rivals but is good quality and has excellent definition. There's no denying that the G600 is a superb phone. If you can live without 3G, it is well worth considering.Ashley Norrissamsung.co.uk
Ministers grappling with the technical and political problems of electronic identity cards are looking with interest at the experience of a close continental neighbour. The government of Belgium expects to be the first to issue multipurpose national chip cards to all citizens and residents.Unlike Britain, where residents will have to be 16 to qualify for the card, Belgians are eligible from birth. The Belgian government has begun issuing stylishly designed blue and green children's cards both as an identity and a child protection measure. The kids' card has three functions, says Joachim Van Eyck, project manager at the federal interior ministry.Next of kinFirst, it acts as an ID document. Second, it provides a way of contacting next of kin if the child gets lost or has an accident. Each card carries a phone number that connects to a cascade of numbers registered by the parents. If there is no answer, the call is transferred to a national child-protection hotline. This function was developed in the national outcry surrounding the case of the paedophile murderer Marc Dutroux, who was tried in 2004."The first 24 hours after a child's disappearance are the most important ones," Van Eyck says. "If you find a child, or find a card, this system means the parents or the police can be notified right away."The card's third function is internet safety: from the age of six, children can receive a PIN allowing them to sign on to children-only online groups.The children's card is part of a national programme to replace existing cards with multi-purpose electronic tokens. Some 6m electronic ID cards have been issued to Belgians; a similar card is being issued to 1.4 million foreigners. Local authorities issue the card, valid for five years, at a cost ranging from nothing to 35 euros (&pound;24.30).The e-ID has an embedded digital signature allowing citizens to bank online, as well as carry out e-government transactions such as filing tax returns. And since January, citizens of Brussels have been able to report crimes by plugging the ID in to a card reader.Van Eyck says that far from oppressing citizens, the card puts them in control of their information. At the European ministerial e-government conference in Lisbon last month, he demonstrated a service called Myfile, which allows card-holders to check information held on them in the national register. "You cannot change your data yourself but you have a direct link to the municipality to send in corrections," Van Eyck says.Absent biometricsIn her speech at the event, Gillian Merron, Britain's minister for e-government, nodded approval to the Belgian project and to that of Austria, another ID card pioneer. "I very much welcome the work done by Austria and Belgium on identity cards." However Van Eyk notes that the Belgian scheme differs from Britain's in one big respect - the card has no biometric component. "Too risky," he says.
The teaser ads posted in New York showed an open lock and a headline: either "The best devices have no limits" or "Phones should be open to anything". They must have mystified a few people, but Apple fans had no doubt what they were about: Nokia was exploiting the furore over last week's iPhone firmware update. This not only plugged a bunch of security holes, it wiped out users' unapproved applications, and "bricked" some phones hacked to unlock them from AT&amp;T.How galling to see Nokia promoting its N Series phones with lines like: "Open to applications. Open to widgets. Open to anything. So go ahead and load it up. What it does is up to you."But there was no deceit on Apple's part. Right from the beginning, its chief executive Steve Jobs had told Newsweek: "You don't want your phone to be an open platform," and that AT&amp;T "doesn't want to see their West Coast network go down because some application messed up". (Except that AT&amp;T encourages people to run apps on its other smart phones.)It seems remarkable that so many people could either fail to get the message, or could somehow convince themselves that Apple didn't really mean it. The answer, I think, is that Apple has been a personal computer company for 30 years, and everybody knows you can run whatever applications you want on your own computer. The iPhone was launched at a computer event (MacWorld), it runs a computer operating system (OS X) and it does computer things like web browsing. How could it not be a computer?Well, the fact is that Apple has launched the iPhone as an old-style locked-down system, just like it was 1999. Meanwhile the mobile phone industry is going in the opposite direction. That is partly because today's top-end smart phones are based on operating systems that originated in the computer industry, not the phone industry. Examples include Symbian (which came out of Psion), Palm, Microsoft's Windows Mobile and Linux.Nokia has even stopped calling them phones. In its press releases, it says things like "the Nokia N95 is an all-in-one multimedia computer". Nokia also makes clear that: "Because multimedia computers have a programmable operating system, people can download and install software applications."What seems odd is that Apple is going in the opposite direction. It has already dropped the Computer from its name, and is becoming a consumer electronics company. Yes, it still sells Mac Pro tower systems that can be expanded at will, but the bulk of Apple's computer sales are of relatively closed portables and the iMac, which is basically a large portable with the keyboard detached. The Mac mini and Apple TV designs, all the iPods and the iPhone show a company increasingly in love with sealed boxes designed for consumers, not for geeks.Of course, this was always Steve Jobs's way. The original 1984 Mac - which succeeded Steve Wozniak's "open" Apple II design - was a sealed box with no expansion slots. It was intended to be an appliance, like a Maytag washing machine or drier. "And have you ever heard of a Maytag users group?" quipped Jobs (tinyurl.com/yu5x8l).There's nothing wrong with this idea, of course: the number of ordinary consumers is very much bigger than the number of people who want to tinker with their systems. But Jobs may just have gone a bit too far in locking down the iPhone. This could mark the beginning of the end of the geek love affair with Apple.
When MPs troop back to Westminster after the party conference season, they will find that some of their colleagues have been plotting to make them think a bit harder about the political impact of IT.A decade ago, IT-literate MPs were agog at Tony Blair's espousal of e-government, and the legislative timetable filled up with IT-orientated legislation.Not any more. Since the ID card bill three years ago, there has been no major IT-based legislation. Only a small dedicated band of MPs and peers attend meetings of the all-party groups set up to inform MPs about the political fallout from IT. Andrew Miller, chairman of Pitcom, the Parliamentary IT Committee, grumbles that he found only five MPs in the chamber during a debate on the management of risk in big public-sector projects: he felt that the debate deserved a bigger audience after all the public-sector computer disasters of the past few years.Urgent concernThe IT champions in parliament - such as Miller, Derek Wyatt, John Robertson, Alun Michael, Ian Taylor, Margaret Moran and the Earl of Erroll, who run the all-party groups - are particularly worried that most of the new MPs elected in 2005 have shown no interest in becoming IT champions and have not joined their groups. This surprised the MPs, who had expected more of the new IT-literate members - particularly as some of the 2005 intake had been successful IT entrepreneurs. The worry is that the current champions will have no one to hand the flame on to when they retire or lose their seats. This is an urgent concern right now, with talk of a snap election. Derek Wyatt, Labour MP for Sittingbourne and Sheppey, for instance, has a wafer-thin majority: just 79 votes.Alun Michael, Labour MP for Cardiff South and a former secretary of state for Wales, explains the reluctance of the new MPs: "They have had much greater use of IT in their pre-parliament careers and feel more comfortable with the pace of development - but that also means they take it for granted." Ian Taylor, Tory MP for Esher and Walton and a former science minister, adds that the new MPs are interested in the applications of IT, not IT for its own sake. Grant Shapps, Tory MP for Welwyn Hatfield, who became an MP in 2005, explains that he and his contemporaries see that the battle for recognition of IT was won a long time ago, and so have gone off to fight other political campaigns.Ordinary MPs, including the class of '05, do good service on select committees such as the Parliamentary Accounts Committee, analysing public-sector computer disasters or investigating troubles with expensive programmes such as the NHS national plan for IT and plans for ID cards.What they are not doing is a more important job: teasing out the political impact of technologies coming over the horizon. For instance, few MPs have taken a hard look at the upsides and downsides of web 2.0 iterations such as Facebook, YouTube and blogging. (Nor have they paid much attention to the Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, for that matter.)And there are a lot of complex matters to get their heads round, such as issues surrounding proposals for a national DNA database. Similar issues apply to national electronic patient records, and of course proposals for a national ID database.These are not problems that MPs can pick up from a briefing paper 10 minutes before going into a meeting. They need a coherent and up-to-date view of privacy, security, reliability and data protection across many areas of government. The solutions change as the technology gets better, and the threats from hackers and criminals become cleverer. Alun Michael, who became an IT champion when he returned to the backbenches 15 months ago, says that for most MPs, "their level of expertise remains trapped at the point where they entered parliament". Someone should be there to top up their knowledge. Stephen Timms, minister for competitiveness, says that Pitcom did this for him in the years after he became an MP.The IT champions recognise that they need to get the message across to less technically literate colleagues. One of the problems is that there have been too many bodies trying to push the IT message to parliamentarians. Until two months ago, there were five all-party groups, covering the internet, mobile phones, communications, and computers in general. This proliferation of groups also worried the many IT companies which fund their activities. This was highlighted in March when a report, Unravelling ICT, published by the Industry and Parliament Trust (ipt.org.uk), commented acidly: "Technology has experienced convergence, but the all-party groups have not." Industry too should sharpen up its dialogue with MPs, warned the report, which added that there is a "need to ensure that it is the chief executives themselves that are involved, not only public affairs representatives; key decision-makers need to care". The report warned, however that although "there is a need to be radical, there is also a danger of throwing out the good things with the bad".In July, in response to the IPT's call to converge, three groups merged to form the All-Party Parliamentary Communications Group. Wyatt, one of the co-chairmen of newly merged committee, explains: "We will act more like a select committee because IT covers so much of government it cannot be pinned down to the science and technology select committee alone." He foresees that a "new communications bill will be needed for 2010, and we want to start it rolling".Hot topicsLater this month, the three remaining converged all-party-groups will hold a day-long seminar together with other IT organisations at which Nicholas Negroponte of MIT, the man behind the $100 laptop, will be the key speaker. Other topics include the politics of social networking; the future of premium rate services; how to keep the internet both safe and free; how internet providers should deal with "bad" traffic; and next-generation broadband. This menu covers many of today's hot topics  and should, in theory, pull in the MPs. But will it? A similar event last year attracted relatively few.Michael says that he hopes that the all-party groups will "accelerate their activity. They have to communicate better with less jargon, they have to accept that their audience has changed, and they need to lift their game."
Have the Russian criminals who created the "worst ever" trojan (Monster hit by 'worst ever' trojan, August 23) stolen any money yet? Fully expecting to find fraud against bank accounts or credit cards, we've instead encountered unresponsive phishing victims and no evidence, so far, of stolen money.The Guardian's follow-up investigation suggests that identity theft, rather than easy cash, was the motivation for the fake jobseeker tool that installed a ransomware trojan and is reckoned to have stolen the details of hundreds of thousands of the site's users. The malware research company Prevx discovered, and decrypted, a 257MB file on a remote site containing peoples' files, personal details and browser sessions - including details from "secure" (SSL) sessions that people usually think are safe. However, in the browser itself, they are plain text and hence can be captured.Why identity theft? Because it is much more profitable than just going after the cash. Using your personal details, criminals can open bank accounts, take out loans, obtain credit cards and apply for documents such as passports or driving licences. And once the criminal "becomes" you, much larger sums of money are readily accessible. In the UK alone, identity fraud costs the economy more than &pound;1.7bn; in the US it is estimated to have cost $55.7bn (&pound;27.9bn) last year, affecting 3.7% of all Americans.So who has been affected and how? The first on our list to call was Karen, a Booz Allen Hamilton employee whom we'd originally found applying for a job at the CIA over a supposedly secure connection. Though she was understandably suspicious of our approach, the sight of her stolen data persuaded her that we had no sinister intentions."I was completely shocked," Karen says. "The fact they have my social security number hurts me more than anything." She also lost many files, which she accepts was probably due to the ransomware encryption. Her bank then blocked an attempt to access her online account from offshore.It proved difficult to convince Nathan, an employee of General Dynamics Corporation working inside the US Department of Transportation, of our good intentions. After his employer refused to comment, we contacted the Department of Transportation instead. It did respond."The department moved quickly to inform affected personnel and to change all passwords and otherwise ensure the security of its electronic information once it was alerted to a possible virus-related breach with one of our contractors," it said.We also tried, repeatedly, to contact several other victims, ranging from Julie - who bought shoes using her credit card - to James, who was making online job applications. None replied, perhaps doubting who we were. Ironic, perhaps, considering these victims were fooled by a phishing email; or perhaps a sign that they have become more cautious as a result.During our investigation in August, we'd logged into the bank account of a woman in Missouri, viewing her transactions. We immediately told her bank, US Bancorp, and provided login details for six other accounts. One of these belonged to Dave and his wife in Colorado and, after the Guardian's alert, US Bancorp stopped their bank cards.When we spoke to him, he'd been aware of the ransomware trojan's demand for $300. But even though he had used anti-virus and firewall programs, bank account and credit card information had been silently stolen from his web browser sessions. "I was stunned, as you had some very specific details. I can't thank you enough for contacting me," Dave said.Next was Scott, in Fort Campbell, home of the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault). We had his credit card details, including the expiry date and security code and, more significantly, his emails discussing covert technology for Iraq. We also contacted Fort Campbell's public affairs office and, after its prompting, he eventually replied: "I have assumed the worst with the intrusion into my personal computer and taken all precautions."Next, we gave details of 15 potentially compromised accounts to Wachovia, one of the largest financial services companies in the US "Wachovia's loss management division has thoroughly investigated this matter and determined that there has been no unauthorised access," it replied. But the bank is also warning these customers to change their passwords.We gave details of a further 12 accounts to Washington Mutual, but the Seattle-based bank declined to discuss the matter, citing privacy concerns. Finally, we sent details of 31 accounts to Bank of America. Its response: "We are cooperating with the proper authorities and are unable to discuss specifics due to the ongoing investigation."Monster admitted in August that the contact details of 1.3 million American jobseekers had been stolen by hackers. This could enable further successful "spearphishing" (targeted) attacks related to jobseeking, infecting personal computers with malicious software to steal information. And the failure of conventional antivirus products to protect people clearly won't help.Warning every victim about their stolen data is probably not a priority while finding those responsible is likely to be challenging. The worst ever trojan may yet turn out to be a real monster of a problem.
Making email personalIn your reply to Browser Barrier (September 20), you said that people should switch to an email service "that doesn't depend on your ISP". I assume you mean a personal domain name, and I would like to do this. Are there any sites I could look at?Angela CarterJS:Nominet, which runs the UK registry, has a useful guide atnominet.org.uk/registrants/. The basic idea is to buy a domain name and use "mail forwarding" to redirect all your email to whichever service you prefer. If you change your ISP from, say, Orange to BT, you don't have to change your email address. You just log on to your domain host's site and paste in your new forwarding address at BT, Gmail, Hotmail, Fastmail.fm or whatever. This is a frequently asked question, and I gave a fuller answer on February 23, 2006 (tinyurl.com/2wjhz9). Buying a domain name involves getting out your credit card and comparing the offers at a range of registrars (tinyurl.com/ynoboe). You can usually buy different names at different prices for one, two, five or 10 years, and with or without other services such as mailboxes, web hosting and URL forwarding. Most of the obvious names have gone, particularly in the .com domain, but there are plenty of alternatives. You could probably still get angelacarter.info, .name, or .me.uk. You could also get an international domain, at a price: examples include angelacarter.eu, .cc (Cocos Islands) and .tv (Tuvalu).GoDaddy.com's smart search feature will suggest alternatives, but I'd still tend to add an initial or other variation and go for the best .com or co.uk available.Secure and nonsecureI use Windows XP and IE7. Lately I've been getting a lot of popups that say: "This page contains both secure and nonsecure items. Do you want to display the nonsecure items?"Adam BargeryJS:Web designers often create secure pages (https://) then include links to nonsecure elements, such as images, via http. You can turn off the error message. Go to Tools, select Internet Options, and go to the Security tab. Click Custom Level, scroll down to Miscellaneous, and look for the radio button for "Display mixed content". It is set to Prompt. If you change it to Enable, nonsecure content will always be displayed. If you change it to Disable, nonsecure content cannot be displayed.On the stocksIs there any software available for the small/amateur investor in the UK stock market? Microsoft Money 2007 looks ideal, but does not appear to be supported in the UK.Greg PritchardJS:You might be able to use Microsoft Money 2007, since you can create a sterling account, but the US version is naturally set up to connect to US financial services. However, in an earlier email, reader Frank Cowley commented that: "People who only use MS Money for checking their shares will find that the free version ofiii.co.ukis more user friendly." There are various portfolio management programs for Windows, but they may do more than you need. Investor Ease (investorease.com/) is a well known example, but costs &pound;11.46 a month. Raw Computing's Share Cracker could be an alternative. It uses free stock market data (delayed by about 15 minutes) but is all yours for a fiver.Printing from DOSI have an old DOS program which has generated thousands of data files during its years of use.  It offers printing only to COM and LPT ports. Is there any way of getting it to write to USB? It runs in a Microsoft Virtual Machine running Windows 98SE, from XP.Donald HawthornJS:Try to share the USB printer as though it was on a network, then map the DOS program's output to the share. Microsoft Knowledge Base article 314499 has instructions: How to print to a network printer from an MS-DOS-based program in Windows XP. But if your DOS program prints directly to the port, this might not work. Any other ideas?BackchatIn April, Daggi Kr&ouml;schel-Willis wanted an outbox for the Mozilla Thunderbird email software, and I suggested the Outbox extension. Christefano points out that now, according to MozillaZine: "The Outbox extension is obsolete, doesn't support uninstalling and is not recommended." (kb.mozillazine.org/Outbox)blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
Creating your own web presence is a decidedly blog-standard experience. Sure, the likes of LiveJournal, TypePad and the Google-owned Blogger allow you to fashion a weblog in a matter of minutes, as 175,000 people discover every day. But the grief I've had with everything from text wrapping (or the lack thereof - thanks, WordPress) to fiddling with custom domain names and to crazy font issues has taken up hours.I initially toyed with WordPress, the sophisticate's choice in the blogosphere. As it turns out, if you want to do anything much beyond posting plain text documents, it's actually the choice of the professional web developer.I noticed that the software automatically placed a little smiley face on my homepage (which later transpired to be for stat-tracking purposes). Not being a smiley face kinda guy, I attempted to delete it from the CSS code. Amazingly, it worked. It also succeeded in placing every image on the site in a single area on the top-left of the front page, which wasn't really the look I was going for.After that heroic shambles, I shifted my allegiance to Blogger, which boasted the advantage of being able easily to incorporate AdSense - as I naively thought that my site might generate some revenue if it featured Google's contextual ads. I needn't have bothered. So far I've earned $2.46. That's the princely sum of &pound;1.20 at today's exchange rate.I also shelled out more than &pound;20 to register a domain for two years, as I liked the idea of having a URL that ended in .com, not the unwieldy (and, let's face it, rather common) .blogspot.com. In theory, it's straightforward to set up: a quick tweak of the settings in Blogger, and a couple of clicks on the site on which I registered my domain in order to update the DNS records.In practice, the two sites refused to talk to one another. Following inordinate faffing about with CNAME and NS records (whatever they are), I concluded that it was simpler to spend another &pound;14 for pop-up free web diversion - which is basically the cheat's way of doing things (it just masks the true URL). At this rate, my online empire will have broken even by February 2010.After I resolved my URL-related woes, I wanted to update my blog's appearance. Much as I swap between the 16 basic templates offered by Blogger, it's still barely distinguishable from the 100m other blogs out there. Unless you count the fact that the fonts and leading on my site initially took on a life of their own, giving the whole thing an aesthetic akin to that of a recently exploded Scrabble factory. It's enough to make you want to blog off - for good.
In your reply toBrowser Barrier(September 20), you said that people should switch to an email service "that doesn't depend on your ISP". I assume you mean a personal domain name, and I would like to do this. Are there any sites I could look at?Angela CarterNominet, which runs the UK registry, has a useful guide atnominet.org.uk/registrants/. The basic idea is to buy a domain name and use "mail forwarding" to redirect all your email to whichever service you prefer. If you change your ISP from, say, Orange to BT, you don't have to change your email address. You just log on to your domain host's site and paste in your new forwarding address at BT, Gmail, Hotmail, Fastmail.fm or whatever. This is a frequently asked question, and I gave afuller answeron February 23, 2006.Buying a domain name involves getting out your credit card and comparing the offers ata range of registrars. You can usually buy different names at different prices for one, two, five or 10 years, and with or without other services such as mailboxes, web hosting and URL forwarding.Most of the obvious names have gone, particularly in the .com domain, but there are plenty of alternatives. You could probably still get angelacarter.info, .name, or .me.uk. You could also get an international domain, at a price: examples include angelacarter.eu, .cc (Cocos Islands) and .tv (Tuvalu).GoDaddy.com's smart search feature will suggest alternatives, but I'd still tend to add an initial or other variation and go for the best .com or co.uk available.Comment: If you can't reach the "fuller answer" it's also on the blogbelow. Or trythistrick!I'm unable to comment at the moment (ie Comments feature not working). However, the point of owning a domain name is so that you can switch mail services. If you were to use a Web mail address instead of an ISP address, you still have the same problem: you can't easily switch. You might, for example, be locked into Hotmail when Gmail is better, or locked out of Gmail when you forget your password or your mailbox is hacked. This is almost as bad as being locked into an ISP address.In fact, in the long term, youcannotrely on an ISP (Freeserve, Wannado, Orange...) or a Web-based service to offer a usable service -- or any service -- for 20 years, or 50 years, or whatever. If that sounds a long time, it isn't: I've already got one email address that I'm still using after 20 years, and I paid for 10 years of my own domain name up front.
I use Windows XP and IE7. Lately I've been getting a lot of popups that say: "This page contains both secure and nonsecure items. Do you want to display the nonsecure items?"Adam BargeryWeb designers often create secure pages (https://) then include links to nonsecure elements, such as images, via http. You can turn off the error message. Go to Tools, select Internet Options, and go to the Security tab. Click Custom Level, scroll down to Miscellaneous, and look for the radio button for "Display mixed content". It is set to Prompt. If you change it to Enable, nonsecure content will always be displayed. If you change it to Disable, nonsecure content cannot be displayed.
Is there any software available for the small/amateur investor in the UK stock market? Microsoft Money 2007 looks ideal, but does not appear to be supported in the UK.Greg PritchardYou might be able to use Microsoft Money 2007, since you can create a sterling account, but the US version is naturally set up to connect to US financial services. However, in an earlier email, reader Frank Cowley commented that: "People who only use MS Money for checking their shares will find that the free version ofiii.co.ukis more user friendly."There are various portfolio management programs for Windows, but they may do more than you need.Investor Easeis a well known example, but costs £11.46 a month. Raw Computing'sShare Crackercould be an alternative. It uses free stock market data (delayed by about 15 minutes) but is all yours for a fiver.
I have an old DOS program which has generated thousands of data files during its years of use. It offers printing only to COM and LPT ports. Is there any way of getting it to write to USB? It runs in a Microsoft Virtual Machine running Windows 98SE, from XP.Donald HawthornTry to share the USB printer as though it was on a network, then map the DOS program's output to the share. Microsoft Knowledge Base article314499has instructions: How to print to a network printer from an MS-DOS-based program in Windows XP. But if your DOS program prints directly to the port, this might not work. Any other ideas out there?Backchat: Barry Marsden, Henry Malt and many other readers suggested printing to a file first. Brian says: "I found the easiest solution, if rather roundabout, was to use the PRN2FILE.COM utility." Peter Burrows pointed to a useful page at that offers several ways toprint to any Windows printer from Word Perfect for DOS.Backchat: David Stephens, from Cadomel Library Systems, reckonsDOSprnwill do the job. "It's a small utility that allows you to direct output from any MS-DOS program to any printer, including USB and network printers. We recommend it to users of our heritage MS DOS applications."
Just some snippets from the glamorous world of awards. First, BAFTA has introduced a new category for this year's Video Game Awards taking place on October 23. The PC World Gamers Award can be voted forhere. Eligible voters are entered into a draw to win a variety of prizes including games consoles and a day at EA's development studios. The nominations are:Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training (DS) (Nintendo/Nintendo) FIFA 07 (PS2) (EA Canada/Electronic Arts) Football Manager 2007 (PC) (Sports Interactive/SEGA) Gears of War (Xbox 360) (Epic Games/Microsoft) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories (PSP) (Rockstar Leeds/Take Two) Resistance: Fall of Man (PS3) (Insomniac/Sony Computer Entertainment Europe) Wii Play (Wii) (Nintendo/Nintendo)It'll be interesting to see which way the public vote goes - the rest of the BAFTAs are judged by industry insiders, who would probably gravitate towards Wii Play or Gears of War.Elsewhere, the Writers Guild of America has announced the creation of the inaugural Videogame Writing Award, which will be presented at the Los Angeles ceremony of the2008 Writers Guild Awardson February 9, 2008. (Morehere.)WGAW president Patric M. Verrone commented, "By recognizing the skill and craft of video game writing, the Writers Guilds intend to raise the profile of these writers so that they can get WGA contracts and benefits for this work. We aim, we shoot, we score." I think he deserves a special award for that last sentence.Submission forms are available now - so which games do you reckon deserve a nomination?
Matt Haughey, the creator and ofMetaFilter, the community news site (think of it a bit like a massive blog slash slashdot slash early prototype for Digg) who's talking about creating and running communities.Blimey, this lad's tall.Any site or application you create should include a social component. This is essential now for Web 2.0, but the potential for disaster is huge. But a successful community great for everyone involved, the creators and the members.The lifespan of a community follows a classic growth curve sees an early spike where everyone tries it out for 10 seconds and never comes back. Maybe you'll keep 10% of people, and then over time it starts growing... and then there are three outcomes.1. It sky rockets2. It flattens out3. It declines (it's almost always the person who's running it lets it die)Be a third place. Following the idea that you have to be something outside of people's work and outside of their home: be something that people want to join in every single day and enjoy. That's the high-level goal. But it's not as simple as throwing some software together and a domain. A lot of thought has to go into it.Going back to first principles, it's about having a compelling idea. The more clever and original it is, the better it will go. Ideas are cheap. If people tell you it's impossible, that probably means it's a good idea.It's now 2007 and we've got 15 years of prior art on online communities, and five years of social applications. Pluck the best bits you've seen elsewhere. Eat your own dogfood, fulfil your own need, scratch your own itch [insert more cliches here]. It's obvious when someone's trying to make a buck or trying to be in the right place at the right time. Build for yourself first.How do you encourage users and outsiders? Highlight the best bits. Reward your best users - it makes them feel good and recognition makes your site more interesting to casual readers, too. Lurkers get the benefit too. Your best contributors can be moderators.Sometimes communities run into trouble when they get too controlling. Get out of the way when necessary, let things run their course within reason. Building in flexibility is a good thing. Don't always go with the constraining option - look at MySpace, where people stick HTML everywhere (even if it looks horrible).Build out on those edge cases. When you see something good and interesting, make it part of your app. Smart tech companies watch what hackers are doing and tweak it. Car companies watch what customisers are doing and four years later it's a feature.How to keep it going: stick with guidelines over rules. Rules lack the fliexibility, they put you in a position where you know something's wrong technically, but you know they did it for a good reason. Rules don't allow people to do innovative things. It's important to keep your emotions out of all decisions; if you don't have thick skin you're screwed. You have to learn to roll with it.Tailor to your community norms - don't surprise everyone with a new rule out of left field. It will cause outrage. Don't anger your commnuity over something you just felt like doing.It's a balancing act. I'd describe running metafilter as running a razor's edge between chaos and happiness. Here are some things that can push you over the edge. Ownership is a huge issue: the more people get invested in your community, there's a grey area between whether it's yours or theirs. Are you going to make your decisions top down or bottom up? keep these things in mind: it's not always black and white.Happiness on the part of users is totally fleeting. Having a day of downtime loses all that good will. A lot of things get a reputation for being flaky just because they have a few issues.Every community suffers a revolt eventually. People may say they're going to another site, no community's immune. Digg, Facebook, Flickr, they've all had them. Take them as an opportunity to learn.Customer service. I never thought I'd be talking about this, but you start a site and you have service and support issues - even if it's free, even if people can do everything themselves. it's not just about coding, it's the sad truth that you'll spend more time on customer service than coding. It took me years to notice this: I thought I'd have eight hours a day to code, but instead I had about 20 minutes.Hire or take volunteers as early as you can.Metrics can really ease the workload. Users can report abuse, they become your eyes - if 27 people don't like something, there may be a problem with it. If you don't have something like that, if you have a support forum where one area has 50 posts a day then concentrate on that.How do you avoid the eventual disasters? Be transparent. Do support public forums where everyone can see every decision. Explain everything; people feel like you're someone to be trusted. Have a place to talk about the site or app. If you don't have an outlet for discussion, you'll find people complaining about the site all over the place and then complain that you didn't see it and think you're unresponsive. Have a dedicated placeThis also gives you a good venue for collaborating on new features. Explain why you're doing something. Over-explaining is always better than under-explaining. Acknowledge your mistakes - don't play the blame game, you'll just lose goodwill. If you see your community turning, engage them directly - email them, IM them, you can take the wind out of their sails. I fessed up to huge wholesale giant mistakes.One thing that comes up more often than it should is that you will have legal issues. It's important to realise that you live somewhere and you made this app that's used by the world. What laws apply to you and your users can be different: find a well-versed lawyer who understands the rights of website operators and talk to them about what specific laws are most going to apply to you. Understand your liability: you don't want to lose your house over some silly web app you built. Remember - lawsuitthreatsare many, but actual lawsuits are few.So what's stopping you? Find your balance, run your community on an even keel. Because in the end a successful community can please readers and creators; everyone's a winner.Ian Forrester from BBC Backstage asks how dying communities can revive themselves. (Wonder why?) Haughey: Sometimes it's because people don't have much time, as the creators. Put time in.How do you stop the core audience from calcifying? It tends to happen; the old guard will fight the new. I haven't found the magic bullet, and I can't think of any quick tricks. Digg shows you who's recently joined.How do you find that seed group of users? Really specific communities are harder to get going, but then after the first six months or a year they really get into it. I would find similar user groups that cover that subject, maybe announce it in a mailing list - without stepping on toes - or make it your email sig when you're talking those people. Subtle promotion.How do you make a small community look attactive to outsiders? I'd start out with good seed content. I'd shown the site to 15 friends who gave me honest opinions. Half of them started posting - it wasn't phoney but I went through a silent slog on my own and eventually people showed up. When you launch with anything, try to highlight the best bits on the front page.Is there a point when you say now is enough because it takes eight hours a day? I said in the support forums that the more time I spent answering questions there, the less time I'd have for coding.Are you earning more money now than before? errrrrrr.Yeah.
From Ars Technica, this just in. Richard Gabriel, lead counsel for the record labels in the caseCapitol Records, et al v. Jammie Thomas, asked Jennifer Pariser, the head of litigation for Sony BMG, if it was wrong for consumers to make copies of music they had purchased:Pariser replied, "When an individual makes a copy of a song for himself, I suppose we can say he stole a song." Making "a copy" of a purchased song is just "a nice way of saying 'steals just one copy'," she said.I almost can't get up from my seat I'm so weighed down by my guilty conscience. How many times I have committed a crime since I started buying music?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:copyrighttechnorati tags end
We don't have space toprintall your letters and blog pingbacks - but here's the full text of those we chose from.Mostly you were exercised about antivirus and open source - sometimes simultaneously.ANTIVIRUS PROBLEMSAntivirus software will have a future as long as software, that was not designed to be secure, is continued to be used. I have been responsible for developing, deploying and managing mission critical systems, based on Unix and now Linux, systems since 1980. During this time I have not encountered a single incidence of a Unix system being infected by a virus or Trojan. This is not because of market share. It is because Unix was designed with security in mind. Microsoft has maintained compatibility with the very first micro-computers which did not have the necessary hardware to be secure. The result is the problem of viruses and Trojans is now out of control. Anti-virus software simply treats the symptoms of the lack of security of Microsoft Windows and, because there is no other solution, will have a future until users deploy computers that are secure by design. For a good analysis of the problem this see Bruce Schneier's article in Crypto-Gram Newsletter, September 15, 2007 , at:http://www.schneier.com/crypto-gram-0709.html#4Eddie Bleasdale, MordenIt is boring to find that technology writers still use generic terms when they in fact mean something specific. Wendy Grossman maintains: "For at least a decade, the standard advice to every computer user has been to run antivirus software." Not true. That's the standard advice for users of the appallingly insecure Microsoft Windows operating system. If you're lucky enough to run a Unix-based OS (like Mac OS X) then virus protection is a waste of money. No doubt Microsoft would not be happy if you reported this accurately. And we couldn't have that now, could we? I am immune to "experts" asserting that Mac users are "complacent". You find the virus that can infect my Mac - then I'll start worrying. Thanks. Simon Phillips, LondonYour claim that Mac OSX and Linux don't have virus problems because they have small user bases is fundamentally wrong. Linux and OSX are based on the Unix design paradigm, which separates data from program code, and demands explicit instruction from a suitably qualified user (ie: with the right permissions) to execute code. There never have been and never CAN be viruses for Linux, Unix and OSX operating systems. Microsoft sacrificed security for "ease of use" and have been severely damaged by their inability to create anything with even a modicum of security. No serious website owner or computer user would use anything from Microsoft! Chris Hunter, LondonFor a long time now, anti-virus (AV) has been considered the be all of security, and is seen as the single solution with which to secure networks, and mobile computers. However, AV is not an application for all seasons, and does not, and never has accommodated a complete level of protection from Malware, and rootkits, and this takes a number of other security applications to be added to the stack, and of course need to be maintained, a situation which in the longer term would not seem to be best fit to serve practical security. Has the time not come to strip of all the payload of such security applications and products, and secure systems to only run what is authorised, and to stop all other applications from loading - why not look back to the thin client approach, only delivering what the user needs to meet their operational role - may be a step back, but then has the time not come to deliver real security, rather than a promise. Prof John Walker (Visiting Nbottingham Trent).In her first sentence, Wendy M Grossman says "For at least a decade, the standard advice to every computer user has been to run antivirus software". That sentence should have the word "Windows" before the word "computer". Since moving from the PC to the Mac, I have no need of antivirus software and many Mac users have used them for 20 years without it. When will people wake up to the fact that there is a better way to use computers that does not entail having to buy all sorts of utility software because Microsoft are incapable of writing secure software? Christopher Skelton, Tunbridge WellsWendy Grossman said "Macs and Linux systems remain relatively untroubled because if you're after money, you go where the most users are. And that's Windows." How true! But she could have gone a bit further and pointed out that, within Windows, it's the mainstream products that are the most tempting targets for malware. Of course one would have to point out that simply choosing Firefox or Opera isn't necessarily sufficient because they will probably use the same add-ons for dealing with flash, MP3, jpg, javascript and so forth. But it's a start. What I find disappointing is the lack of a simple guide to the steps that can be taken, especially for those who are not computer-savvy. But it wouldn't surprise me if antivirus turns out not to have a future - I've never used it at all and the only viruses I've ever caught were a boot sector virus off a floppy given to me many years ago by a trusted colleague, and an internet worm that got in while I was updating a freshly installed Windows XP, in the days before the Windows firewall was activated by default. I consider the cautious, informed approach to be safer than relying on what may be a false sense of security in antivirus protection. James Sykes, CheadleIn her article on the future of antivirus systems, Wendy Grossman repeats the old saw that Mac OS X and Linux systems are relatively unaffected by security problems "because if you're after money, you go where the most users are. And that's Windows." However, as Nicholas Petreley pointed out in a 2004 analysis for The Register (http://www.theregister.co.uk/security/security_report_windows_vs_linux/), the "larger installed user-base" argument is a myth. It is true that Windows has an overwhelmingly dominant position on the desktop. However, in the web server market that is far from the case: Apache is the most widely-used web server, but it still has a better security record than Microsoft IIS. As Petreley puts it, "The bottom line is that quality, not quantity, is the determining factor when evaluating the number of successful attacks against software". Petreley gives a number of reasons why Linux - while far from invulnerable - is inherently more secure by design than Windows. A more established and integrated use of restricted user privileges (including separate user rights for individual processes, such as web servers) and the need to set executable permissions in order to run a binary file are just two areas in which Linux adds protection from malware and viruses. Much the same can be said of OS X, which has a similar Unix-based approach to Linux. John Halton, OrpingtonOPEN SOURCEVictor Keegan writes that Linux is the jewel in the crown of the open source movement. However, he concedes that it still gives the impression that it's written by engineers for engineers - he can say that again. In our laboratory use a state-of-the computer controlled fluorescence microscope. Its performance is outstanding, but its operating system is Linux. Linux has a bizarre recursive file system which can lose the unwary in an Alice-in-Wonderland like maze. It crashes if you try and move large files by drag-and-drop. It wouldn't mount external USB storage devices until a Linux expert gave us a line of hieroglyphics to type in command mode and won't accept spaces in file names. Most importantly connection to the University network was impossible for three years; because of the difficulty of mounting storage devices the only way we could export our image files was to burn CDs. Eventually, a connection was made to the network, but it took three weeks of the concerted efforts of the University IT department and the manufacturers agents. A colleague who joined us from Berkeley, California says that they never ever managed to get their similar microscope networked. If Linux represents the best of the open source movement, we'll stick to Macs or Microsoft. Peter Sudbery, ShefffieldIn the article "Ignoring open source is costing us dear" you make some excellent points. Since the government is willing to spend over £400 million entrenching desktop applications of the 80s and 90s in schools when the rest of the world is moving to Web 2.0 its hardly surprising that they don't know what to do about open source. The key is education and to that end I set up a new QCA accredited Awarding Body, The Learning Machine, to provide qualifications in Open ICT systems. These qualifications require an understanding of the technical and social revolution that is taking place but are designed to fit the (dated) National IT Curriculum. This gives us a means of initiating change from grass roots much as the web based community projects have done. We are providing a place where free learning resources can be shared and developed and we give credit to students and teachers for participating in that process. We support international community development of learning resources independent of governments with a project in South Africa already started and activity as far afield as Papua New Guinea. All these resources will be free to anyone with an internet connection with freedom to modify them, translate them or contribute to them. The revenue is derived from certification delivered from the web site reducing costs below those of traditional methods while providing income to sustain the project and contribute to further learning resource development. Take a look athttp://theingots.org/moodle/course/view.php?id=4Log in as guest and scroll down to activities and click on finding out about open standards. if you want to take the quizzes you have to register but that is free. The entire site is built from Open Source software. Linux Apache, MySQL, PHP for the certification part, Drupal for community projects and Moodle for courses. So while the government wastes 100s of millions of taxpayers' money on an e-strategy that is more hopeful aspiration, the power of Web 2.0 will allow the community to do what is really necessary ;-) Ian Lynch, TamworthWhat a rare pleasure it was to read this column. "You would have thought that a Labour government, struggling to marry the success of market forces with the socialist endowment of its founding fathers, would have latched on to this new cooperativism which brings people together for a common purpose with a burning zeal. In fact, its wanton neglect could damage our economic prospects." I feel your own (and all the mainstream) representation of open source has been neglectful, and for too long. It is hardly ever mentioned, except in passing comments usually comparing it negatively to Microsoft. Things are changing but too slowly in my opinion. The average person reading your IT supplement would never realise just how widespread the use of Linux is, or just how good it is. Hollywood movie studios Disney/Pixar, DreamWorks Animation, Sony and others have produced movies such as Shrek, Titanic, Gladiator, Antz etc using Linux, "... for three simple reasons: it's better, faster and cheaper".http://news.softpedia.com/news/Hollywood-Loves-Linux-45571.shtml Nor would they know that most Supercomputers run Linux. It took the lead (from UNIX) in 2004 and in October 2006 had about a 75% share. Windows had about 1%.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SupercomputerIt seems there's a general lack of knowledge, and interest, of Linux and open source that's clear in nearly every mention of either in the mainstream media. For example, the comment that "Macs and Linux systems remain relatively untroubled because if you're after money, you go where the most users are. And that's Windows" (Does antivirus have a future) is typical of the way Linux is brushed aside. While it's true that Linux is not as large a home-user target, it's also by design inherently more secure. Linux has a large share (I think a majority) of the server market and huge, household name companies use it. These companies are lucrative targets. It's not as if there is no incentive. Of course, if Linux on the desktop took off in a big way it would invite more interest for attackers but because of it's design as a networked system from the very beginning, rather than an isolated desktop publishing and spreadsheet oriented system that has been extended and built upon far beyond any original objectives, it is never going to be as vulnerable as Windows. Vulnerable yes, but not as vulnerable. Maybe an article on the relative merits of Windows and Linux security would be interesting. Dismissing Linux as not being where the money is is not a very complete analysis and rather unfair. How about an article on OOXML, it's merits and Microsoft's behaviour in trying to have it ratified as an international standard. How about the news that Specsavers is switching all computers (servers, tills and desktops) to Linux. Or of the many government institutions all over the world now supporting ODF. Or AMD/ATI open sourcing their graphics card drivers. Some major stories are covered (tritely), but all the smaller ones go without mention. I suppose all this is redundant though. The kind of readers who rely on newspaper supplements are not really interested in all this anyway. I read a Q&amp;A letter in the Sunday Times a week or two ago that asked "Can I remove Vista from my laptop and install XP instead?" Errr... well anyway, this person has a computer, and presumably internet access, and decides that the best way to find out is to ask a weekly newspaper column? That's the kind of users you write for I suppose. The "average" user. I just think you could mention Linux more. Sometimes even in a positive light. I've been using Linux for about two years now. It's improving rapidly and before long will, as more and more companies offer support for it and get behind open source, surpass Microsoft Windows in every way I believe. It already has for me. I no longer play video games and don't need professional standard image editing software or professional standard publishing software. I want to use the internet, email, IM, my Creative Zen Vision:M MP3 player, listen to music, touch up the occasional photo, stream videos and radio, watch saved video files and maybe the odd DVD. Therefore, I use Linux. If I played video games I'd buy an Xbox 360. If I needed pro imaging and publishing I'd use a Mac or Windows. One last thing. The BBC iPlayer has DRM and there's no Linux version yet. Fear of copyright infringement, yes? Well, I have a Humax PVR9200T Freeview box. I can't use it with Linux as there are no drivers for it. I could use it with Windows though. I could connect it via USB, copy any program on the Humax drive over to my PC and burn it to a DVD. How? Using the Windows-only software that came with it... IAIN05 (no post town given)Victor Keegan's comment piece (Ignoring open source is costing us dear, 20.09.07) was spot on in that unless open source software is made simpler for the everyday user, they will continue to ignore it and stick with Windows &amp; Office. Another good example is the update process for Open Office. I love Open Office and have saved myself and friends hundreds of pounds by using it. Unfortunately updating to a new version is basically a complete re-installation, rather than just downloading a small add-on. You have to download the complete executable file, which for version 2.3.0 now stands at 121MB. Installation files are then unpacked and the program is installed in a new folder, leaving the old versions folder still there and empty, needing to be manually deleted. During the installation you also have to re-associate file types to Open Office - previously done when the last version was installed. Meanwhile it creates a new folder of shortcuts in the Start Menu. If, like me, you also have icon shortcuts on the desktop, the old ones will no longer work and have to be deleted and replaced with the new shortcuts. Finally, the first time you start Open Office after installing the new version, you have to go through a 4 stage registration screen - Welcome &gt; License Agreement &gt; User Name &gt; Registration option. Again, all things you've answered when you installed the last version. And I've got to do that on 3 home computers! For many users this will seem unnecessarily complicated compared to Windows &amp; Office, with it's set it and forget it Automatic Updates. Firefox and Thunderbird were similarly afflicted once and needed a full download (albeit only 6MB) but they've got it sorted now and updates are done automatically with no need to download the whole file again. Whilst none of the above is particularly difficult it is time consuming and would be a definite turn-off to the everyday user. David Wright, BirminghamThere are still a few good examples of open source usage in the UK. My favourite (because they use my software ;-)) is the Oxfordshire school district. Each school has a pair of infrastructure servers running Linux in each school. The two servers act as a high-availability cluster with each taking over the services of the other should one fail. These run Linux, Linux-HA (aka Heartbeat), DNS, DHCP, Samba (for Microsoft-style file sharing) and other related services such as authentication. These machines can be updated and managed remotely. When a server fails, the other takes over, and when they get around to it, they can send someone out to repair the other server. Alan Robertson (no post town given)I am an ICT Technician working in a school, and there for we are very much Microsoft dominated, however in the past few months we have started to roll out open office 2, this has been great so far bar a small learning curve. The problem we have is that Staff know one way (being word or excel) and are very reluctant to change. The real shame here is, we could change tomorrow to a full Linux setup, but until government starts recommending this as a viable system, nothing will happen. Management of apps like firefox is an issue over a network to, as to my belief there is no active directory plug in's which opens up security issues, where students can change proxy details, or taking them out full stop which would disrupt lessons. I have been using this on the staff side though to great success! We have also adopted the use of Google Apps for domains, for the prime use of its calendar system, when Google adds more functionally to their docs and spreads and presentation, we maybe adopt this to! I am very pro open source, but I can't stress enough, this needs government to change the curriculum to allow the adoption of this technology! Andrew Chorley, Sixpenny HandleyI disagree with the idea that the solution needed to get widespread adoption of Linux is marketing. Consider the fact that Microsoft for the better part of a quarter century has been the sole provider of most of software running atop an IBM PC which has been priced so as to be affordable by a large slice of the world's population and so became the only computing platform known to most. Compound that with the leverage Microsoft does bring to bear to ensure that Windows is installed in 100% of the major manufacturers' production of PC's. That ensures Microsoft a monopoly in providing software for PC's and most of the mindshare, e.g I've had 3 calls from a couple of grammar school lads this year alone to fix Windows XP - tragicomically, on my last visit, one asked "When did Bill Gates invent the computer". The people using PC's never found them to be very easy to become acquainted with, some almost having to be dragged kicking and screaming to adopt the use of a PC. Now along comes another and quite different PC platform which demands a different way of doing things, that taxes most people to distraction. If, however, the use of Linux were to be imposed on the populace the way that Windows was, the resistance would simply go away. I don't know where Mr. Keegan gained his stated impression of Linux. Is he stating the obvious fact that Linux is not Windows nor is it a clone of Windows, but it needs to be? I have experienced introducing Linux to amongst others, two gentlemen, one nearing his 80th. birthday and another 68 years old. I installed and configured both PC's that they are happily using for all kinds of applications, from Word Processing to Spreadsheets to playing and burning CD's, surfing the web, email, playing music, Instant Messaging, digital camera work and all the usual stuff. The 80 year old was not even familiar with a keyboard when he got the PC, I had to show him the backspace key and explain what it did, he also pointed to the space bar and asked what it was. From a zero knowledge level, I have two senior citizens using Linux as their sole computing platform and without difficulty, so the impression that Linux is just for geeks is a nonsense. If you put the citizens, young and old, of Extramadura, Spain in front of a Windows PC, they'd find it strange, but Linux is easy for them. Contrast that with the stream of Windows users I have calling for help when inevitably Windows throws a tantrum - this has cost me so much of my free time that I've resolved to refer them to Bill Gates to solve their Windows problems, they pay him their money, so he can support them, NO MORE BUGBUSTING OF WINDOWS for me. The most I ever get from Linux users is a question on how to do a particular thing. Sid Boyce, HalesowenA nice article as far as it goes, unfortunately Victor misses a number of obvious conclusions, He fails to explain why New Labour has not embraced Open Source. There are a number of reasons for this : first that New Labour is totally in thrall to Microsoft and the proprietary model of software,. Despite the evidence of the almost complete failure of almost any major IT project provide to UK Government by Microsoft or other companies using the same proprietary model they refuse to countenance any other means of implementing their IT systems. Anybody that has worked in IT in a UK Government Department will know that the mere suggestion of using anything that isn't Microsoft is anathema. Its interesting to note that the BBC has gone with only making its online TV service available only to users of Microsoft XP. This from a publicly funded body that should surely be obliged to make any of its content available to all of its licence payers. I'm aware that the BBC Trust has agreed to review the position but I was quite shocked to discover that a number of the people involved in the process are former Microsoft employees. As Victor points out major businesses like Amazon and Google are using Linux. In the server market Linux has a major share and it will grow. Unfortunately when considering Linux as an operating system for the desktop he appears to make a number of wrong assumptions. Firstly that there is a monolithic Linux. there is not, the whole point of Open Source is that the source code of all the programmes that you need to put together an operating system are available to all. All anybody has to do is take that code and put together anything they want. Their only obligation, under the GPL licence is to make their code freely available. How this has evolved is that anybody who wants to can produce a distribution of Linux. There are hundreds of these of which Ubuntu is currently the most popular. Anybody interested in trying Linux can download most versions and run them as a live CD (as in it will run without destroying anything of their Windows installation). Ubuntu and many others will do this. You then have the choice to run the install programme which will if you follow the instructions will point you towards preserving and being able to choose between your Windows and Linux systems from boot. Victor's idea that there is an easy computer experience is a bit strange. You only have to look at Ask Jack to see lots of Windows users asking questions to see that there is no such thing. Michael Norman (no post town given)"Firefox...has just reached 400m downloads..." I use Firefox about once a month, which is roughly how often I have a problem with IE7. On just about every occasion I get an prompt telling me that an update is available which involves downloading the entire new installation, not just a small software update. Do these downloads get included in this 400m figure? If so it is a very misleading number as I have probably downloaded the program at least 20 times on each of my 3 computers. Richard Aylmer-Hall, ClaygateIt seems to me that the "Spirit of Open Source" is closely akin to (at "source" probably identical with) the "true (enlightened and humane) spirit" of Socialism, and is thus the alternative to the inherently unjust, inhumane and unsustainable spirit of Capitalism (deeply rooted, as it is, in man's primitive animal nature), which now has us so firmly in its grip. As a champion of a more humane, enlightened and sustainable society, I suggest that the Guardian place the promotion of open-source software, and with it the "Spirit of Open Source", at the very heart of its activities. It is probably (in fact, I'm pretty certain of it) the only thing that can save us from the catastrophe towards which we are heading. What about it? Roger Hicks, Barkingside&gt;&gt; Ignoring these large cost savings seems mad when it will allow us to spend that money on front line services people really need. UK should consider adoption more and more open source, what's good for Google, Amazon, Malmaison and Alfresco should at least be considered!http://jguk.org/&gt;&gt; And this is the basic problem. A free business model doesn't bring in the money needed for support, marketing, and usability a paid model delivers. These are elements the mass market expects in the products it uses. The recent support given by IBM and Google to the open source movement, coupled with that of Sun and others, needs to be considered carefully, in other words. The open source movement needs more than just good code to succeed.http://blogs.zdnet.com/open-source/?p=1446&gt;&gt; Why would Yahoo just spend $350m on an Open Source business with revenues of less than $10m? Why is Redhat so successful? Why are there more and more Open Source companies springing up? Why do IBM, Novell, Sun Microsystems, and even Oracle to a lesser extent, get Open Source? Because their customers (Big Corporates) demand it.http://www.theopensourcerer.com/TECHNOBILE (TV ON RADIO)I couldn't agree more with Laura Marcus (Guardian 20 Sept, Technology Guardian page 4). For years I have thought that this is a good idea - what if you have to lose the last 10 mins of a TV programme to pick your kids up from school? I know we have video for that, but sometimes the video is stopped halfway through something else you couldn't watch. What about trying to cook dinner in the kitchen when there is something on TV that you want to see the crucial part of - if you could tune in to TV on a radio channel the problem would be solved. DAB can do this task for us. After all digital TV transmits radio, why not vice versa? Norman Nicolson, CambridgeIt has been done. I have a TV built into my car. Switch it on, pull away and hey presto you have TV through the radio - no picture. Great for catching the TV on the way home. Haven't quite solved it for the bedroom yet! Peter Worlledge, YorkLaura could try using a phono-to-phono cable into the aux socket of her bedside stereo, to link in the sound output from a Freeview box, cable box, or even an old VCR, previously-tuned, then set to the appropriate channel. If the latter didn't have sound output phono sockets, she could use a SCART-Phono out adapter, e.g. Maplin item L84BA or TVCables item SKU AD001. There would then be no need to have the TV on as Jeremy lulled her to sleep. Ken MacLachlan, LinlithgowAD BLOCKINGThe advertisers only have themselves to blame by producing irritating animated adverts. It's like trying to read the paper while someone's jumping up and down waving at you. For Flash based animated adverts, I can recommend the FlashBlock add-on, which stops Flash content loading unless you click on it. Dave Parker, Gillingham, DorsetIPHONE INFOI have to preface this by saying I'm not an Apple fanboy, but Kate Bevan's article simply fails to even confront the issue of the revolutionary nature of the multi-touch interface. Sure, touch screens existed before, and phones such as HTC's Touch and the LG Prada incorporate touch screens, although probably rushed to pre-empt the actual release of the iPhone. What is truly significant is the seamlessness of operation, the ease of use, the ability to manipulate information with greater acuity, the ability to browse complete web pages through a non-'toy' browser, and so on. In terms of usability there will be a 'before' and 'after' iPhone simply because it has shaken up the whole industry. Although I agree completely that the lock-in to networks and the relatively limited specifications are a bind for such an expensive device, but in a few year's time we'll be looking at the tiny buttons on phone and PDA keypads in the same way we now see digital watches. Pointless, but not without a certain retro chic. How many times have I browsed the web on my Sony Ericsson? Three times in the year I've had it, once by accident. See the iPhone and iPod Touch in the larger context of multi-touch human- computer interfaces, such as Jeff Han's work at NYU, and suddenly you don't worry about the relatively modest memory capacity. Oh, and Kate made a mistake: the iPod Touch costs £70 less but for *more* capacity - 16GB. Dr. Mark Paterson, ExeterSPOT APPLE'S LEOPARDMister Charles Arthur, I think you don't like Apple either Microsoft; you are bad informed. Probably you like linux and a few add-ons. If you want to wrote about IT try to learn about it, but please do not write from stomach. Your article is just a bad marketing. Eugen Stefan Buzoianu, Bucharest, RomaniaI'm calling BS on this article! Fully 64-bit. HTML email. Tighter UI. Don't even get me started on Leopard Server (holy mother of God!). Just wait until you see what's possible on the application side of things (tip: Watch Delicious Monster's announcement in October). I bet Charles Arthur couldn't cite the top two innovations from the upgrade from Panther to Tiger! Let alone the "average user." So, don't gauge it on that! That's just a poor, poor approach to the thing. My blogging on Leopard is getting a TON more interest the Tiger and Panther ever did. So, while he might score points on "Yeah, you're TECHNICALLY right." There are a LOT of people out there excited something (ie. ANYTHING) new is coming down the pike. Charles... you need it. You just don't realise it yet. (BTW, how did a non 'early adopter' get the gig for writing drivel like this for The Guardian's Technology Section? Gerald Buckley, Tulsa, OklahomaIt would have been good if Mr Arthur did a little more research before publishing his article. Firstly Leopard is still OS X, and is not marketed as a new OS (i.e. Vista). Secondly, Arthur is correct in saying that there are few new features in the new OS. However, if he were to perform even an ounce of research, he would have realised that the major work with Leopard went on in the back end, and as a result Leopard is the first fully certified Unix operating system from Apple. Why this vital point is missed out I have no idea… The impacts of MAC OS X becoming a fully certified Unix OS, pave the way for the next generation of MAC operating systems. Considering this is a technology article, little has been done to look at it from a technology perspective. Nicholas Anderson, Guildford&gt;&gt; I do think he's missing something; the role of third-party applications as upgrade drivers... For all that I dislike Delicious Library, I don't doubt that version 2, which is 10.5 only, will encourage at least a few people who would otherwise have thought "10.4 does all I want" to upgrade. Multiply that by all the applications out there which have already declared they're going to be Leopard only, and you have a powerful marketing tool that Apple are being given, free. Now think about these developers chafing as they go out and spend money on iPhones, yet find them less useful than they could be, and the touch of resentment creeping in. That's the thought Steve Jobs needs to be having, or there'll be a lot more "meh" out there.http://blech.vox.com/FREE DATA?Presumably Robert Sproat has never consulted an A-Z, looked at a road sign, caught a bus or had anything at all delivered to his home? All make use of Ordnance Survey data somewhere along the line. And, on his selfish reasoning that one shouldn't pay taxes for other people's benefit, presumably he won't mind paying the full economic costs of his next visit to a GP, his rubbish bins being emptied or his road repaired, if I decide I "have no need" of services that benefit him? Don Keller, London
With lunch thrown down our necks and a bit of requisite schmoozing done, the afternoon sessions at FOWA continue apace. I've dropped into one of "the future of commerce" from Robert Kalin, the founder ofEtsy.com.Etsy, if you haven't come across it before, is a marketplace site for crafters and people who make their own goods. It's very clever, intuitive, fun and a little bit hipster. Think eBay mixed with DIY boutique.Larger corporations have all the channels for distributing physical goods and so Etsy is a way for people to claim that back.Kalin explains his background: he flunked high school, went to live with an uncle and finally moved to New York. Once he was there, he got an education by stealing people's IDs and going to their classes. Turned into a carpenter, then web designer.Etsy now has 100,000 sellers listing 10,000 items per day. It's seeing organic growth - "no hockey sticks" or, quoting DH Lawrence "slow, like growth". He wants a corporation where Etsy isn't the whole thing, it's just the organising principle. As we're building companies, how can they be different?One of my challenges has always been to see that the growth of the company matches the growth of the market. Can I just point out that this juncture that Robert's chewing gum while he's doing this talk. It's off-putting, young man.Starting a marketplace is difficult because you have a chicken and egg situation. But it works because it's a community: in the past marketplaces grew out of communities, contrasting with the shopping experience today - those sterile environments like Walmart or shopping malls. One of the most important elements is the human-to-human contact.He discusses playful ways of selling: looking through things by colour. Although experienced users tend not to look through items in this way, it's a "helipad" to bring people in and get them using the site.Users don't necessarily realise that you and your team are standing between them and the abyss. Things seem more legit, bigger than they might seem.Etsy is a distribution platform for any kind of content that isn't mass produced. Our user-base is 95% women, but about 1500 people are joining - but there are a lot of other things that are handmade. That's not just craft-based, it might include Etsy itself, music, furniture. We've swung towards mass production, but we can push the pendulum back. What are the values we have for our businesses? What are the motives of this company?He's got some interesting stuff to say, but unfortunately none of his demos are working, which means we're not seeing the community stuff on the big screen.Interesting sidenote: what happens when a big company copies the ideas of an Etsy seller? We need to be able to bind together to protect ourselves. If there's blatent copying, that's something that we want to protect.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
J Allard and Bill Gates with ZunesAs expected, Microsoft has added new 4GB and 8GB Flash-basedZune players, plus an 80GB model, expanding the line from the 30GB original. The new devices have a touch-sensitive control panel so you can flick through tunes. The music store has been expanded and now includes more than a million DRM-free MP3s for use on any player. There's also a new web site, Zune Social, so Zune owners can get together and show what they're listening to, via Zune Cards (cf Xbox Gamer Cards).The video support now includes H.264, and if you have Windows Media Center, you'll be able to transfer TV programmes to watch them on a Zune.And rather than just telling existing users to buy a new device, the old Zune will be updated. Microsoft says:Existing Zune owners will automatically receive new software features, the redesigned PC and device software and access to the new Zune Marketplace when everything is released to the public in mid-November.One drawback is that Zune still adds DRM to any music you share wirelessly with friends, so they can only listen to it three times before they have to go and get their own copy. However, the three-day limitation has been removed.Finally, the three new models are Microsoft hardware designs, from the team that did the Xbox 360, whereas the original Zune was an adapted Toshiba Gigabeat S.There's a spec run-down atEngadget, plus coverage inThe Wall Street Journal,Business Week,Wiredetc.Yesterday's launch is obviously targeted at the Christmas market, but there is no news on whether Zune will be sold outside the US.
Daniel Waterhouse from 3i, the investment organisation is talking about the hard stuff - money. Well, strictly, money can be pretty soft. But you know what I mean.How do you value your company? The venture capitalist is looking for up to 10x return on early stage deals - so if you raise 5m for 25% of your business in the first round, it implies a 20 million post-money valuation and a 200m exit.There's a sudden interruption - somebody appears to be watching a science fiction movie on the huge screen in the next room. Turn it down, guys.So how much do you need to raise? Well, he says, as much as you think you need and then some more. Add a bunch on top of your valuation because whatever you think you need is wrong. There will always be more costs involved.Investors typically want to take a certain percentage of your business, you go back to what that means on the exit side. I tend to think you should raise just the amount you need plus a contingency - if you raise too much, you paint the exit too rosily. There's a cultural impact of getting too much, but some people say take all you can, because you don't know where it's coming from. Or you can just take whatever you can get from an investor who will stick by you through thick and thin.A good test in speaking to investors is to find out where they are in their OWN cycle of raising money.When do you go out and raise? A lot of people seem to be in a hurry in the current market - I think you shouldn't rush into it unless there's some strange market dynamic.I ask companies what data. If they say they wait for the monthly report, then it's probably the end of the conversation. I want to meet people who get an SMS alert on their phone five times a day telling them what's going on, what their key stats are, changing the product. That's important.People with experience are invaluable. It's easy to create buzz around your product, but long-term success is difficult.It's a running joke that VCs are looking for that billion dollar market, but it's kind of true because you need to achieve the sort of valuations you're looking for. Stand back and see what the big markets are... in the UK £1.3bn paid search market, £450m display ads market, £400m online classifieds etc etc. The UK is the most mature online advertising market in the world, for various reasons. The problem is that big players have huge slabs of some of those markets, so just a point of sanity. There may be too many people chasing after ad dollars, even if there's still room for it to grow.Now his tips on things that are growing, investable.I see a lot of businesses that are one step away from a transaction. You've got retailers, service providers, insurance companies and so forth who are all gagging for better leads. Kelkoo, MoneySupermarket provide leads but there's still a long way to go in providing better quality clicks to people.Or if you can offer people scale: something big with critical mass that's hard to replicate or is based on useful data. Giving people content where they want it; there's more there than RSS feeds.So what do you do when you've raised some money. There are probably hundreds of companies like this, but how do you go from there to building a scale business? All I can say is it's not very easy - including doing big grown up things like striking commercial deals, hire new people, get new offices, cope with failure, build out infrastructure that works for millions of people. There's a lot of complexity and it's not easy. I reiterate: people are going to fail.
When I worked for the BBC, I was once asked in an interview on 5Live's Up All Night whether I was a hacker, to which I replied, "Nah, I never hack anything except BBC computers." That was a truthful, albeit, probably ill advised admission, and I'm sure that it's an admission that a lot of technically clue-ful employees would be forced to make. And in meaning hack, I don't mean I sat there and stole other people's credit card details to fund an extravagant lifestyle far beyond my meagre salary. No, I mean hack in the sense of knowing the system well so that I could route around 'problems' and get my job done.It was probably after the umpteenth time that some technically illiterate manager downloaded a virus pretending to be a game of flash cricket that corporate IT departments became such control freaks, but it's not just annoying, it's also counter-productive. IT should work with other employees so that they have the technology and the rights so that they can do their jobs, but IT departments increasingly see the technology as theirs and the users (other employees) as the problem. Look, as a technically literate employee who frequently fields other people's questions, I know it can be annoying working with people who don't know the USB port from the headphone jack, but totalitarian IT policies and IT departments that are "The Land of No" aren't the solution.If you need an example of what I mean, check out this Wired wiki on'traversing corporate firewalls'. Skip the how-to and go straight the comments.Yes.. but try any one of these lame, simple and well known policy subversion techniques on my network and you will not only fail, you'll likely be terminated for violating our employee policy. Not smart.'My network'? No boss, that's your gaming LAN at home. Your network belongs to the company too. And yo, CIO, if your IT policies actually prevents your employees from doing their jobs, that can't be good for productivity or your job security.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:control freaks,IT,securitytechnorati tags end
