It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check outprevious Best Android apps posts).Marvel Unlimited (Free)Marvel Unlimited is Marvel's subscription service for its digital comics, with its app having now been ported from iOS to Android. The service costs $9.99 a month in the US, although it's available worldwide. All-you-can-eat comics is the offer, although initial Google Play reviews indicate Marvel may have some work to do to improve the new app.Say the Same Thing (Free)Say the Same Thing comes on like a cross between Words With Friends and Draw Something, but it's nothing to do with those games' publisher Zynga. Instead, it's an official game from band OK Go, which gets you and a friend to enter random words, then guess words that connect them until you both, yes, "say the same thing".Carmageddon (£1.49)Grand Theft Auto games have been on Android for a while, but now another famously-controversial franchise has come roaring onto the platform. Carmageddon is the work of Stainless Games, and revives the race'n'wreck 'em up from the late 1990s. Your job is to race 28 opponents while using your car as a weapon against rivals, police and innocent pedestrians in equal measure.WeatherSignal (Free)There are a number of startups working on innovative ways to show the weather in apps. OpenSignal's newie tries to detect it too: part of "the most ambitious weather crowdsourcing project in the world". The idea: the app uses various smartphone sensors to record and share local atmospheric readings, while showing you key data.Snoop Lion's Snoopify! (Free)And from weather apps to a man who knows a lot about, ahem, drizzle. Snoop Lion's new release is a photo-sharing app called Snoopify,covered in more detail earlier in May. It's about taking photos, customising them with Snoop-themed virtual stickers, and sharing on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Some stickers are free, but others are bought in packs via in-app purchase.Blitz Brigade (Free)Blitz Brigade is the latest freemium game from publisher Gameloft: a multiplayer first-person shooter for up to 12 players at once to compete over the network. It sees you waging war with more than 100 weapons and five character classes – soldier, gunner, medic, sniper and stealth – with 120 training missions to hone your skills.Bespoke Offers (Free)Here comes another hot young startup with a location-based daily deals app. Little-known Barclays Bank is... Wait, what? Yes,thatBarclays has a new offers app for Android that promises to showcase discounts from businesses and retailers near your physical location.Focus@Will (Free)Nothing to do with Him From The Black Eyed Peas, this is the official Android app from a digital music service called Focus@Will. As its name implies, it provides music designed to work or study to: carefully-crafted streaming radio stations in genres including classical, jazz, ambient and "alpha chill".Magic Belles: Magic Music (£1.49)More music here, but this time in a children's app. Already available on iOS, the Android port includes the same mixture of six colourful fairies, each with their own music mini-game or activity to get kids creating sounds. It's aimed at 3-6 year-olds.Bang With Friends (Free)Definitely NOT one for The Kids, this: an official Android app for the find-out-which-of-your-Facebook-friends-wants-to-have-sex-with-you website. You sign in with Facebook, select which friends you fancy and then get to message any that have also chosen you. "Completely private &amp; discreet until both friends are down to bang," claims its Google Play listing, although last weekThe Daily Dot noticedthatclicking this linkreveals which of your friends are using the service.Android Central - The App (Free)Android Central is one of the most popular Android-focused websites, so its official app is likely to be a hit too. It brings news stories, reviews, podcasts and other content to devices, with YouTube videos, an accessories shop and a feature to tip the site about new stories.Lively (Free)Lively is one of a growing number of apps that scan music blogs for new tunes, then serve them up for mobile devices. This promises new tracks every 10 minutes, and the ability to follow other users and specific artists to keep tabs on the latest music.Splay Launcher (Free)Android homescreen-replacement apps (or "launchers") are in the news more since the release of Facebook Home earlier in the year. Splay is getting lots of interest this week with its neat swipe'n'lift user interface to provide fast access to your most-used apps and phone features.Fraggle Friends Forever (£2.57)Fraggle Rock is back, Back, BACK! Courtesy of Cupcake Digital and The Jim Henson Company, this app marks the Fraggles' debut on Android with a story about Boober coming "face to face with a very big, very hungry, very ticklish Slurp" (kids, ask your parents. In fact, young parents, ask YOUR parents...) Interactive activities include mini-games and colouring.Airplayer (Free)Will Apple ever make an iTunes app for Android? Take one guess... Airplayer is a step in that direction from independent developer Softpersimmon though: an app that "brings Android to Apple's Airplay/Airtunes family" by streaming audio from iTunes on the desktop to an Android smartphone, tablet or set-top box.Little Learners Play and Learn (Free)This is another app for kids, this time from book publisher Parragon Books. Designed for babies and toddlers, it features cute animals and two free mini-games based on foods and music – with two more unlockable through an in-app purchase.Leviathan: Warships (£3.24)An entirely more serious affair is Leviathan: Warships from Paradox Interactive. It's an action-strategy game where you build a fleet of warships then battle friends – or team up with them in co-op missions. The fleet-editor section is where games will be won or lost, with naval geekery definitely an advantage.Chuck the Muck (Free)A game called Chuck the Muck featuring a "spunky little blob"? Urban Dictionary would have a field day. This comes from developer KizStudios: a physics-based adventure with plenty of goo, ooze and puzzles to solve.Undead Soccer (£1.68)One last game this week: football with shambling zombies (insert own QPR joke here). You play a footballer who, after being sent off, discovers that all the other players, officials and fans have been turned into zombies. To which the only sensible response is to grab a football and dustbin-lid to give them a good shoeing.Flayvr (Free)Our 20th app this week is the latest that wants to help people organise their digital photos and videos collections. In this case, Flayvr "recognises photos and videos taken at the same event and builds a beautiful living collage out of them", while also sharing to Facebook, Twitter, and/or Google+.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 11 May 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (69)PS3 (29)PC (1)32 (6)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (30)PC (16)Wii U (2)263 (3)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (48)PC (1)104 (2)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)Wii U (3)45 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (22)Wii (10)VITA (7)336 (7)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (34)PC (6)77 (11)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)288 (8)Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins(7+)3DS (100)39 (–)The Walking Dead(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (5)110 (9)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)711 (–)Persona 4 Arena(12+)PS3 (58)Xbox 360 (42)112 (12)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (38)PC (7)2413 (5)Dragon's Dogma: Dark Arisen(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (38)314 (16)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (100)615 (15)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (19)PS3 (16)DS (15)4416 (13)Defiance(18+)Xbox 360 (73)PS3 (24)PC (3)617 (14)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (24)PC (18)7118 (17)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (38)VITA (14)PC (2)2719 (19)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City(18+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (30)PC (0)1720 (20)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (31)48UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
There's a consensus among the entrepreneurs and technologists I talk to that many of the way to encourage more women into the industry is by challenging and changing the way a business operates, and often that means relatively subtle changes that will have a long-term impact.Leaving aside the more fundamental crisis of IT education in schools (and how that fails to inspire and engage young people, and especially young women) there's a healthy rejection of the nauseating 'brogrammer' culture in the tech industry in favour of something more inclusive that introduces parity. That's exactly what Songkick has just done by introducing an equal period of paternity leave for new fathers, which means they can take up to nine months off after their child is born.The legal requirement is for two weeks, but Songkick offers six weeks' paid leave and up to 46 weeks on top of that, explained co-founder Michelle You. The first time the company had to (hastily) draft a paternity and maternity policy was in 2008 when they only had a team of seven. The next Songkick baby is due in July this year. Songkick has a ratio of 25 men to six women on its staff, which is actually high for a tech startup. There's a subtle but significant shift in the decision to give parity to men and women equal leave."There's a mental block a lot of women have about their careers before they've even got to the stage where they are ready to have children, so it is something that women think about and worry about more than men," said You. "None of my male friends worry about what will happen to their careers when they have kids, but in particular there is this expectation on women to be a mum, stay at home and shoulder the responsibility of childcare."That is reinforced by the unequal parental leave policy. If the mother can take nine months but the father can only take two weeks, then who is going to do it?"Many young companies might worry about paying for this kind of policy, but You, co-founder Ian Hogarth and the rest of the Songkick team (who readily admit to be proud feminists) say they are lucky to be in a position to do this."It's normal, for example, for people who work at startups to have equity in the business," said Hogarth. "We are good at establishing those kind of norms around how business is done and shifting expectations of how a business should treat you. Anything about gender [imbalance] is really hard to do, and there's a real latent misogyny in the startup space. Because there's no women in startups they have no voice for what should happen."Detour beta extended to all London Songkick usersElsewhere at Songkick, the trial ofDetour, where fans pledge money to try and attract bands to play gigs, will be extended next week. Detour is currently limited to a private beta of 1,000 of Songkick's most hardcore muso fans in London, but not for long. Next Wednesday, it will be opened to the other 300,000 Songkick users in London.Songkick is bringing over US comedian Aziz Ansari on the back of demand from usersSo far, 206 Songkick users have pledged money to try and bring Japanese cult noise actBoredomsover from Japan, and American cellistZoe Keatingis now playing a 300-capacity gig in London in response to pledges on the site, despite being unsigned and only playing for a 50-person gig in London before. And Songkick is also testing the water with comedy, bringingAziz Ansariover from the US to the Hammersmith Apollo.There's demand for Detour to expand into new cities but there's some foot leather involved in setting up the gigs, so the team aren't rushing to open the floodgates just yet. When they do, integration with Soundcloud and Spotify would follow. "We're really concentrating on growing Detour out of Songkick right now," said Hogarth. "It's Songkick with a edit card. Rather than telling us which bands they want to see, they say I really want to see this band and we make it happen."It is happening in some numbers for Songkick more widely, with monthly user numbers now at 8 million. Ticketmaster claims 12 million, so I can't imagine it is too happy about that.
By now, everyone's heard about the3D printed gun that Defense Distributed demonstratedlast week. The Texas-based group has been steadily working its way up the 3D printed firearms evolutionary ladder, making parts for guns, then guns themselves, then firing a gun, then making the plans for running up your own pistols on a nearby 3D printer. If Defense Distributed had set out to create a moral panic over 3D printing, they could have picked no better project.The prevailing opinions on 3D printed guns fall into two major categories: the apocalyptic and the nonchalant. The apocalyptics – including grandstanding politicos like New York State senator Steve Israel, who's alreadyintroduced legislation aimed at banning 3D printed guns– greet this news with hysterics: the age of the undetectable plastic gun to be upon us, and Something Must Be Done. The nonchalant point out that the 3D printed gun that Defense Distributed fired cost a small fortune and requires a highly specialised and even more expensive 3D printer to produce; isfragile and liable to self-destruction after a few rounds are fired, and remind the apocalyptics that it's much, much easier to go and buy a traditional gun in the criminal underground than it is to produce a working 3D printed item.There's some truth in both points of view, but it's hard to get at the truth when you're talking about an issue as polarising as guns. It doesn't help that Defense Distributed's founder Cody Wilson describes the project in ideologically loaded terms, calling his first gun "the Liberator" in homage to the cheap single-shot pistols that the Allies made for distribution in Nazi-occupied France – Wilson here implying that the ability to print a gun and arm yourself is integral to the defence against tyranny. Wilson's nomenclature is classic internet rhetoric: by invoking the Nazis with his pistol design, he follows in the tradition of a million internet arguments that proveGodwin's Law: "As an online discussion grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Nazis or Hitler approaches 1."For my part, I think that 3D printed guns are both interesting and scary, and certainly important, though not for the reasons most commonly invoked by either camp.Jumbo problemsThe most interesting part of the whole affair is what it says about all forms of technological regulation in the future. All technologies are being subsumed into general-purpose computers connected to the general-purpose internet, from thermostats to hearing aids to pharmaceutical factories to automobiles to radios. Many of these technologies have historically been regulated through rules about how they must be built, used and monitored, and in addition, there's a kind ofde factoregulation that comes from the complexity of building complex devices from readily available parts. Anyone with enough resources can build a jumbo jet, but that's a pretty specialised use of the word "anyone" – if you're building a jumbo jet, you're in a relatively small pool of people to begin with, and the act of building a jumbo jet throws off enough detectable signs that it's hard to keep secret.Inherent in the notion of regulating a technology is theregulatabilityof that technology. It's the idea that you can figure out who's making or using a technology and dictate terms to them. That's where computers come in. Computers make it possible for semi-skilled people to do jobs that used to require highly skilled people. A computer program, computer-readable model-file and computer-based 3D printer can (in theory) encapsulate the expertise of a skilled machinist and deploy it on demand wherever a 3D printer is to be found. If that's hard to grasp, think of recorded music versus live performance: before sound recordings, you needed to find (and possibly pay) a musician every time you wanted to hear music; after recordings, the musician was only needed for the initial performance, which could be captured and reproduced at will.The existence of a 3D printed gun that can be output on a high-end machine by a skilled user doesn't do much to change the regulatability of guns. After all, you could already "print" a much more powerful gun by ordering it, piece by piece, from any of the many overnight-shipping custom metal fabrication companies that will turn a 3D model into a precision-machined piece of metal and FedEx it to your door. Such a gun would keep firing as long as you kept feeding it ammo, too – unlike a plastic gun, which is likely to experience critical failure after a comparatively small number of rounds fired.That said, 3D printers keep getting better and cheaper and today's uncommon professional model is likely to be tomorrow's ubiquitous home hobbyist machine. If there comes a day when more powerful printers are common, then the regulatability of guns will shelve off dramatically.Guns and ammoOf course, there's no such thing as 3D printed ammunition, and there's nothing on our immediate horizon that is likely to produce it. However, the current security model for reducing the danger from guns involves a multilayered defence that relies on the regulation of both guns and ammunition. If guns can be readily made at home, then a major piece of the regulatory model is dead. The ability to encapsulate the expertise of a gunsmith in a bit of code becomes more more significant then. But "then" is not "now." Though 3D printers might change the regulatory picture for firearms in years or decades, the regulatability of guns remains intact for now.More interesting is the destiny of the files describing 3D printed guns. These model-files have beentemporarily removed from the internet at the behest of the US State Department, which is investigating the possibility that they violate the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. Wilson says that he's on safe ground here, because the regulations do not cover material in a library, and he says the internet is like a library. As this is taking place in the US, there's also the First Amendment to be considered, which limits government regulation of speech.Here's where things get scary for me. Defense Distributed is headed for some important, possibly precedent-setting legal battles with the US government, and I'm worried that the fact that we're talking about guns here will cloud judges' minds. Bad cases made bad law, and it's hard to think of a more emotionally overheated subject area. So while I'd love to see a court evaluate whether the internet should be treated as a library in law, I'm worried that when it comes to guns, the judge may find himself framing the question in terms of whether a gun foundry should be treated as a library.Hard cases make bad lawLikewise for the question of whether computer code is a form of protected, expressive speech. In 1996, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals legalised the civilian use of strong cryptography, thanks to Bernstein v United States, which asked whether US spy agencies should really be in the business of regulating how academics talked about maths. The court in Bernstein held that code was a form of protected speech under the First Amendment, and struck down the US National Security Agency's ban on publishing code that could be used to make effective cryptographic systems.However, in 2000's Universal City Studios Inc v Reimerdes, the court got it wrong when considering the question of whether a magazine should be forbidden from publishing computer code that could be used to decode a DVD. The difference between Reimerdes and Bernstein is that Reimerdes concerned itself with a magazine called 2600: The Hacker Quarterly and Bernstein was about a nice academic mathematician called Daniel Bernstein. They both turned on the same principle, but the court couldn't see past the words "Hacker Quarterly" to see the principle underlying the case.I agree with Cody Wilson that we've entered into a new world of regulation, and it's one that could go very wrong if things aren't well handled. I just fear that Wilson's asking the right questions – how do we regulate technologies when they can be produced with general purpose computers and networks – in the wrong way: "Should everyone be able to print a gun at home?"
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPrivacy advocate Jonathan Mayer has had it with 'Do Not Track' &gt;&gt; Ad ExchangerAsked what the ideal solution to the DNT row would be, Mayer says:"Consumers don't have a great handle on what's going on in terms of how their data is being collected and what it is being used for. Therefore it makes sense to shift the burden of explaining to the user what is going on to those who are in the best position to do it. Advertising companies have an incentive to convince users that they're trustworthy and that users should allow them to collect data."By setting those default settings to Do Not Track, we give interested parties the incentive to educate consumers about the impacts of those choices. We allocate to them [those parties] the responsibility of getting consumers to give them access."Ahead of I/O, Google Wallet drops plans to introduce a physical card &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThe card was part of Google's larger strategic goal to know more about consumer purchases, given the immense potential value of that mostly offline-level data for its massive online advertising business.Google is already sucking in that purchase data on many fronts — between Google Play payments, Google Checkout on the Web and also advertiser payments — in addition to the dedicated Google Wallet project.But Wallet has been hampered by its focus on and use of NFC technology, which requires certain phones and special readers to make transactions. Google tried to make that easier by introducing a "cloud wallet" last year that accommodated existing credit and debit cards, but it could still go further toward mobile payments at the register without using NFC.The dumping of the physical card plan was certainly abrupt, since it had actually been built into the new update of Google Wallet, said sources, and some partners had thought the search giant might be demoing it at the [Google I/O] event.Understanding smartphone use in stores: shoppers who use mobile more, spend more in store &gt;&gt; Google Mobile Ads BlogThe self-interest runs like the words through a stick of rock in this post, but this is intriguing:Shoppers who use mobile more, spend more in storeWhile many businesses might assume that smartphone use in store drives shoppers to seek better prices elsewhere and order online, we found that the opposite was true. We compared the in-store purchases of moderate and frequent smartphone users and found that basket sizes of frequent mobile shoppers were 25-50% higher. For instance, while the average appliance smartphone shoppers spends $250 per shopping trip, frequent smartphone shoppers spend $350. Marketers shouldn't shy away from the showrooming challenge, and should instead, meet it head on.The only, but crucially big, question: is this causation - using smartphones more means you spend more - or correlation: people who use their smartphones more are also, for whatever reason, big spenders?Mobile web apps are slow &gt;&gt; Sealed AbstractDrew Crawford:Now, if what you mean by "web app" is "website with a button or two", you can tell all the fancypants benchmarks like SunSpider to take a hike.  But if you mean "light word processing, light photo editing, local storage, and animations between screens" then you don't want to be doing that in a web app on ARM unless you have a death wish.Sure, you can design performant mobile web apps if you have good engineers.  But do you know what else you can do with good engineers?  Things that are actually of value to your customers.Special Report: US cyberwar strategy stokes fear of blowback &gt;&gt; Yahoo! NewsJoseph Menn:US intelligence and military agencies aren't buying the tools primarily to fend off attacks. Rather, they are using the tools to infiltrate computer networks overseas, leaving behind spy programs and cyber-weapons that can disrupt data or damage systems.The core problem: Spy tools and cyber-weapons rely on vulnerabilities in existing software programs, and these hacks would be much less useful to the government if the flaws were exposed through public warnings. So the more the government spends on offensive techniques, the greater its interest in making sure that security holes in widely used software remain unrepaired.Moreover, the money going for offense lures some talented researchers away from work on defense, while tax dollars may end up flowing to skilled hackers simultaneously supplying criminal groups. "The only people paying are on the offensive side," said Charlie Miller, a security researcher at Twitter who previously worked for the National Security Agency.Free trials and tire kickers &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment, following on from Dave Addey's piece about app pricing last week:It's not hard to imagine a world where we have free trials, because we already have such worlds: the Mac and Windows. What most mobile-app developers want is the ability to charge PC-class pricing — $30, $50, $100 instead of 99 cents, $2.99, $4.99.But PC-class pricing would fundamentally change iOS buying habits, and we may not like the results.Browsing the App Store and getting new apps, often spending a few bucks along the way, is a form of casual entertainment for a lot of people. This role used to be filled by movies and music. Today, it's filled by browsing the internet and playing with mobile apps. Usually, they're games, but not always — modern mainstream culture, especially among younger people, seems to be more interested in media and social apps than games.This apps-as-entertainment market falls apart if app pricing rises above casual-disposable levels for most people.ITV Player app for Android now a Samsung exclusive &gt;&gt; Trusted ReviewsOffering access to the past thirty days of ITV content from channels including ITV, ITV2 and ITV3 for catch-up opportunities, the new Android ITV Player app will be exclusively available to Samsung smart devices.Compatible with Samsung devices running Android 2.3 Gingerbread or later, the Android ITV Player allows users to browse through recommended programmes or search for their favourites over a 3G, 4G or Wi-Fi connection.The app is available to download now on Samsung smart devices like the Samsung Galaxy S4, Samsung Note 8.0 and Samsung Galaxy Mega duo, but anyone owning another Android device like the Google Nexus 4 or the HTC One won't be able to until the exclusivity period ends.Hardly good news for the wider Android world, though it fits with Samsung's ambitions in content. Theapp itself has dire reviews, though.VIM AdventuresNeed to learn vim (the command-line text editor)? Like learning via games? This is the one for you then.International Space Station switches from Windows to Linux, for improved reliability &gt;&gt; ExtremeTechIn specific, the "dozens of laptops" will make the change to Debian 6. These laptops will join many other systems aboard the ISS that already run various flavors of Linux, such as RedHat and Scientific Linux. As far as we know, after this transition, there won't be a single computer aboard the ISS that runs Windows. Beyond stability and reliability, Keith Chuvala of the United Space Alliance says they wanted an operating system that "would give us in-house control. So if we needed to patch, adjust or adapt, we could." It's worth noting that the ISS laptops used to run Windows XP, and we know they've been infected by at least one virus in their lifetime: in 2008, a Russian cosmonaut brought a laptop aboard with the W32.Gammima.AG worm, which quickly spread to the other laptops on board. Switching to Linux will essentially immunize the ISS against future infections.That'll flummox those pesky aliens.DRAM shortages to impact PC players in 2Q13 &gt;&gt; DigitimesDRAM shortages, which started in early 2013, have become worse recently and may impact PC brand vendors' performances in the second quarter, according to sources from PC players.Commenting on the issue, Acer chairman JT Wang pointed out that DRAM prices are likely to continue rising as many DRAM makers have switched their production lines to manufacturing smartphone DRAM, leaving insufficient capacity to supply the PC industry. Even If DRAM makers decide to switch back capacity, it will still take about 3-4 months for the process to be completed, Wang said.Because to its DRAM inventory will be depleted at the end of May, Acer's new supply contracts in June with the latest pricing are expected to impact the company's second-quarter results, dropping from profiting slightly to only breaking even.DDR3 4GB prices have hit $27 - up 70% since the start of the year. Acer's margins must be very sensitive for that to be the difference between profit and break-even.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Ah, it's Monday again. How was your weekend?
Price from £11,810MPG up to 74.3Top speed up to 150mphWhen I was sitting in the back of a taxi the other night, the driver turned and asked what line of business I was in. I&nbsp;said I worked at theObserverand wrote about cars. At this point I normally get asked two questions. The first is: "Really?" The second is: "What's the best car you've ever driven then?" This always sounds like a test. Is there a correct answer? Will they nod approvingly? To avoid these complications, I&nbsp;usually say: "A Nissan Micra…" You know, to be funny, to mix it up. Anyway, true to form, the taxi driver said: "Really?" But then he mixed it up. He said: "What's the best car joke you've ever heard then?"I could only think of one. How do&nbsp;you get four elephants in a Mini? Two in the back, two in the front. It was even "funnier" when Minis were smaller, but the cabby said he had heard it before, anyway.It may not be the best joke, but the Mini is one of the few cars on the road guaranteed to put a smile on your face every time you start it up. Classless, fashionable, hugely loved and globally exported, it introduced a word to the English language and is probably Britain's most famous car. When BMW introduced the all-new version in 2001, replacing Sir Alec Issigonis's dinky masterpiece (Sir Alec, by the way, was an immigrant born in Turkey to Greek/German parents – what say you to that, Ukip?), it was vastly more sophisticated than the outgoing model. But, brilliantly, much of the original's charm and appeal remain intact: the oversized dials, the vertical windows, the go-kart handling. It&nbsp;gained a&nbsp;contemporary edge without throwing the designer baby out with the bath water, though the later additions to the Mini family – you know who you are, Countryman and Paceman – seem to have lost sight of their heritage. The new Mini also introduced personalisation on a&nbsp;scale never before seen in a&nbsp;small car – the old one, when it first arrived on our streets, only came in three colours: clipper blue, cherry red and old English white.Last month Mini celebrated 100 years of car-making at Plant Oxford. To soak up some of that history I&nbsp;drove a 2013 Cooper up the M40 to&nbsp;Cowley to have a look at where the&nbsp;story began and tour the new visitor centre. The story you'll hear in&nbsp;there is remarkable.Family tree: 100 years of Plant Oxford. Photograph: ObserverThe first car to roll out of the factory was a Bullnose Morris Oxford. Only 20 cars a week were built. Today Plant Oxford employs 3,700 people who manufacture 900&nbsp;Minis a&nbsp;day. It's worth remembering that in the 60s the plant reached a production peak of 6,000 cars a&nbsp;week and 28,000 were employed. Currently 1,000 new robots are being installed to cope with demand for the next generation. The story of our times.After the Bullnose came a&nbsp;succession of cars – some famous, some beautiful, many that would best remain forgotten. There was the dear old "Moggy", the Morris Eight and the Oxford, the Hindustan Ambassador and Austin Healey's "Frogeye" Sprite (my favourite – that's what I should tell cab drivers in future), the Marina and the Princess and, of course, the Maestro. In total, Plant Oxford is closing in on 12m cars. And let's not forget the iron lungs, Tiger Moths, gliders and millions of jerrycans it has also churned out. It's one of Britain's outstanding manufacturing triumphs – and its contribution to this country can't be overestimated.Oh, and the cabby knew a Mini joke, too. How do you know there are four elephants in the cinema? There's a Mini parked outside…How's your sign language?Devised as part of a road safety awareness campaign, this fun interactiveroad-sign quizis great to see if you can recall the information you once knew when you were learning to drive. Fewer than 50% of drivers in the UK said that they would be able to pass their theory test today if they had to take it again, would you? And while you are at it, here's an interactivedrink-driving graphicwhich may help drivers learn more about the dangers of drink driving and the penalties involved when attempting to drive when over the legal alcohol limit. Thanks toSnapshot Mediafor the designs.Beer, Big Ben and a new entry for the Isle of Man TTBridge of sighs: three Tsingtao sponsored bikes including the lightweight WK650i bike ride over Westminster Bridge. Photograph: David Parry/PA WireChina's number one beer export, Tsingtao (pronounced Ching Dow), WK Bikes and Hampshire Motorcycles and Quads have brought the world's first Chinese motorcycle to enter the prestigious Isle of Man TT road race to London, ahead of the race, which starts on 25 May. The lightweight WK650i has been built by Hampshire Motorcycles with Chinese parts imported by WK Bikes from CF Moto. The rider is Australian Dave Johnson, who was the fastest newcomer in the TT in 2011 and prided himself on seven pole positions in British superstock 1000 in 2012. The spotlight will be firmly on the Tsingtao WK Bikes team, as the entry marks the first new major manufacturer in the TT since Honda in 1959. For more information, go to  about Tsingtao visittsingtaobeer.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Launched with little fanfare,Mars: War Logsis big on ideas and ambition. Sadly, though, those ambitions are outstripped by an inability to make good on them. Which is disappointing, since what's here has all the makings of a great RPG. Despite casting players into another civil war on the red planet&nbsp;– something of a cliche now – its lore is well developed, with a wealth of politics and history to discover through back matter rather than weighty exposition. Combat is enjoyable, pairing breezy attacks with more powerful "technomancy" skills, while the character growth and crafting systems offer some imaginative results.However, archetypal characters with wildly inconsistent personalities, voice acting that ranges from acceptable to appalling and a plot that jumps between big moments with scant logic rob the game of its potential. A shame because, with more polish, this could have been fantastic.
The news that a few jokers in Texas sailing under the flag of "Defense Distributed" have succeeded in creating aworking handgun using 3D printing technologyhas thrown the cat into the pigeon coop. There's been the traditional reaction from hyperactive US legislators. Democratic Congressman Steve Israel from New York was first out of the starting stalls: he had already sponsored a bill that would outlaw "non-detectable weapons"; now, he announced, he would add regulations concerning 3D-printed guns. "Security checkpoints, background checks and gun regulations will do little good," he told theNew York Daily News, "if criminals can print their own plastic firearms at homeand bring those firearms through metal detectors with no one the wiser."For their part, the gun printers lost no opportunity to hype up their achievement. "I'm seeing a world where technology says you can pretty much be able to have whatever you want," declared Cody Wilson, the head of Defense Distributed. "It's not up to the political players any more." This is the kind of fancy talk that leads editorial writers to cower in their bunkers, wondering about runaway technology and where it's taking us, while in another part of the forest technology evangelists were fretting that the boffins of Defense Distributed were giving 3D printing a very bad name.Which indeed they are. But in fact everybody's been giving 3D printing some kind of name. It's variously seen as: a revolutionary technology that will transform manufacturing and bring jobs back to America; a grievous threat to intellectual property; a democratising technology that will empower individuals and small enterprises; a powerful force for good in medicine; a new way of doing haute couture; and as an overblown, over-hyped fad.What's happening is that people are projecting their hopes, fears and fantasies on to what is basically the logical extension of an old technology –the ink-jet printer. Instead of squirting ink through tiny nozzles under computer control, however, a 3D printer squirts globules of plastic or other materials and creates three-dimensional objects by "printing" out successive layers in accordance with the data contained in a computerised model of the object.Although there are already some very sophisticated applications of 3D printing in industry (in aircraft manufacture, for example), most of the stuff produced by 3D printing in the public domain looks pretty naff to the layperson's eye. The Texas gun, for example,looks naive and unsophisticatedwhen compared to, say,a Walther PPK. One can just imagine James Bond's incredulous sneer if Q were to offer it to him.But for those who have followed the work ofHarvard scholar Clayton Christensenover the years, the sheer crudity of the printed object is what rings bells because it evokes the possibility of disruptive change. Christensen is famous for his pioneering studies of industrial innovation. What he wanted to understand is why big and successful companies are so often destroyed or humbled by new technologies whose significance they fail to appreciate.The reason successful corporations are blindsided, Christensen found, is that the initial manifestations of the upstart technologies are so crude that they do not seem to pose a threat to the incumbents. Their products, though expensive, are so polished and sophisticated that it seems incredible that their customers would be tempted by such crummy artefacts.But it turns out that some customers are prepared to buy the crummy product because they can't afford the expensive stuff; and the manufacturers of the disruptive product rapidly improve it, so that it becomes less crummy. And then they cream off the lower segment of the incumbent's market. And so it goes on until the established company (or companies, for this can happen to whole industries) goes under.The poster child for Christensen's account of disruptive innovation is, of course, Kodak – a huge, profitable company that completely dominated the market in analogue, ie film-based, photography, and which was eventually destroyed by digital technology. And the same logic applied, because when digital sensors first appeared the photographs they produced were truly awful. But Christensen's logic eventually prevailed and Kodak is no more. The only irony is that it was in Kodak's own R&amp;D labs that the digital sensor was invented.Nobody knows what the long-term impact of 3D printing will be. It's possible that it will ultimately affect only a limited number of industrial sectors. Or just particular parts of a sector – for example the organisations that have to maintain huge warehouses of spares for an infinite variety of industrial and domestic appliances: why keep physical stock when all you need are the CAD drawings and a printer?The one reason for not discounting 3D printing is the one most sceptics use at the moment: that the things it produces look naff.
Star Command(War Balloon, iOS, £1.50) owes a great deal to a certain space-bound TV and film franchise, so the timing of its release doesn't seem altogether an accident on the part of the developers.It's a game of two parts –Star Commandinvolves building and equipping an intergalactic vessel, and filling it with crew members. The staff wear vaguely familiar red, yellow and blue tunics identifying the role they perform – soldiers, engineers or medics. Once the ship is ready it's time to take off into the galaxy and engage in some nifty space combat – both inside, as foes teleport (or beam) on board, and outside, when dealing with enemy craft.Battles win currency (not something Spock worried about too much in the heat of battle), which is then spent on upgrading the ship and crew. It's not revolutionary, and the combat gets pretty hard pretty quickly, but as a Space Opera sim it does the job in giving players a taste of life as Captain Kirk.
Persona 4 Arena's brand of 2D fighting is, at first glance, a far cry from its brilliant RPG forebear. Once players spend time with this intricately balanced and beautifully animated beat 'em up, though, they'll discover it's every bit as involving as its predecessor.Arena's incredibly deep story mode sees lead Yu Narukami drawn into another mystery in the parallel Midnight Channel world.This time, it involves being forced to fight his friends. The battle system is remarkably complex, demanding mastery of blocks, attack breaks and counters, plus awareness of various power and health gauges. While far from entry-level,Arenawill appeal to fans of the originalPersona 4and lovers of top-tier Japanese fighting games alike.
As suggested by the words "winner of 80 game of the year awards" emblazoned on its cover, Telltale's downloadable horror gameThe Walking Deadwas a runaway success when originally released in episodic formlast year. Here, for those who still enjoy owning hard copies or who simply missed it, is the (slightly pricier) boxed version. Split across five episodes, the game tells the story of a convict, Lee, who stumbles upon and cares for a young girl called Clementine&nbsp;during the zombie apocalypse, as portrayed in the comic&nbsp;books.Far from being another zombie shooter,The Walking Deadis a story-driven point-and-click adventure. Players must interact with survivors, manage quick-time events and investigate mysteries in an effort to escape the hungry hordes.The choices players make in doing so have a genuine impact on who survives, who doesn't and how your relationships with characters develop, making each game a different experience and encouraging you to start over once the story is finished.Much like its source material (the comic rather than the TV series), it can get very bleak in places. But with a compelling script, stunning comic book visuals and excellent voice acting, this is one of the finest examples of video game storytelling yet to be made.
We're high up in the Gherkin in the City of London and Garry Sidaway, director of security strategy at Integralis, a firm which advises government agencies, pharmaceutical and financial services multinationals, is giving my computer a security MOT. "You don't have anti-virus software, I see," he says, a trace of mockery in his voice. "That's your first mistake."According to Sidaway, while most of us are much more aware of the risks now ("My mum shreds her documents even if she doesn't know why," he says), we should all be raising the bar. He thinks we Britons are an overly trusting lot. Sitting ducks for an armada of hackers, who are every bit as focused on stealing our data as we are relaxed about storing it. "The criminal gangs know exactly which kind of data they want and where it is likely to be," he explains. "Conversely we're not sure what they're after."So what are they after, I ask? "We are seeing a wide variety of attacks – everything from opportunists trying to extract passwords through phishing [emails which purport to be from legitimate sources and attempt to get us to click on an infected link] to highly organised crime units targeting businesses and government systems in an effort to steal intellectual property and information related to critical infrastructure."The government estimates that the total cost of cybercrime in the UK is £27bn a year. The majority (£21bn) is committed against businesses, which face high levels of intellectual property theft and industrial espionage.Enabled by the sharing culture on social media – and with ever more sophisticated malicious software known as malware at their disposal – cybercriminals have become far more adept at crafting attacks and targeting individuals and organisations. Phishing emails purporting to be from friends, often reflecting our interests – perhaps gleaned from social media sites – or from trusted organisations such as your bank or HM Revenue &amp; Customs encourage us to click on infected links or attachments containing malware. (A recent example of the latter was malware disguised as a security warning from Microsoft's digital crimes unit.) "We have a level of trust in certain organisations and criminals exploit that trust," says Sidaway.Typically, these so-called "man-in-the-middle" attacks install colourfully named Trojans (pieces of malware, essentially) such as Zeus, SpyEye or Citadel on computers, which have the effect of compromising, for example, online banking transactions. "Everything you then do on your compromised laptop is subverted through a hacking site which means when you [communicate] with your bank, you are going through a man in the middle. Initially, man-in-the-middle attacks were passwords used in authentication – the criminal would wait until you had finished to start using the credentials they'd just gathered. This is why banks brought in one-time passwords or codes," he says."But more recent malware will perform a man-in-the-middle attack to obtain the user's session (a session is created after a user logs in successfully and the browser and the bank's website use this to continue the interaction) and fake the logout requests. Once the user thinks they've logged out, the attacker can make payments using the existing session without the victim seeing any changes to their balance until the next time they log on. This is partly why banks have rolled out card readers to help prevent payments to new payees." He adds: "It's a constant game of cat  and mouse."TWENTY COMMANDMENTS:THE DOS AND DON'TS OF ONLINE SAFETY1. Never click on a link you did not expect to receiveThe golden rule. The main way criminals infect PCs with malware is by luring users to click on a link or open an attachment. "Sometimes phishing emails contain obvious spelling mistakes and poor grammar and are easy to spot," says Sidaway of Integralis. "However, targeted attacks and well-executed mass mailings can be almost indistinguishable [from genuine emails]." Social media has helped criminals profile individuals, allowing them to be much more easily targeted, he adds. "They can see what you're interested in or what you [post] about and send you crafted messages, inviting you to click on something. Don't."2. Use different passwords on  different sitesWith individuals typically having anything up to 100 online accounts, the tendency has become to share one or two passwords across accounts or use very simple ones, such as loved ones' names, first pets or favourite sports teams. Indeed,research by Ofcomlast month revealed that over half of UK adults (55%) use the same passwords for most, if not all, websites they visit, while one in four (26%) use birthdays or names as passwords. Any word found in the dictionary is easily crackable. Instead, says Sian John, online security consultant at Symantec, have one memorable phrase or a line from a favourite song or poem. For example: "TheObserveris a Sunday newspaper" becomes "toiasn". Add numerals and a special character thus: "T0!asn". Now for every site you log on to, add the first and last letter of that site to the start and end of the phrase, so the password for Amazon would be "AT0!asnn". At first glance, unguessable. But for you, still memorable."3. Never reuse your main email passwordA hacker who has cracked your main email password has the keys to your [virtual] kingdom. Passwords from the other sites you visit can be reset via your main email account. A criminal can trawl through your emails and find a treasure trove of personal data: from banking to passport details, including your date of birth, all of which enables ID fraud. Identity theft is estimated to cost the UK almost £2bn a year.4. Use anti-virus softwareGerman security institute AV-Test found that in 2010 there were 49m new strains of malware, meaning that anti-virus software manufacturers are engaged in constant game of "whack-a-mole". Sometimes their reaction times are slow – US security firmImperva tested 40 anti-virus packagesand found that the initial detection rate of a new virus was only 5%. Much like flu viruses and vaccine design, it takes the software designers a while to catch up with the hackers. Last yearAV-Test published the resultsof a 22-month study of 27 different anti-virus suites and top-scoring packages wereBitdefender,KasperskyandF-Secure. Meanwhile, security expertBrian Krebs published the resultsof a study of 42 packages which showed on average a 25% detection rate of malware – so they are not the entire answer, just a useful part of it.5. If in doubt, blockJust say no to social media invitations (such as Facebook-friend or LinkedIn connection requests) from people you don't know. It's the cyber equivalent of inviting the twitchy guy who looks at you at the bus stop into your home.6. Think before you tweet and how you share informationAgain, the principal risk is ID fraud. Trawling for personal details is the modern day equivalent of "dumpster-diving", in which strong-stomached thieves would trawl through bins searching for personal documents, says Symantec's John. "Many of the same people who have learned to shred documents like bank statements will happily post the same information on social media. Once that information is out there, you don't necessarily have control of how other people use it." She suggests a basic rule: "If you aren't willing to stand at Hyde Park Corner and say it, don't put it on social media."7. If you have a "wipe your phone" feature, you should set it upFeatures such as Find My iPhone, Android Lost or BlackBerry Protect allow you to remotely to erase all your personal data, should your device be lost or stolen. "Absolutely, set it up," advises Derek Halliday of mobile security specialist Lookout. "In the case where your phone is gone for good, having a wipe feature can protect your information from falling into the wrong hands. Even if you didn't have the foresight to sign up, many wipe your phone features can be implemented after the fact."8. Only shop online on secure sitesBefore entering your card details, always ensure that the locked padlock or unbroken key symbol is showing in your browser, cautions industry advisory body Financial Fraud Action UK. Additionally the beginning of the online retailer's internet address will change from "http" to "https" to indicate a connection is secure. Be wary of sites that change back to http once you've logged on.9. Don't assume banks will pay you backBanks must refund a customer if he or she has been the victim of fraud, unless they can prove that the customer has acted "fraudulently" or been "grossly negligent". Yet as with any case of fraud, the matter is always determined on an individual basis. "Anecdotally, a customer who has been a victim of a phishing scam by unwittingly providing a fraudster with their account details and passwords only to be later defrauded could be refunded," explains Michelle Whiteman, spokesperson for the Payments Council, an industry body. "However, were they to fall victim to the same fraud in the future, after their bank had educated them about how to stay safe, it is possible a subsequent refund won't be so straightforward. Under payment services regulations, the onus is on the payment-service provider to prove that the customer was negligent, not vice versa. Credit card protection is provided under the Consumer Credit Act and offers similar protection."10. Ignore pop-upsPop-ups can contain malicious software which can trick a user into verifying something. "[But if and when you do], a download will be performed in the background, which will install malware," says Sidaway. "This is known as a drive-by download. Always ignore pop-ups offering things like site surveys on e-commerce sites, as they are sometimes where the malcode is."11. Be wary of public Wi-FiMost Wi-Fi hotspots do not encrypt information and once a piece of data leaves your device headed for a web destination, it is "in the clear" as it transfers through the air on the wireless network, says Symantec's Sian John. "That means any 'packet sniffer' [a program which can intercept data] or malicious individual who is sitting in a public destination with a piece of software that searches for data being transferred on a Wi-Fi network can intercept your unencrypted data. If you choose to bank online on public Wi-Fi, that's very sensitive data you are transferring. We advise either using encryption [software], or only using public Wi-Fi for data which you're happy to be public – and that shouldn't include social network passwords."12. Run more than one email accountThinking about having one for your bank and other financial accounts, another for shopping and one for social networks. If one account is hacked, you won't find everything compromised. And it helps you spot phishing emails, because if an email appears in your shopping account purporting to come from your bank, for example, you'll immediately know it's a fake.13. Macs are as vulnerable as PCsMake no mistake, your shiny new MacBook Air can be attacked too. It's true that Macs used to be less of a target, simply because criminals used to go after the largest number of users – ie Windows – but this is changing. "Apple and Microsoft have both added a number of security features which have significantly increased the effectiveness of security on their software," says Sidaway, "but determined attackers are still able to find new ways to exploit users on almost any platform."14. Don't store your card details on websitesErr on the side of caution when asked if you want to store your credit card details for future use. Mass data security breaches (where credit card details are stolen en masse) aren't common, but why take the risk? The extra 90 seconds it takes to key in your details each time is a small price to pay.15. Add a DNS service to protect other devicesA DNS or domain name system service converts a web address (a series of letters) into a machine-readable IP address (a series of numbers). You're probably using your ISP's DNS service by default, but you can opt to subscribe to a service such as OpenDNS or Norton ConnectSafe, which redirect you if you attempt to access a malicious site, says Sian John. "This is helpful for providing some security (and parental control) across all the devices in your home including tablets, TVs and games consoles that do not support security software. But they shouldn't be relied upon as the only line of defence, as they can easily be bypassed."16. Enable two-step verificationIf your email or cloud service offers it – Gmail, Dropbox, Apple and Facebook do – take the trouble to set this up. In addition to entering your password, you are also asked to enter a verification code sent via SMS to your phone. In the case of Gmail you only have to enter a fresh code every 30 days or when you log on from a different computer or device. So a hacker might crack your password, but without the unique and temporary verification code should not be able to access your account.17. Lock your phone and tablet devicesKeep it locked, just as you would your front door. Keying in a password or code 40-plus times a day might seem like a hassle but, says Lookout's Derek Halliday, "It's your first line of defence." Next-generation devices, however, are set to employ fingerprint scanning technology as additional security.18. Be careful on auction sitesOn these sites in particular, says Symantec's Sian John, exercise vigilance. "Check the seller feedback and if a deal looks too good then it may well be," she says. "Keep your online payment accounts secure by regularly changing your passwords, checking the bank account to which it is linked and consider having a separate bank account or credit card for use on them, to limit any potential fraud still further."19. Lock down your Facebook accountFacebook regularly updates its timeline and privacy settings, so it is wise to monitor your profile, particularly if the design of Facebook has changed. Firstly, in the privacy settings menu, under "who can see my stuff?" change this to "friends" (be warned: setting this to "friends of friends" means that,according to one Pew study, on average you are sharing information with 156,569 people). Also in privacy, setting "limit old posts" applies friends-only sharing to past as well as future posts. Thirdly, disable the ability of other search engines to link to your timeline.You should also review the activity log, which shows your entire history of posts and allows you to check who can see them. Similarly, you should look at your photo albums and check you're happy with the sharing settings for each album. In the future you may want to consider building "lists" – subsets of friends, such as close friends and family, who you might want to share toddler photographs with, rather than every Tom, Dick and Harriet.Also, remove your home address, phone number, date of birth and any other information that could used to fake your identity. Similarly you might want to delete or edit your "likes" and "groups" – the more hackers know about you, the more convincing a phishing email they can spam you with. Facebook apps often share your data, so delete any you don't use or don't remember installing. Finally, use the "view as" tool to check what the public or even a particular individual can see on your profile, continue to "edit" and adjust to taste. If this all sounds rather tedious, you just might prefer to permanently delete your account.20. Remember you're human after allWhile much of the above are technical solutions to prevent you being hacked and scammed,hacking done well is really the skill of tricking human beings, not computers,by preying on their gullibility, taking advantage of our trust, greed or altruistic impulses. Human error is still the most likely reason why you'll get hacked.
It has been used to make weapons, life-saving body parts and even sex toys, but now 3D printing is moving from the industrial estate to the high street.One of the world's first 3D printing shops opened in London last week just as anAmerican student demonstrated to the world's mediahow to use the technology to make a working gun.Dr Greg Gibbons, an expert in 3D printing at Warwick Universitysaid customers would soon be able to walk into a shop and have their own jewellery, artworks or machine parts printed."We will see 3D print shops like we would have photocopy shops in the past. They would have four or five different machines with several different types of material," he said."Customers could go in with a computer-aided design [CAD] file or a dishwashing machine part to be scanned and leave with a three-dimensional copy."Cody Wilson'sfabrication of a gun last week in Austin, Texas highlighted the capabilities and accessibility of 3D printing. He made several parts of a gun with a secondhand 3D printer which cost him £5,000 and added a metal firing pin before firing a standard bullet.Marcus Fairs, editor ofPrint Shiftmagazine, which focuses on 3D printing, said the gun should not obscure the real technological developments in 3D printing. "It takes something shocking to make people realise that technology that has been under people's noses is transformational," he said,Fairs's magazinefeatures the use of 3D printing in medicine, house-building, food, fashion, archaeology and building military components.Three-dimensional printing, also known asadditive-layer manufacture, was first developed in the 1980s but has been slow to move out of engineering to other industries. The technology works by building up layer upon layer of material – typically plastic – to construct complex solid objects.Andy Millns, a director ofInition, a London-based 3D printing company, says his company has created objects for clients ranging from advertisers to car makers. Items include models of buildings, sculptures based on data from survey results and social media activity and replicas of sculptures from theFitzwilliam Museumin Cambridge."We won't be printing out cutlery because it would be more expensive and less attractive than mass-produced versions. But 3D printing liberates development from traditional prototyping which is very expensive. 3D allows designers to work more independently," he said.TheiMakr store in Clerkenwell, London, which opened this month, sells 3D printers and services. Sylvain Preumont, the owner, said his store aimed to educate customers in the use of 3D printing.  "Any school metal workshop can produce a gun, but 3D printing can do far more things," he said. "The technology was pioneered by large corporations, has been picked up by techies and is ready for the third wave: ordinary people."At iMakr, customers can scan an object and have it printed and learn about CAD and other aspects of 3D printing. A person's head could be scanned and reproduced for around £120.But there are more serious uses for 3D printing. It can be used to produce synthetic bones for transplants and doctors can produce models of organs to prepare themselves for carrying out surgery.Gibbons said 3D printing was important in "high-value" low-output manufacturing such as the space, aerospace and niche car industries. The US army has developed printers to make parts in remote outposts. The sex toy industry offers bespoke toys.But at3Dprint UKof south London,  Nick Allen is keen to demolish some of the 3D printing hype. "It's a slower and more expensive way of manufacturing items and the product is far lower quality than something mass produced."It's great for key rings but very expensive for most things. I do prototypes and one-offs and that's where it is strongest. It's a very useful tool but it will not revolutionise manufacturing.""
"If you can name fiveKardashiansbut can't name five countries in Asia, stick a knife in an electrical socket."That piece of counsel,Kelly Oxford's most successful tweet of all time, is the kind of one-liner that gets you 10,000 retweets and counting. It's also the sort of material that takes a woman from stay-at-home Canadian mother to bestselling author, Hollywood screenwriter and, of course,  Twitter celebrity.Oxford had no connections to the entertainment industry, no knowledge of the workings of Hollywood and nothing more than an average high-school education. She didn't, by her own admission, even have much ambition. What she did have was a voice, and it was distinct, honest and funny enough to draw famous fans from the moment she started tweeting. They include the lateRoger Ebert– "Well, she's bitingly funny, but everybody knows that" – as well asLena Dunham, who described her as "like your cool babysitter who teaches you about sex and sarcasm in an uncreepy way".Jimmy Kimmel, an early champion, said: "Not only is Kelly Oxford hilarious, she is consistently hilarious. Her tweets make me laugh several times a day. I can only assume that she is neglecting her children."Oxford's status has just been sealed with a&nbsp;first book: what could be more solid proof of "having arrived" than aNew York Timesbestseller.Everything is Perfect When You're a&nbsp;Liaris a&nbsp;collection of scattershot essays, written with the UPPERCASE EXTROVERSION of a teenage girl who's drunk three too many Bacardi Breezers. Not a bad thing, particularly when the writing is shot through with glinting sarcasm and, to use her terminology, the  palpable "giving of zero fucks".The book also contains precise stipulations for her funeral. My favourite: that Ryan  Gosling and George Clooney should dance her corpse into the room "like Bernie inWeekend at Bernie's".The most delicious chapter, though, is titled "Finding Leo", a Hunter S Thompson-style escapade, only instead of a&nbsp;pair of 30-something dudes roving through 60s Vegas, it's two teenage girls let loose in 90s LA – a far more dangerous pairing and unhinged scenario. Their mission: to find Leonardo DiCaprio and make him Oxford's boyfriend beforeTitanicturns him into a&nbsp;massive and hence unattainable A-lister. Seventeen-year-old Oxford doesn't question her own irresistibility. Dressed in blue velvet trousers, black platform boots "and a velvet tiger-striped top that tied up in the back – (It was the 90s, people)", she and her friend tear around the city getting stoned, dodging cops in a borrowed Mercedes and high-fiving Bill Maher on dance floors. Predictably, they never find Leo, but the adventures they have seem far better than meeting him ever could be.When I meet Oxford in a very hushed library of a smart Manhattan hotel, I realise the person I'd been imagining was a version ofSarah Silverman: an innocent-faced, filthy-minded motormouth delighting in her own wisecracking impudence. Oxford, though, shakes my hand tentatively and speaks softly. It turns out she's rather shy, with a sly naughtiness that makes her seem younger than 35."I can write funny quips, but I'm not a comedian at all," she explains. So in a social situation she doesn't tell jokes? "No, I totally don't. I've never done stand-up; I don't think I could do it in a million years. Writing online," she says, "was just the thing I&nbsp;did when my kids weren't interested in playing with me."Her writing career has ascended – and continues to ascend – with all the effort and premeditation of a tweet. I believe her when she says she never imagined that cracking jokes online would lead to all this."I think forcing things is the worst thing you can do for your career," she says. "I think if I'dtriedto become a screenwriter I would have been a failure. I would have spent all this time writing this shitty material instead of learning how to write."Oxford's success may seem easily won but, in fact, she's been writing for years. She was an "early adopter" – writing online in those quaint days of AOL chat rooms and GeoCities sites that characterised the internet's infancy. By the time Twitter arrived in 2006, she'd already built an audience of around 10,000 through her blog. At first she was sceptical."It was just another website," Oxford says. She took until March 2009 to sign up. "It didn't seem it could be super huge, but I knew I&nbsp;could use it – the format was the same as a Facebook status. Those were always most interesting when they were funny, so I thought: 'Oh I'll just make them one-liners.'"Most of them were observations on family life ("One thing I will never do for my son is correct him when he says 'pervalised' instead of 'paralysed'") and she decided early on to have "no filter". It's a phrase she uses repeatedly; it seems to be as much life philosophy as Twitter style sheet. "I realised," she explains, "that I was entertaining people more when I&nbsp;was letting it go."The writer and directorDiablo Codywas one of the first high-profile figures to champion her online, and after that more and more Hollywood comedians started following her. As the retweets rolled in, her follower count swelled.Just a year after joining Twitter she was invited to LA to take part inNight of 140 Tweets, a benefit for Haiti where she was the only non-comedian, actor or working writer. ThenWill &amp; Graceproducer Jhoni Marchinko encouraged her to write a spec script on the strength of her Twitter feed.'She decided to have no filter. "I was entertaining people more when I was letting it go"': Kelly Oxford. Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the Observer"It didn't really mean that much to me," Oxford says. She'd been interested in screenwriting but "wasn't actively seeking it. I&nbsp;knew how to do it, but I was like: Oh no, I'm at home with kids, writing a blog, that's what I'm doing." When she sold her first TV pilot to CBS, though, "I was like: Oh, this is real."Last year she sold a screenplay calledSon of a Bitchto Warner Brothers for a rumoured six figures. Now, Oxford says, "every single thing I write is going to be bought by somebody, because there are so many different studios and TV networks and they're just like: Oh, I&nbsp;want the Kelly Oxford project."Her follower count is now at around half a million and a lot of those famous followers have become famous friends. She now hangs out with Lena Dunham,Mindy Kaling, Kristen Bell, Jimmy Kimmel, et al in the real, offline world, too. Or rather the not-quite-real world that is Hollywood.The Oxford family relocated to LA last summer, and she and her husband have effectively swapped roles; he left his job as an environmental engineer and is now a stay-at-home-dad while she works full-time. Their eldest daughter, Salinger, is 11, their youngest,  Beatrix, is three. And then there's nine-year-old Henry, who, she says, "has a teacher that he hates so much and now he's miserable going to school".This is exactly where Oxford is able to flaunt an unusual mum-superpower. She smiles: "I told him: 'For the next pilot I write, your teacher is going to be a character in the show.' So now he goes to school and he brings me home all this material. Little does she know I'm going to use all of it!"I'm keen to talk about her book's "Finding Leo" chapter: I tell her I can't really believe all of it actually happened."It's insane," she agrees. But also, she swears, completely true. "I just do stuff," she says, and the way she says it – deadpan, with a&nbsp;tiny shrug – it's clear that she's still living what she describes in one chapter as "the 'fuck it' time in my life"."I was totally unembarrassable," she says. "I&nbsp;think I still am. What's acceptable and what's not acceptable is basically what's going to hurt somebody. That's the only filter and that's a natural filter by the time you're an adult. There are people who deserve criticism. Like the Kardashians. But only because they're not honest about what they're doing! If they went out and straight-up said: 'Yo, all this is happening because I made a porn tape – I don't really have talent', people would embrace them! It's just the falsity."Oxford's all-honesty philosophy includes not having a publicist. "And I'm not going to, ever," she says, "because I've done everything so far on my own, and it's worked."There are no doubt thousands of Twitter users now attempting to model careers after hers. Oxford is the prototype of a new kind of celebrity, by which anyone who just happens to be very funny in the 140-character form can push themselves famewards one tweet at a&nbsp;time. As every aspiring young comedian now knows, if you can create an audience of hundreds of thousands just by being funny on the internet, the book deal is almost a given.Justin Halperndid it with his self-explanatorySh*t My Dad Says, which made the leap from Twitter feed to page in 2010.Megan Amram, who's amassed more than 300,000 followers since she began tweeting in 2010, has already parlayed her Twitter success into a staff job writing for US sitcomParks and Recreation, but days ago she, too, got her book deal when Scribner bought the rights toScience... For Her(a "faux-expert compendium of  scientific knowledge").Julieanne Smolinski, who tweets under the handleBoobs Radley, is another young writer who effectively made a career through Twitter. (Follower count: 106, 583 at time of going to press.) Like Oxford, she hadn't thought of it as a professional tool. "Then a friend of mine introduced me to Twitter as a medium for comedy, and I got into it that way and was kind of surprised when people started following."Is this the way the industry is going?"It's one way it's going," Smolinski says. "I've heard it referred to by a lot of people as a&nbsp;kind of résumé for certain jobs, like TV writing or blogging. Anybody can look through your timeline and see if you can write a sentence or a joke, and what kind of stuff you're capable of doing."Of course, when you have that kind of online reach, you're also going to attract a lot of bile. Oxford's narrative in particular – attractive young woman achieves huge success through the internet with seemingly minimal effort – is, unfortunately, real troll bait.Haters gonna hate, or as she put it in one early tweet: "It's too bad that everyone who has a solution for everything is at home commenting on the internet." Disappointingly, she finds that most of the negative comments come from women. Their most common jibe: "That I think highly of myself – like that's a bad thing!""They're trying to shame me," Oxford says, "and it's all from women. Men don't care. A lot of women are like: Oh she's not fat, oh she's cute, she's funny, I hate her." But just ask her how many fucks she gives.Everything is Perfect When You're a Liarby Kelly Oxford is published by HarperCollins at £16.99. To order a copy for £15.99, with free UK p&amp;p, go toguardian.co.uk/bookshopor call 0330 333 6846
So I get in this one, put on the radio –5 Live– and there's a story about pandas. Honest. There's my way in, I'm thinking, always on the lookout for&nbsp;a way to make a car review not too car-reviewy (or more ignorant, say my detractors). Perhaps I can ingeniously tie my report in with the&nbsp;news.It's about the pandas at Edinburgh zoo – you know, Mrs Tian Tian and&nbsp;Mr Yang Guan. He was totally up for it, she totally wasn't; stay away, bamboo breath, she said, in Pandarin Chinese. So now they've gone anddone her artificially. And I'm thinking artificial insemination, fuel injection, this is diesel (it also comes with Fiat's eco Twin Air petrol engine), so there could be something in that. Also 4x4, 4x4 play, perhaps that's where Yang Guan was going wrong, not enough of that. Or paw by paw… Nah, this is&nbsp;not going to work, is it? Drop it, right now.OK, time to come clean. The reason I'm beating about the thicket here is because I didn't give this one a proper testing. It's primarily a city car, and I did drive it round a city. Like its two-wheel drive sibling, it's terrific around town – cheap (actually not that cheap at all in this form), cheerful, charming even.They've added plastic cladding to protect it from bumps and to give a more rugged appearance. And raised it a few cm; it leans a bit on the corners, not alarmingly so. You&nbsp;wouldn't want to go too fast on&nbsp;the open road, especially in&nbsp;a&nbsp;crosswind, but luckily it doesn't go&nbsp;too fast.Most significantly, of course, it has four-wheel drive that engages when required, diverting up to half of the torque (don't worry if you don't understand, it's a bit like off-side) to the rear wheels. Plus&nbsp;there's something called Traction+, which helps traction at low speeds by sensing wheelspin. All of which means that this little baby – like its predecessors, and unlike most so-called crossovers and SUVs –&nbsp;has&nbsp;genuine off-road capability. By&nbsp;all accounts…Yes, I'm afraid I didn't go off-road in it myself. Well, to be honest, it's hard to find anywhere around here to do so. I certainly didn't need to. And it does sort of beg the question: how many people need a car that can go up or down slopes most drivers would be terrified of, but that is also easy to park and agile&nbsp;round town?Still, even if you're never going to do it, there's something quite reassuring about knowing you can. And knowing that if this little Panda was (re)introduced to the wild, it would have a good chance of&nbsp;survival. Ha, it wasn't elegant, but&nbsp;we got back to them in the end.Fiat Panda 1.3 Multijet 75hp 4x4Price£14,950Top speed99mphAcceleration0-62 in 14.5 secondsCombined fuel economy60.1mpgC02emissions125g/kmGreen rating7/10Cool rating8/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAlthough it uses Far Cry 3's game engine and mechanics, Blood Dragon has absolutely nothing else to do with it, eschewing all the attempted seriousness and hostage drama for a movie reference-laden story of cyber soldier Sgt Rex Colt and his assault on former employer, Omega Force. Steeped in the 80s, from its mock VCR tracking in the loading screen to the shiny chrome font, Blood Dragon is played for laughs. From comedy opening to explosively cathartic finale, it's a joyous rollercoaster of destruction.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewPlanets Defense is a game of solar system domination with no plot or scene setting, just you against the red spaceships. Your job is to mine resources, build and upgrade spacecraft and colonise new planets, while defending your bases. It's not particularly well explained and feels low budget, but despite these rough edges, its stately pace and finely balanced mechanisms make it almost hypnotic once it gets going. An intriguing toy for armchair tacticians.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIron Man 3 has you hurtling through procedurally generated levels that are different every go, splitting your time between low-level flight avoiding buses and lorries and soaring up to the sky to shoot down drones and evade incoming air traffic. It looks nice, even if the controls tend towards inaccuracy, and while the game's free, it doesn't want to stay that way, using numerous cheesy cash-milking devices, like 'repairing' your suit after each level, a process that either takes 30 seconds or can be skipped by spending crystals. It feels shifty and dishonest, making you wish they'd just charge an honest price rather than incessantly begging for change.
Back in the summer of 2008 – a long time ago, in internet terms, two years beforeInstagram, and around the time of Twitter's second birthday – the US writer Nicholas Carr published a now famous essay in the Atlantic magazine entitledIs Google Making Us Stupid?The more time he spent online, Carr reported, the more he experienced the sensation that something was eating away at his brain. "I'm not thinking the way I used to think," he wrote. Increasingly, he'd sit down with a book, but then find himself unable to focus for more than two or three pages: "I get fidgety, lose the thread, begin looking for something else to do. I feel as if I'm always dragging my wayward brain back to the text." Reading, he recalled, used to feel like scuba diving in a sea of words. But now "I zip along the surface like a guy on a jetski."In the half-decade since Carr's essay appeared, we've endured countless scare stories about the life-destroying effects of the internet, and by and large they've been debunked. No, the web probably isn't addictive in the sense that nicotine or heroin are; no, Facebook and Twitter aren't guilty of "killing conversation" or corroding real-life friendship or making children autistic. Yes, the internet is "changing our brains", but then so does everything – and, contrary to the claims of one especially panickyNewsweek cover story, it certainly isn't "driving us mad".Yet that gnawing sense of mind-atrophy that Carr identified hasn't gone away, and just recently in Silicon Valley it's stopped being taboo to admit it. "I would go into a room to get something, and by the time I got there I'd forget what I was looking for," says Alex Pang, a Stanford University technologist who'd barely turned 40 when he began to feel that life online was melting his brain. "For someone who had got through life on&nbsp;raw brainpower, this was unsustainable, and a&nbsp;little terrifying."Carr, like any number of technology sceptics, would probably have advised Pang to take a&nbsp;break: to disconnect from the internet and head for the mountains; to declare a gadget-free "digital sabbath" one day a week; to get rid of his smartphone or never check email at night. But Pang is a techno-enthusiast, to put it mildly, so his instinctive first thought was the opposite. What if there were a way to use the internet – and all our web-connected phones and tablets and laptops and games consoles – to foster rather than erode our attention spans, and to replace that sense of edgy distractedness with calm?This is the question motivating the embryonic movement known variously as "calming technology", "the slow web", "conscious computing" or (Pang's preferred term) "contemplative computing". Its members hope that we might be able to perform a sneaky bit of jujitsu on the devices that dominate our lives: to turn the agents of distraction into agents of serenity. Their inventions so far include wearable sensors that deliver rewards ("calm points") for breathing well while you work, developed by Stanford University's calming technology laboratory; iPad apps to help you meditate yourself into a state of super-focused concentration; software that lets friends decide collectively to disable their smartphones for the duration of a restaurant meal; and scores of pieces of "zenware" designed to block distractions, with names such asIsolatorandStayFocusdandShroudandTurn Off The Lights. I&nbsp;wrote most of this article usingOmmWriter, which filled my screen with a wintry backdrop of&nbsp;bare trees and my headphones with the hypnotic clanking of old railway engines. I also usedf.lux, which changed the glare of my screen&nbsp;to yellowy evening light, precisely timed to synchronise with the sunset outside.If there's a single moment that symbolises the beginning of conscious computing, it probably happened in 2007, whenLinda Stone, a Silicon Valley executive with 16 years' experience at Microsoft and Apple, followed her doctor's advice&nbsp;to take a course inButeyko breathing, a&nbsp;Russian technique used to treat asthma and stress. The day afterwards, sitting down at her computer to check her email, she noticed – now&nbsp;that the topic of breathing was on her mind – that she was holding her breath.Over the following days, she realised it was a habit; later, after conducting a&nbsp;research project involving more than 200 people, she estimated that around 80% of us unconsciously do the same. (She labelled the condition "email apnea", though&nbsp;it's no less common during other forms of&nbsp;web use.) Breath-holding, not surprisingly, deprives the body of oxygen, seems to exacerbate the "fight-or-flight" response and contributes, as&nbsp;Stone puts it, to "a sense of being in high alert at all times".Such are the annoying ironies of work and play in the 21st century: more and more of us are "knowledge workers", doing jobs that require deep concentration, yet we do so on machines that seem deliberately designed to interrupt us all&nbsp;the time and to keep us on edge. Then, in the evenings, we try to relax using similar machines, which all too often whip us up into a state that isn't relaxing at all.The dirty secret of the internet is that all this distraction and interruption is immensely profitable. Web companies like to boast about "creating compelling content", or offering services that let you "stay up to date with what your friends are doing", "share the things you love with the world" and so on. But the real way to build a successful online business is to be better than your rivals at undermining people's control of their own attention. Partly, this is a result of how online advertising has traditionally worked: advertisers pay for clicks, and a click is a&nbsp;click, however it's obtained. A website such asMail Onlinedoesn't care, at least in the short term, if you're "hate-reading" – clicking in order to share your friends' outrage at an article's unfairness toBenedict Cumberbatchor its bigotry&nbsp;towards Muslims. Facebook doesn't really mind if you click a link by mistake because it's tweaked the design of the site overnight without telling you. Advertising aside, commandeering people's attention, so that they click compulsively, is just a surer way to survive in the hyper-competitive marketplace of the web than trying to convince them intellectually that they ought to click a link, or that they'll benefit in the longer term from doing so.And let's be honest: this war for your attention isn't confined only to Facebook or Twitter or Pinterest, or to the purveyors of celebrity gossip or porn. Higher-minded publications (including this one) feel the same pressures. "We're living in a moment when even institutions that used to be in the business of promoting reflection and deep thinking are busy tearing up the foundations that made these things possible, in favour of getting more traffic," says Pang, whose book on "contemplative computing",The Distraction Addiction, will be published in August. "Even universities and churches end up doing this when they go online, never mind newspapers and magazines." The compulsiveness is given extra force, in social media, by the fear of missing out. What Stone calls "continuous partial attention" isn't motivated by the desire to get more done, which is what underlies old-fashioned multi-tasking, but rather by "a desire not to miss anything" and "to be a live node on the network".To explain what makes the web so compelling – so "addictive" in the colloquial sense, at least – the advocates of conscious computing usually end up returning to the psychologistBF Skinner, who conducted famous experiments on pigeons and rats at Harvard University in the 1930s. Trapped inside "Skinner boxes", equipped with a&nbsp;lever and a tray, the animals soon learned that pushing or pecking at the lever caused a pellet of food to appear on the tray; after that, they'd start compulsively pecking or pushing for more. But Skinner discovered that the most powerful way to reinforce the push-or-peck habit was to use "variable schedules of reward": to deliver a pellet not every time the lever was pushed, but only sometimes, and unpredictably.There's a slightly depressing view of the web according to which we're essentially just Skinner pigeons, compulsively clicking in hopes of a squirt of dopamine, the so-called "feelgood" hormone in the brain. Once you've learned about Skinner, it's impossible not to see variable schedules of reward everywhere you look online. When you click refresh on your email, or when you check your phone, you're not guaranteed a new message; when you visit Facebook or open Twitter, you might or might not find an update of the sort you'd been hoping for. This might even help explain the appalling quality of so much online content. Nine times out of 10, when you click on a Huffington Post link – "PICTURE: Kate and Wills as OAPs", "Simon Cowell Just Got Weirder" – it's a tedious disappointment. But if it predictably lived up to expectations every time, you might actually feel less compelled to click. (There is an evolutionary argument to be made, too, about the restless compulsiveness of web use. There's little survival advantage to feeling contented, and a big one to feeling constantly slightly dissatisfied with what you've got.)Slow tech websites like donothingfor2minutes.com aim 'to turn the agents of distraction into agents of serenity'By far the funniest, or maybe the most horrifying, illustration of this situation isCow Clicker, a Facebook game created in 2011 by the game designer Ian Bogost as a satire of undemanding "social games" such asFarmVille– in which, as Bogost put it, "you click on a cow, and that's it". In Cow Clicker, you clicked on your cow and it mooed, and that was it: you then had to wait another six hours to click again, unless you were willing to part with real money (or virtual money, accumulated through clicking) for the right to click again immediately. Bogost's joke became a surprise hit: at its height, Cow Clicker had more than 50,000 users, some paying $20 or more for pointless "improvements" to their cow, such as making it face the opposite direction."After a while," Bogost told a US radio interviewer, "I realised they're doing exactly what concerned me about these games" – becoming "compulsively attached". "I began to&nbsp;feel very disturbed about the product." Eventually, a few months after the launch, Bogost eliminated all the cows in aRapture-like event he called the Cowpocalypse. After it, users could keep playing only by clicking on a bare patch of grass – and some actually did. Responding to a player who complained that Cow Clicker was no longer "a very fun game", Bogost replied, "It wasn't very fun before."It's this vicious Skinnerian cycle that conscious computing seeks to break. That's why one of the simplest pieces of advice – to check your email at fixed points during the day – works so well: if you're checking only occasionally, you're virtually guaranteed the "reward" of new messages, so the lure of the variable reward dies away, and with it the constant urge to check. Something similar is going on with services such asiDoneThis, which lets you track the work you've accomplished by responding to a daily email. When it launched, its founder Walter Chen had the capacity to process the emails only once a day, so to put a positive spin on things, and mainly as a joke, he added a note: "iDoneThis is part of the slow web movement. After you email us, your calendar is not updated instantaneously. But rest up, and you'll find an updated calendar when you awake." It's hard to imagine Mark Zuckerberg approving a feature that actively encouraged making fewer visits to Facebook. But maybe we'd all be a bit happier if he did.In March, I spent a week trying to live as faithfully as possible in accordance with the philosophy of calming (or conscious or contemplative) computing. At home, I stopped using my Nexus smartphone as a timepiece – I wore a watch instead&nbsp;– to prevent the otherwise inevitable slide from checking the time, or silencing the alarm, into checking my email, my Twitter feed orWikipedia's List Of Unusual Deaths. After a couple of days, I&nbsp;disabled the Gmail and Twitter apps completely, and stored my phone in my bag while I&nbsp;worked, frequently forgetting it for hours at a&nbsp;time. At work, I shut off the internet in 90-minute slabs usingMac Freedom, the "internet blocking productivity software" championed by such writerly big shots asZadie Smithand the lateNora&nbsp;Ephron. ("Freedom enforces freedom," its website explains chillingly.) Most mornings, I&nbsp;also&nbsp;managed 10 minutes withReWire, a concentration-enhancing meditation app for the iPad that plays songs from your music library in short bursts, interrupted by silence; your job is to press a button as fast as you can each time you notice the music has stopped. I&nbsp;also tried to check my email no more than three&nbsp;times a day, and at fixed points: 9.30am, 1.30pm and 5pm.Disconcerting things began to happen. I'm embarrassed to report that I found myself doing what's referred to, in Pang's book, as "paper-tweeting": scribbling supposedly witty wisecracks in a notebook as a substitute for the urge to share them online. (At least I'd never had a problem with "sleep texting", which, at least according to a few dubious media reports, is now a thing among serious smartphone addicts.) I had a few minor attacks of phantom mobile phone vibrations, aka "ringxiety", which research suggests afflicts at least 70% of us. By far the biggest obstacle to my experiment was the fact that the web and email are simultaneously sources of distraction and a vital tool: it's no use blocking the internet to work when you need the internet for work. Still, the overall result was more calmness and a clear sense that I'd gained purchase on my own mind: I was using it more than it was using me. I could jump online to look something up and then – this is the crucial bit – jump off again. After a few 90-minute stretches of weblessness, for example, I found myself not itching to get back online, but bored by the prospect. I started engaging in highly atypical behaviours, such as going for a walk, instead.All this talk of the internet as a black hole of distraction and compulsion provokes spluttering scorn from certain technology evangelists, who like to note that similar complaints have accompanied almost every new medium in history.Erasmusworried that the printing press would damage scholarship. Socrates, in Plato'sPhaedrus, argued that the invention of writing meant people would "cease to exercise their memory and become forgetful". It seems likely we'll get over internet distraction soon enough. "One of the devices that has historically drawn the most criticism from scholars and theologians for its corrupting effect on humanity seems to have worked out pretty well," the commentatorMathew Ingramwrote at the technology site GigaOM. "It's called the book. If we can figure that out, I'm sure we can figure out how to handle cellphones and status updates."According to the advocates of conscious computing, though, none of this quite gets at the&nbsp;point. We can all agree that Facebook and smartphones aren't the first ever examples of "cognitive entanglement", Pang's term for the way we use technology as extensions of our own&nbsp;minds. Writing things in a notebook is entanglement; so is using a library or a landline or&nbsp;sending a postcard or a smoke signal. "Entanglement is nothing new or revolutionary," Pang writes. "It's what makes us human." The problem is not that we've suddenly started depending on technology, but that the technology we're depending on is poorly designed, too often focused on making money for its creators at its users' expense. Undoubtedly, we'll one day figure out how to handle cellphones and status updates without the accompanying distraction and compulsion. But that doesn't mean the distraction and compulsion aren't a problem right now – or that it might not be wise to find ways of adapting more rapidly.After all, distraction – as the Australian philosopherDamon Youngpoints out inhis bookof that name – isn't just a minor irritant. It's a&nbsp;serious philosophical problem: what you focus on, hour by hour, day after day, ends up comprising your whole life. "To be diverted isn't simply to have too many stimuli but to be confused about what to attend to and why," Young writes. "Distraction is the very opposite of emancipation: failing to see what is worthwhile in life, and lacking the wherewithal to seek it." To recover from techno-distraction, "what's required is not Luddite extremism but a more ambitious relationship to our tools – one that promotes our liberty instead of weakening it."What we need are ways of strengthening the muscle that lets you maintain control of your own attention, so that you can more frequently win the psychological arm-wrestle against the services and sites that are itching to control it for you. You could begin by going to the websitedonothingfor2minutes.comand following the instructions, which are a) to do nothing for two minutes, except b) to listen to the relaxing sound of waves. Move your mouse, or press a key, and the word "fail" will appear in big red letters. If the very idea of visiting donothingfor2minutes.com strikes you as stupid or annoying – a tedious waste of time when you could be doing something more stimulating instead – then here's a slightly different piece of advice: you really, really need to visit.Keep calm and carry on:  10&nbsp;websites to help you through your tech addictionMac Freedommacfreedom.comFluxstereopsis.com/fluxBuddhifybuddhify.comCalm Your Boxcalmbox.meOmmWriterommwriter.comHeartMathheartmath.comShroudsabi.net/nriley/software/ReWirerewireapp.comCalm Downmermodynamics.com/calmdown/AwayFindawayfind.com
Nokia has unveiled a new high-end smartphone, the Lumia 928, which it will sell exclusively through the second-largest US carrier, Verizon, aiming to expand its share in the premium market after years in which it has fallen behind rivals Samsung and Apple.The announcement comes ahead of a high-profile announcement next Tuesday in London where the company is expected to outline its strategy for its smartphone business, now tied entirely to Microsoft's Windows Phone platform. Analysts reckon success in the high-margin smartphone market will be crucial for the Finnish company's long-term survival.The new Lumia 928, priced at $99 if customers mail in a $50 rebate and sign to a two-year deal with Verizon, is similar to theLumia 920model currently sold through AT&amp;T, but is lighter and slightly different in appearance.It weighs 162g compared with 185g for the 920, which some critics had said was too heavy. The 4.5in screen also extends to the edge of the phone, giving a sharper impression than the curved edges of the 920. The new models also come in black and white, compared with the colourful options including blue, red and yellow, of the earlier Lumia range.Most other features, such as a 8.7MP camera and 1.5GHz dual core processor by Qualcomm, are the same as the 920.The 920 had only limited success for Nokia in the US; in the past four quarters the company has sold a total of just 2m phones in North America, and just 400,000 in the first quarter, according to its financial figures. But demonstrating the promise of the region, North America has had the highest average selling prices for phones for seven of the last eight quarters – despite also being the Finnish company's smallest region by volume and revenue. The US is the richest phone market in the world, though Samsung and Apple have increasingly cornered its smartphone segment: according to ComScore, 82m of the 137m smartphone users there use on or the other, while Windows Phone has around 3m users.The 928 is the latest in Nokia's Lumia range of smartphones which use Microsoft's Windows Phone 8 software.Nokia switched to Windows Phonein 2011, aiming to compete with Apple's iPhones and rivals using Google's Android system. Though worldwide sales of Lumia phones have grown in recent quarters, at 5.6m in first quarter they still account for only around 5% of the overall smartphone market, which now makes up more than half of all mobile phone sales.Earlier this week chief executiveStephen Elop launched a series of new products running Nokia's "Asha" software, which gives it some smartphone-like capability, priced in the lower and mid-tier range to protect its position in emerging markets such as India and China. However Nokia itself doesn't class Asha phones as smartphones, and the new models don't have 3G data capability.
A year ago, at an E3 exhibition marked by brand lethargy and the absence of any next-gen console news, one game caused a ripple of genuine excitement. It was Watch Dogs, a new 'IP' from Ubisoft, an open-world cyberpunk adventure set in an alternative Chicago ruled by a pervasive computer system. It looked ambitious and interesting – and, well, no one really expected to be presented with something totally freshandclearly expensive right at the death of a console generation.Almost a year later, Ubisoft is showing off some new footage to a small gathering of games journalist in Paris. Once again we are introduced to the central premise: that the city is controlled by a privatised computer network named CTOS, which automates city travel and road infrastructures, as well as storing and analysing personal data on every single citizen. But one man has had enough of this Big Brother nightmare. Aiden Pearce is a troubled computer hacker, haunted by a past in which his family has somehow been destroyed by the system. Now he wants revenge, and he knows how to get it. With his PDA and some tech genius, he's able to hack into the city mainframe, gaining control over everything from traffic lights to train networks. And through a series of missions, he'll use these abilities to bring some currently unnamed antagonist to violent justice.A large team at the publisher's Montreal office has been working on the game for four years, drawing its themes of hyper-connectivity, surveillance and data from research into current technology and urban theory. Indeed it's a fascination with the concept of the 'smart city' that led the designers to start the project in the first place. "From the beginning there was the idea of connecting with everything," says lead designer Danny Belanger. "That brought in a lot of cool mechanics and it challenged us. But whenever we put something in the world we'd say, it doesn't make sense by itself, we have to use this in the gameplay."The tricky part, then, has been reining all the research in to make a coherent interactive experience. The result is a familiar open-world structure: there is a series of narrative missions and side-tasks, and a story that ends with one definitive conclusion. However, at any point, the player is able to scan passing pedestrians with the PDA, uncovering personal information about them; it could be that they're about to be the victim of a crime – or the perpetrator – and the player can chose to intervene. This will lead to a series of emergent showdowns. We saw one example during the Watch Dogs demo at Sony's PlayStation 4 event, where Aiden choses to protect a women from a mugger:In Paris we're shown another instance. Aiden is wandering the downbeat Wards district, a poorer area just outside the main city. A button press will take Aiden's gun out, but he automatically carries it in a concealed manner – revealing the firearm will get pedestrians scattering, and wildly shooting will have them panicking and calling the cops. If you get to them in time, you can grab their mobile or hack it (an icon above NPCs shows if they're on the phone to the police), otherwise your heat bar rises and a squad car will show up.But Aiden has something more important to do than spooking passers-by – and this is where the demo reveals an interesting structural component. Players don't have the city's entire data network open to them at the beginning – each region has to be effectively unlocked by hacking a local CTOS terminal and gaining control.Once this is done, all the nearby data points become accessible. It sounds very similar to the process of re-wiring the radio masts in Far Cry 3 – and this isn't the only element seemingly inspired by that game: Aiden can also loot parked cars or enemies for useful goodies which can then be taken to pawn shops and sold in order to buy weapons and ammo.For the demo, Aiden breaks into the secure CTOS compound, takes out the guards with an assault rifle, hooks into the network and opens up the sector. Now all systems are accessible via that handy PDA. Apparently, there was a stealthy way to do this (why do we never see these option in demos?!), Aiden can perform non-lethal takedowns, and immediately adopts a crouching stance when entering secure areas.But could you complete the game without killinganyone? Creative director Jonathan Morin thinks about it with a wry smile. "You can certainly avoid killing civilians," he offers finally. "But finishing the game without killing anyone? I think that would be extremely difficult. Without saying too much, that's part of the meaning of Watch Dogs. I don't want to spoil your interpretation of the game but … look, I think humans only act on their own principles about half of the time. It's extremely hard to follow your own principles every moment of your life – there's too much stress around you. Sometimes that's justifiable. That's a big part of the game. The player can definitely feel as though they can try to avoid fatalities, but there is a certain inevitability … Players who don't care about all that will have a lot of casualties, but then we have a logical response to them, with reputation and the media … it's a complicated balance."Reputation, it turns out, will be a key ingredient in the systemic element of the game. In one part of the demo, Aiden interrupts an assault, but when the perpetrator gets away, we witness a news report which labels Pearce as the main suspect; turns out that this version of the character has pissed off members of the police and media a little too much. Every action in the game earns reputation points, so everything has to be considered. It is, of course, a familiar mechanic, but it's interesting how Watch Dogs looks to weave the concept of consequences into emergent missions rather than into some kind of branching story.There are just so many systems colliding, merging, pushing into each other – and so many ideas exploding from this sense of data, connection and surveillance. The PDA gives access to an in-game social network, Talk Feed, which hooks you into the mindset of the population. Another app, City Hotspot works like FourSquare, finding useful locations, while an underground program named Survival Guide gives tips on hacking targets and useful items. Brilliantly, there's even an augmented reality game, NVZN, which overlays the city visuals with giant aliens that can be blasted for points – there's even an online scoreboard for the best players.The game has been built using a new engine, codenamed Disrupt, which is fine-tuned to handle complex physics and emergent systems. According to Morin, even physical forces such as wind and water are intricately modeled – we'll see gusts that ripple through the clothing of characters (well itisthe windy city), while water areas will be affected by weather, creating huge waves that could effectively end up capsizing the player if you venture out on a boat at the wrong time.The idea, of course, is that visual authenticity combined with convincing underlying systems makes for a more immersive setting. "We want to create a new relationship between the player and the environment," says Morin during his demo. The city streets are dynamic; crowds bustling through, pelted by rain or wind, communicating with each other – the aim is to make a buzzing environment rather than a city model populated by aimless 'peds'. And with this are other factions – not just NPCs, but secret groups. One, named Dedsec leaves tags and Banksy-like stencil graffiti all over the city."There is a backdrop, an ecosystem to the game," Morin tells me later. "You can't align with other groups in a direct way, but there are shades of grey - you need to feel interconnection between different groups or else you're not building a city, you're just filling the streets with people. We're touching on rebellion, the concept of using technology as a means to revolt, which is very close to current affairs – it was fundamental to us to build this in. There is Aiden's story but there is a wider narrative that might broaden your perception."However, one of the most intriguing aspects of the game is its multiplayer component. Ubisoft isn't saying much but we're definitely getting some 'massively single-player' elements, like Dark Souls or Journey. Some side-tasks will give the player a target to watch, or an item to retrieve, but unannounced to them – for this task alone – their game will be merged with that of another player. From here, the two (or maybe more) participants will be either working cooperatively or competitively – but it won't be signposted, it'll just be a seamless integration of game worlds.I ask Belanger about the design consequences of allowing players to effectively intrude on each others' worlds. "I wouldn't use the word 'intrude'," he ventures politely. "It's been a challenge to convince people - they're worried about how other players will grief you. But with our mechanics, someone could come into your game with something to do, then exit, and you may never know he was there – which contributes to that feeling of paranoia.In the game you have the ability to use surveillance, but you may also think, is someone watching me? I like the parallel with real life – there are so many cameras around us, watching us. Even in intimate moments, I have a camera on me, through my iPad, or smartphone…"Morin has had fun watching game testers and focus groups discovering the feature: "With 90 percent of players, when you don't tell them about the system, they'll say, the game is great, the AI is great, it adds a lot to the missions. And I'll say 'AI? What if I told you that was other players?!' That's nice. That's the kind of thing we wanted to create. You can switch that off, you don't have to do it, but we're finding new ways to explore this experience."Like all the big Ubisoft titles, this is a game that's built on ideas, on big themes. There is just really neat stuff everywhere. At one point in the demo, Morin shows how you can eventually hack cameras in laptops and inside people's houses. He uses the system to hack an apartment block and we gain access to a webcam in some guy's flat: he's having a romantic night in – with a life-size sex doll. "We want a broad look at humanity," says Morin.The test is the play experience beneath all these tech toys. How will the emergent mini-missions play into the wider narrative? Can they? And is there more variety than merely stopping street heists and snooping on random NPCs? The problem with systemic games is marrying those systems with a cogent and compelling plot. That's what we won't understand about Watch Dogs until we actually play it – and without doubt that is something we very much want to do.•Watch Dogsis released on PS3, PC, Xbox 360 and next-gen console platforms this autumn
How many PCs are actually running Windows 8? Earlier this week Microsoft's Windows chief Tami Reller offered the statistic that100m Windows licences have been soldsince its introduction six months ago, a run rate that keeps it on par with Windows 7 in 2009.But "licences sold" doesn't equate directly to "PCs running that version". There's are two reasons for this: both enterprise and individual customers can, if they want, buy a Windows 8 licence which gives them downgrade rights to Windows 7. And secondly, a licence counts as "sold" when it has been put onto a device (tablet, notebook or in-betweener such as the Surface) - but that doesn't mean it's in a customer's hands. For example, there's Will Perrin, whobought a higher-cost version of Windows 8 in order to have downgrade rights- which he exercised - to Windows 7.And the hubbub around Windows 8 - and particularly the reaction of customers and Microsoft itself - seem to imply that the figures for PCs running the software is perhaps significantly lower than that 100m. Why else would Microsoft be looking to implement changes in Windows Blue, its update to Windows 8 which will be previewed at its Developers Conference in June?The 100m figure is also puzzling in the context of falling PC sales: in the past two quarters, total Windows PC sales (ie, excluding Apple shipments) were 161.5m, according to Gartner, compared to 174.3m in the same period in 2011/12, and 169.5m in the 2009/10 period - that is, after Windows 7 was released. If PC shipments are falling, how is Windows use staying up?Of course, Microsoft isn't going to want to say how many machines are using Windows 8 if the figure isn't encouraging.Speaking to Computerworld, Patrick Moorhead, who is principal analyst atMoor Insights &amp; Strategy, suggests a neat way to figure out the number: consult the companies which record web visits.(As he points out, Microsoft does actually know precisely how many machines are actually running Windows 8, because it gets activation data when the PC is first turned on. But for some reason it hasn't shared that number; instead it uses the obfuscatory "licences sold" figure.)Moorhead triangulates on his estimate of the number by using two figures: the number of PCs claimed to be running Windows worldwide, pegged at 1.4bn by Julie Larson-Green, who runs the Windows division together with Reller, along with stats for the number of users on Windows 8, as picked up by Net Applications' NetMarketShare service.Moorhead combines the NetMarketShare figure from April, which shows a 4.2% share, with the 1.4bn installed base to come up with a figure of58.6m machines presently running Windows 8. That's anaverage of less than 10m per month since it went on sale- which doesn't feel like a lot, especially since the run rate for Windows 7, once it got into its stride, was 20m per month.Plug and play: the real Windows 8 statsBut there's a lot more that can be done with his methodology. To begin with, NetMarketShare isn't the only measurement service; there's also StatCounter, whichfor the month of Aprilshows Windows 8 having a 4.74% share.If you go by NetMarketShare, you get 3.82% for April. The difference is between the way that they measure "users"; StatCounter tries to adjust for internet population in different countries to give a figure reflecting the broader population, while NetMarketShare simply counts hits.Using the 1.4bn figure for the Windows installed base, we get a range for the number of machines running Windows 8:NetMarketShare (3.82%): 53.5m PCs running Windows 8StatCounter (4.74%): 66.4m PCs running Windows 8.But what if the installed base figure isn't right? For instance, if you assume 1.5bn PCs in use, you get different figures - a range of57.3m to 71.1m. So the number is quite sensitive to that.But once more, we can use publicly available figures to triangulate closer to the installed base assumed by each of the two services. In October 2012, Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmersaid that"we have an installed base of 670m machines on Windows 7". Bear in mind that that will have been based on activation numbers, so should be reliable.If we rewind to that month, NetMarketShare pegs Windows 7 with a 44.7% share - which equates to a sample of almost exactly 1.5bn machines - and StatCountershowsWindows 7 with 53.44%, implying 1.25bn machines installed worldwide (or at least, feeding into StatCounter's figures).It seems reasonable to say that the world installed base won't have changed significantly since then - and certainly not by 100m users either way.If we plug the installed base figures for each service into the Windows 8 usage figures for each, we get new numbers:NetMarketShare: 3.82% of 1.5bn =57.3m Windows 8 machines in use.StatCounter: 4.74% of 1.25bn =59.25m Windows 8 machines in use.Suddenly, we seem to have converged on a much more reasonable number, with only a 3% variation between them; the average is 58.2m. Almost exactly the same as Moorhead's number, but arguably more robust because we're using multiple data points to reach it. (Note that none of these figures relies on Reller's "100m licences sold" number.)Tracking Windows 8 installed base growthWe can also use those numbers to do some other calculations. On 27 November, Reller said that there had been 40m Windows 8 licences sold in its first 30 days. Rewind to that period, and NetMarketShare then gives Windows 8 a 1.09% share - in other words,16.4mmachines running Windows 8. StatCounter gives Windows 8 a 1.59% share - in other words,19.9m PCs.At the start of January, as Rellerannounced that there had been 60m licences sold, NetMarket share was giving Windows 8 a 1.98% share - which equates to 29.7m machines. StatCountershoweda 2.4% share - equating to a round 30m machines.There is a trend here: the proportion of machines running Windows 8 compared to the number of "licences sold" is rising. But it's not close to unity; in fact it's presently below 60%. And as a proportion of PCs sold in the period since Windows 8 launched - those past two quarters - it's quite small:out of 161.5m PCs shipped since September, only a third are actually running Windows 8.More diggingThere are some other numbers we can extract: if we trust these "in use" figures, then the per-day addition rate of Windows 8 installations has slowed even since the beginning of the year. In the period from November to January, it was running at about 280,000 per day; since then, it's running at about 240,000 per day.That might sound respectable - though consider by way of context thatGoogle was activating 1.5m Android devicesdaily in April (and so more now); and that's not counting the Android devices in China which don't connect to its servers, which are probably another half a million daily. In other words, total daily Android activations are outstripping Windows 8 activations by about 10 to one.What we don't have (yet) is figures for how this growth in installed base compares to the introduction of Windows 7 in 2009. For that, we'd need the figures for Net Applications and StatCounter shares back at its release (available), the statements for Windows 7 licences sold (also available), and a clear figure that we could use to estimate the PC installed base at the time, and especially the figure used by both Net Applications and StatCounter for their installed base - something comparable to Ballmer's 670m figure from last October. If someone can find those, we're in business.But at least now we have something solid to work on: we know how installations of Windows 8 are progressing, and the gap between "licences sold" and "machines running Windows 8 connecting to the net". The question is: is that really success for Windows 8?
This week on Tech Weekly presented by Guardian digital correspondentJemima Kisswe meetBas BeerensandNaldenfounders of the file transfer sitewetransfer.comabout their fast growing alternative to dropbox and yousendit.Also Jemima talks to Irish tech entrepreneurMichael Fitzgeraldabout his small business cloud software applicationonepagecrm.comthat is starting to garner attention from big hitters like IBM and Cisco.Also we have a tech news round-up with news ofinternet blackouts in Syria andwhy in thetwitter-sphere Sir Alex Ferguson is more popularthen the late Maggie Thatcher but not as popular as the new Pope Francis.
The US government has blocked a Texas-based company from distributing details online of how to make a plastic gun using a 3-D printer.The ban, by the State Department citing international arms control law, comes just days after the world's first such gun was successfully fired.Defense Distributed, the company that made the prototype,stated on Twitterthat its project had "gone dark" at the instigation of the government.The company is run byCody Wilson, a 25-year-old University of Texas law student who has said the idea for freely distributing details about how to produce the guns online was inspired by 19th century anarchist writing. Wilson argues everyone should have  access to guns.A State Department spokesman said: "Although we do not comment on whether we have individual ongoing compliance matters, we can confirm that the department has been in communication with the company."The action came too late to prevent widespread distribution of the files: Defense Distributedtold Forbesthat the files have already been downloaded more than 100,000 times in the two days since they were uploaded. The largest number of downloads initially were to addresses in Spain, followed by the US, Brazil, Germany and the UK.Fifteen of the gun's 16 pieces are constructed on the $8,000 Stratasys Dimension SST 3D printer, Forbes said. The final piece is a common nail, used as a firing pin, that can be found in a hardware store.Betabeat posted a copy of the letter reportedly sent by the Department of State to Wilson. The department said the blueprints had to be taken offline because they may contain data regulated by the State Department. The departement said it would review the files."I immediately complied and I've taken down the files,"Wilson told Betabeat. "But this is a much bigger deal than guns. It has implications for the freedom of the web."Defense Distributed does not host the files in the US; instead it has uploaded  them to the Mega website run by theinternet entrepreneur Kim Dotcom, based in New Zealand, and where user information – including who has logged into the site and downloaded files – is encrypted.The files have also been uploaded to the Pirate Bay file-sharing site, where they have proved a popular download.The gun blueprints take the form of computer-aided design files, which have to be read by specialist software which can then be used by industrial 3D printers to build up the hair-thin layers, one by one, to create the finished parts.On Thursday, a British expert in 3D printing and a ballistics expert separately warned thatbuilding a gun from the parts could be lethal to the user, because the physics involved in firing a bullet – with pressures in the gun chamber of more than 1,000 atmospheres, and temperatures of over 200C – could put catastrophic stresses on the plastics used it its construction.Even so, two British newspapers are understood to have asked 3D printing companies to try to build the gun for them.In the US, a reporter who downloaded the filefoundthat companies with sufficient 3D printing capability refused to produce the device, citing laws against the production of such weapons – or asking prices that were substantially higher than those for high-quality rifles available in shops.Wilson has been on a public missionto create a 3D printed gun since September 2012. He initially attempted to fund the project using crowdsourcing site Indiegogo, but the site removed his pitch for breaching the company's rules. Wilson then raised $20,000 in Bitcoins for the project but Stratasys repossessed his printer.He has since gained access to a second Stratasys printer which was presumably used to create the gun fired over the weekend.Wilson unsuccessfully applied for a federal firearms license from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and has said he wants to create the gun legally. On Sunday,New York senator Charles Schumer saidthat legislation should be created to prevent people from making 3D printed guns.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Sony, Microsoft going 'heavily' on free-to-play next-gen, says Epic VP Rein | JoystiqThis will no doubt be popular news:Sony and Microsoft are telling developers they're "going heavily" on free-to-play and in-app purchasing models with their next-gen consoles, according to Epic Games VP Mark Rein. Speaking in a roundtable discussion at the UK's Game Horizon conference, Rein said both companies will take on the kinds of financial models seen on mobile devices."The next-gen consoles are going to be fully embracing the free-to-play and these IAP-type business models," Rein told the audience, "So in case you don't know that I'm putting that out there. Sony and Microsoft are both going heavily in that area."The fact is, even if the phrase 'free-to-play' fills traditional gamers with an unnamed dread, a huge number of players are now 'consuming' (sorry) games in this way. In-app purchasing is going to be huge.Xbox Infinity Confirmed as Name of Microsoft's New Console | IBTimes UKSources related to development of the new Xbox have confirmed to IBTimes UK that the console, which is scheduled to be launched on 21 May, will be called Infinity.The new information follows a supposed leaked image which appeared on Reddit recently, advertising the Xbox Infinity. Prior to that, the new Xbox was labelled either Xbox 720, a natural successor of the name Xbox 360, or Durango, its alleged development codename.But sources have now revealed the console will be named Infinity and that development kits are already in the hands of studios. However, when contacted for confirmation, Microsoft said it "does not comment on rumour and speculation."Here's thatleaked image.EA developer: Wii U not powerful enough for next-gen titles | TechRadarThe Wii U's lack of horsepower has been a talking point since its very first reveal and there's more bad news following a tweet from one of EA's Dice developers.According to Johan Andersson, technical director of EA Dice's Frostbite project, they tested the current Frostbite 2 engine on Nintendo's home console but found that the results were "not too promising".Of course, one engineer writing off Wii U does not necessarily correlate with a company-wide decision. But then there are alsoreportsthat the next Star Wars games won't be on the troubled platform either.Sony not planning on "major loss" with the PlayStation 4Manufacturing the PS4 will be far cheaper than its predecessor Sony says.In an earnings conference call, Sony chief financial officer Masaru Kato (pictured) explained that the PlayStation 4 console will be more profitable at launch than the PlayStation 3. This will lead the next fiscal year's operating income in the PlayStation unit to remain in line with previous years, despite the console transition. The PlayStation 3 was comprised of the proprietary Cell processor and the Blu-Ray drive, which drove up production costs on the system.This is not a surprise.Big Games at E3 2013 - E3 - Electronics Entertainment Expo Wiki Guide | IGNIGN has helpfully collated all the titles expected to be shown at E3 into one big list.The Big Games of E3 2013 list contains upcoming games likely to appear at E3 in some form (not necessarily in "playable" form).Of course, plenty of the major PS4 and Xbox 720/Durango/Infinity won't be on there, but it's a good reference point.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Friday.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDear Apple, let's talk about photos &gt;&gt; Peter NixeySo Apple, I think you've got a bit confused. Don't worry about sharing, we don't need you for that. Your job is to take photos, organise them and make sure they don't get lost. So let's talk about how you can do that.Makes the very good point that it's hard to work out where the 'canonical' version of a photo lives, and which ones you can safely delete without losing that version. His suggestion: stick it in the cloud. Sensible points, well made. (Thanks @Ornstein for the link.)Amazon developing smartphone with 3D screen &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe Seattle e-commerce giant has recently been developing a wide-ranging lineup of gadgets—including two smartphones and an audio-only streaming device—to expand its reach beyond its Kindle Fire line of tablet computers, said people familiar with the company's plans.One of the devices is a high-end smartphone featuring a screen that allows for three-dimensional images without glasses, these people said. Using retina-tracking technology, images on the smartphone would seem to float above the screen like a hologram and appear three-dimensional at all angles, they said. Users may be able to navigate through content using just their eyes, two of the people said.Remember theLG Optimus 3D? Remember how everyone bought one? No? That's because they didn't. Audio streaming sounds like a solid idea, though.Investing in Coinbase &gt;&gt; Union Square VenturesVenture capitalist Fred Wilson:We have been thinking about and looking to make an investment in the Bitcoin ecosystem for several years. Today, we are happy to be able to talk about our first investment in the sector. We have made an investment in Coinbase along with our friends at Ribbit Capital, SV Angel and Funders Club.We believe that Bitcoin represents something fundamental and powerful, an open and distributed Internet peer to peer protocol for transferring purchasing power. It reminds us of SMTP, HTTP, RSS, and BitTorrent in its architecture and openness. Like what happened with those other low level protocols, entrepreneurs and developers are now building technology on top of Bitcoin to make it more useful, more accessible, and more secure.He has a good track record on investments.3D-printed gun's blueprints downloaded 100,000 times In two days (with some help from Kim Dotcom) &gt;&gt; ForbesIf gun control advocates hoped to prevent blueprints for the world's first fully 3D-printable gun from spreading online, that horse has now left the barn about a hundred thousand times.That's the number of downloads of the 3D-printable file for the so-called "Liberator" gun that the high-tech gunsmithing group Defense Distributed has seen in just the last two days, a member of the group tells me.Dotcom's involvement is passive; the files are hosted on his site, Mega. From a safety point of view, not good - for the people who try to make the device, one suspects.Quote Stuffing in CEO on May 29, 2012 &gt;&gt; NanexA truly amazing video:Watch High Frequency Traders (HFT) at the millisecond level jam thousands of quotes in CEO Stock through our financial networks on May 29, 2012. Video shows about 3 seconds of time. If any of the connections are not running perfectly, High Frequency Traders can profit from the price discrepancies that result. There is no economic justification for this abusive behavior…We slow time down so you can see what goes on at the millisecond level. A millisecond (ms) is 1/1000th of a second. The blink of an eye is about 200 ms.High-frequency trading is now being done because it can be done.Traceability in the Queen's Speech &gt;&gt; Light Blue TouchpaperRichard Clayton:The sole issue on which there appears to be political consensus is that "something must be done" about the traceability failure that regularly occurs when the Internet is accessed from a smartphone. Theshortage of IPv4 addressesmeans that the mobile companies cannot give each smartphone a unique IP address — so hundreds of users share the same IP address with only the TCP/UDP source port number distinguishing their traffic.Because this sharing is done very dynamically the mobile phone companies find it problematic to record the source port mapping, and they have argued that the way the EU Data Retention Directive is written they have no obligation to make and keep such records.The internet protto-col address, as the Queen called it, is a tricky beast to pin down.Change for change's sake &gt;&gt; StratecheryBen Thompson:The original iPhone included three communications channels: Phone, SMS, and Mail.My homescreen has 10: Facebook, Twitter, Phone, Skype, Google Voice, WhatsApp, Messages, LINE, Lync, and Mail (and I have other, lesser-used channels on other screens). The vast majority of these channels didn't exist in 2007, or weren't widely used. Since then, social interaction has both exploded in use and fragmented in type, but iOS simply wasn't designed to support multiple channels intelligently.So a redesign is needed...Use these secret NSA Google search tips to become your own spy agency &gt;&gt; Wired.comKim Zetter:The book was published by the Center for Digital Content of the National Security Agency, and is filled with advice for using search engines, the Internet Archive and other online tools. But the most interesting is the chapter titled "Google Hacking."Say you're a cyberspy for the NSA and you want sensitive inside information on companies in South Africa. What do you do?Search for confidential Excel spreadsheets the company inadvertently posted online by typing "filetype:xls site:za confidential" into Google, the book notes.Want to find spreadsheets full of passwords in Russia? Type "filetype:xls site:ru login." Even on websites written in non-English languages the terms "login," "userid," and "password" are generally written in English, the authors helpfully point out.And plenty more, err, helpful advice. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)About that Bloomberg report of 'falling iPad mini demand' &gt;&gt; Fortune TechPhilip Elmer DeWitt emailed the head of Pegatron, who seemed to be quoted saying iPad mini demand was down. The CEO response:"After the meeting, one reporter from Bloomberg approached me, trying to dig out detail numbers about some specific product. I clearly refused to comment on specific products, nor customers, even though he continued with other questions. I did say those words that he quotes me in the article "more on demand, while price has been stable"…, "almost every item is moving in a negative direction"…; "Not just tablets, also e-books and games consoles". But I did not say anything associated with any specific products."'No indication, nor hint for specific products or customers' has been our principle and guideline for any public events such as investors conference. There are always speculations after these meetings."How the Syrian Electronic Army hacked The Onion &gt;&gt; The Onion Tech BlogThis third and final phishing attack compromised at least two more accounts. One of these accounts was used to continue owning our Twitter account.At this point the editorial staff began publishing articles inspired by the attack. The second article,Syrian Electronic Army Has A Little Fun Before Inevitable Upcoming Deaths At Hands Of Rebels, angered the attacker who then began posting editorial emails on their Twitter account. Once we discovered this, we decided that we could not know for sure which accounts had been compromised and forced a password reset on every staff member's Google Apps account.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Privacy in the digital world has taken another hit as engineers announced this week they were able to recover deleted files from the popular mobile photo-sharing application Snapchat.Snapchat claims photos shared between its users are permanently deleted within 10 seconds of being received, but Utah-based company Decipher Forensics found that it can recover images from Android-powered devices.Because of that destruction function, the app is often associated with the sharing of sexually explicit messages, thoughSnapchat CEO Evan Spiegel has saidhe doesn't think that is how it is typically used.Richard Hickman, lead examiner for Decipher Forensics' Snapchat research, told the Guardian he figured out how to recover photos from the Android version of Snapchat in a matter of days. He is now trying to recover photos from the iOS version of Snapchat."Most people think that once [phone data] is deleted it's gone – especially with Snapchat – and most people don't even know there are companies like us that can get these things back because they think it's gone," Hickman said.Decipher Forensics explained how the data can be retrieved using forensics software ina blogpost published on Wednesday. The company said it would charge a fee of between $300 and $500 – and require access to the phone for at least one day – in order to recover photos from the application."With mobile forensics we can get everything from deleted text messages. We can recover deleted photographs, multimedia messages," Hickman said. "We can get back application data on multiple applications, calendar data, phone records, contacts – we can pretty much take a dump of a phone and research for any type of purpose."Digital forensics companies often use specialized, expensive software to recover information for attorneys, law enforcement and private clients. The interest of Decipher Forensics in Snapchat was sparked when it was asked to look into the service for a divorce case and missing child case.The company is also trying to find a way to connect a Snapchat photo's metadata with the sender and the time the image was sent.Multiple tutorials online show how to circumvent Snapchat's security features,  including one that alerts users when a recipient screenshots their photo as a way to get around the deletion.Spiegel said in Aprilthat 150m photos are uploaded to the app every day. "After you view it, it's marked as viewed on our server, and then it gets deleted," Spiegel said. "We null the field in the database."Snapchat has been downloaded more than five million times in the Android marketplace and was the top free download in the the Apple app store on Wednesday afternoon. The company did not respond to a request for comment.
US startupDekkohas raised $3.2m of funding to fuel its ambitions for technology that it describes as a "visual layer for wearable computing devices".It sounds (and looks) like augmented reality technology, but that's not a phrase the company's chief executive Matt Miesnieks likes to use."We're really trying to avoid the term 'augmented reality'. If you're a pHd in computer science or have worked in the space, you understand it," he says. "For 99% of people it's confusing. If they've had any experience with AR, it's probably been a bad experience."Dekko was founded a couple of years ago, and has been quietly building its technology and team since. Its staff are drawn from the likes of Xerox PARC, Twitter, Electronic Arts, the New York Museum of Modern Art, the academic world and AR startup Layar."This is our second go round at this space. We had a very early look at the first generation of augmented reality browsers, and we have a good understanding of the user problems that meant these apps weren't really successful," says Miesnieks."Nearly everything out there today called AR is a marketing gimmick or a science project, and people aren't using them. People talk about this rocket-ship vision of putting a man on Mars, but what AR has delivered is the equivalent of cardboard rocket-ships with hand-drawn NASA logos on the side."It's a practised soundbite, and one that's likely to meet a warm reception among AR sceptics, of which there are many. But Dekko is walking a fine line: attacking the quality, usefulness and user-friendliness of AR so far, while pitching its own technology as a big leap forward.The company isn't alone in its aims. Miesnieks cites Qualcomm, Microsoft, SRI and academic institutions like London's Imperial College as peers who are working towards a second, better wave of consumer AR apps and technologies."We're the only startup doing it, and we're at least 12 months ahead of any of those other companies. Being a startup means we're able to work very closely with end users, and with the apps," says Miesnieks."We don't really care much for the hype in this sector. We could have launched a year ago, but we've kept our heads down and iterated over and over, working on simplifying the user experience and understanding the sorts of problems users had."So what will Dekko's technology be for? The company's promotional video shows off its intentions, from a cartoon monkey bobbing about on a table – with no need for a printed marker – to a first-person view of someone wandering real-world streets with digital notifications overlaid on the landscape."The content needs to be really in the world. It can't feel like a layer stuck to the back of your glass," says Miesnieks."To do that, you really need the system and technology to be able to understand the world in 3D. But being able to extract or construct a 3D model of the world, in real-time on a mass-market smartphone is incredibly technically difficult to do. But that's what we've done."Currently, Dekko's technology is capable of understanding (and "constructing" an area around 10 feet in size – hence the table-top demo – which is why the company's first app will be a game.It's due to be released this summer on iOS, after Dekko opted to build it in-house rather than rush out to solicit ideas from external developers with an SDK."Everyone views augmented reality and this visual layer on the world as a gold-mine, but while a lot of people have gone in, nobody's come out with a nugget of gold," says Miesnieks."Launching an SDK is like trying to sell shovels to gold-diggers next to a mine where nobody's found any gold yet. We realised we'd just get lots of low-quality applications if we put an SDK out, so we needed to go and build that first showcase app ourselves."Details on that first game are sketchy for now: it's in the gaming/entertainment area, with a 3D character. The way Miesnieks describes it makes me think of an AR version of Talking Tom Cat-style virtual pet apps, or even ZeptoLab's Om Nom: Candy Flick AR spin-off from the Cut the Rope games."We're thinking about how to let an animated character from a film exist off the screen in the world," says Miesnieks."How to let your physical toy come to life, and how to make people's favourite game avatars step out of the screen into the real world. We want to create an entirely new type of game. Something that's never existed before."Monkey businessThis is one of the dilemmas of working in AR. Even a CEO who doesn't "care much for the hype" around this area ends up talking up his product in such bullish terms. Otherwise it risks looking like just a silly digital monkey capering about on a table.Games are a good technical showcase for AR technology, but they aren't always taken seriously. Miesnieks offers an interesting comparison with Microsoft's first Windows OS, when it was trying to make people feel comfortable with a graphical user interface that was brand new to the majority of users."It was far, far richer visually than what had gone before, so the way Microsoft eased people into it was they built a little game – Solitaire – and shipped that out to everyone who got to try this operating system," he says.Dekko hopes its first app will fulfil a similar role for augmen… Well, whatever you choose to call it.I'm interested in the next steps for Dekko though, as its technology gears up to handle streets and cities. Miesnieks says that the company's roadmap has it scaling up to cover areas of 100 feet by 100 feet outdoors."If you've ever been on Google Maps and zoomed out really quickly, you see the screen fill up with little tiles. We're doing the same thing – well, our 10-feet by 10-feet is a cube – and we want to start swapping cubes as you walk down the street," he says."We're building that type of technology to support 3D mapping in a much bigger area, which you can see a hint of in the video. And once you have a large area, the types of applications get way more interesting and fan out really quickly."Gaming may still play a role – "Call of Duty with snipers hiding behind walls on the street, or you can put monsters down dark alleys…" – but also local commerce, tourism, indoor pedestrian navigation and local search, among others.Augmented eyewearIt's at this point that Google Glass looms over the conversation, and the potential of similarly-wearable technology becoming more popular in the future, and what that might mean for companies like Dekko.Miesnieks points out that augmented eyewear isn't a brand new technology – certainly not in the military sector – but admits it's very early days for figuring out what the important consumer applications will be for these devices."No one knows what the final types of apps are going to be or look like. It's like those early days of Windows when there were lots of DOS apps that ran in windows. With Glass now, you're seeing lots of mobile apps just slapped onto Glass," he says."What we're trying to do is build some of those enablers to get to the next stage of more natural visual interaction. Instead of an ugly map hanging in front of your face, they'll naturally render that navigation on the sidewalk for example."Which brings us neatly onto 3D mapping, another fascinating area that Google, Apple and numerous other big guns of the technology world are focusing lots of energy on.Perhaps the most intriguing part of Dekko's demo video is the section a couple of minutes in that shows someone pointing their device's camera at their surroundings to generate a 3D scene – data that might then be uploaded to Dekko's servers, comparable to the way navigation startup Waze has crowdsourced 2D map data."3D mapping is wide open. Right now the only way to do 3D mapping is to buy a fleet of cars and send them driving round the world with lasers on top of them," says Miesnieks."Only Google and Nokia Navteq have that dataset, but a lot of big players – Apple, Amazon, Facebook etc – would love to have it. And that's what our technology will enable, because we can start to crowdsource that 3D map from millions of people scattered around the world with mass-market devices."It's a huge technological challenge, with thorny implications for privacy, and reliant on Dekko getting millions of people (well, tens of millions) using its apps in the way that it hopes.In Silicon Valley parlance, it's a 'moonshot', which is why I suspect if Dekko even starts to deliver on its big ambitions, it'll be bought by one of those bigger technology companies mentioned by Miesnieks.For now, that remains an "if". Impressive demo videos are one thing, but when Dekko's first app comes out in the summer, it'll be clearer whether the company's technology matches its grand plans.
Ren Zhengfei, the media-shy head of Chinese telecommunications equipment-maker Huawei, has broken his silence about the refusal of the United States government to do business with the company on cyber-security grounds.Speaking to western reporters for the first time since starting the company in Shenzhen in 1987, Ren said a damning US Congressional intelligence committee reportpublished last October– which said Huawei posed a threat to US national security – would backfire.The 68-year-old Ren said he is not about to step down from running the company. Day-to-day management rotates between three chief executives, although the company founder retains veto rights over major decisions such as the issuing of new shares and board appointments.When he leaves, he said, he would like to get out of electronics, which is not his first love. "My life aspiration is to open a coffee shop," he said.Although not about to pop a champagne cork – or brew an expresso – to celebrate, the former People's Liberation Army engineer said he was happy about the problems the company was encountering in the US."It helps to promote Huawei around the world that we are a big company that can withstand the difficulties from the US government."The company, which is second only to Ericsson in the telecommunications equipment market, had sales of $35bn last year and expects to double that figure by 2017. In the first three months of this year it was the fourth biggest smartphone supplier, according to IDC, behind Samsung, Apple and LG.Ren put the US's attitude down to jealousy at Huawei's technical superiority over US rivals such as Cisco, which sued Huawei in 2003 for alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. Huawei announced at the end of April that it had given up for now trying to break into the US telecoms equipment market. "We will focus on the rest of the world, which is reasonably big enough and is growing significantly," its chief technology officer Li Sanqitoldthe IDG News Service. The US makes up about 30% of the world's total carrier business, Huawei estimated.Ren, giving what the company said was a "momentous" press conference while on a visit to New Zealand on Thursday, resorted to toilet humour and a military analogy when describing how the company was reforming its heavily centralised management."I don't know whether every request from local teams to go to the toilet has got approval from headquarters," Ren said, but in future more say would be given to Huawei staff closest to customers. "To give you an analogy, we're having the people who can hear the gunfire command the operation."Ren said on the one hand the intelligence committee report released last October served as advertising for Huawei for thousands of US corporate customers which might not otherwise have heard of the company.At the same time, by discouraging US telecoms companies from buying Huawei equipment out of fear that it would open the country's key infrastructure up to cyberespionage, the government would deny domestic carriers access to market-leading technology.Ren said US concern over cyber-espionage has been mounting at a time when Huawei has done next to no business with leading American carriers."If you look at Huawei's total market share in the US telecoms equipment market, it is close to 0%. Given that we have virtually no presence in the US telecoms infrastructure market, there is no connection between Huawei and any information security incident that has occurred in the country."The congressional committee investigation, which was invited by Huawei in a 2011 open letter to the US government, found the company had failed to explain its relationship with the Chinese government and had not made its corporate structure and decision-making processes clear.Ren said wherever it operates, Huawei obeys local rules and regulations, and that is no different in its home market. Its customer-centric business model, however, is foreign to the west, where public companies are shareholder-centric."Shareholders tend to be greedy in the sense that they want to get more money from their customers." As a 100% employee-owned company, Huawei "can control or manage our lust or our greed".Huawei's fortunes in the UK, where it is a key supplier to BT, are the reverse of the US. Ren put that down to Britain being an "open country".
World of Warcraftusers – the remaining 8.3 million of you – rejoice! Activision Blizzard says it will introduce new content more frequently, as it tries to shore up subscriptions to the giant multiplayer game, which have fallen by 1.3 million in the past three months alone.Is this the beginning of the end for one of the world's biggest "massively multiplayer online role playing games"? Probably not: WoW (as it's known) has a pretty consistent record of hitting a peak upon the release of a new expansion pack (in essence, tweaks to the game), and then gently drifting downwards.In case WoW has never crossed your radar, here's how it goes: users pay  $14.99 per month (£8.99 in the UK) to get the chance to assume the character of an orc, troll, human or dwarf and participate in "quests" against the other side. People can become so obsessed with "progressing" in the game (the highest level is currently 90) that they spend huge amounts of money for extras, and a huge shadow economy has grown up in China where people "mine" virtual gold for sale in the game, which all takes place in the world of Azeroth.What's it like? Well, here's the blurb for the "Cataclysm" expansion set ($19.99 in the US, £16.99 in the UK): "Azeroth has been changed forever, and now you must enter the elemental planes in an epic quest to stop Deathwing the Destroyer from shattering the world itself."Basically, think ofGame of Thrones, but without the quality of dialogue, good-looking actors or sexy interludes. In fact, WoW's existing popularity might explain part of why Game of Thrones has been so successful. (The sexy interludes probably don't hurt.)Uncomfortably for the Blizzard management, subscriber numbers fell in both the east (where they don't spend so much) and west (where they do). Chief executive Robert Kotick didn't have much good news for investors, though he could find one silver – pretty literally – lining: "While we do believe further declines are likely and we expect to have fewer subscribers at year end than we do today, World of Warcraft remains one of the most successful franchises in the history of entertainment."That's definitely true: WoW has raked in billions of pounds across the globe since its launch in 2001. Players can get so obsessed that they spend hundreds of hours online.The strange thing about WoW is that even while its history is full of falls in users numbers, it seems to keep growing. Do asearchon "Warcraft users fall" and you discover that this has happened quite a few times.Total subscriber numbers peaked at 12 million in 2004. Then, back in July 2009, it"lost" six million users– which then represented around half its population – when its servers in China were shut down, apparently because it didn't like having to give up a giant cut of revenues to its Chinese partner; and the players in China weren't the spendthrifts that Blizzard really wants.In November 2011,it reportedthat the number of active subscribers fell in two successive quarters – to 10.3 million. See? Goes down, but goes up. Now it's fallen again, and it's at 8.3 million. OK, so the general trend has been downwards from that 2004 peak. But if the management sticks to its promise of releasing more content more regularly, it's sure to keep the numbers popping upwards again.This article has been corrected - the monthly subscription price is £8.99, not £16.99, in the UK; the highest level is 90, not 85.
Throughout history, parents have long been disappointed by one thing: their inability to instantly know when one of their children has urinated. Obviously they could check by actually looking inside the nappy, or inspecting the child's face for signs of discomfort like a good parent, but who's got the time for that nowadays?Luckily, Huggies Brazil has come up with the perfect solution: theTweetPee. It's an owl-shaped sensor, only slightly impractically huge, that you strap to your baby's groin. Whenever the baby wets itself, the sensor picks up traces of humidity and automatically tweets you about it. The TweetPee stops you having to inspect the nappy yourself, leaving you more time to type out thoughtless kneejerk rants about public transport or feminism or whatever into your phone. The smallest level of parental responsibility just got even smaller! Now you never have to look at your own child again!Is the TweetPee the stupidest app ever created? That's hard to say. The competition is pretty huge. Here are the contenders:Cry TranslatorCry Translator.Only using your phone to work out how often your baby pees is a despicable waste of technology. Why not pair it with Cry Translator – an app that analyses and diagnoses your baby's cry to tell you what it wants – to become the awful parent you've always dreamed of being? Is your child tired, or cold, or hungry? Maybe he or she just wants a new dad who won't miss the wonder of infant development because he's too busy gurning into a telephone. Yes, that's probably it.PassionPassion.In retrospect, the iPhone's built-in microphone and accelerometer could only have been built for one thing: quantifying your own sexual prowess. Simply open Passion, pop your phone into an armband, start having sex with something and it'll use your movement and noise to calculate your skills as a lover. Spoiler alert: your skills as a lover are terrible. You're wearing an armband in bed. Look at yourself.Hangtime!Hangtime.Remember when you bought your phone and decided against insurance? Regret that day for ever with Hangtime! – the app that measures how high you can throw your phone. Throw it! Throw it as high as you can, you infuriating berk!iAmAManiAmAMan.Creepy gentlemen, are you trying to keep several women on the go, but finding it hard to remember when any of them are on their period? Well, here's a password-protected menstrual calendar for you. Now you'll know if they're angry because it's their time of the month, or just because they've somehow ended up with the worst boyfriend alive.Taxi Hold'EmTaxi Hold'Em.You know how difficult it can be to hail a taxi. All that patience and eye contact is such a drag. Combat this with Taxi Hold'Em – literally just a yellow screen with the word "Taxi" written on it. Wave this at a taxi driver and, once he's crashed into a lamppost because he can't read the tiny writing that you're waving about on your very small phone, he'll take you wherever you want to go.Will You Marry Me?Will You Marry Me?"Mummy, how did daddy propose to you?" "Oh, he typed my name into an app, created a crappy JPEG with 'Will you marry me?' written on it and slid it in front of my face while I was eating." "Is that why daddy lives in the bedsit now?" "Yes."
I run a big, rather busy website, and need to be able to edit quickly. Until recently, I've done this by opening the local copy of the .html file in Notepad and editing it by hand. Problem: Windows 7 won't let me open .html files using Notepad. Right click followed by Open With simply does not offer the same opportunity that XP once did.Chris EleyWindows Notepad has been around since Windows first appeared in 1985, and the NT version hasn't changed much for a decade. What has changed is that it is no longer the designated viewer when you tell Internet Explorer to show the source code of a web page. With IE8, that job was handed over to the more sophisticated viewer built into IE's Developer Tools, to make it competitive with Netscape and Google Chrome.You can change the default. Start IE8 and press F12 to open the Developer Tools, open the File menu, click Customize Internet Explorer View Source, and select Notepad instead of Default Viewer. If you run Notepad, you will be able to load, edit and save .html files. (Obviously, if you just double-click them, they will load in the default browser.)Another workaround is to change the file extension that tells Windows which program to use to open a file. Press F2, change the name of the local copy of your file from, for example, NewsPage.html to NewsPage.txt, double click the file and it will open in Notepad in editable form. After you have finished editing it, save the file and change the name back to NewsPage.html before uploading it to your server.Otherwise, I don't expect Microsoft was too concerned about people still using Notepad to edit HTML files. They're an insignificant percentage of today's 1.4 billion or so Windows users, and there areplenty of free alternatives.For example, Microsoft offers a powerful free web page design programVisual Studio Express 2012 for Web, and a free version ofMicrosoft Expression Web 4, which was an expensive commercial program until it was discontinued. There are many free third-party alternatives includingKompoZer. This is somewhat like the long-dead Microsoft FrontPage. Another free or cheap alternative isSerif's WebPlus.There are also plenty of free Notepad replacements, most notablyNotepad++, which is designed for editing source code. It's been out for a decade, and I suspect most of the coders who used Notepad switched to it years ago.Crimson Editoris also worth a look.NHS website needs older browserMy wife works for the NHS and has to use an online roster to find out her shift pattern, request leave etc. This was working fine until her laptop was upgraded to Internet Explorer 10, which apparently is not supported. I've tried Chrome but no joy: I just get a message that says only IE8 and below can be used. Is it possible to uninstall IE10 and reinstall IE8 without completely messing up Windows 7?SteveMicrosoft's Internet Explorer 6 had some features that were novel and useful in 2001, and were widely used on corporate and government websites. These included a range of ActiveX controls, quick links, drop-down menus, jump lists, and so on, and many sites ran Java applets to handle things like time sheets. IT departments could therefore use IE6 to create useful browser-based applications years before HTML5 and other web standards arrived.The problem is that many organisations have not rewritten these browser-based apps -- most of which are on intranets, invisible to the public -- and they don't work at all with Netscape and Google Chrome. These browsers appeared after many such sites were created, and they never provided backwards compatibility.Competition from Netscape and Chrome has obliged Microsoft to develop Internet Explorer at a somewhat quicker pace, with IE10 being the current version. However, later versions of IE include a "compatibility mode" that works with many older websites and intranets. When your wife goes to her NHS site, she should see a small icon in the Address bar. The icon looks like a broken page. Clicking the icon tells IE10 (and earlier versions) to always show that page in its Compatibility View, rather than using the view based on recent standards.To change the Compatibility View settings, go to the Menu bar (press Alt if you can't see the Menu bar), select Tools, and click Compatibility View settings. This lets you select which sites will use Compatibility View, including "Display all websites in Compatibility View".Unfortunately, IE10 does not provide a complete emulation of IE6/7/8. Microsoft has removed some features"for improved interoperability and compliance with HTML5". Also, the target website (in this case, the NHS site) may be misreading information from IE10 (the userAgent string) or using out-of-date, insecure ActiveX controls or whatever, in which case it's out of your hands.If the NHS site still doesn't work, you can uninstall IE10, and Windows 7 should automatically provide you with the previous version of the browser. To do this, go to the Control Panel, select Programs, and then Programs and Features. First, click the left-hand pane where it says "View installed updates". Next, go to the right-hand pane, select the Windows Internet Explorer 10 update, and click the Uninstall button. Exit and reboot your PC and you should find IE8 back in place. If you find IE9, you'll have to repeat the process.If you need to download a copy of IE8, you can easily get one from the Microsoft web page,Download Internet Explorer 8. Of course, the general rule is that you can't install an old program over the top of a new one.If possible, I'd try to retain IE10. It's much faster than IE8, it's more secure, and it works better with most websites. Indeed, HTML5-oriented websites don't work with IE8 at all.
Ouya made the games industry sit upwhen it raised $8.6m on Kickstarterin 2012 to make and launch an Android-based games console. Now the company is turning to a more-traditional source for more funding: venture capitalists.Ouya has raised $15m of new funding from VC firms including Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, Mayfield Fund, Shasta Ventures and Occam Partners, as well as chipmaker Nvidia.The company says it plans to use the funding to meet "increased demand" for the retail launch of its console on 25 June in the US, Canada and UK, while also supporting the more-than 12k developers who have registered to make games for the device.Ouya has a new board member with a heavyweight reputation within the games industry: Kleiner Perkins partner Bing Gordon, once of Electronic Arts and with more recent investment experience with games companies including Zynga and ngmoco."Ouya's open source platform creates a new world of opportunity for established and emerging independent game creators and gamers alike," said Gordon in a statement as the funding round was announced."There are some types of games that can only be experienced on a TV, and Ouya is squarely focused on bringing back the living room gaming experience."Ouya has been a topic of hot debate within the games industry since its successful Kickstarter campaign, cheered on by prominent independent developers for its potential to disrupt Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo, but scrutinised by sceptics unconvinced by the console specifications and its maker's chances of building a sustainable business.The company is pushing back against the latter, with chief executive Julie Uhrmann saying "we want Ouya to be here for a long time to come" after securing the new funding round.Ouya is expected to cost £99.99 in the UK when it launches through retailers, with additional controllers costing £39.99. Every game available through its digital store will be free to try, with developers making money from player payments to unlock the full games or buy virtual items.Raising $15m from VC firms is certainly a turnaround for Ouya, which failed to attract investor interest before launching its Kickstarter campaign. "VCs are still somewhat skittish when they come to hardware companies,"Uhrmann told The Guardian in July 2012. "They wanted to see more traction."More than 63k Kickstarter backers; distribution deals with Amazon, Best Buy, Game, GameStop and Target; and on-time shipment of consoles to early backers later, it seems some VCs have now seen the traction they were looking for.Where they see Ouya's eventual exit is another question. While the company is currently focused on its standalone console,Uhrmann hinted in another interview with The Guardianthat its long-term future may be embedding its technology in televisions."We always believed that the console would die away and become a chipset on the television. But you still need a great, responsive controller and a gaming ecosystem with great developers and great games," she said at the time.
Zynga chief executive Mark Pincusrecently described 2013 as "a transition year"for his company, as it tries to translate its historical dominance of the Facebook social games market into similar popularity on smartphones and tablets.There have been bright spots already: Poker by Zynga has been a fixture in the upper reaches of Apple's Top Grossing chart; Words With Friends remains popular more than two years after Zynga acquired it; and new games like Ayakashi: Ghost Guild and What's the Phrase have made bright starts on mobile.There have been challenges too.Zynga bought the developer of Draw Somethingat the peak of that game's popularity in March 2012 then watched its active-user counts decline steadily; wasaccused of cloning by Tiny Tower developer Nimblebitsover its Dream Heights game; and most recently saw its monthly active mobile users count drop from 72m in Q4 2012 to 65m in Q1 2013.That said, 65m monthly active mobile users is hardly a trifling number: that community of players will be the cross-promotional launchpad for Zynga's new mobile games in 2013, including the recently-launchedDraw Something 2andRunning With Friends, which comes out today.As senior vice president of mobile at Zynga, Travis Boatman is one of the executives piloting the publisher's efforts, having joined from EA Mobile in August 2011. He spoke to The Guardian about the two new games, and Zynga's wider mobile efforts.Boatman is actually a veteran of mobile gaming, having spent nearly five years at one of the biggest publishers in the pre-App Store years – Jamdat – before it was bought by EA in 2006. That gives him some perspective on the recent explosion of social gaming on mobile devices."Early mobile games were primarily single-player experiences. Due to the nature of the technology and interfaces, there weren't a whole lot of people you could play with. So we went into the dark ages where you played these games yourself against AI," he says."With the rise of social gaming, now we're back to playing with others, and it's powered by the acceptability of these devices. Everyone can use a touchscreen and start to play games with other people. They've made the industry so broad and accessible, with lots of new game mechanics and way to play games, we're in a golden age of mobile games."Drawing conclusionsDraw Something 2 is an interesting game in the context of this accessibility. Its predecessor was a genuine breakout hit both in terms of the kind of people who were playing it, and the interest it attracted from mainstream media who even games like Angry Birds had passed by.Boatman is keen to point out that the original Draw Something hasn't died – "it's extremely popular: millions of people play it today" – with social analytics site AppData showing thatthe game still has more than 500k daily active usersand more than 5m monthly active users.The sequel amps up its social features even more, with a feed of recent drawings from friends and celebrity players, and the ability to leave comments and mark pictures as liked."We had over 10m drawings in the first 48 hours, and more than 5m likes and comments in the first week," says Boatman, who admits to being a "pretty horrible" artist himself when scribbling in the game. Which, in a way, is the point of the new features."There may be people who aren't content creators, who just want to guess the drawings and share the ones that they find," he says. "They're consumers of content. And the team created a beautifully elegant way of allowing different types of players to co-exist together, and share this experience socially."Draw Something's reinvention as a social network for touchscreen art as much as a game is in its early days: a 4.5-star average rating on Apple's App Store indicates that people are enjoying it, but it's too early to tell whether this will pay off for Zynga.Keep on RunningRunning With Friends is an interesting launch too: an endless-runner game that's like a more cartoonish take on Temple Run, splicing in the Pamplona Running of the Bulls with the asynchronous battles from Words With Friends and the other With Friends games.It's fun: very polished (the bulls popping out of manholes are a nice touch), with the social features bringing enough of a spin to the genre to avoid more accusations of cloning."The asynchronous social-gaming mechanic works for word and puzzle games, but lots of people who might not play these kinds of games play endless-runner games," says Boatman, who claims that Running With Friends was "the highest ranked company playtest in Zynga's history" when tested on staff.It's hard to reach a definitive judgement after a few plays, but Running With Friends doesn't seem over-aggressive in its moneymaking efforts.Yes, there are gems to buy in an in-app store, with prices ranging from 99p to an eye-watering £99.99. But they're not shoved in your face, and at this stage, the game doesn't look like it's going to be turned into a grind for players who don't cough up.With the games industry currently embroiled in debates about the best way to make money from freemium titles – particularly when games use timers that mean free players are literally unable to play sometimes – I wonder what Boatman's take is on the area."Obviously, we want this to be a robust ecosystem where developers can reinvest back into the business, and create even better experiences. It has to be a healthy business for the creative talent, as well as for players," he says."The best way to do that is to create choice for the players: allow them to choose the best method of monetisation that suits themselves, whether that's watching an ad or buying an in-app purchase."This is an unsurprising answer: none of Zynga's rivals are out there saying (publicly) that they believe in giving players as little choice as possible over paying and/or playing – even if some of their games make it clear.But Boatman makes a sensible point nonetheless. "We believe in connecting the world through play, and that's hard unless you allow everybody the chance to play through the products," he says.Tablet-firstRunning With Friends is currently available for iPhone and iPad, with Android to follow. Its launch across smartphone and tablet leads to a conversation about how Zynga approaches different devices when planning new launches."I think it's fascinating how tablets and smartphones are really different in the way that people consume content," says Boatman, suggesting that tablets are "destination" devices, where people sit down and spend longer sessions playing games, rather than dipping in and out as they tend to do on smartphones."We see different kinds of successful experiences on each platform. Great content creators create content natively for that platform," he says, while noting that Zynga wants to take its most popular games across as many platforms as possible, and citing Words With Friends' journey from smartphones to tablets and then Facebook as an example.Is Zynga thinking tablet-first in 2013, though? Finnish startup Supercell did in 2012, and its Clash of Clans and Hay Day gamesgenerated $179m of revenues for the companyin the first quarter of 2013 alone. Is that nudging Zynga towards a similar tablet-first strategy, at least for some games?"There are great games that started on Facebook like Zynga Poker, which later extended to mobile phones and to tablets," Boatman says. "And there are games that we are building that are focused on tablets first, and if they're very successful there, we may extend them to Facebook and mobile."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Gran Turismo event to reveal 'what's next for the franchise' | CVG UKGran Turismo creator Kazunori Yamauchi is to discuss the future of the series at a previously rumoured 15th anniversary event taking place at Silverstone Circuit next Wednesday May 15, Sony has confirmed.The event will be supported by manufacturers including Audi, BMW, Ford, Honda, Jaguar, KTM, Mercedes-Benz, Tesla and Toyota, who will be displaying a range of old and new vehicles.Gran Turismo 6 then... the PS4 'share' button is going to come into its own here, right? Make your own Top Gear!Ubisoft Reflections working on unannounced game, reveal at E3 | JoystiqUbisoft Reflections is working on a game which will be announced at next month's E3 conference. Speaking at the UK's Game Horizon conference today, recently appointed managing director Pauline Jacquey said her studio's involved with another game in addition to Watch Dogs, which is due on November 19."We work on Watch Dogs," Jacquey said, "We work on [Just Dance 4], and we work on something that I'm not supposed to tell you about. I wish that I could. It's going to be announced at E3."I'm thinking it's not a Driver reboot. Reflectionsistalking about working on its own IP, though – I would love to see Destruction Derby making a return in the era of realistic physics...Valve experiments with players' sweat response, eye-tracking controls for future game design | EngadetValve has a surprisingly varied staff roster. Mike Ambinder is the company's very own experimental psychologist and he's been outlining some of Valve's work with biofeedback technology, including eye-motion controls for Portal 2 and perspiration-based gaming adjustments on Left 4 Dead. Mentioning these developments at the NeuroGaming Conference last week, Ambinder notes that both are still at an experimental stage, but that "there is potential on both sides of the equation, both for using physiological signals to quantify an emotion [and] what you can do when you incorporate physiological signals into the gameplay itself."Do you want your game to know how much you're sweating? The Dark Souls team will have a field day with that. And let's not even think about Dead or Alive...EA shares up 26% YTD, stock hits 52-week high of $20.84 | VG247Some positive news for EA:Shares in Electronic Arts have hit a new 52-week high of $20.84, compared to the previous 52-week high of $19.51 and shares are up 26% YTD as of the close of trading on Tuesday, May 7.The jump comes after the firm announced its Q4 and FY 2013 earnings last night.In the firm's Q4, net revenue was up 6%, driven mainly by digital revenue with trailing 12-month digital net revenue at $1.66 billion, representing a growth of 36%. Q4 profits hit $323 million, down compared to $400 million year-over-year while total revenue for FY13 was $3.8 billion, down from $4.14 billion in 2012.No prizes for guessing the big-hitters in the publisher's console roster. Battlefield 3 Premium generated $120 million in revenue, with FIFA hitting $200 million in retail sales.Will Wright: The future of game design and its impact on the player | GamesIndustry InternationalPainting a picture of a positive and forward-looking industry, Wright calls the current proliferation of platforms, business models and players a "Cambrian explosion of game development." That sudden branching of gaming evolution, he says, is leading to a new era of democratisation with the player as its focus, gradually eroding the potential for buyer's remorse and leading to a positive feedback loop of happy customers."We have a much bigger crop of skilled designers than we ever have," he continued. "Some of the greatest designers out there are just getting their start right now."Capcom thinks next-gen development costs "will soar" | MCVThe Japanese games industry veteran offers a bleak vantage point on the future of the business:"Even though a full line-up of new home video game consoles will eventually be released, the industry is likely to be in a period of scant new product releases over the near future, awaiting the full-scale launch of the next generation machines," it stated."In the meantime, development costs are projected to soar as advanced and multiple functions are added to hardware. Business alliances and consolidations may therefore occur in increasing numbers."Business alliances? So what you're saying is more Capcom vs SNK titles?ANNOUNCING // GUN_MONKEYS | Size Five GamesA new game from Dan Marshall the creator of the excellent Ben There, Dan That:GUN_MONKEYS uses all the buzzwords. It's a devastatingly-indie, Procedurally–Generated, Physics-based, Online Deathmatch platform game from multi award-winning developer Size Five Games."I needed a tiny break from my next game, The Swindle," said Size Five's Chief Executive of Game Development, Dan Marshall. "I'd been working so hard on it for so long I was struggling, creatively. I decided to take a break and remake the very first game I ever released, Gibbage. The result, after some significant tweaks, is GUN_MONKEYS."'Gun monkeys' – a title surely arrived at through intensive SEO.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Firing a gun in which any part has been made in a 3D printer could result in the death of the user, a specialist has warned, because the plastics in the gun would not stand ballistic pressures and stresses – and so might disintegrate.Jonathan Rowley, design director of London-based 3D printing specialist Digits2Widgets,issued the warningon the company blog after being approached by two UK newspapers – the Mail On Sunday and the Daily Telegraph – that wanted him to "print" a gun using the files generated by Cody Wilson in the US earlier this week on his company's commercial printer.Rowley fears that the nylon used to create the designs would be unable to withstand the explosive force of the bullet ejection and that the "gun" could explode, shooting plastic shards that could harm users and bystanders.The pressure inside a gun barrel typically reaches more than 1,000 atmospheres, and the temperature exceeds 200C, as the bullet is fired.The use of fine nylon powder in the printing stage – which could be left in the barrel by lack of cleaning, or by friction from previous bullet passage – would also be dangerous, he said: "that's an explosive by itself." The heat caused by the ignition of the gunpowder to fire the bullet could create a blast inside the barrel that would blow it up, he fears.On the Digits2Widgets blog, Rowley gives the stark warning: "Do not attempt to load and fire a 3D printed gun in which any element has been printed on a home 3D printer."Philip Boyce, an independent firearms expert at Forensic Scientific in Thetford, said: "It all depends on how hard the plastic is. You might get one of these to fire 10 to 20 shots before it gives up the ghost. It would just disrupt - the barrel would fall apart, the chamber would fall apart." The accuracy of 3D printed guns is also under question because the barrel would wobble as the bullet passes through it.Boyce says the existence of files to create such weapons is something people "definitely should worry" about: "normally criminals can only get converted blank-firing pistols. But if they have plastic weapons they can get a few shots off, which is all they want."Rowley says that he is trying to establish a code of practice with commercial 3D printing businesses "to stem whatever urge there might be to experiment with these objects. It's not just a question of morality … it's also about public safety."He says: "We fear that the next story will be about a child blowing their hand off while experimenting with a 3D printed gun … This type of accident is the immediate danger of the project and will happen long before anyone is deliberately killed by one of these tools."Wilson, 22, hasmanaged to produce a gunusing a commercial 3D printer which successfully fired a shot – but in testament to his own nervousness about safety, he used a piece of string 20ft long attached to the trigger. He has now released the files for making the gun onto the internet so that anyone could "print" their own using a printer.That led to approaches from the newspapers, which Rowley has turned down flat. "Nobody has done any testing on these materials in regard to high pressure and explosives," he told the Guardian. "All that Wilson has proved is that with one particular machine and one particular material he's produced something that doesn't blow his hand off. He's giving the impression that these files can be used by anybody." That, he says, is enormously risky. "None of our industrial 3D printers run the same type of plastic as used by Cody Wilson." Though the parts might look superficially similar, "the way they would perform under firing would be totally unknown".3D printing uses materials which can be heated using computer-controlled design systems to form extremely thin solid slices, which are then built up layer by layer to form solid objects. Its principal advantages are that it can be used building prototypes, generating one-off designs and even making shapes that cannot be made by standard injection-moulding systems.Firing a bullet in a gun creates an explosive force from expanding gas in the casing which propels the bullet along the barrel. But typically only 32% of the energy is transferred to the bullet; 30% is transferred to the barrel as heat. Metal barrels can withstand the pressureWilsonspent almost a yeardeveloping the "Liberator", a "wiki weapon" that can be put together from parts which can be printed in a commercial printer. He hopes that his files will lead to "a complete explosion of all available gun laws … I think we should have the right to own all the terrible implements of war".Rowley says Wilson has "abstract libertarian philosophy that proposes that anyone has the right to own anything" and that he "doesn't appear to care" about the potential widespread use of 3D printed guns by individuals.But Rowley argues that making the files available is far more dangerous to those who download and try to use them than to those who might have such guns aimed at them. "If you look at these files, there are all sorts of attached text documents about how to put them together, but nothing about the materials you must use for it to work or the printer you need to employ. It's highly irresponsible, but there are plenty of fools who will jump at the chance to have a go."He said he could not ethically agree to produce the guns for the newspapers: "Anyone would be putting their life in their hands if they used these."
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGodzilla vs. Mothra, the sequel &gt;&gt; Fortune TechFormer eBay manager and now venture capitalist Jeff Jordan:In Google's case today, I am becoming increasingly convinced that their most challenging competitor isn't another search engine like Yahoo!, Bing, Baidu or Yahoo! Japan. It's Amazon, which is bringing a completely different take on search—in this case, product search.Amazon is a vertical search engine focused on helping users find products. The overwhelmingly dominant way to find things on their site is the search box. Users enter a keyword phrase and are presented with results that match his or her query.  The order of the search results is determined by algorithms that seek to optimize relevance and monetization. Sound familiar?In my personal website use, I increasingly find myself searching for products on Amazon instead of Google. Shopping on Amazon is a superior user experience and it runs the table on the magical retailer formula of selection, price and convenience…Buying on Google takes chunks of an hour, not an Amazon minute.Samsung Galaxy S4 costs $237 to build, teardown analysis shows &gt;&gt; AllThingsDA teardown analysis conducted by the market research firm IHS, due to be released tomorrow, has pegged Samsung's cost of materials and manufacturing to produce the US version of the 32GB model of the S4 at slightly above $237 per unit. Without a contract subsidy, the entry-level 16GB version of the phone costs $639 when sold by AT&amp;T Wireless.The cost is somewhat higher than that of Apple's iPhone 5, the base model of which costs $205 to build for a 16GB version, according to anIHS analysis conducted last fall. It's also well above the cost of Nokia's Lumia 900, whichcosts $209 to build, IHS found at the time.Google Wallet chief leaves the company &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"We can confirm that Osama Bedier has decided to leave Google this year to pursue other opportunities," said spokesman Nate Tyler. "He's achieved a lot during his time here, and we wish him all the best in his next endeavor. Payments are a big part of what people do every day, and we're committed to making them easier for everyone."Bedier joined Google from eBay in 2011 along with eBay's Stephanie Tilenius. Tilenius left Google last year to join venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.Google Wallet seems to be progressing slowly, if at all.Glowing Plants: Natural Lighting with no Electricity by Antony Evan &gt;&gt; KickstarterCreate GLOWING PLANTS using synthetic biology and Genome Compiler's software - the first step in creating sustainable natural lighting.If someone doesn't use this idea in a film soon then all our efforts will have been as naught. How it works: add a fluorescence gene to a plant, and voila: natural light all night. Note: no off switch.Spotify patches Chrome exploit that allowed MP3 downloads of any song &gt;&gt; The VergeSpotify has patched an exploit that allowed a Chrome browser extension to download any song available on the music streaming service. We have tested and can confirm that the Downloadify tool is no longer able to connect to Spotify's web player. By allowing premium users to store tracks locally as part of their monthly subscription, Spotify inadvertently allowed the Downloadify tool to grab a copy of any song from its catalog of over 20m tracks.Google moved quickly to remove Downloadify from the Chrome Web Store but it is still available via a repository on GitHub. Developer Robin Aldenhoven confirmed to The Verge that the tool no longer works, noting that Spotify had employed a more streamlined and secure protocol that makes it harder to request stored tracks.Quick work by Spotify; the exploit was only around for a few hours.London Gatwick Airport takes out 200 servers, moves to cloud, BYOD - Network WorldCloud computing isn't the only innovation that's sprung up at the airport. Since every Gatwick employee involved in helping people transit through the airport process today has a personal smartphone, mainly Apple iOS or Android, the airport's BYOD strategy has airport employees using their own mobile devices at work.Wow.Everyemployee who helps people through the airport has their own smartphone? That's remarkable. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)CirclesSurprising population statistic of the day. (Thanks @Ornstein for the link.)Can Microsoft compete in a post-PC world? &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsSteve Wildstrom:Windows 8/RT was a radical step for Microsoft, but in the end it just didn't go far enough to succeed on tablets while perhaps going too far to win friends on the desktop. A true tablet OS simply would not have a Desktop mode that depends on a keyboard and mouse for usability, and Windows RT regularly requires going into Desktop for critical tasks (we can only hope that Blue will fix this.) The vaunted availability of Office is no advantage at all for most users because the Desktop Office apps simply don't work well on a tablet. True touch versions of Office applications are reportedly in the works, but they are not expected before late 2014.OEMs disappointed with Windows RT are building Windows 8 tablets. The most PC-like of these may succeed as sort of Ultra-ultrabooks, Windows 8 is fundamentally unsuited to a pure tablet. It requires too much process, too much battery power, too much storage, and too much keyboard. The same OEMs, even those most loyal to Microsoft, are also hedging their bets with Android.That may well be too late. iOS 7, expected this fall, is likely to be a major enhancement of the iPad and we may see iOS 8 before the Windows tablet software upgrade is complete. Android tablet software still lags; the operating system has not made nearly as much progress on tablets as on phones. But Google and its partners will get it right sooner or later, and probably before Microsoft.That tablet/smartphone OSs and desktop OSs currently evolve at different rates is a big problem for Microsoft's strategy.Alex &gt;&gt; Peattie &amp; Taylor"I suppose I'm just showing my age and I'm probably very out of touch in questioning the usefulness of some of these labour-saving devices everyone talks about." As ever with Alex, see if you can guess the punchline before it arrives in the fourth frame.Google Glass 'Winky' app lets you snap photos by winking &gt;&gt; PCMag.comGoogle Glass is finally rolling out to developers and early adopters, and a number of interesting experiments and hacks have already appeared. But one new Glass app is certain to raise eyebrows, figuratively and literally, because it allows you to take photos with just a wink.Winky is an app that bypasses the side-mounted touch control panel on Glass to take a photo. The app also does away with the need to speak the photo-taking command: "ok, glass, take a picture." Instead, the user simply winks slowly after firing up the app, and the device instantly and discreetly takes photos of whatever the wearer has in Glass' sights.If the Google Glass store is anything like Google Play, apps like this will become widespread. Not sure that this is going to make people distrustful of its privacy implications more comfortable.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
If you want an idea of the reverence with which Sir Alex Ferguson is held, Twitter has an easy guideline: more than Margaret Thatcher, but less – so far – than the new Pope.That's the conclusion that emerges from the number of tweets surrounding the three events – thedeath of Lady Thatcher, theannouncement of the new pope, and this morning's announcement by Manchester United's press office Twitter account (at the newsdesk-friendly hour of 9.17am).According to data collected by Twitter, the hour after Thatcher's death saw a million tweets in the following four hours.Sir Alex broke that easily, as themuch-expected news of his retirementfrom the manager's job had more than 1.4m mentions on Twitter within the first hour, and the original story was retweeted and "favourited" more than 18,000 times,according to official Twitter figures.But the announcement of the choice of Jorge Mario Bergoglio to be the new pope on 13 March garnered substantially more mentions, 7m, demonstrating that while football may be a religion for many, it still has a little way to catch up with the officially recognised ones, at least on social media.The Ferguson story took eight of Twitter's top 10 trending topic spots, and four of the top 10 worldwide – all based around the #ThankYouSirAlex hashtag introduced by the club.The conversation around Ferguson's retirement peaked at 9.34am, with 13,000 tweets per minute on the topic, Twitter said. While impressive, it's some way short of the intensity of the tweets around the US Superbowl, whichhit 231,500 tweets per minutewhen a power cut delayed the game.The choice of Twitter to make the announcement fits with a tendency of a growing number of football clubs and footballers to communicate via the social medium – without offering "exclusives" to news organisations with whom Ferguson, in particular, has had a prickly relationship.
Google has marked the birthday of Saul Bass with one ofthe search engine's most elaborate "doodles" yet – an animated sequence based on his designs for film title credits, film posters and corporate logos.Bass, who died in 1996, worked with film-makers includingAlfred Hitchcock,Billy Wilder,Stanley KubrickandMartin Scorseseover the course of a 40-year career, approaching his commissions in the spirit of a graphic design problem to be solved.Launch the Saul Bass poster gallery &#9654;> Photographs: Saul Bass estateBFIBorn into an immigrant family in New York's Bronx, he began working on print work for film adverts in Hollywood during the 1940s. A breakthrough came in the film industry when he was hired in 1954 by Otto Preminger to create an innovative title sequence for the credits of the film, Carmen Jones, which he did using an animated flaming rose. Until the 1950s, the normal method for film credits was to present names and titles on cards, or against an unmoving backdrop.The following year, Bass's credit sequence for another production,The Man With the Golden Arm, played again with a strong graphic image – white lines rearranging themselves into a twisted arm – which was carried over into the film's publicity, prefiguring the corporate identity approach of modern film advertising.Bass later worked for Alfred Hitchcock onNorth by Northwestand Psycho, once again using his favoured lines, which morphed into a vortex of whirling spirals in the opening credits ofVertigo.After a lull in the 1960s, he made a comeback in the 1970s. His lastcompleted credits sequence was for Casino, which featured Robert De Niro being blasted by a car bomb through a raging inferno of Las Vegas neon in Casino.
When Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer first revealed his software for the touchscreen world in February 2012, he said he was "betting the company" on it.There were "no compromises" made in replacing the time-honoured desktop with Windows 8's colourful tile-based interface, Ballmer insisted.But just six months after the official release, Microsoft – which relies on Windows licences for about half its profits – is getting ready to make compromises to key aspects of the software. It comes after its leap into the tablet computing future was described as "confusing" (or worse) by new users and has been blamed for plummeting sales of PCs, which had their sharpest drop on record in the first three months of this year, down 14%.The biggest expectation is that the update to Windows 8, codenamed Blue and due within a few weeks, will revive the start button that had been familiar to users for 17 years but which was removed from the new version.If correct, it will be a U-turn as momentous in its way as Coca-Cola's abandonment of "New Coke" in 1985 just three months after its launch following consumer protests.Tami Reller, promoted to head Microsoft's Windows division after Ballmerejected former chief Steve Sinofskyin November, announced on aninternal Microsoft blogon Monday that Blue will be "an opportunity for us to respond to the customer feedback that we've been closely listening to" since the October launch."Are there things that we can do to improve the experience? Absolutely," Reller told the Associated Press. "There is a learning curve [to Windows 8] and we can work to address that."The principal challenge for experienced users of Windows is the total absence of a Start button, familiar since 1995 as the place with all their programs and shortcuts stored in a huge list. Windows 8 instead introduces a layer of giant "tiles" over the traditional desktop.But users find that perplexing – so much so that one of the bestselling apps on Windows 8 has been Stardock, which lets the user add the start button back in, and ModernMix, which lets tile apps run on the old desktop. That will have given Reller pause – along with the fact that sales of Windows PCs have shrunk for the past four quarters, declining sharply year-on-year by 11.4% between January-March to about 74m.The blame for that was put squarely at Sinofsky's door by Bob O'Donnell of the research company IDC: "At this point, unfortunately, it seems clear that the Windows 8 launch not only failed to provide a positive boost to the PC market, but appears to have slowed the market," he said."The costs associated with touch have made PCs a less attractive alternative to dedicated tablets and other competitive devices."However Reller gave no other hints about what's coming, or when. That's a problem in itself, said Richard Doherty of Envisioneering, a market research company: "they had the Vista misstep in 2007 [when an earlier Windows update alienated users] and this is more of that. They're telling people 'take it or leave it', and consumers have been leaving it."Even so analysts don't think the Start button will return in exactly that form.At Gartner, a rival research company, vice-president Michael Silver says Microsoft "didn't listen to customers who were pointing [the start button problem] out in testing. They could have had a middle ground, but chose not to – I think Sinofsky made sure it was pretty difficult to make major changes if he didn't want them."Sinofsky and Ballmer are understood to have argued over such flexibility – which saw the junior leave quickly. Even so Silver thinks the changes will only offer the chance to start the machine purely in the desktop mode, bypassing the tiles; he doesn't expect the Start button back.Meawhile the traditional PC business is merging rapidly with that of tablets and smartphones – in which Microsoft is barely visible. IDC said that while PC sales were plunging, tablet sales in the first quarter of 2013 hit 49.2m, overtaking desktop-based PCs. Smartphones passed that mark long ago, having outsold PCs since the end of 2010, and in developing countries they are becoming many peoples' first computing device. But Microsoft's Windows Phone has less than 5% share worldwide, compared with 70% for Google's Android and 20% for Apple's iPhone. Microsoft only has about 1% of the tablet market, according to IDC.This week Microsoft co-founder and chairman Bill Gates defended Windows 8: "It takes the benefits of a tablet and the benefits of a PC, and it's able to support both of those – so if you have [Microsoft own-brand tablet] Surface, Surface Pro, you've got that portability of a tablet but the richness of a PC in terms of the keyboard, Microsoft Office of a PC," he said. "Microsoft is trying to gain share in what has been dominated by the iPad-type device."Paradoxically Microsoft's stock is presently trading at a six-year high, after the hedge fund ValueAct Capitaltook a $2bn stakeat the end of April, with its chief executive Jeffrey Ubben remarking "We see Microsoft's consumer strategy challenges, and say 'who cares'."Reller was also able to announce that Microsoft has now sold 100m Windows 8 licences in the six months since it was launched, matching the previous figure for Windows 7 at the same time in 2010. Though she didn't explain it, business customers are buying Windows 8 licences but actually install the older Windows 7 – with its familiar start button.
There have been several high-profile cases ofBritish children landing their parents with hefty billsby buying virtual items in smartphone and tablet apps, but no data on how widespread the problem is.Microsoft is aiming to change that by publishing results from a survey of 2,000 British parents who own a smartphone or tablet, although its ambition is also to promote the parent-focused features in its Windows Phone 8 and Windows 8 software.Expect to see the headline figures from the research quoted widely in the coming months, especially given the backdrop ofan Office of Fair Trading investigation into children and in-app purchases.Those figures: 28% of parents surveyed said that their children had made app and in-app purchases without their permission, and of those parents, 83% said they had suffered from "bill shock" – noticing an increase in their "monthly bill statement" – as a result.When asked to estimate how much these purchases had added to their monthly bill, these parents – the 83% of the 28% – claimed an average of £34.18. Microsoft has done the maths to suggest that this equates to a "monthly spend on unauthorised apps and in-app purchases" of just under £30.9m.A Microsoft spokesperson confirmed to The Guardian that the £34.18 figure is "for parents whose kids made app/in-app purchases without their permission, who also had bill shock – for these parents the bill shock amount averaged an additional £34.18 on their monthly bill".The important caveat here: you'd hope that the vast majority of parents who suffer such bill shock once take steps to ensure it doesn't happen again, while media reports of higher-value cases may also have spurred parents to take preventative action. That £30.9m monthly figure may be declining, in other words.How clued-in are parents on setting up their device's restrictions so children can't spend without their permission? The survey indicates there is work to be done, with 17% of respondents saying they share their smartphone and tablet passwords with kids, while 23.5% don't have passwords at all.(Here, too, it's unclear whether this refers to PIN codes to unlock the devices, or passwords to buy apps and in-app purchases from their app stores.)Microsoft's survey also claims children are getting up to other kinds of mischief on their parents' devices, with 27% having updated their Facebook status, 20% having tweeted from their account, and 18% having deleted content from the device without their parents knowing.A resounding 77% of respondents said they think parents need more help from technology companies to manage their children's app activities. Which is where Microsoft is hoping Windows Phone 8'sKid's Cornerand Windows 8's Family Safety Tool come in."With technology becoming more and more intuitive, it's important that parents can trust in the technology they use and feel as safe as possible when handing over their smartphone and tablet devices to their children," says Brett Siddons, the company's head of consumer marketing for Windows Phone UK.Kid's Corner won't be making much of a dent in bill shock just yet, though. According torecent figures from Kantar WorldPanel ComTech, Windows Phone accounted for 7% of smartphones sold in the UK in the 12 weeks to 3 March 2013, well behind Android (58.4%) and iPhone (28.7%).Update:comScore shared its own stats with The Guardian covering the install base of the various smartphone platforms – active users rather than just new sales. In March, it estimates Android had a 49.8% market share, ahead of iPhone (28%), BlackBerry (12.3%), Symbian (5%) and Windows Phone (4.4%).Apple has taken some steps recently to teach parents about in-app purchases and iOS' restrictions settings,adding a more-prominent message on App Store listingsfor apps that use IAP, and launching a"Learn More About In-App Purchases" guideon its store.Google has been less public in its efforts, but the more-open nature of its Android OS enables apps to fulfil the role of monitoring and restricting children's usage of the devices, with  apps likeKytephone, Famigo'sKid Lock,MobileMinder,Kids PlaceandFunamo(among others) jostling for parents' attention.Microsoft deserves credit for Kid's Corner, though: it was a welcome innovation in the market that is likely to nudge Apple and Google towards improving their own parental features. Windows Phone is growing in popularity too: according to Kantar, its UK smartphone sales share for the same 12-week period in 2012 was just 2.9%.Microsoft has more work to do to build the catalogue of high-quality Windows Phone 8 apps for children, though, with relatively slim pickings compared to iOS. It may be optimistic to expect lots of parents to switch OS purely on the strength of Kid's Corner.Indeed, Microsoft's own survey suggests that iOS and Android-owning parents are taking other measures to avoid bill shock: 34% claim to be now hiding their devices from their children.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Hohokum, Doki-Doki Universe and CounterSpy headed to PSN | VG247Sony went a bit mad with game announces today, revealing three new and unusual games for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and Vita – including a new project from SCE Santa Monica's latest indie adoptee.The games are: colourful adventure, Hohokum, coming to PS3, PS4 and Vita next year courtesy of UK studioHoneyslug; Doki-Doki Universe (PS3, PS4, Vita) from HumaNature Studios, founded by ToeJam &amp; Earl co-creator, Greg Johnson; and side-scroller  CounterSpy (PS Mobile, Vita, PS3), from new indie Dynamighty. Check out theOfficial PlayStation blogfor more info on these really interesting titles.New Indie Games Category Coming to PlayStation Store Today | PlayStation.BlogContinuing on the same theme as the above story:With innovative gaming experiences now more diverse than ever, PlayStation and Sony Network Entertainment are proud to stand behind indie-led development with the introduction of a new PlayStation Store "Indie Games" category coming later today.This category builds on the support that PlayStation has offered independent developers in the effort to highlight some of the most unique gaming experiences on PlayStation platforms. Most recently, we released four stellar independently developed games during our recent Spring Fever event on the PlayStation Store. We also showcased upcoming PS3 and PS Vita games from indie developers along with highlighting two new games coming to the PS4 during our recent Indie Arcade at GDC.Sony is clearly betting heavily on indie in the run up to the PS4 launch. Some pundits and developers have expressed fears that this will simply become a ghetto a la the much maligned Xbox Indie Games section on Xbox Live. However, Retro City Rampage creator Brian Provinciano has sent out the following message to his mailing list:The PSN Indie Games section doesn't remove indie games from the rest of the store. They're still listed alongside AAA games, still promoted on other tabs including the main "Games" one. It's simply an additional category which gives players more of a chance to notice them.This is not at all like Xbox LIVE Indie Games. XBLIG games are created in Microsoft XNA Game Studio and can only run on Microsoft platforms. They cannot be written in C++, the language that 99% of commercial games use and cannot have direct access to the hardware or its capabilities. They cannot achieve the performance which native games can. They do not go through certification, nor pass through any kind of approval other than that of some fellow XNA developers. Indie Games on PSN are full commercial releases which have been rated by the ESRB/PEGI, gone through certification and are released via incorporated/LLC companies.PlayStation 4 Games - PlayStation 4 Wiki Guide | IGNThis section collects all known PlayStation 4 Games. Several PlayStation 4 games have been confirmed, though beneath the list of confirmed games is a list of Rumored Games that are believed to exist, yet haven't been officially announced.So yes, pretty straightforward – and very useful for next-gen watchers.Game designer Patrice Desilets fired, intends to 'fight Ubisoft vigorously' | PolygonAssassin's Creed creator and game designer Patrice Desilets has been fired by Ubisoft, Desilets told Polygon today."Contrary to any statements made earlier today, this morning I was terminated by Ubisoft," Desilets told Polygon. "I was notified of this termination in person, handed a termination notice and was unceremoniously escorted out of the building by two guards without being able to say goodbye to my team or collect my personal belongings."This was not my decision.""Ubisoft's actions are baseless and without merit. I intend to fight Ubisoft vigorously for my rights, for my team and for my game."Ubisoft recently re-employed Desilets after he left the studio to join THQ. This is a hugely unexpected turn of events, with echoes of theWest/Zampella case vs Activision.Xbox 720 won't need internet for single player, Blu-ray playback, live TV | The Official Magazine"Durango [the codename for the next Xbox] is designed to deliver the future of entertainment while engineered to be tolerant of today's Internet," reads the memo, which was apparently sent to all Microsoft employees (and thus,Ars Technica) in the recent past."There are a number of scenarios that our users expect to work without an Internet connection, and those should 'just work' regardless of their current connection status," it continues. "Those include, but are not limited to: playing a Blu-ray disc, watching live TV, and yes playing a single player game."So that's all sorted then. It's notalwaysonline.E McNeill's Blog - Why I Am Making Games | GamasutraAn inspiring and personal account of game development and its rewards from indie dev,E McNeill.1. To create trojan horses for ludic joy. In other words, to show others the beauty of gameplay. I know a lot of people who don't play games, or don't understand what I see in them. I want to make them understand, and my best scheme is to create hardcore games for casual gamers. My game Auralux is an attempt at this, and hearing my usually-a-nongamer dad avidly discussing his strategies is hugely rewarding. This isn't about distraction or escapism or even entertainment, but rather the innate beauty of gameplay, of the sort that Lantz and Zimmerman promote. Bringing that to the world seems like a deeply meaningful and worthwhile use of my time.The Weblog Freeware Pick: i need to lie down, an abstract game of existential horror | IndieGames.comAn interesting entry in the recent LudumDare game jam:i need to lie downcould be thought of as an abstract expressionist horror game. You also wouldn't be far off if you called it an anxiety simulator. The controls and the core concept are simple: Use the arrow keys to move about and avoid the scribbly black shapes while collecting the pink ones dropped by a golden circle. The black shapes will begin to adhere to one another and coalesce into one giant monstrosity. If you get close to it, your vision darkens and your heart begins to pound, which is a good approximation of a panic attack. The large black mass exerts a gravitational pull on you, and if you get too close you will be unable to escape it pulsing, writhing darkness. The longer you survive, the more the entire screen will throb and blur.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApps are too cheap &gt;&gt; Dave AddeyAddey is behind the UK Train Times, Qi and Malcolm Tucker apps:Implementing time-limited trials isn't a new feature for the iTunes Store – this principlealready exists for Movie Rentals. I download the content; as soon as I start using it, I have a time-limited period to consume it.One of our developers,Amy Worrall, suggesteda very neat way to implement this kind of time-limited trial for apps.This is a really important post; Addey is pointing to a really big flaw in the iOS (and, arguably, Android) app store. Windows Phone allows time trials of apps - a huge, unsung advantage. If - big if - iOS 7 introduces time trials for apps, that will be a huge step forward.Breaking news: traffic from Syria disappears from internet &gt;&gt; Umbrella Security LabsAt around 18:45 UTC [Tuesday] OpenDNS resolvers saw a significant drop in traffic from Syria. On closer inspection it seems Syria has largely disappeared from the Internet.Suspicious. (And bad news for the Syrian Electronic Army, whose site is hosted there.)Nokia appoints new head of China sales, marketing &gt;&gt; WSJ.comNokia named a new head of its struggling China sales and marketing operation following significant declines in revenue and mobile device deliveries over the past year.Erik Bertman, chief of Nokia's Russian business, will oversee Nokia's sales and marketing activities in China beginning June 1, Nokia spokesman Doug Dawson said Tuesday. Mr. Bertman replaces Gustavo Eichelmann, who is leaving Nokia for personal reasons, the spokesman said.… Nokia sold only 3.4m mobile devices in China during the first quarter of 2013 compared with 9.2m in the first three months of 2012.Nokia's decline in China was considerable last year. In the second half 2012, sales of devices and services in Greater China fell 78% on the year and the decline for the year was 68% as the company sold 27.5m devices in the region compared with 65.8m in 2011.Judgement in the case of Ingenuity 13 LLC v John Doe &gt;&gt; US District Court of CaliforniaJudge Otis D Wright II in the US district court of California:Plaintiffs have outmaneuvred the legal system. They've discovered the nexus of antiquated copyright laws, paralyzing social stigma, and unaffordable defense costs. And they exploit this anomaly by accusing individuals of illegally downloading a single pornographic video. Then they offer to settle - for a sum calculated to be just below the cost of a bare-bones defense.But don't miss out the Star Trek quote he uses too. You simply must read this. It's not - by any means - your average judgement.Mobile phone usage in Asia &gt;&gt; Jana MobileLast week, we at Jana ran our first in a series of weekly surveys of mobile phone users in emerging markets. The theme for last week's survey was mobile phone usage. We surveyed over 3,000 people in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, The Philippines, and Vietnam. We invite you to take a look at the results of the survey below.An interactive infographic. Informative, though.Breakthrough in solar efficiency by UNSW team ahead of its time &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning HeraldAt present, the best commercial solar cells convert between 17% and 19% of the sun's energy into electricity. UNSW's technique, patented this year, should produce efficiencies of between 21% and 23%."This has really got the industry very excited, not only in China, but elsewhere as well," said Richard Corkish, head of the university's School of Photovoltaic and Renewable Energy Engineering. Alumni of the school hold senior positions at many of the leading PV producers globally.(Thanks @Ornstein for the link.)Explaining Windows 8 PC sales in Q1 2013 &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:One of the most frequent questions I get these days is some variation of "which Windows 8 PC or device should I buy?" The flowchart you'd need to make to arrive at a good decision would be incredibly complex because everyone's needs are so different and because, frankly, the market is perhaps too full of very different PCs and devices. Too much choice is bad. (Likewise, it doesn't help that many of those choices are frankly horrible.)For all this uncertainty, I can say this: The biggest single issues standing in the way of Windows 8's success are the same as they've ever been: Bad perception and the continued eroding of PC viability as a business due to the continued "success" of PCs with low-ball pricing. That's right. It's the revenge of the netbook all over again.His numbers on PC prices are, frankly, surprising. And who he blames for it? Even more so.Nobody really likes Google Glass &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJay Yarow:It's hard to imagine going out to dinner with your wife and not getting heat for wearing Glass. Or hanging with your friends at a bar, and having them believe you're fully committed to the conversation.Looking at your phone in front of friends sends a direct, honest signal that you are tuning them out. With Google Glass, you're doing the exact same thing, just in a more surreptitious way.There's a lot of excitement around Google Glass right now because it's new, shiny, and exciting.The iPad was the last new, shiny, exciting tech gadget. And that was three years ago.Three years may not sound like a long time to you, but imagine if your entire livelihood is built around writing about new gadgets, or selling applications for new gadgets? Of course you're going to get excited about the next new thing.Thus, the tech press, and the tech investment community, is thrilled with Google Glass.Now, you can argue that Yarow (and BI) love having it both ways on Glass - writing posts dissing it, having people who love it writing posts, vacuuming up the page views. But Yarow (who also puts together various reviews of Glass in this) points to the "non-early adopters" (across the uncrossed chasm) point of view.Google Glass isn't a surveillance device &gt;&gt; Popular ScienceDan Nosowitz:Is Glass moving us one step closer to constant surveillance? That largely remains to be seen; Glass is a very early platform, sort of like a beta version of the very first iPhone back in 2007. It has no apps, it can do only very basic first-party things, and while it's something very new, we don't really know how it'll be used in the culture at large. Privacy advocates will and should make a stink about it; that's the only way to prevent something scary from happening. Attention from these folks might force Google to adjust; I don't see any reason not to include a blinking red "recording" light, for example.That it's the first pass is the important point; which is why it's important to think about implications. Maybe "isn't a surveillance deviceyet"? (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Huge attack on WordPress sites could spawn never-before-seen super botnet &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaBegan in April; still ongoing. If you have a Wordpress site or blog then you should make sure that it's hardened. (Although by this time it might be too late, and you need to take remedial action.) Many sites are adding CAPTCHAs as front-end login pages.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Google could face pressure to write down the $5bn (£3.2bn) value of the patents in its Motorola subsidiary, as the mobile arm faces fines from Europe's antitrust commissioner for trying to use them to block sales of Apple's iPhone in Germany.The European commission's antitrust unitraised a formal statement of objectionsthis week, which could be followed by a substantial fine, after Motorola tried to use a number of its standards-essential patent (SEPs) to try to stop sales of iPhones with 3G network capability in Germany.Using such patents to try to block rival products from companies that are willing to license them, as Apple was, constitutes "abuse of a dominant position", the unit said.Standards-essential patents have to be used to make a phone or device meet standards such as 3G and 4G phone standards, the wireless Wi-Fi connection or the video encoding method H.264. Holders of such patents agree to license them on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" terms, in return for becoming part of the standard and receiving repeated small licence fees.But Motorola has used its SEPs to seek court bans on Apple and Microsoft products and now faces strictures and possible fines from Joaquín Almunia, the competition commissioner, who has yet to make an announcement relating to complaints by Microsoft. The commission's position makes the patents less valuable in court battles.Google bid $12.5bn for Motorola Mobility in 2011, citing its strong patent portfolio as a defensive move against Apple and Microsoft, which were gunning for Android handset-makers including Samsung, HTC and Motorola in patent infringement cases.In July 2012, a couple of months after the acquisition was complete,Google valued Motorola's patents at $5bnin an SEC filing.The commission's finding comes just weeks after a US court cut Motorola's demands for $4bn in annual royalties from Microsoft to just $1.8m, following a year-long battle over patents relating to Wi-Fi and a video encoding standard in the Xbox games console.The decisions in the US and Europe mean that Motorola's portfolio of about 17,000 patents represents "totally and utterly awful value", said Richard Windsor, former equities analyst at Nomura who now heads the Radio Free Mobile consultancy. "I suspect the days of usefulness of SEPs are numbered, which is going to make life increasingly difficult for the Android community in particular. The winners here are Microsoft and Apple both of whom offer good value for investors, even if the shorter-term outlook looks difficult."Florian Müller, a patents blogger who has consulted for Microsoft, said Google's strategy had "failed pathetically. Microsoft has signed up almost every Android device-maker as a paying patent licensee, and Apple's patent enforcement is continuing."Microsoft, he said, "always preferred licensing over litigation" while Apple's focus on Samsung "makes sense given the ongoing 'two-horse race' [in which those two companies dominate smartphones]."Benedict Evans, technology and telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis, said it was hard to know how Google had valued the patents."They may have calculated that SEPs do bring in some money. We really don't know. The purchase price of Motorola is more like $7.15bn, taking in the cash it got, tax writeoffs and $2bn from selling the Home set-top box division last year. The patent part seems to have been a complete fiasco. So it's like Google being fined $7bn for inventing Android."Google did not comment on the European commission decision or its patent valuation.Katie Dove, a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman, said: "We agree with the European commission that injunctions should only be sought against unwilling licensees and, in this case, Motorola Mobility followed the procedure established in the German supreme court's Orange Book ruling. Apple had to make six offers before the court recognised them as a willing licensee."
The free calls appViberis to challenge Skype's domination of the free internet phone services market by extending its service to desktop computers for the first time.The move comes as the companyannouncedit now has 200 million regular users, up from 140 million at the end of 2012. The figure is a major milestone for the Cyprus-based firm – but it is still dwarfed by Skype, which has more than 600 million users, and the heft of its owner, Microsoft, behind it.Like Skype and free texting phone app Whatsapp, the Viber mobile client offers free messaging and calls. The desktop version is the first in its suite to offer video calls."People spend a substantial amount of time on their smartphones. However, a lot of that usage takes place at home or in the office, where they have laptops or desktops close by," said the Viber chief executive, Talmon Marco.The release of Viber Desktop is part of the rollout of Viber 3.0, a release which will include major updates to both the Android and iOS versions, as well as a new version for BlackBerry.The company has also added eight new languages as part of its bid to take on Skype, which transformed international communication when it launched its free phone service 10 years ago. Though not compatible with existing voice-over-internet-protocol (VoIP) systems using the SIP protocol, Skype grew more rapidly because its peer-to-peer system ensured better call quality and lower latency than other VoIP setups.Since then, Skype has launched video calls, recently adding HD-quality video, and last week its owner Microsoft – whichpaid $8.5bn (£5.5bn) for the company in 2011– announced it was integrating the Skype service with Outlook webmail services.
The sims are back – again. Series developer Maxis has announced that it has a new instalment of its life simulation in development for PC and Mac. The new game will be released in 2014.In a departure from recent trends, the new addition to the 150m-selling franchise will primarily be a single-player experience. As the press release makes clear:"The Sims 4 celebrates the heart and soul of the Sims themselves, giving players a deeper connection with the most expressive, surprising and charming Sims ever in this single-player offline experience. The Sims 4 encourages players to personalise their world with new and intuitive tools while offering them the ability to effortlessly share their creativity with friends and fans."The announcement is almost certainly a reaction to the controversy surrounding the launch of SimCity earlier this year. That title requires an internet connection for its mandatory multiplayer component, but thousands of users found themselves unable to pay due to slow servers and bugged software. Maxis wasquick to offerapologies and improvements, but the launch was branded a disaster by many pundits. Ina recent interview with industry news source GamesIndustry.Biz, Will Wright, the creator of both SimCity and The Sims, branded the server issues, "inexcusable": "That you charge somebody $60 for a game and they can't play it. I can understand the outrage. If I was a consumer buying the game and that happened to me, I'd feel the same."The Sims 4 announcement comes at a difficult time for EA. The company has beenrestructuringsince the departure of its chief executive, John Riccitiello, in March, resulting in job losses. It has also canned the Facebook titles, Sims Social and SimCity Social. The main Sims series has always been a reliable cash cow for the publisher, attracting a vast community of ardent fans – some of whom were invited to a special unveiling event for the new title.More information about the game is expected later in the week.
