"The median pay for a CEO in the United States increased by 15 percent last year, and rose even more -- 22 percent -- for chiefs at larger companies, according to a survey by The Corporate Library," reportsAP."The CEOs of four companies -- Oracle Corp., Apple Computer Inc., Yahoo Inc. and Colgate-Palmolive Co. -- watched their total compensation packages surge by more than 1,000 percent in 2003, largely through exercising stock options and receiving restricted stock."
Microsoft will go to court in Luxembourg on September 30 to seek a several year-long suspension of sanctions imposed on it by the European commission.The commission found that Microsoft abused its dominance of PC operating systems and in March ordered it to make changes by mid-June to allow fairer competition.The court of first instance yesterday announced that it had set September 30-October 1 for oral arguments about Microsoft's plea to suspend the sanctions until the competition case is completed, probably three or more years from now.The commission says that if the remedies are suspended they will become irrelevant by the time the case is over, while Microsoft argues that the sanctions will damage the company in ways that cannot be undone.
If you happened to be at your computer after lunch on Monday, you were more than likely given a worrying glimpse over the lip of a murky abyss. Along with two million other people, you would have had the opportunity to spend a long afternoon pondering the notion of a world without Google.Anyone searching the world wide web at that time would have found visibility unusually poor. Visitors to Google's search engine site were greeted by an apology which made oblique mention of the mysterious "service error 27". Google later issued a statement saying that services had been "at no point seriously impaired", but the Toronto Star reported that it was "not usable in Toronto for at least three hours". According to the BBC website, Google was disabled by the MyDoom.O virus, which is, according to the San Jose Mercury News, not a virus but a worm. The Belfast Telegraph said the attack was timed "to coincide with the company's long-awaited announcement of the value of its public flotation", although USA Today reported that the FBI "so far believes the timing was coincidental". Today, these only-quite-interesting facts are back at our fingertips. If you'd wanted them on Monday, you would have had to go to a really big library.In a relatively short time, Google (it should be pointed out that three other major engines - AltaVista, Lycos and Yahoo - were also affected, albeit less severely) has taken over territory once occupied by reference materials, filing systems and our brains. Why bother to remember anything, if Google can find it faster than you can put your finger to your temple? Imagine all the things you could no longer do if Google ceased to exist, such as:* Stumbling across porn. Never again would your research on the feeding habits of Great Tits in Wales ("in" is a very common word and was not included in your search) lead ineluctably to wholly unintentional distraction. There are no Real Amateurs from the Cardiff area mixed in with the bird books at the Natural History Museum.* Google-stalking. Thanks to Google, it's not only easy, but perfectly acceptable to rummage around in the lives of ex-boyfriends, upcoming blind dates, long-lost acquaintances and perfect strangers. It's friendlier than real stalking because the victims are usually complicit (if your shift supervisor publishes his love poetry on the internet, then you may assume he wants you to laugh at it), although you don't get as much exercise.* Self-Googling. Today, an instant evaluation of one's fluctuating global worth is achieved by entering one's full name, inside quotation marks, into Google, tapping return and counting the hits. If you have a common name you may have to take the time to weed out the people who aren't you, but you still end up with an irreducible number you can chart on a graph. Before the advent of the Google-self, all we had was self-esteem, which was notoriously prone to exaggeration and could be affected by a range of outside factors, such as medication or a few deflating words from one's spouse. Increasingly, the Google-self is who one is, because it is how we are perceived by strangers, old acquaintances, embittered underlings and Interpol.* Praying to Google. I'm not suggesting that Google has completely supplanted God, but what happened the last time you got down on your knees and begged the Lord for a four-seater, second-hand inflatable dinghy? Did He bring one round? Did He introduce you to someone in the Midlands who was trying to unload just such an item? What about when you prayed for a good sourdough bread recipe? Did He offer you 436 choices? Or did He go all service error 27 on you? I thought so.* Armchair Hypochondria. Once upon a time being a hypochondriac meant bothering doctors and burdening the health service, but now you only need type in your symptoms to locate a whole subculture of people who have vaguely the same thing wrong with them and are happy to discuss it with you all day long. All the satisfaction of the disorder, with none of the shame.* Google-writing. Let's face it, without Google a whole genre of journalism (this article being a textbook example) would disappear, and many writers would be required to go outside on a regular basis. I pray to Google that day never comes.
Morse, the IT hardware and services provider, is pressing ahead with its &#163;50.2m acquisition of rival Diagonal despite the possibility of a competing offer from fellow second-line firm Microgen.Next week Morse will publish the documents explaining its bid; it is hoping for the first closing of its offer in early September. Morse is offering 55p in cash and shares and paying 30.25p in cash, equal to a total of &#163;30m, with the rest in stock.The bid has received the backing of shareholders accounting for 8.7% of Diagonal's shares. The company's founding shareholders have reserved the right to change their minds if there is a competing offer of more than 60.5p per share.Analysts, however, are not convinced that Microgen will be able to put together anything like the cash Morse has stumped up. Morse has privately made it known that it does not intend to raise the cash element of its bid.Morse is hoping that its acquisition of Diagonal - if it goes through unopposed - will help it move further into the IT services business.
"IBM said Monday it had been selected to build a supercomputer for the US Department of Defense that would be used by the military for war simulation, weather forecasting and other applications. The computer will be deployed at the Naval Oceanographic Office Major Shared Resource Center in Mississippi, IBM said," reportsReuters."The supercomputer consists of 368 powerful computers connected together with a total of about 3,000 64-bit microprocessors made by IBM. The supercomputer would run on IBM's Unix operating system — AIX."Comment:IBM puts a lot of effort into talking about open source, but when it comes to pocketing tens of millions of dollars, the best solution is clearly an IBM operating system running on IBM processors.
By chance, the last new motoring experience I enjoyed before the Smart Roadster Brabus was at the wheel of a ship-like 1933 Hispano-Suiza J-12 roadster. This was where Pablo Picasso, General Franco and the shah of Persia had once sat, although not at the same time. Hispano-Suizas made Rolls-Royces seem cheap and even lacklustre.Both smidgenly Smart (not a car, I feel, for revolutionary artists and great dictators) and heroic Hispano are capable of 120mph. But, where the three-ton 1930s roadster required an 11.3-litre V12 engine to run with a force 10 gale, the flea-weight Smart needs nothing more than three cylinders and 698cc.Size, cost and age aside, the greatest difference in driving these two roadsters is in the way they cover the miles.The Hispano-Suiza enjoys an unrivalled ability to roll effortlessly all day in top gear like some vast motorised leather sofa, while the Smart blips and buzzes, burbles and blurts, nips and tucks its way through city traffic and along wibbly-wobbly country lanes like a hamster in a hurry. And, whereas you would need a crane that can lift a train to carry the Hispano away from an illegal parking bay, the Smart could be picked up and pocketed by a passing toddler.So dinky is the little roadster, it might just have dropped into the parking space outside your front door from a packet of breakfast cereal. One, or perhaps three, or even five rungs up in terms of performance, safety and comfort from the lilliputian MG Midget or Mini-Marcos of yore, the twin-turbocharged Smart is a clever little devil, although not exactly the kind of roadster you would consider for a London to Sydney rally. I settled for a couple of eventful drives through Ken Livingstone's London APZ (automotive punishment zone), and a lone Saturday morning zip through rutted and rollercoasting Chiltern lanes before anyone else was up.I suppose two people can fit inside the Smart, but they would be pressed shoulder to shoulder and feel a little claustrophobic with the roof in place. Luckily, this retracts at the press of a button and a yank or two, with various bits of the Smart stored in its tiny see-through boot set above the secret rear-mounted engine. Perhaps these bits, and even bags, can be stowed in the nose of the car, but as I never found out how to open this, I cannot be sure. Whereas you might stow a brace of Louis Vuitton trunks and a few cases of champagne in the footwell of a Hispano-Suiza, a Lucky Bag and a can of Lilt is about all you can squeeze into the Smart.The French-built, German-tuned Smart Roadster Brabus is undeniably entertaining to drive, not least because, sitting low and stretched out behind its tiny, leather-bound steering wheel, you feel like a budding Le Mans racer. Or a Matchbox version of one. The car is equipped with a Le Mans-style driving kit, including a clutchless, sequential six-speed gearbox operated either by a stubby metal lever or by plastic paddles on either side of the steering wheel. Instead of slotting the gear lever through an H-patterned gate, you simply push it away from you repeatedly to change up, and pull back to change down. And, if this is too much for you, you can slot it into automatic: handy, if hilarious, in city driving. Push your foot down with the transmission in "A" and the little car propels itself forward in fits and starts like a wallaby with a pin in its tail.In town, the Smart cuts along well enough, although a bicycle would be more comfortable and realistic. At least you can be seen on a bicycle. Minis tower above the Smart, while double-deckers seem like distant mountain ranges. To make sure you don't inadvertently climb the rear face of these, you need to remember that the throttle is where the brake pedal is on most cars: the Smart's pedals are set well to the left. Acceleration is quick enough to get you out of trouble, as long as you keep the revs up and change gear quickly; the brakes are strangely soggy with a long travel, and the power-assisted steering is good, if not nearly so instant or as precise as that of a scythe-like Caterham Seven.The Smart hustles along the motorway at speed and in tolerable comfort. It whizzes up steep hills with brio and remains stable as it passes coaches and juggernauts. Threading through damp summer Chilterns, it is at its happiest, bucking along, its 17in wheels tramlining under heavy braking along potted surfaces and humping every white line. In this, it is little different from many truly fast sports cars.Sixty miles an hour seems quick, so here is a car offering all the thrills of more powerful machines, at half the speed, half the space, price and fuel consumption and happily within the law. Well made, but looking too much like a trainer for me, it is, perhaps, a car for the computer-generation motorist. Its computer-activated controls lag in much the same way as TV journalists do reporting from Baghdad. It is not Lotus sharp, but then it is half the price. And, should you ever get tired of its tiny ways, you could always pop it on the back seat of the Hispano-Suiza and use it as a superior form of spare wheel.&#183;Giles Smith is away.
Internet gambling websites should introduce age-verification checks to prevent children from betting online,  a children's charity urged today.The call by the charity NCH comes after it found that a 16-year-old girl was able to register with 30 gambling websites after lying about her age. Only seven sites requested verification of her age when she claimed to be 21.The girl used her Solo card, a pared-down version of the Switch card issued by HSBC and Natwest on youth accounts, to register her details on 30 sites.NCH claims the findings show it is possible for children as young as 11 to register with gambling websites, because some banks issue debit cards to 11-year-olds.John Carr, the internet adviser for NCH, said there were no excuses for all UK-based sites failing to put effective online age verification in place.He said: "The technology for these companies to clean up their act already exists. But it is being used by a very small number of the operators we surveyed. We urge everybody to install age verification software as a matter of urgency."There are several age and ID verification systems available and being used by a minority of the online gambling industry. They include Experian and Verify Me, which search governmental and financial records to find evidence that people are registered at the address they claim to be and are over 18.These systems are currently being used by all online gambling operators under the jurisdictions of the Isle of Man and Alderney, one of the Channel Islands.The same age verification requirements are expected to be put in place following the implementation of the government's gambling bill, due to be introduced in parliament in the autumn.The minister for gambling, Andrew McIntosh, described the findings as "very worrying". "This shows that in the face of rapidly changing technology our gambling laws are unable to keep pace," he said.The minister pledged to ensure that banks and the gambling industry work together to properly verify whether their customers are adults or not.Around 675,000 (45%) of 16 and 17-year-olds own a debit card, according to the Association of Payment Clearing Services, the UK trade association for payments. This figure does not include the number of 11 to 15-year-olds with a Solo or Visa Electron card.
An internet virus which infects computers by infiltrating search engines caused a crippling slowdown in online connections around the world yesterday.The world's most popular search engine, Google, stopped working for a time in parts of Britain, France and America. Rivals such as Yahoo, Lycos and Altavista were also affected.Experts said search engines were bombarded with requests generated by the MyDoom virus, which sends fake emails appearing to inform people that their mail has been returned.For months, MyDoom has been infecting computers with messages such as "delivery failed" and "returned mail". Earlier versions of the virus included an attachment which, when opened, sent an email to everyone in the user's address book.According to the Washington-based Sans Institute, which specialises in internet technology, a new variant known as MyDoom.O began appearing over the weekend. This goes much further by using search engines to find valid email addresses. Internet users using search engines were faced with a message telling them that a "server error" had occurred.The problem came at the worst possible time for Google, which yesterday published a prospectus urging investors to buy shares in a flotation next month intended to value the business at &#163;19.5bn.Brian Mann, a security expert at McAfee Systems, said that by late afternoon, tens of thousands of computers had been infected by the virus.
The world's largest internet search engine, Google, will be worth as much as $36bn (&#163;19.5bn) when it goes public next month, in an aggressive valuation which will put it ahead of "bricks and mortar" corporate stalwarts such as McDonald's and Sony.Documents lodged with the securities and exchange commission yesterday revealed that the offering was to be priced well above initial forecasts of $25bn.Google's founders, Sergey Brin, 30, and Larry Page, 31, will become paper billionaires and will each receive an immediate windfall of between $100m and $130m through selling shares.In a letter to potential investors, the pair made much yesterday of the Californian company's "unconventional" culture. Staff, who are officially known as "googlers", get perks such as free washing machines in an effort to create "an atmosphere of creativity and challenge".News of the company's valuation came as website performance across the globe slowed yesterday, with problems reported on Google sites in the US, France and Britain.The company also faces a challenge in a lawsuit lodged by a former director of operations, Brian Reid, who claims he was fired in February because he was 54 and did not fit in with the company's emphasis on "youth and energy".Mr Reid maintains that Google's cheerful public image masked problems with poor staff morale, particularly among women. He alleges that in addition to being told he did not fit in with the company's age profile, he faced discrimination when he was diagnosed with diabetes.The average age of Google's 1,900 employees is 29. Just 2% of staff are over 40 - although its chief executive, Eric Schmidt, is 48.A Google spokesman insisted the claims had no merit and said the company would "defend against it vigorously". Mr Reid's departure means he will miss out on stock options worth some $15m.Some 82m people every month use Google to search four billion web pages. Founded by two Stanford University graduates in 1998, the company is named after the mathematical term "googol" for the number one followed by 100 zeros.The company intends to issue 24.6m shares, priced between $108 and $135 apiece. Under a complex share structure, its co-founders will each retain 16% of the voting power.Its flotation on Nasdaq will pit it head to head with rival internet firm Yahoo! which has a market capitalisation of $38bn. Google is set to be a shade more valuable than McDonald's, which is worth $34bn, but a long way short of Microsoft, at $310bn.Critics say although Google has a huge following, its website is not very "sticky". Many people use it for barely a few seconds before moving on. There are also concerns that new technology could allow web browsers to block advertisements - which would jeopardise Google's income.In a breakdown of potential hazards, Google said there was a risk that the verb to "google" becomes too synonymous with "search". If it became a word in everyday language, the company could be vulnerable to a copyright challenge and could lose the exclusive right to the brand.It also disclosed that its general counsel, David Drummond, is facing an SEC injunction for violation of securities laws at a previous employer, SkillSoft.In the three months to June, Google chalked up earnings of $79m. Its revenue was $700m, up 7.5% on the first quarter, provided almost entirely by advertisers on its site.
The smart jacket is being redefined. Forget chic and think chip; Bluetooth rather than houndstooth. The latest designer-special plays music and hooks up to your mobile phone.Want to change the track on the built-in mp3 player? Simply press the appropriate button on the textile touch pad on the left sleeve. The earphones are built into the collar - so is a hands-free microphone for the mobile phone.Cleaning? Simply slip out the tiny electronic module which contains the player, and the battery and the rest - including sewn-in Bluetooth wireless technology - can be put through the washing machine.The gizmo-garment - sorry, lifestyle jacket - is the product of a collaboration between German chip maker Infineon and Bavarian clothing manufacturer Rosner.The limited edition cotton jackets, which come in beige or black, will go on sale on the internet at the beginning of August though buyers willing to shell out the asking price of &euro;599 (&#163;400) - early orders get a &euro;50 discount - will have to wait until next February for delivery.Earlier this year Infineon teamed up with sportswear maker O'Neill to offer a similar product to snow boarders
"has taken the lead in the connectivity department with the new HP iPAQ h6300 communicator, sporting triple wireless connectivity in addition to other features," reportsInfoSync."The new iPAQ h6300 runs Windows Mobile 2003 for Pocket PC Phone Edition, but is more than just a phone. It's wide-area connectivity is provided by a quad-band GSM/GPRS radio, supporting 850/900/1800/1900 MHz networks anywhere in the world. It also offers Bluetooth connectivity to connect to Bluetooth accessories such as a Bluetooth headset or to a Bluetooth base station. For still-more wireless, it also includes a Wi-Fi 802.11b radio. Included software stiches all three wireless systems together to allow the h6300 to automatically detect the fastest available network connection (Wi-Fi, then Bluetooth, then GPRS) and log onto that when required."
"The new version, variously dubbed MyDoom.m or MyDoom.o, was first detected early Monday morning and quickly went on a tear, flooding many mailboxes with hundreds of messages. It has also slowed Google, Yahoo, AltaVista and Lycos to a crawl, because once it infects a PC, the virus automatically performs Web searches on those search engines."reportsCNet."The worm uses the search sites to find any published e-mail addresses with the same domain name as the main e-mail address on the infected computer, said Vincent Weafer, senior director for security company Symantec's security response center. If you're infected, and your main e-mail address ends with @mycompany.com, for example, the worm will mainly attempt to propagate itself to other mycompany.com addresses."The technique offers several evolutionary advantages, Weafer said, most significantly the psychological advantage of having infected messages look as if they come from co-workers. 'It's really the special engineering aspect of making you think it's coming from someone inside your company,' Weafer said."
"Google said Monday it would sell 24.6 million shares in its initial public offering at an estimated price range of $108 to $135 a share, giving a long-awaited indication of what the leading Internet search company believes it is worth to investors," reportsUSA Today."Overall, Google would have a market capitalization between $29 billion and $36 billion, counting shares held by insiders. Only 9% of the company's stock is being offered in the IPO."A market cap of $36 billion would make Google worth more than such corporate stalwarts as McDonald's and Sony and almost as much as drugstore giant Walgreen. The average in the S&amp;P 500 is $21.25 billion. Google rival Yahoo has a market cap of nearly $38 billion."
Welcome to Gamesblog, the videogames weblog from the Guardian. Our aim here is to talk about games in an entertaining, adult way, and help enjoy playing games on whatever gadget you own - PC, games console, handheld device or mobile phone.We hope you find things are a little different around here. Don't expect lengthy, geeky reviews of games you'll not be able to buy for months - we'll only review games you can go out and get now or in the next few days. And don't expect us to preach - or, at least, if we do you can tell us straight away. This is a weblog, which means you can cut in any time and tell us exactly where you think we're going wrong or even - gasp - getting it right.You don't need to register to add comments, and all we ask is that you follow the guidelines set down by ourtalk policy, which simply asks everyone to play nicely.We hope you like the site. If you've got any news tips or comments, you can reach the Gamesblog team atgamesblog@gmail.com. If you have a complaint, or problem using the site, contact Guardian Unlimited's user help atuserhelp@guardian.co.uk.
Keith Stuart joined videogame industry bible Edge Magazine back in 1996 where he covered the dawn of the PlayStation era and wrote features about graphics cards that he didn't properly understand. Two years later he went freelance, returning to magazine production in 1999 to join the cast of cult Dreamcast mag DC-UK, first as associate editor then as proper editor. A year later he went freelance again writing for Official PlayStation 2 magazine, PC Gamer, Edge, T3 and art publication Frieze, as well as launching Mobile Gamer magazine, which has recently been resuscitated as a series of supplements. He now edits The Official Football Manager magazine and The Game Mag, the best-selling multi-format videogame magazine in the country. He also covers mobile entertainment for the Guardian. His favourite games include Battlefield 1942, Pro Evolution Soccer, Sega Rally and Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow (the Java version), and will soon include Football Manager 2005.
Aleks Krotoski has written, spoken and pontificated about games professionally for 6 years. She started the habit on Channel 4's late night review progamme Bits in 1999 and continued after that show's demise on Channel 4's Thumb Bandits. She left the glitz and glamour of the small screen 2002, and now stares at her PC for her daily bread. She's often spotted with her nose in a book, befitting her role as a PhD student in the Social Psychology of virtual worlds. Aleks currently reviews for the BBC, is a roving reporter for Channel 5's Gadget Show and pops up occasionally on Richard &amp; Judy. She's a fierce promoter of women in gaming and speaks out on the subject at conferences around the world. She's also the author of industry publications like ELSPA's forthcoming Women in Games White Paper. Her favourite games include Halo, Parappa the Rapper and most things Nintendo. She is desperately in search of the evasive classic Salmon Run.
Greg Howson has written reviews and features about computer and videogames for the Guardian since 1999. Since 2002 he has edited the games channel for Tiscali UK and has recently taken on responsibility for the technology and mobile channels as well. Previously he was editor at e-tailer Gamesstreet.co.uk. He has also contributed to numerous magazines including Official Xbox, Extreme PlayStation and Zoo, amongst others. His favourite games list depends on his mood but includes titles like Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Sensible Soccer, Ico, Anarchy Online, Paradroid, Elite, Pro Evolution Soccer 3 and Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. A misplaced devotion to Southampton FC means Greg is looking forward to Football Manager 2005.
Fans of The Sopranos will remember how the everyday story of blood feuds, family therapy and 'waste disposal' in New Jersey started, when the series first aired on Channel 4. One of the crime family's debtors is pictured running across the immaculate lawns of an Ivy League campus. Hard on his heels is mob boss Tony Soprano, hunting down his prey in a brand new Lexus. Tony clips the fugitive with his bumper before leaping out and rabbit-punching the prone con between the legs. As Tony turns back to the car he sees his nephew checking the damage to the fender. 'Ahhh Uncle T,' he says. 'Look what you've done to my $60,000 Lexus.'Of course, if Tony had been driving the RX300, the marque's chunky 4x4, instead of that low-slung LS430 there'd have been no dent - and a lot more damage to the felon. Either way, the moment must have brought high-fives all round for the men in the Lexus product-placement department. The brand, created as an upmarket outlet for mother company Toyota, has quickly established itself as a favourite among blinged-up mobsters and overweight golfing executives. Cushy is the word that springs to mind.It's ironic that Toyota, a brand that advertises itself as 'the car in front', should feel the need to invent a 'fake make' to break into the world of super-luxe motoring, but the Lexus is proof that if you throw enough money at a problem, you can do whatever you want. Mr Soprano would approve.Lexus/Toyota now has models in every class to match its rivals. The RX300 fancies itself in the off-road stakes against the likes of BMW's X5 and Volvo's XC90, but in truth walks away with a bloody nose.In these days of the 4x4 backlash - too large, too thirsty, too unsound - the RX300 eschews some of the more bulked-up bullyboy styling of its muscular competitors. It is sleek and aerodynamic and surprisingly compact. It's an off-roader that's spent a month doing Atkins, shedding bullbars in favour of a modest grill, huge wheels and flared arches for road tyres and straightforward panelling. It's a 4x4 for the driver who doesn't want to make too much of a statement.On the inside, however, there's no kowtowing to political correctness. It's a leather-fest for the most demanding fetishist. There's also the supersoft ride, thanks to its four-level air suspension system; the steering column that folds away, making it easier for pregnant mothers and fat cats to get in and out; a motorised tailgate; steerable headlights; nine airbags; rearview camera to help with parking; DVD; satellite navigation; and even wing mirrors that rotate like a spaniel's ears.All this doesn't come cheap. For the RX300 with all the extras, you'll have to fork out £41,200, though the basic models start at £28,995. Small change for Tony Soprano, who's driving a Cadillac Escalade EXT - an 'enormous, stretch-cab sport utility' - in the next series.Braking newsCitro&euml;n has taken the Tiredness Can Kill message to heart. Its C4, launched this autumn, will feature air fresheners with scents to wake you up (coffee? socks?) and 'lane-drift' sensors which will vibrate your buttocks.
Music fans are facing a 'nightmare' clash of technologies as Bill Gates's Microsoft prepares a multi-million pound launch into the digital music market.The Apple iPod portable music player - a 'mini' version of which was launched in Britain yesterday - will face a huge threat to its dominance if, as sources predict, Microsoft spearheads a rival system which is not compatible.The iPod is the leading digital music player, a device which uses a hard drive to store compressed versions of songs downloaded from the internet or CDs. It is also a style icon and has made Apple profits of &#163;86 million since its launch in 2001. There will be an estimated 5 million in use by the end of this year.But the music industry is rife with speculation that Microsoft will announce before the end of the year that it is opening an online store to compete with Apple's iTunes website. It raises the prospect of an all-out battle between Gates, dubbed one of the world's richest geeks, and Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, described as 'the first rock star of the technology business'.According to one rumour, Microsoft will join forces with Best Buy, the vast US online electronics retailer, to sell tracks for 89 cents each. A similar arrangement would be expected to follow in Britain. The bad news for iPod owners is that it seems unlikely they could download music from Microsoft's site.The digital music market is fragmented across four different formats. Apple uses iTunes to feed the iPod in a format called Advanced Audio Coding. Microsoft's foray so far has produced an incompatible format, Windows Media Audio, favoured by download servers like Napster and OD2.Simon Dyson, an analyst at Informa Media, which has just published a report on the market, warned: 'At the moment, compatibility doesn't matter because the majority of songs can be ripped from CDs or downloaded illegally. But as soon as digital downloading really takes off it's potentially problematic.'If Microsoft becomes the biggest download site, and it is incompatible with the biggest player, the iPod, that's potentially ridiculous. It would be a nightmare.'Apple made a pre-emptive strike last week by revealing a cheaper, upgraded iPod. Then   came yesterday's iPod mini, which is smaller and cheaper still at &#163;179. But Apple also faces a threat from Sony, the Japanese giant that led the market with the Walkman portable cassette player 25 years ago.In September it will unveil its own digital music Network Walkman for &#163;250, claiming superiority over the iPod on capacity and battery life but, perhaps inevitably, using yet another incompatible format, known as ATRAC3.Some analysts believe the competition could boil down to a scrap for star names. All the download servers offer thousands of tracks but no two playlists are quite the same. But Ashley Norris, pub lisher of tech-digest.com, said: 'Sony has got a much a better choice of tracks.The hard launch of the Sony player in September will mean a huge battle and artists are potentially Sony's trump card. Apple has more but they include a lot of dodgy country music artists who might be big in Birmingham, Alabama but not in Birmingham, West Midlands.'In the future, the ultimate weapon for Apple, Sony or any of their competitors would be to sign a 'golden handcuffs' deal with a star like Britney Spears or Robbie Williams, so that their music was available on only one server. In the mooted post-CD age, anyone with the wrong player would be helpless.'It's potentially a cause for concern if music ceased to be universally available,' said Sam Shemtob, spokesman for the Association of Independent Music. 'I would have thought it unlikely.You don't find some artists' CDs sold exclusively in HMV and some exclusively in Virgin Megastore, so I don't think you would find some on Napster and not on iTunes.'Despite its lead, nerves may be jangling at Apple's Californian HQ, where executives once missed their chance to dominate the personal computer market. Microsoft deflected questions, empha sising its current involvement in the SonicSelector online jukebox.A spokesperson said: 'MSN's goal is to provide a global music offering that allows consumers all over the world to access a wide range of artists, songs and albums from major labels and top independent labels, as well as the ability to play music on multiple devices.'But those in the industry are watching every move. Simon Wheeler, head of new media at Beggars Group, a group of independent record labels, said: 'You've got these giants, Apple, Sony and Microsoft, standing and staring at each other.Who's going to blink first? Apple is by far the most elegant and easy to use but, like Betamax against VHS in video, the best solution doesn't always prevail.'david.smith@observer.co.uk
BaldwinisationComplicated times for Alec Baldwin. Having re-positioned himself as a baddie in kids movies, the Hollywood lump has found himself the subject of a book by Dessarae Bradford that details their one night of passion involving sex toys, baby oil and a chocolate bar.A great time, then, to visit The Baldwinization Center of America - a plastic surgeon (not real) who offers patients the chance of looking like their favourite Baldwin - let us not forget William, Stephen and Daniel. Dylan, in the Before And After section, is a happy customer. "My life was on a downward spiral until I decided to become a Baldwin brother," he writes. "The suicidal tendencies are still there, but at least I get laid!"baldwinization.comWalking Around the WorldA few months ago, James Slevin left his home in London pushing a pram. In two years' time he hopes to arrive in South Africa, having walked the entire journey. The reasons for his trip are twofold, one he likes a challenge and two he's aiming to raise £50,000 for the charity Action Aid International.Help him by visiting his website which is documenting his journey, complete with regular text messages on the state of his feet - chiropodists will be excited to learn he's suffering from Plantar Fascitis. There's also some nice pictures of James writing hello on a beach with the wheels of what he's now calling his baby stroller, because it sounds cooler. No it doesn't.walkingaroundtheworld.comFluxblogWhile Apple is celebrating 100m songs being downloaded via its iTunes Music Store another musical revolution is happening online - MP3 blogs. Multiplying at a prodigious rate there are now MP3 blogs (weblogs with links to music files) to suit every taste from obscure folk to pre-release hip-hop. The edge they have over the official music download sites is not just that they're free, it's the enthusiasm of genuine music fans.Leading the way in eclecticism and wit,  Fluxblog was one of the first and continues to be the best example of the trend. You'll find at least four new tracks uploaded each day but be quick, part of the code of honour among bloggers is the music disappears after a day or so.newflux.blogspot.com
Classic NES Series Game Boy AdvanceFor those recently proselytised to the joys of gaming, the retro scene must seem pretty silly: ignoring richly-textured 3D worlds in favour of blobs of brightly-coloured pixels would apparently only be enjoyed by the severely challenged.Some of the NES Classics for Game Boy Advance will dissuade from that view. Pac-Man, classic role-playing game The Legend Of Zelda, defining platform-jumper Super Mario Brothers and dirt bike 'em-up Excitebike are all as pristinely perfect as they were the day Nintendo converted them for home usage.Sadly some of the others, most notably Bomberman and Xevious, suffer slightly from having had far better jobs done on them since. Inverse graphics snobs will find enough blocky-looking sprites to last a lifetime, although at £15 each they 're not exactly cheap for what you get.&#183;Nintendo, £15Psi-Ops PS2, Gamecube, XboxNick Scryer is a soldier of fortune with a difference: as well as the conventional arsenal of automatic weapons, rocket-launchers and silenced pistols, he also has telekinetic powers that are "re-awakened "as you progress, each one triggering a convenient flashback to your training, during which your hilariously effective psychic talents are explained.Laugh out loud as you lift up and toss entire rooms full of bad guys at each other, gently pluck them from high walkways, toss an explosive barrel into a gaggle of them and indeed blow up, smash or hurl just about anything else you care to think of in this demonically comical toy box of destruction.Although later on the game disappointingly restricts you to boring old guns, the intervening action more than makes up for it.&#183;Midway, £40World War Zero: Ironstorm Playstation 2The premise of World War Zero is that the skirmish with Kaiser Wilhelm's troops, rather than ending in 1918, is in fact still being fought in 1964, with China and Russia uniting against America and Europe, who finance their armies by floating them on the stock market. The story makes the following difference to gameplay: none at all.What you're left with is a wholly unremarkable second world war shooter in all but name, that borrows bits from Call Of Duty, Firewarrior 40K and Quake 2 while adding very little of anything. Fellow soldiers wander around to give the illusion of a squad and there are always things blowing up around you, but it feels more like contrived atmosphere than being in a war.Running round shooting people in gas masks is OK, but not a patch on the long-available Time Splitters 2.&#183;Ubisoft, £40
According to Ben Knauss, a former senior manager at PortalPlayer, "the iPod originated with a business idea dreamed up by Tony Fadell, an independent contractor and hardware expert who'd helped develop handheld devices at General Magic and Philips. 'Tony's idea was to take an MP3 player, build a Napster music sale service to complement it, and build a company around it,' Knauss said. 'Tony had the business idea,'" reportsWired.But "while Fadell may have had the business plan, Apple CEO Steve Jobs molded the device's shape, feel and design."
"Osama bin Laden is trying, knowingly or otherwise, to take over the world disguised as a computer virus. Thousands of messages have been posted on internet chat-rooms with a subject line suggesting that journalists have discovered that the leader of al-Qaida has been found hanged," reportsThe Guardian.
"The trauma of dirty loos could be a thing of the past for users of pPod, a guide to the best and worst of public toilets for iPod owners. The possibility of unpleasant odours, a lack of soap or paper, graffiti and absent attendants have the power to strike fear into the hearts of all but the sturdiest of visitors to public toilets," reportsBBC News."Users download the program to their PC or Mac, and then put it on their iPod. They can search through areas alphabetically, and then access the text and audio entries from there."Update:Sorry, there's now a link to the BBC story....
Small is beautiful - all the more so when it comes in a rainbow of colours. So the new iPod mini is expected to fly off the shelves when it launches in Britain today.But Apple, the creator of the portable digital music player, cannot afford to be complacent: more and more competitors are entering the market, offering cheaper models with additional features such as FM radio tuners.Within a couple of years, mobile phone companies also hope to launch handsets which can store and play thousands of songs.Apple is counting on replicating the American success of the iPod mini across the rest of the world. It proved such a success when it was launched in the United States earlier this year that customers queued around the block to get their hands on them.Smaller and cheaper than its sibling - the iPod mini is roughly the size of a card holder rather than a cigarette box, and costs &#163;179 not &#163;219 - it has proved more appealing to teenagers and women, opening up a new market to the company.Apple has sold 3m iPods worldwide and has streamlined the design and cut the price to ensure that they are still attractive when the minis go on sale."The demand is absolutely incredible," said Hamish Thompson, a spokesman for the high-street electrical chain Dixons."As soon as you get them, they fly off the shelves. Our sales of digital music players are up five-fold year on year."Apple warned last week that demand for the smaller model would outstrip supply in Europe too, and canny music fans have already placed their orders and specified which of the five colours they want: pink, silver, gold, blue or green.While scarcity may increase the aura of cool around the product, it could also backfire for Apple. It currently controls about 70% of the international market, but Mr Thompson said many customers seemed happy to switch to other models when iPods were not available.But Steve Levine, a producer for the Clash and the Beach Boys and the author of a forthcoming book, The Art of Downloading Music, said that nothing could beat the iPod's phenomenal storage capacity - it can hold up to 10,000 songs - and its overall quality."It has that iconic image now: it's the Porsche of portable music," he said."I think the others are also-rans, because they just don't have that cachet. Every kid wants an iPod, not an imitator; it's got a vibe about it."Others may have more battery power, but you don't really want to listen for more than eight hours at a time anyway."It's small, it's convenient and I can use it as a consumer listening to my personal record collection or as a producer, because the database is phenomenal."An iPod mini can store 1,000 tracks.The couture designer Karl Lagerfeld is said to have bought dozens so that he could load thousands of albums on to them, raising the question of when he actually manages to listen to the music.
Osama bin Laden is trying, knowingly or otherwise, to take over the world disguised as a computer virus.Thousands of messages have been posted on internet chat-rooms with a subject line suggesting that journalists have discovered that the leader of al-Qaida has been found hanged.One version of the message says in the subject line: "Osama bin Laden captured".Then follows the exciting news: "Hey, Just got this from CNN, Osama Bin Laden has been captured! A video and some pictures have been released. Go to the link below for pictures, I will update the page with the video as soon as I can."Another version suggests, with some sloppy syntax, that the reporters themselves may have carried out the execution: "Osama bin Laden was found hanged by two CNN journalists early Wednesday evening. As evidence they took several photos, some of which I have included here."As yet, this information has not hit the headlines due to Bush wanting confirmation of his identity but the journalists have released some early photos over the internet."Stories of Bin Laden's death have turned out to be exaggerated and the messages are the latest in a long line of urban myths - but this one has a vicious cyber-twist.Those who click a link are directed to a website to view pictures. But viewers curious to glimpse the corpse of the world's most wanted man will find that attempts to load the pictures get nowhere.What they may not realise is that their computer might have been infected with a piece of malicious software, a Trojan horse, named because it uses a back-door method of infection and is programmed to steal sensitive information such as bank details. It may also spread spam.Experts are warning users to ensure they have up-to-date anti-virus software. Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at the anti-virus software company Sophos, said: "Hackers and virus writers will try all kinds of tricks to entice people into downloading their malicious code."It seems this time that the hacker has focused on the public's appetite for news on the war against terror."
Microsoft "is strongly urging e-mail providers and Internet service providers to publish, by mid-September, Sender Policy Framework records that identify their e-mail servers in the domain name system. Microsoft will begin matching the source of inbound e-mail to the Internet Protocol addresses of e-mail servers listed in that sending domain's SPF record by October 1," reportsIDG News Service."Messages that fail the check will not be rejected but will be further scrutinized and filtered, says Craig Spiezle, director of Microsoft's Safety Technology and Strategy Group."
"The defendant was convicted of fraud for selling illegal software to customers but the case centered on the tampering of Microsoft Corp.'s education software. According to Microsoft, Blasek obtained legitimate Microsoft software sold to schools and educational facilities at a discounted rate and then resold it as full versions to non-educational customers for well over the discounted price," reportsInfoWorld."Microsoft suffered €4.5 million ($5.5 million) in damages due to Blasek's activities, the court spokesman said."
Technology companies lost their sparkle on Wall Street last night as investors delivered a thumbs-down to disappointing figures from Microsoft and two leading internet retailers.Days after announcing one of the largest cash handouts in corporate history, Microsoft produced an 8.5% rise in annual profits to $8.17bn (&#163;4.4bn). Sales of $36bn amounted to more than &#163;100m a day and the firm forecast stronger trading in its Xbox games consoles.But the figures fell short of analysts' expectations and Microsoft's shares, which had risen to $29 before the results came out, fell by $1.39 in after-hours trading.Microsoft's figures came hard on the heels of poor results from online bookseller Amazon and internet auctioneer EBay.Amazon's quarterly sales of $1.39bn fell short of forecasts of $1.44bn despite deep discounts on products and offers of free delivery.EBay owned up to its first quarter-on-quarter fall in US sales, saying it was struggling to keep bidders online during the summer holiday season.Mark Mahaney, an analyst at American Technology Research, said EBay's shift from selling collectibles to everyday retail items such as books, cars and clothes had made its revenue more seasonal. He added: "EBay hit an expectations wall today - not a fundamentals wall."EBay's second-quarter profits surged from $91m to $180m. But its US revenue of $319m represented a 2% drop on the first quarter. EBay's shares slipped 6% on Nasdaq, before recovering to close slightly up at $77.39.Chief financial officer Rajiv Dutta said the company was experiencing a "more pronounced slowdown" over the summer than in previous years. He put the effect down to its expansion from a cult website to a mass-market business: "We're becoming more mainstream. We're reflecting what's happening in the offline &#91;world&#93;."Experts say internet stocks have little room for error in fulfilling expectations. David Garrity, an internet analyst at Caris &amp; Co, said: "If you are a growth stock investor, you not only want to have year-on-year growth, but quarter over quarter as well."
Board directors and major shareholders at iSoft, a lead supplier of software to the government's &#163;6bn programme to overhaul the health service, yesterday voted to re-elect one of the directors - despite the fact that he has been suspended from duty.Mark Woodbridge, a former finance director of rival software group Torex before its &#163;700m merger with iSoft last autumn, took up the post of business development director at the enlarged company but was suspended in March.ISoft staff have told callers seeking to contact Mr Woodbridge this week that he has already left the firm, yet at yesterday's annual meeting no mention was made of his suspension and he was unanimously re-elected to the board.Tim Whiston, iSoft's chief executive, later confirmed that Mr Woodbridge had been suspended but declined to explain why. "That is confidential," he said.There is no suggestion that Mr Woodbridge has done anything untoward, and in fact his suspension may be due to a technicality.Both Torex executive directors who joined the iSoft board after the merger are no longer actively working for the firm.Chris Moore, who was appointed as chief executive, resigned as a director in February - less than seven weeks after the deal was consummated. He did not receive any pay-off and is at present in dispute with the company over the circumstances of his departure.The Guardian is in legal dispute with iSoft over the newspaper's right to publish information about iSoft that is not connected to Mr Woodbridge's position.
eBay, the internet auctioneer, caused a sell-off in technology shares on Wall Street yesterday by admitting it was struggling to lure bidders online during the summer holiday season.Once viewed as a cult site, of interest only to obsessive bargain hunters, eBay's auction platform has broken into the mainstream by building a following of 48m regular users - including several million in Britain.The company's second quarter profits surged from $91m (&#163;49m) to $180m. But the increase failed to satisfy analysts, who pointed out that American revenue of $319m represented a 2% drop against the first quarter.eBay's earnings guidance for the rest of the year also fell short of expectations, prompting a 6.5% fall in its shares. Yahoo! followed it downhill with a 2% drop in early trading, while Amazon dropped by 3%.eBay's chief financial officer, Rajiv Dutta, said the company was experiencing a "more pronounced slowdown" over the summer than in previous years.He attributed the effect to its break into the big time: "We're becoming more mainstream. We're reflecting what's happening in the offline &#91;world&#93;."In addition to mainstays such as electronics and clothes, eBay has been advertising an increasingly diverse selection of offerings.Recent commodities have included somebody's soul, the meaning of life and an 18-year-old's virginity - which was withdrawn when it was spotted by the site's administrators.Industry experts said that bidders increasingly viewed a purchase on eBay as part of their usual shopping pattern rather than a one-off. This meant the business was more likely to follow the fortunes of high street retailers.eBay said its international growth remained rapid, with revenue outside the United States growing by 76% to $273m. China, Korea and Taiwan contributed particularly large increases.Analysts said internet stocks had little room for error in fulfilling expectations. David Garrity, an internet analyst at Caris &amp; Co, said: "If you are a growth stock investor, you not only want to have year on year growth, but quarter over quarter, as well."
Closed circuit television surveillance is big business. In 2001, there were about a million CCTV cameras in use in the UK: today, that figure is more than 4m. It may grow even faster now that the industry is waking up to the benefits of using digital recording with internet protocol (IP) cameras, instead of traditional analogue cameras and tape storage.In Europe, IP cameras are expected to account for about 20% of a surveillance market forecast to be worth &#163;300m in annual sales by 2008, up from less than 5% today, according to IMS Research.Many businesses are dipping their toes in the digital waters. Drinks retailer Thresher Group has been trying Panasonic IP cameras to reduce the incidence of false alarms at its Brighton store. Two pan and tilt cameras complement an alarm system storing images on a 40GB hard disk. If a break-in triggers the alarm, video images are, within seconds, automatically sent over the internet to a control room. An operator can also view real-time images to assess the situation. The images are sent using encryption to eliminate security risks.Aside from automating and centralising some of the process of surveillance, the system has other benefits. It does away with tape and the expensive handling of tapes, and it can run continuously due to   "first-in-first-out" (Fifo) storage of images. This also provides extra backup as a result of images being saved locally and centrally.Thresher, which hopes to roll out IP cameras nationwide, says the system was instrumental in convicting two thieves who broke into the Brighton store, and has led to a dramatic reduction in shoplifting.But due to a legacy of traditional cameras and coaxial cables, most firms are opting for hybrid systems that retain their investment in analogue cameras.Mobile operator Orange recently chose an IP system to link more than 400 analogue cameras in warehouses and data centres, allowing engineers and security staff to remotely monitor sites from the office or home using a laptop or PC connected to the network. The cameras link to digital video recorders in 50 locations nationwide. These link to an IP network allowing access from any location. Orange has also developed services to allow security staff to access images using mobile phones and PDAs.But digital surveillance is not without problems. Most important is the question of the bandwidth if you put video output on to existing company networks.Bob Tuck, head of business development at BT's remote monitoring subsidiary BT Redcare, says one solution is an overlay network. "IT managers get very nervous about putting video on their networks, so the key is an overlay network to ensure jumps in bandwidth can be handled."Sam Samuels, principal security adviser at property consultants Captia Symonds, agrees. "The bandwidth of a number of cameras sending video data over a Lan is considerable, with a consequent hit on the speed of the network," he says. "This can mean a vital aspect of company security is   being controlled by IT technicians, a function that may have been outsourced, and whose last priority is the stability of the CCTV system." He recommends that high security applications with a large number of cameras use a conventional CCTV system, "albeit with an IP-addressable control and storage system".But the biggest attractions of IP CCTV are cost savings through simpler maintenance, and the ease of centralising control from a number of locations under surveillance.One of the UK's largest IP CCTV systems is at Luton Airport. Rather than installing miles of fibre-optic cable to expand its existing analogue system, Luton opted for 100 new IP cameras all streaming video across the airport's local area and wide area networks.Luton Airport says its control and monitoring centre can now be moved to any point on the network, or to another of the group's airports. New cameras can be installed by setting up a new network point, as opposed to installing new cabling. Images from cameras are easily shared with 15 locations around the airport.Chris Boyce, commercial director of Intruder International plc., the security firm that installed the Luton system, says the next few years will be defined by hybrid systems. "We generally install systems that include analogue cameras feeding into digital video recorders or a digital switch. The key to network bandwidth is to use it sparingly, by designing the system so that most access is only 'on demand'."Boyce says that while use of IP cameras is still embryonic, it is widely accepted that storing digital CCTV images on hard disk has overtaken tape storage for the first time this year.However, the cost argument for all-IP systems will become more compelling as IP cameras drop in price and the Power over Ethernet (PoE) standard comes into widespread use."The real driver for IP is the new PoE standard," says Keith Humphries, of EuroLAN Research. "Now that is coming through, retailers can really think about the possibilities."Essentially, PoE means that cameras can get their power from the network point: you only need one cable and one plug, instead of separate data and power cables. This brings cost savings and increases the resilience of the system.But the shift to digital surveillance is also driving the idea that surveillance must be "event driven", with cameras being "passive" until activated by motion detection software."Even with larger networks, you simply cannot run thousands of cameras that are constantly streaming video across a network: this creates a valueless image-saturation," says Peter Goodenough, managing director of security firm Hisec International."With the police limiting call-outs to alarm events, businesses are becoming forced to employ costly private security to respond to intrusions. Event-driven Video over IP enables remote, targeted monitoring and recording that can negate the need for such costly call-outs."An even greater expansion of IP CCTV could follow from firms experimenting with wireless links to IP cameras. Clive Black-Barrow, account manager at security specialists Bailey Telecom, says: "Security is a big issue, and clearly there are concerns over eavesdropping and jamming wireless connections, so it is something that needs careful consideration. But where the images   are not highly sensitive - such as basic staff monitoring - I think it will be popular."But what will really tip the balance in favour of IP systems will be the ability to use computers to analyse stored images. Retailers are already linking image retrieval to bar codes so they can review sales of a particular item, looking for what they call "sweethearting" - the practice of undercharging on specific items.More advanced users are experimenting with using pattern recognition software to spot changes in the movement of customers. This could be used to detect suspicious behaviour before a crime takes place, or to predict shopping behaviour in relation to promotions.The move from analogue to digital surveillance looks likely to bring a dramatic increase in scope. This could re-ignite the debate over how much surveillance is acceptable before it becomes an invasion of privacy.&#183;Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Steve Ballmer told last week's Microsoft Worldwide Partner Conference in Toronto that his ambition is to turn the whole world Danish over the next three years. This does not mean Microsoft's chief executive has a hitherto hidden enthusiasm for Lego, bacon or anything else associated with Denmark. It is because, for its size, the country has more Microsoft partners selling business software and solutions than anywhere else. If every country were like Denmark, Microsoft would have 10 times its current revenue.That is why Microsoft is getting pally with smaller software developers and services companies, and explains the extra money it is putting into training and support. Next year, Microsoft will increase its partner spending from $1.5bn to $1.7bn, and reallocate a third of its direct marketing dollars to joint marketing with the 800,000 members of its Microsoft Partner Programme.It is not alone. Software companies such as Macromedia, Oracle and BEA have partner programs designed to support independent developers - and they also use them as an alternative sales force. Indeed, for some, selling through partners is a most important part of their strategy. For Microsoft, it is a balancing act, with different strategies for different software and different customers.You can buy nearly all of Microsoft's "classic" software - Windows, Office and the related Windows Server products - either boxed or via volume licenses, or through partners. But some versions of Windows, such as the Tablet PC Edition of Windows XP, or the retail management sys tem/cash till that Dell will be selling as a touchscreen PC, are only available through partners. Until recently, XP Media Center Edition was also available only to larger PC builders, but smaller players can now get it in a kit with the graphics and TV card.However, most of Microsoft's Business Solutions are only available through partners: you can't buy Microsoft's Navision or Great Plains business management program without going through a business solutions partner who will help you choose the right system, install it and integrate it with software and systems. The exception is Microsoft's CRM (customer relationship management) software, which is available for volume licensing, even though that needs to be integrated, too.The reason, according to Ballmer, is that it is what customers want. "Hardly any customers self-serve when it comes to ERP (enterprise resource planning) and supply chain: customers overwhelmingly will get an integrator &#91;or&#93; a reseller involved to do the implementation. &#91;So&#93; it is fine to have a limited channel, a limited set of partners and no availability in volume licensing. With CRM, there are a large number of customers who are willing to do their own implementation. Customers use partners for a lot of things and they don't use partners for other things: CRM is right in between."But when is buying from a partner the best bet, and when should you be looking for the cheapest box-shifter?Going to a partner, such as a developer, should get you experience, expertise and extra components rather than just a box with a manual. You can arrange training, have the soft ware installed on new machines, get help with financing, and generally enjoy a far more personalised service. You can also keep working with the same partner for many years.But you will be paying for that, so find out how much you're spending on each part of the deal. If you are going to a partner for a custom solution, find out who they partner with, so you will know what choice of products they can offer. For example, do they only do Windows or can they also offer Unix and/or Linux?If you are not happy about going to a third party for a Microsoft product, Microsoft also has a consulting arm. Microsoft claims it isn't trying to compete with its partners, and that it doesn't run Microsoft Consulting to make a profit. Ballmer is keen to differentiate Microsoft from other consultancy suppliers, especially IBM."The only money they make is from services," he says. "They make no money on software, they make no money on the hardware - HP and Dell and others are out there whomping them in the hardware business. We deliver services but we're not in the services business."Another critical issue is PC support. If you buy desktop PCs from a company such as Dell, HP or Elonex, then you get a copy of Windows XP for much less than you would pay if you bought a boxed copy. One reason is that Microsoft is not covering the cost of support. If you run into problems, you have to go back to the PC supplier for help.Even if you have a volume licensing deal for Windows, you may have to get support from your supplier rather than directly from Microsoft. To get official support, you may have to sign   up for Microsoft's Software Assurance licensing scheme. Even then, you need to have Software Assurance covering enterprise editions rather than standard editions of Microsoft's server products to get telephone support.In theory, hardware vendors should provide better support because they know the hardware you are using. But for small companies, using these OEM (Original Equip ment Manufacturer) versions of Windows can sometimes be a false economy. Often, these only come with a recovery CD that resets your PC to its original state, rather than a full version that gives you the option of repairing Windows instead.&#183;Mary Branscombe attended the Microsoft Worldwide Partner Conference as a guest of Microsoft.&#183;Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The Child Support Agency's IT system, which cost £456m, is so abysmal that it should be scrapped unless significant improvements can be made within the next year, a committee of MPs said today.Thousands of people have received no child maintenance or are waiting months for payments due to the appalling performance of the agency's new computer and telephone network, according to the work and pensions select committee.The committee found that 75,000 cases have been lost in the CSA's new computer system - CS2 - since it was set up in March 2003, while another 170,000 cases have yet to be processed.It warned that the number of lost cases could rise to 100,000 by next March unless the flaws in the £456m system were rapidly rectified. The system is processing new claims so slowly that the backlog of new cases is rising by 30,000 every three months.Its report, published today, said that "the pace of processing new claims is unacceptable. For its first year of operation the number of new cases exceeded clearances, leaving a growing backlog of new cases."The government announced plans to simplify CSA payments in 1998 and ordered a new computer and telephone network. The new system became operational in March 2003, two years late and £56m over budget, but could not transfer the 1.2m cases it already had because the IT "failed to work satisfactorily"."Child support reform has failed to perform as planned, and this has meant that thousands of the CSA's customers and their children have suffered," said the committee.The MPs found that CSA customers were receiving "an appalling level of service" because of its "defective" telephone system. The report said: "Calls were being re-routed around the country to call centres that happen to become free, with the consequence that callers were unlikely to contact anyone that had any previous knowledge of their case." It recommended scrapping the system unless these problems can be rectified by next May.The committee concluded that it was "shameful" that the opportunity to simplify the CSA had been squandered on such a complex IT system that is "over budget and overdue".
There is no doubt that internet telephony - or Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) as it is known - is going to be important. In fact, you might argue that it is on the verge of being over-hyped.Last week, BT announced the BT Communicator, a PC-based instant messenger service, which allows you to make voice calls to ordinary telephones. That announcement followed on the heels of news last month that the firm's 21st Century Network, a &#163;9bn investment programme, would move virtually all the UK's phone system on to a new VoIP platform.But of the dozens of VoIP services available, which one is most suitable for consumers? Unfortunately, there is no straight answer. Different VoIP services will appeal to different consumers and they are still full of niggles and may disappoint.The biggest problem is that of latency. Most calls over VoIP services have a significant delay between speaking and your caller hearing you. It is the kind of thing you associate with international calls to developing countries, but with VoIP, it can happen even when you call a number down the road. Nearly everyone I called using internet telephony responded with: "Sounds like you're somewhere exotic."The second problem is that configuring broadband telephony is a real headache. In the normal phone network, BT owns every part of the infrastructure so it can guarantee that your phone will work when you plug it in. With VoIP, customers have different ISPs, different broadband modems and different routers. You can potentially throw firewalls into the mix as well. This means VoIP telcos need to find a way of automatically figuring out how to work in each home environment. My experience was that, by and large, they couldn't.And competition between ordinary phone companies such as One.Tel and Carphone Warehouse means internet telephony may not offer huge price savings. Consumer VoIP services may also have weird phone numbers. The most sensible option would be to hand out 01 and 02 numbers but most VoIP services prefer numbers in the 0870 or 055 range, which may be expensive to call.Despite these problems, some consumers - such as families needing a second phone line, those with relatives abroad or people who travel a lot - may find internet telephony a convenient and cost-effective investment.Gossiptel is one of the first of the    new breed of telephone companies. By taking advantage of the internet,Gossiptelcan offer a fully fledged phone service with only a handful of staff. The service is available using both a hardware adaptor, known as an ATA, and software. In the first configuration, the ATA plugs in between your broadband network and an ordinary phone and you make calls as normal. In the second configuration, you use a software-based phone, such as Xten XLite, with a separate microphone.The sound quality and latency is invariably better using an ATA than a softphone. And there is no danger of your PC crashing during a call. But the softphone was a godsend when travelling to the US. I was able to call home using XLite and my hotel's internet connection at a cost of 2.5p per minute, avoiding my mobile operator's excessive roaming charges.But setting up Gossiptel proved to be a nightmare. It took nearly a month of troubleshooting before it was properly up and running. The culprit turned out to be an incompatibility with my router and Gossiptel's kit. Once that was solved, Gossiptel proved extremely reliable.BT Broadband Voice also tripped up on my network. After several hair-tearing days, BT ended up replacing every relevant piece of   equipment. When the engineers finally got it working, Broadband Voice proved to be a polished, reliable service.Broadband Voice has an expensive monthly rental but gives free calls in the evening to other UK landlines. You also receive a phone number, but annoyingly this begins with 055 - meaning inbound calls may be expensive for your callers.The darling of VoIP is Skype, which many analysts believe could revolutionise the industry. It is a software-based system that offers free calling to other Skype users.Despite the hype, however, Skype was not without flaws. It could not call normal phones and normal phones cannot call Skype users. Its peer-to-peer architecture was also unreliable.So far, the firm has addressed the first criticism. In the next few weeks, the firm will unveil Skype 1.0, including SkypeOut, a pre-pay system that lets users call any phone in the world. The rates are the cheapest of all services I tested.The service does not provide users with a phone number, so it is not possible to call a Skype user from a normal phone. But this is set to change. Speaking in London last month, Niklas Zennstra, the firm's chief executive, indicated that Skype intend to offer telephone numbers.For the sake of completeness, I tried Vonage, a leading US service provider, which is planning to launch in the UK by the end of this year. In the US, Vonage has subscription packages similar to British mobile phone packages: the monthly fee buys a bunch of minutes and a US geographic number.Like Gossiptel, Vonage works via an ATA and a software phone. But unlike Gossiptel, Vonage was up and running within minutes of unpacking. Vonage also provides a polished web-based control panel to manage your voice mail, call forwarding and other preferences. Calls using Vonage suffered the worst echoes of all. This could be because, as a US-product, it isn't optimised for UK Internet Service Providers, something that may well be fixed before a UK launch.&#183;Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Votehere!
TheJ-Walk blogmakes interesting use of ab3tathread.
"Hard-pressed police have scored a significant victory in the battle against Internet crime by smashing a Russian extortion racket preying on UK businesses and betting Web sites. A multi-national investigation culminated with the arrest this week of the suspected ringleaders -- three men aged between 21 and 24," reportsReuters."They are accused of threatening to shut businesses down with a massive barrage of data -- known as a denial-of-service attack -- if they did not pay up. The gang often demanded sums of $10,000 or $20,000 (5,400 to 10,800 pounds) from owners of betting Web sites and struck on the eve of big sporting events like the UK's Grand National horse race."
Today, The Montreal Gazette has published a long piece aboutsurveillance, especially the use of RFID chips, though the "news peg" is the use of "black box" information from a car. (The data from the airbag system, used in court, showed the car was travelling at 157kph when it struck and killed a Montreal University student.) The sidebar -- published at the bottom of the Web page -- runs through a typical day and shows the sort of data trail you can leave behind.
Tony Blair yesterday announced a government-backed summit into ways to stop paedophiles accessing child porn on the internet.The prime minister invited internet firms to the talks in September in a new bid to block online viewing of youngsters being abused.He also welcomed a BT initiative which used new technology to block access to child porn - but revealed the scale of the problem with 200,000 attempts to view hardcore websites in just three weeks.Another survey has revealed that more than half of children who surf the internet at least once a week have come into contact with adult pornography online.Mr Blair urged other firms to follow BT's lead."We would encourage any measure which other internet service providers can take to reduce the availability of such images," he told the Commons."And we will be inviting leading service providers to a meeting in September to consider what can be learned from the experience of the BT initiative and how that can be extended across the piece."This is a serious issue of public concern and we are acting on it...this despicable trade in children's misery", he added.The summit announcement came as parents were warned to be on their guard following the first detailed national survey into children's contact with online porn revealed worrying results.Researchers who interviewed more than 1,500 nine to 19-year-olds found that 57% had come into contact with pornography, mainly adult orientated, and a third had received unwanted sexual or nasty comments - including bullying.   Only one in 20 of the 906 parents also interviewed appeared to be aware of this.Parent's ignorance of the dangers their children are facing were also highlighted in the poll, with only 16% reporting that their kids had seen porn online, according to the study by the London School of Economics and Political Science.It also found that 46% of children interviewed said they had given out personal information while only 5% of the parents were aware of this.Sonia Livingstone, professor of social psychology at the LSE, and co-author of the report warned that parents need to be more aware of the risks."Parents are used to medium that are pretty heavily regulated, with age regulations and a lot of care," she said. "Suddenly the Government is saying this is the medium (the internet) that your children need to get ahead educationally...but there are serious risks."John Carr, internet adviser to the children's charity NCH said: "The gap between what children are actually doing and what their parents think they are doing is a lot larger than many people would have imagined."It is a gap we must try to close."Stephen Carrick-Davies, chief executive of the children's and internet charity Childnet International, said: "Parents need more practical advice and guidance in getting the most out of the internet."Around 90% of children currently use the internet for homework, 72% for email and 70% for games; 74% have access to the internet at home and 98% have access somewhere, and 19% have the internet in their bedroom.Karen Thomson, the chief executive of AOL UK, a co-sponsor of the report, added: "I am concerned that over half of the children interviewed say they have come into contact with pornography on the web and that many have given out personal information, yet with some simple steps and the right software, it is possible to substantially reduce the risks."- Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Detectives have tracked down an elusive gang of international computer hackers who are accused of extorting huge sums from online betting sites.They are suspected of running a global protection racket in which they threatened to crash bookmakers' sites unless payments were made.Three ringleaders of the Russian gang who made hundreds of thousands of pounds were arrested in a series of raids in St Petersburg, Saratov and Stavropol on Tuesday.They were held after 10 other members of the gang were found in Riga, Latvia, last November.Investigators from Britain's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit then followed an electronic money trail to the three gangsters controlling the operation in Russia.They worked closely with Russian computer crime experts and authorities in the central Asian republics, the Baltic states, Australia, Canada, Estonia and the United States as they tried to locate the ringleaders.The hackers worked by launching so-called "denial of service" attacks.Targeted websites are effectively shut down by flooding the server with requests for information.As many as hundreds of computers could be commandeered through hacking and ordered to send messages.Online betting services around the world lost millions of pounds in business.After launching an attack the gang would then make threats by email, demanding money to stop targeting a particular site for a year.Some victims were unwilling to report the threats to police for fear of negative publicity.The NHTCU began investigating extortion threats against British sites last autumn.Since the first threats were reported bookmakers have feared their sites would be paralysed ahead of major sporting events, including this year's Grand National and Euro 2004.At the start of the year hackers threatened offshore websites used by United States gamblers before the Super Bowl.It was not clear whether the gangsters arrested in Russia were involved in that sting.The Irish bookmaker Paddy Power was also hit by an electronic attack on the night of the Super Bowl, paralysing its website for several hours.A spokesman for William Hill, which suffered a denial of service attack in March this year, said the arrests in Russia were a "huge sigh of relief for all UK bookmakers".- Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The government was accused today of "an appalling waste" of public money on computer projects.
 
The all-party Commons work and pensions committee also called for greater openness from ministers on IT projects and criticised Whitehall for "hiding behind the cloak of commercial confidentiality".The committee said government departments had refused to provide "legitimate information" about IT schemes.The Child Support Agency was singled out for special criticism after the MPs' eight-month probe.They said the CSA telephone and computer system was "over-spec, over-budget and overdue".Committee chairman, Liberal Democrat Sir Archy Kirkwood, said: "Failing IT systems are an appalling waste of public money and cause distress to thousands of people."Improving the success rate of IT projects would produce enormous benefits for clients, taxpayers, Department of Work and Pensions staff and IT suppliers."Government has produced a mountain of guidance to encourage successful IT projects but there's no way for parliament or the public to know whether it's being followed - until the IT fails and then it's too late."There is an urgent need for more transparency."The committee called for a full "post-mortem" on the installation of the CSA computer system so that lessons can be learned.Costs have risen from £400m to £456m. It was introduced in March 2003 after a two-year delay.Simon Branch-Evans, an executive of EDS, which is developing the CSA computer system, denied that the project was running over budget.He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "The development of this programme has been paid for by EDS. The government only pays for the service EDS delivers."If we don't deliver the service effectively, we don't get paid. This is not over budget. &#91;The government&#93; is paying more for the service than was originally envisaged because the service is far more complex... than its initial design."
 
Mr Branch-Evans added: "We have a plan which we have worked out with the agency to deliver a robust capability that will enable the agency to service its customers."That plan means we will be able to deliver that robust capability by the end of the year. I would welcome review of this programme, because if they review us they will see how much we have achieved to date."- Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
As doctors and managers struggle to implement the NHS's &#163;6bn computer modernisation, one of its biggest IT contractors has unveiled a vision of the next step. This is an NHS in which everything down to the last bottle of pills contains a computer.When patients walk into a surgery, their medical records appear immediately on their doctor's screen; when a nurse hands over a pill at a hospital bedside, the patient's record - and the pharmacy stock control system - is updated. Sensors inside people's bodies even give early warning of health problems.BT is promoting the concept of pervasive healthcare computing to try to persuade drug companies and the health service to invest in radio frequency identification (RFID) tagging. However, researchers admit there are still uncertainties about the business case for the technology - and its "big brother" aspects.RFID tags are electronic circuits that hold information relating to an object they are attached to - usually a unique identity number called an electronic product code - and then communicate it to a remote reader. (This distinguishes them from simple anti-theft tags.)The technology is best known for its use in tagging pets and livestock. Passive tags cost as little as $0.20 if ordered in millions, says Robin Mannings, research foresight manager at BT.Most of the impetus, however, is a result of interest by shopkeepers, who see RFID as a more versatile replacement for bar codes. The giant US supermarket chain Wal-Mart wants its top 100 suppliers to put RFID tags on pallets and cases of goods from January. As prices fall, individual products will start to carry the tags.Researchers at BT say drugs could be one of the first sets of products to be tagged. One reason is that many people, from manufacturers to doctors to regulators, have real incentives for tracking pills and potions.BT claims RFID tagging of drugs can also build on plans for national networks of electronic health records.This week, the company unveiled its vision of the future at its Adastral Park laboratory near Ipswich.The mock-up began with the patient enrolling for an identity card, including an RFID tag and two sets of biometric data - fingerprint and coordinates of eyes and nose. (BT is also bidding to supply systems for the national identity card.)In their doctor's waiting room, patients slap their card down on the desk, and are automatically logged in the appointments schedule, which is displayed on a flat screen on the wall.While waiting, patients can view their electronic health record at a terminal and read educational material aimed at their particular needs.In the surgery, doctor and patient get access to records and prescribe drugs with their respective ID cards.The next stop is a hospital bed, where the patient receives a visit from an "e-trolley" equipped with a display screen showing the prescrip tion, and automatically recording when the tablets are handed over.The information feeds back to the hospital pharmacy's stock control system, and in turn to the companies making the drugs.IT firms have been promoting similar visions for electronic health care for at least a decade. What's new about the BT mock-up is its emphasis on RFID.Paul Bidos, a pharmaceutical industry consultant, says drug companies are interested in tagging bottles and packets of pills to help them run an efficient supply chain. Tags could also identify counterfeit drugs and help trace supplies in the event of a product recall.The big question is who will pay for the infrastructure. As in other complex systems, the people who put up the money are not necessarily the ones to benefit. Bidos suggests the government could take a lead by demanding medical products are tagged. "If the NHS were to insist, it would happen pretty quickly."The ultimate step in this process would be if pills contained RFID tags. The Department of Agriculture is already testing swallowable RFID pills to identify livestock, but no one is seriously proposing that humans take them. However, Mannings raises the possibility of a tag containing bio-sensors that could be implanted in the body to monitor people's health around the clock.He admits he finds the idea uncomfortable. "But if it was guaranteed to give me early warning of prostate cancer, then I'd happily accept it."&#183;Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Despite the noise we make on our high horses, journalists quite like official secrecy. When facts are unobtainable, we can fill the gap with speculation, either naked or from "diplomatic sources". (The Guardian, of course, frowns upon such practice.)Speculation is easier than sifting facts from local authority accounts or documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cheaper, too: "Comment is free, but facts are on expenses," a Tom Stoppard character once said.We may soon be claiming more expenses. From January, we enter a new era of open government, when the Freedom of Information Act makes available a vast catalogue of facts to anyone with the resources and energy to sift them out.Except, it seems, when it comes to government IT. In the run-up to freedom of information, the level of secrecy surrounding government IT projects seems to be increasing.One issue coming to a head is the policy of keeping secret the Gateway reviews of government projects. Gateways examine projects at six set stages to test whether they should go ahead. A report to be published today by a Commons committee investigating the Department for Work and Pensions' IT programme is likely to call for the reports of such reviews to be published, after a suitable period.Government will fight it tooth and nail. The main argument is that Gateway reports will become "bland and anodyne" if their authors know they will be made public. Possibly. But they could also become more forthright: reviewers   will want to be seen to be asking tough questions. It will mean a culture change, of course - but isn't that what these IT programmes are supposed to be about?The main get-out available is exemption 13, the "commercial confidentiality" clause of the code of practice on access to government information. There are legitimate uses for this much-abused term. Clearly, contract negotiations should remain secret while they are in progress. Once a deal is done, however, everything changes. Terms and penalty clauses should be in the public domain.While contractors do not like publishing information that reveals their cost base, this should be the price of doing business with government.Even if transparency results in higher prices, it is worth remem bering that secrecy also carries a cost. Take the NHS's decision last week to keep secret terms agreed with EDS, a business and technology solutions company, to settle a dispute over the termination of an email contract. In the absence of facts, we can speculate that the company received a payment in return for dropping its lawsuit. In this scenario - still speculating - secrecy could suit both parties: the firm might not want to admit accepting a modest sum, the NHS that it was a little hasty in cancelling the contract.Secrecy may be expedient, but the wider cost is high. Speculation, mostly sceptical, is rife in the NHS about where the &#163;6bn new funding allocated for IT is going. The best way to end such speculation, which threatens the acceptability of theprogramme, is with facts.&#183;Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
For the chopI've recorded my 1,500 records on to a 60GB hard drive. Each side was saved as a single MP3 file. I'd now like to transfer the files to a portable player, which I could connect to my hi-fi. I would like to divide each file (one LP side) into tracks to name individually.Owen WilkinsonJack Schofield replies:You can split the files usingmp3DirectCut, which has a pause-detection facility. It's a good program to try because it is small and available as a free download. After that, take your pick of the hard drive-based MP3 players. The main thing to watch out for is that it saves your MP3 files in the MP3 format. Some players will "transcode" your MP3 into a different format while moving it to the player. All the compressed audio file formats - MP3, AAC, WMA, Atrac etc - are "lossy," which means they throw away information while reducing the size of the file. Converting one lossy format into another lossy format will always reduce the quality.It should be possible to connect any portable player to a hi-fi using a cable that converts a line-out or headphone jack to a pair of RCA (red and white) phono plugs, and some players, such as the Thomson Lyra PDP 2840, come with one. The Rio Karma has phono plugs on its docking station so you can connect it up using standard phono cables, which are included; other players may also offer this feature.Don't throw away your LPs. Today, 250GB hard drives are affordable, and they will get bigger and cheaper.    Lossy compression systems are therefore becoming less important, and serious listeners are already switching to lossless compression systems. The most important at the moment are Flac (Free Lossless Audio Codec) and Shorten, though Wavpack is also worth a look. See Speek'sEncoder Frontendsfor links.KaZaA wormNorton Anti Virus has alerted me that W32.spybot.Worm has been found on my computer: it advised it could not repair. Is it serious? What can I do to remove it?Robin JamesJS:This is a Windows worm often spread via the KaZaA file sharing service or IRC (Internet Relay Chat) channels. The Symantec (Norton) website has removal instructions:http://securityresponse.symantec.com.Lop revisitedI have recently been plagued by the Mysearchnow browser hijacker, and have to endure pop ups, an unwanted toolbar, and a good deal of irritation. I've tried running the latest versions of SpyBot and Ad-aware, but to no avail.Jonathan ErskineJS:Mysearchnow is usually a version of Lop (Live Online Portal), a very common browser hijacker. It can be removed bySpyBot Search &amp; Destroy, with a hyphen) orLavaSoft's Ad-aware. If these don't work, try restarting your PC in Safe Mode and running them again. After that, reboot and runMerijn's HiJackThis, to analyse your files and remove any surviving parasites. The tutorial athttp://tomcoyote.org/hjtshould get you going, but you may need to post an HJT log in a Spywareinfo support forum for help.All the programs mentioned are free or donationware, so if you are asked for money, you have gone to the wrong    site. However, Pest Patrol is a commercial program that can also remove Lop. For manual removal instructions, seewww.pestpatrol.comandwww.doxdesk.comorwww.spy-bot.net/lop.asp. Finally, install Javacool's freeSpywareGuard, and learn to close unwanted windows using Ctrl-W.Time wasterI check each incoming batch of email with MailWasher - a useful tool. Is it worth bouncing the spam?David John LeighJS:Almost all spams now seem to come from spoofed or forged addresses so it is no longer worth bouncing them (sending them back to the From: or Reply-To: address). It just puts an extra burden on the net and inconveniences people who didn't send the mail in the first place.Backchat&#183;Robin Cherney wanted his old MS-DOS database to work with a printer attached via a USB port, instead of the LPT1 printer port. David Agbamu says: "There's an easy solution. Go to printer properties and enable network sharing. Give the computer a name. In a DOS window, type the net share command:net use lpt1\\ computername\printername. This will direct all output from a DOS windows sent to LPT1 to the printer whether it's on a local USB port or off on a network." Bruce Richardson says you can add/persistent:yesto make the redirection persistent. Steve Taylor points out that if there are any spaces in your names, you have to put quotes round the command, eg"\\PC Name\Printer Share Name". David Stephens says his company uses DOSprn, available as a free trial download fromwww.dosprn.com. It costs $14.95 for a single licence.
Champions of NorrathPS2, &#163;39.99 Snowblind Studios/Ubi Soft&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;To capitalise on what has become perhaps the most well-recognised online game of all time - Everquest - Sony has spent the past few years extending the tentacles of the traditionally PC-based Norrath world. With last year's EverQuest Online Adventures, PS2 players indulged in their own version of the massively multiplayer experience. However, being purely online, EQ Adventures lacked an immersive single-player element. Enter Champions of Norrath.Coming from the maker of the original Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, Champions uses the same engine and much of the title's hack'n'slash gameplay. Taking place in EQ's Norrath land, the game follows a typically generic fantasy storyline. However, character dialogue and interaction is much more linear and basic. There is nothing too daunting to interrupt the action, which is well-paced and fluid. You can't help wishing real life was as addictively simple as bashing the monsters and hoarding the loot. With five character classes, there is enough diversity to make grouping up for a session of multiplayer fantasy carnage suitably interesting.The game is no Phantasy Star Online when it comes to sublime multiplayer action and it does feel like the single-player experience has been forced into multiplayer shoes. Nevertheless, it gives the game a more rounded feel than EQ Online Adventures and it supports the PS2's USB headset, providing the perfect distraction for console RPG-action fans.Rhianna PratchettChronicles Of RiddickXbox, &#163;39.99 Starbreeze/Vivendi&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Games of films have been coming thick and fast but most have been a cut above the usual dross, as is true of Chronicles of Riddick, subtitled Escape from Butcher Bay. The game is a prequel to the forthcoming film, which is a sci-fi vehicle for the throaty voiced beefcake Vin Diesel. Riddick is an uncanny facsimile of Diesel, whose games production company, Tigon, was heavily involved in making the game.Riddick is the universe's most wanted criminal, who gets locked up in the notorious Butcher Bay prison and must escape. The gameplay mixes first-person shooting, third-person interaction, a modicum of puzzle-solving and stealth.When Riddick enters Butcher Bay, he is unarmed, so it is lucky the game has an impressive fist-fighting system, which is swiftly augmented by objects such as knuckle-dusters and "shivs" - prison knives.At first, the game seems a tad slow, as Riddick wanders around interacting with fellow inmates - albeit in a scarily realised prison. Indeed, it looks gloriously grimy (abundant blood and swearing mean it is not suitable for youngsters). Things hot up as Riddick begins to cause havoc and acquires weaponry.   Although it doesn't break new ground, it is a tidy and absorbing game that looks good and oozes quality.Steve BoxerWorld War ZeroPS2, &#163;29.99 Rebellion/Ubi Soft&#42;&#42;&#42;As gaming premises go, World War Zero's is hard to beat. The action is set in an alternate world where the first world war has lasted 50 years and the trenches rock to the sound of 1960s psychedelia. Sadly, the game fails to live up to this potential, crushing hopes of Captain Beefheart leading a group of acid casualties over the top. Instead, this is a run- of-the-mill, first person shooter enlivened by some spirited moments.Zero has shamelessly pilfered from every similar game of the past five years, from Quake to Medal of Honor. So we get some vaguely sci-fi moments of corridor blasting, interspersed with gritty realism. At times, with shells exploding in the distance and debris flying, you get a decent sense of atmosphere. Unfortunately, this is usually dissipated by an arcade-style "boss" character and other trite elements that ruin the mood.The main problem with World War Zero is that it can't decide what it wants to be. The plotline, moody setting and violent action suggest a serious combat epic. The styling and occasional comedy enemies suggest a frivolous blast-'em up. By excelling in neither, it has little to propel it to the forefront other than an intriguing, yet ultimately unsatisfying, storyline.Greg Howson
Here's your chance to take on Rupert Murdoch, influence the election of our next prime minister, and pioneer what has     been called "the future of journalism" in the UK. It sounds a tall order, but Oh Yeon Ho, president and founder of     OhmyNews, has already done the equivalent in South Korea.This summer, he told his story at the World Association of Newspapers Conference in Istanbul, before visiting the UK,     the US and other places with a simple proposition: if it works in Korea, why couldn't it work here?What makes OhmyNews special is the idea that every citizen is a reporter: it's no longer restricted to a chosen few as it     was in the past. Oh says: "We have over 33,000 citizen reporters - we started with 727 - and about 17,000 have written at     least one article."The online OhmyNews has been hugely popular with readers, who have participated further by adding hundreds of     thousands of comments to stories, and giving them a thumbs up or down. The website is changing "news as lecture" to     "news as debate".Oh, already an experienced journalist in South Korea, developed the idea for OhmyNews in the US, while studying for a     master's degree at Regent University in Virginia. He launched it in Seoul at 2.22pm on February 22, 2000, and it soon     became one of the country's most influential publications. Whether the English-language international edition, unveiled     in February, can repeat that success is open to doubt, but it is certainly stimulating debate about the future of mass     media.I caught up with Oh and the director of his new international division, Jean K Min, in a London hotel, while they were     travelling between Turkey and the US. The interview was arranged and attended by the Foreign &amp; Commonwealth     Office, and filmed by more staff from OhmyNews. They seem to be interviewing me about the state of the UK market     almost as much as I am interviewing them."First of all, I just want to see newspapers like OhmyNews in other countries," says Oh. "We started OhmyNews not only     to make money, but also to spread our philosophy, which is 'citizen participatory journalism'. With the internet, we can     change journalism. In the 21st century, everyone can be a reporter any time they want.Everyone can write news stores     and share them with others. So, we are looking for other countries to import our business model. If we can make money     in the process, that would also be good."Min chips in with the sales pitch: OhmyNews has server software that it has spent four years developing. He says: "It's     not just selling the software, it includes consulting and services as a package. If anyone wants to set up an internet     news venture like OhmyNews, the software is proven and tested: it contains a lot of know-how."Of course, many in the west think we already have citizen reporters: we call them bloggers.      "Blogging is quite different," says Min. "One reason why people write for us is that they can get huge numbers of     eyeballs, sometimes 100,000 clicks for a single story, if it makes the top &#91;of the page&#93;. If you want to make your name, this     is the place!"They probably don't do it for the money, as the fee to a citizen reporter is small. "If the article goes up to Top News, we     pay 20,000 won, about $17," Oh told his audience in Turkey."I think citizens like to write their own articles, but simultaneously, they like to be edited by professional reporters," Oh     adds. "OhmyNews is a kind of combination of the merits of the blog and the merits of the newspaper. We know what the     netizen wants: at the end of every article we have a comment area, and one issue had 85,000 comments. That story     began with a suggestion from a citizen reporter, and citizens commented, so it's a unique way to generate a lot of     content."And a lot of eyeballs, which is what appeals to a lot of advertisers.      One key difference between OhmyNews and the average blog is that it is professionally produced. "Even though a     citizen reporter writes his own article, it will be edited by a professional editor from the OhmyNews staff, and beautifully     presented," says Min. The staff do the fact checking, and fix any typos.How much can be checked is another matter - even respected American papers have been hoaxed by their own     reporters. Letting any citizen write stories looks like an open invitation for people to settle old scores, or for companies     to hype their own products. The Citizen Reporter's Agreement tries to defend against these problems by insisting that     "citizen reporters who work in the field of public relations or marketing will disclose this fact to their readers". It also     insists that legal responsibility for things like plagiarism and defamation "lie entirely with the citizen reporter".Apparently only a few articles have ended up in court."Maybe about 70% of citizen reports are about everyday life. The others are about social issues, political issues,     sometimes economic issues," says Oh. "They write what they can write," adds Min. "There has been some     misunderstanding among western journalists who say 'How can citizen reporters write professional stories, reporting     style?' Not many people can do that, actually!"Fortunately, they do not have to. It is not what OhmyNews wants.      "Our main concept is the citizen reporter," says Oh. "Our second concept is: demolish the news-writing formula. We     say: 'Please communicate in your style: if it is convenient for you, that's fine. Don't just follow the professional     reporters'."OhmyNews's 35 staff reporters write stories that would be hard for citizen reporters to tackle without the facilities and     support of a professional news organisation. However, Oh reckons that about 80% of each day's stories are written by     citizen reporters, and he points out that about 80% of the staff journalists were recruited from the ranks of citizen     reporters.According to OhmyNews research, citizen reporters are overwhelmingly male (76.6%) and mostly young: almost 40%     are aged 20-29. By occupation, the biggest contributors are students (19.7%) and office workers (15.5%), plus a sizeable     chunk of journalists (7.1%). It was the fact that OhmyNews had so many young reporters that led to the paper's     extensive reporting of Roh Moo Hyun's successful election campaign, because he was particularly popular with young     voters. How much influence this had on the result is a moot point, but the established press clearly missed its     significance.As OhmyNews has grown, it has expanded into other media. "Many people focus on the citizen reporter aspect of     OhmyNews," says Min, "but we have a lot of other features. We provide web-casting, web radio, sometimes text-casting,     and a weekly print version, so we have multimedia sources complementing one another. Live web-casting is immense.     We were web-casting a huge protest in Seoul &#91;against impeaching President Roh&#93; for 10 hours: people were hooked all     day long, and it became more like a chat board in the end.""Citizen reporters can now be broadcasting reporters: we just started Citizen Anchor News, and chose several people     as anchors for 20-minute programs," says Oh. OhmyNews is also planning to pick up more photos from camera phones."Every Korean teenager and 20-something carries a camera phone, so it's ideal for OhmyNews," says Min. "Next year     we will make the third generation internet newspaper, and multimedia is a core part of that."      There are many reasons why OhmyNews has worked well in South Korea. Oh's list includes frustration with the     country's conservative mainstream media and the superiority of its internet infrastructure - more than 75% have     broadband. It's also a compact and homogenous society where, in Oh's words, "the country can be engulfed by a     couple of issues".That suggests Japan might be a good bet, and an OhmyNews-style publication, Jan Jan, is already being tried there.     However, Oh reckons it is not yet a success.Could it work as well in countries that are more diverse and already have a wide range of alternative media, such as the     UK or even the US? I suspect not, but online news expert Dan Gillmor, who was one of the first to report OhmyNews for     the San Jose Mercury, is more optimistic. "I admire what Mr Oh and his colleagues have accomplished," he says."And     while the conditions are different in the US, including the overwhelming number of personal journalism sites (blogs, etc)     that have already sprung up, I do believe an OhmyNews-like operation could succeed here."      Its best chance may just have gone. There was a huge amount of frustration with US media over the coverage of the war     in Iraq, which could have provided a platform for something like OhmyNews. Instead, it fuelled the growth of blogging,     and benefited non-US publications such as Guardian Unlimited.But given America's propensities for overseas adventures and political scandals, there may well be another opportunity     before too long.OhmyNews(Korean)www.ohmynews.comOhmyNews Internationalhttp://english.ohmynews.comThe End of  20th Century Journalism:Oh Yeon Ho's conference speech in Istanbulhttp://english.ohmynews.com/articleview&#183;Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Internet advertising hit record levels last year as British companies spent more than &#163;350m on the web.Online spending rocketed by more than 80% in 2003, reaching 2.5% of total advertising budgets during the second half of the year, according to the latest figures from the Interactive Advertising Bureau.The bureau said the value of the online advertising market nearly doubled last year compared with 2002, when advertisers spent just under &#163;200m on the web.It said that the increasing number of people with online connections at home - three times more than in 1999 - was helping to drive growth.According to regulator Ofcom, more than half the UK's estimated 27m homes now have access to the internet, compared with just under 50% last year.The Interactive Advertising Bureau said the willingness of advertisers to embrace the web as a fundamental part of their marketing programmes was also helping."The whole marketing industry is changing - and online is at the heart of the new media mix," said Danny Meadows-Klue, the IAB's chief executive. "Years ago many claimed online would wipe away traditional media, but today we realise it supports them, accelerating their effects and stretching their reach," he added.The success of paid-for search advertising is also making inroads into traditional media spending, according to the IAB. The figures suggest that online advertising spending is rapidly catching up with radio advertising in terms of market share.The figures come just 24 hours after the Bellwether report, by the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, showed that spending online had grown for the ninth successive quarter."The growth rate of internet-related marketing spend in Q2 was well above that of other marketing activities, with one in four companies reporting an upward revision to budgets," the report said.
If you're not interested in radio frequency identification (RFID), you should be. All sorts of people are developing new systems using RFID: London Transport, for example, which uses it in its Oyster cards for the Tube and buses. You don't even have to put the card into a slot: you just wave it near the yellow button (I don't even take mine out of my wallet). It's very fast and convenient. No wonder the take-up of the technology is accelerating.This kind of RFID uses the "near field": you put an electric current through a coil in a device (the terminal) which generates a magnetic field. When you bring a second coil (inside the smart tag) close to the terminal, the magnetic field induces a current in that second coil. This current powers a computer chip that wakes up and   communicates with the terminal using a radio frequency (13.56MHz, in the case of ISO 14443). The terminal is active and the smart tag is passive.Sony and Philips have been working on the next generation of standards in this field, known as near-field communication (NFC). In NFC, devices can operate in active or passive modes. In one case, where an active terminal communicates with a passive tag, the situation is just as described above for RFID. When an active device communicates with another active device, they can swap data at a few hundred kbps over distances of a few centimetres.You can imagine how useful this might be in practice: put your DVD player next to your TV and they say hello to each other using NFC and then trigger a WiMax link to carry   video from the DVD player to the TV. Goodbye cables and goodbye hassle.More interestingly, Sony, Nokia and Philips have formed the NFC Forum to develop and promote the technology. Why Nokia? One of the most interesting category of devices that could operate in passive or active (ie, requiring power) mode is mobile phones, and these will undoubtedly be one of the most widespread category of consumer NFC device.To put this in context, imagine your mobile phone has an NFC interface. Then, even when your phone is switched off, it can do useful things: pay for items, for example. Wave your phone at the till in Starbucks and you have paid much quicker, and easier, than you could with cash.One especially interesting way   that NFC might be used is to trigger secure communications over other wireless channels by taking care of exchanging addresses, keys and certificates. So, I walk up to an ATM, put my card in and punch in the Pin. Now the bank knows it is me. I then put my phone next to the ATM: the ATM and the phone use NFC to exchange data (including my phone number and some cryptographic keys). Now the bank can communicate with me securely (over GPRS or 3G) without me having to know or understand anything about encryption, keys, digital signatures or anything else.Since NFC has the potential to make secure, convenient ad hoc networking a natural way for people to access content and services, it looks as if it will reach the mass market sooner rather than later. Near field is nearly here.&#183;Send email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Fake declarationsAlthough I looked on WebSideStory's website (The second browser war, July 15), I couldn't find any reference to the statistics quoted in the article or their methodology for determining browser usage.In this case, it's quite possible that the proportion using non-IE browsers is higher than that quoted, since some e-commerce and banking websites require the browser to declare itself as Internet Explorer, leading Mozilla (etc) users to configure their browsers to report "IE" rather than their "true" designation, thus skewing the statistics to a higher apparent use of Internet Explorer.Mike WhittakerShropshireDevil in the detailSo Internet Explorer's market share has dropped from 95.73% to 94.73%. I just love those two decimal places!How do we know this? Well,StatMarketuses data from visitors to sites that use parent company WebSide Story's HBX On-Demand Web analytics software. So how representative is that? How many sites? What sort of users? It may be a better sample than for those TV viewing figures in the millions that are based on the habits of a few thousand people, but are these really accurate enough to detect a decline in IE use? Have there been no fluctuations before?Ian WinshipNewcastle upon TyneSmashing timeSuzi Perry states inTalk Time (July 15)that a Macintosh would be more expensive to repair than a PC after being thrown out of a window. I can't see that this would be a problem. You are never going to be so frustrated with a Macintosh to ever want to send it plummeting to a silicon death.Stephen BennettNorwichScreen buffsThe simplest way to find screening times for your local Odeon cinema(Web Watch, July 15)is to email odeonuk.com. If you enter your personal details and select a local cinema, Odeon will email you regularly on a Thursday with full details of all film titles (giving certificate, running time and screening times) for the following seven days at your chosen local cinema.Elaine PoleLeicesterMiniDisc solutionWith reference to Tony Fowler'sletter (July 8)on the subject of Sony MiniDiscs, I, too, have had the same problem. For some reason Sony will not let you record from the MiniDisc using the USB connection it supplies.I got around this by using the ear phone jack into the in-line socket on my computer. You will need an audio program (not the Windows recorder) and I use the free Audacity.David PrestageKentPatently absurdThe article (Patently unfair, July 8) understates the problem. As a software developer of more than 30 years experience, I cannot begin to estimate the number of ideas I have implemented, whether of my own invention or that of others.It has - until recently - been a matter of pride to freely share tips, tricks and techniques. If you like, an   intellectual "showing-off", but also a means of learning from peers, and advancing knowledge.Now, unless I have a patent lawyer sitting with each programmer, how can I be certain that some simple concept - such as asking a recipient for their postal address - does not violate some patent? And does this particular patent extend beyond software? What if I telephone you to ask for your address? Is that covered?Granting patents for software has only two conceivable outcomes: one, stifling innovation other than by the largest of corporations, or two, hiding ideas within code. Let's face it, what I do within my program can easily violate dozens of patents, without anyone being any the wiser. It is only the external manifestation that exposes a patent violation for the patent lawyers to see and to act upon.Ken Burmanwww.krburman.comTorontoMonopoly supportSoftware patents are clearly highly undesirable. There are enough large company monopolies in software keeping prices artificially high as it is.It is amazing that any political party would want to preside over strengthening the unacceptable face of capitalism - giving more power to the already strong at the expense of the weak. For Labour and the Lib-Dems, it seems to fly in the face of everything they stand for.Ian LynchDirector, IRL Computer Systems LtdSearching storyYour story about Blinkx (All eyes on Blinkx, July 15) is positive. I, for one, would happily see some real competition for Google. However, shouldn't you mention it is available to Windows' users only!Paul Bristowbristowp@eso.org&#183;A Mac version is planned - Editor
