The days of being able to promote your business for free on the web are fast running out. Online advertising will account for 2% of all UK advertising expenditure by the end of 2004, already reaching 1.5% this year, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB). It's deemed to be more efficient than traditional advertising media, more targeted, yet to have unparalleled market reach (how else could you reach an international audience so immediately and at relatively low cost?). No wonder the various portals, web directories and search engines have started cashing in.The number of different options for online marketing is growing too. Today you can pay companies to "optimise" your website so that more search engines pick it up when returning query results; you can pay to guarantee that your website comes up when consumers search on certain keywords; you can buy banner advertising on a wide range of web locations; or you can pay to get your website listed in various online business directories.So which way should you go? Website optimisation companies will charge anything from &#163;70 a month to optimise the content of your website to ensure that search engines are more likely to find it when doing "natural" searches (producing results that haven't been "bought" by advertisers). The process involves making sure common search terms (keywords) are included in the text, and that these are further highlighted using meta tags and link text.Yet, as interest in paid-for placements (carefully disguised sponsorship) continues to grow, it's getting harder for "natural" search results to top the results, strengthening the case for search engine-based advertising."It's about putting your website in the greatest stream of traffic," explains Marcos Richardson, European director at WebtraffiQ, which measures the effectiveness of companies' websites by monitoring the visitors they attract. "Yes, all companies that register with search engines can have a standard listing, but potential customers stand a lesser chance of coming across your site as there are now so many listed companies to choose from. The evidence suggests that a browser will give up after the third page of a Google listing, so if you aren't in the top 30 you're far less likely to get a click-through."In Richardson's view, paying for a higher "placement" (by sponsoring a keyword) is little different from buying placed advertising in a traditional magazine. The cunning part, however, is that those who pay for their search engine placements, and therefore get more traffic, are then more likely to rise up the natural search listings because a common criterion for a higher "editorial" ranking is how often the site is being viewed by consumers.Being ranked "naturally" by a search engine isn't all plain sailing anyway. What many firms don't realise when they design their website is that this is only the start of the process - and the cost. They then need to submit the site to each of the search companies. Some marketing agencies claim you need to resubmit your site every couple of weeks, which is no small feat given that every search engine has slightly different criteria for submission. And LookSmart's Submit-a-Site service alone costs &#163;149 plus VAT. And then there's Yahoo, and so on.Again, you can get someone to manage all of this for you - for an additional fee. Marketing agency New Brand Vision, which has just launched an online marketing service aimed at small businesses, provides software that automatically submits a website to the various search engines every two weeks, for a matter of &#163;150 a year.But when you're a small business, it's not quantity of business leads that counts, but quality. So if you're a team of three dressmakers based in Wigan, Lancashire, do you really want to risk over-extending your business by trying to attract customers from the length and breadth of the country, or beyond?A better alternative might be to focus your attention on the classified directories, such as Yell.com (the online version of Yellow Pages), Scoot, or ThomsonLocal.com. These offer more targeted search options which, at least in theory, means that each time a business's details are presented to a consumer this should result in a concrete sales lead. And of course the online directory market is currently benefiting nicely from the chaos surrounding telephone-based directory enquiry services, following the demise of BT's 192.Yell.com claims to be the UK's leading online classified directory service, featuring some 1.7m classified businesses in the UK, which are listed by name, geographical region and activity. As with their paper equivalents, these directories offer a range of paid-for advertising options. In Yell.com's case, these range from "enhanced" listings (starting at &#163;119 a year) to adverts like those seen in the paper directories (from &#163;149 a year), links to your company's website (from &#163;259 a year) and banner ads (from &#163;300 a year).As well as being able to exploit their strong offline brands, the big online directories are cross-linked with the major portals, so a listed business should also expect to see its details in the web results for these services.Yet Gerard Liston, managing director ofwww.smallbiz.uk.com, a website offering advice and resources to SMEs, believes that large, mainstream directory sites get a mixed reaction from small businesses. "Small Þrms are necessarily prudent about how they spend their limited promotional budget," he says. "Many are sceptical about websites that make inflated promises about their ability to reach millions."Smallbiz prefers to work with free directory services such as AskAlix and thelocalweb.net. "They make an attractive alternative to the conventional, high-profile directory brands," he says.But do they have the same breadth and quality of audience? "Business directories should be chosen with care," warns Marcus Austin, editor-in-chief atwww.startups.co.uk, a website offering information and advice to new businesses. "There are an awful lot of them but only very few are used. If you want to opt for more specialised services, make sure they provide a recognised audit of their distribution."  AskAlix enjoys exposure through big-brand partner portals such as Dun &amp; Bradstreet, and Barclays' Clearlybusiness. Meanwhile Netscape's Open Directory (www.dmoz.org.add.html) is syndicated by search engines such as Google, Lycos and AOL.So there are still some free options for companies that have time rather than money to invest in online promotional activities.Yet it's worth remembering that online marketing remains just one of several routes to pulling in new prospects: it's essential not to neglect more traditional forms of advertising.Paradoxically, these can represent the most effective ways of promoting your website, according to Mike Davis, a senior research analyst at Butler Group.   "Many people still prefer paper-based directories, especially if they're searching for a particular type of firm in their own area," he says."Even if they want to look you up on the internet, they'll often get your web address from print media."There's even a monthly, paper-based index of the best websites that you can pick up at your local newsagent."So make sure you've got these bases covered too.Network marketing&#183;Four months ago, Daniella Clayton set up her own multi-level marketing business, linked to a billion-dollar health and weight loss organisation in the US. The business,www.egoldenopportunity.com, has two strands selling personal consultancy-based weight loss and health solutions to consumers, and recruiting new home-based sales people to the business.Clayton does all her advertising on the internet, where she spends &#163;100 a month targeting people wanting to lose weight and &#163;300 a month on recruitment.But how did she know where to spend her budget? Clayton says she has learnt a lot from her fellow network marketers."I was approached by a web search optimisation company, but was told not to touch it as there had been cases of people spending thousands and getting nowhere," she says.A lot of Clayton's advertising is keyword based, particularly for recruitment. "Here, I'm aiming at people who've been made redundant, badly paid professions like teaching, or mothers who want an income but want to work from home."One valuable tip when investing in paid placements with search engines was to keep per-click costs down by settling for a lower ranking than the number one slot. While the top slot might cost 50p per click, the sixth might only be 5p. "It's just as visible and may actually be seen as more credible," Clayton notes.  "The beauty of keyword-based advertising is that you can test your budget monthly. You pay per day based on how many people click through to your site, and can set an upper limit on how much you're prepared to spend."Clayton, who has already made &#163;1,500 profit in the four months since starting her business and claims the projections are "fantastic", describes search-based marketing as an "incredible medium". "It gets into all the nooks and crannies," she says. She particularly likes the ability to target audiences by country. "As the UK market for weight-loss solutions slows down for winter, I can target the southern hemisphere."
&#183;Microsoft has launched the new version of Office, which will focus on increased connectivity between users and includes a new application called OneNote for brainstorming and note taking. It also uses XML technology so that documents can "talk" to each other (so a document can re-format itself according to the whim of the user while making sure any data included remains unaltered). Disadvantages include an increased amount of programs which won't be to everyone's liking (pricing will still discourage people from buying the individual components as standalone products) and total dependency on Windows XP - if you haven't got it and if you're not connected to a network the whole time you might as well forget it.&#183;Small businesses without much in the way of marketing facilities may be interested inwww.new2marketing.com, a service that allows you to select marketing services you want from a menu and build your own portfolio (and tot up your own price) as you go. It also includes a return on investment calculator so managers will be able to see how much revenue their investment should be getting them, all other things being equal. Services include logo design at &#163;199 and a four-page website for &#163;475. Search engine placing and other services are also available.&#183;Baffled by broadband? Brunel University is developing a piece of software to explain the benefits. As yet unnamed, it will be aimed at small companies and will sit on their computers, note what they're doing and explain how much time they would have saved if they had been using a broadband connection. The announcement of the product was prompted by a survey by research company Intellect, which suggested a third of small businesses had no plans to take up broadband as they didn't see a business case.&#183;Sun has launched what it is pushing as the first realistic alternative to the traditional desktop computer. Called the Sun Java Desktop System it includes the company's Star Office suite for office productivity and will work with current files and environments as well as devices similar to itself. At $100 per desktop it is much cheaper to purchase than a standard PC and Sun believes it will lower desktop management costs as well. Whether it will knock its more expensive competition off the top spot remains to be seen.&#183;Techland is launching new voice over IP switches. In plainer English these are switches that let you place telephone calls through your internet connection instead of through your telephone system, so you bypass all that dull payment of telephone bills business. The technology has been shortlisted in two categories by the Channel Network Awards 2003 and its unique point is that you don't need an expensive handset to make it work. To see what you could save, go towww.techland.co.uk/indexvoip_roi_calculator.&#183;So, how healthy is your network in terms of reliability and security? Organisations with an IT manager will probably know: there will be others taking advice from outside and hoping for the best. To help these organisations, Computer Associates is launching its "Acid Test" product, a free self-assessment tool you can use on the web. Located atwww.ca.com/acidtest, it's simply a questionnaire you fill in and then it gives you a recommended course of action (if any is necessary) to bring your systems up to speed. Larger companies who are on the "medium" side of small to medium enterprise should look into Watchguard Auditscan, a product powered by systems audit specialist Qualys that will look into network vulnerabilities.&#183;Easynet is to try and take the initiative on getting rural areas hooked up to broadband. Its new scheme, called Easynet Exchange Enable (E3), will take aggregated public sector demand for broadband to demonstrate the much-trumpeted "trigger levels" for broadband have been reached in areas in which BT believes they haven't. The business is urging public sector organisations as yet unable to connect to broadband to register as broadband champions atwww.uk.easynet.net/exchange-enable.&#183;Not exactly news, but since numerous reports suggest that businesses large and small are increasing their IT spend it's reasonable to guess there will be increasing amounts of redundant computers around the place. It's worth mentioning that Computer Aid International (www.computer-aid.org) welcomes donations of computers with a spec of Pentium II and above so it can send them to the third world to try to reduce the perceived digital divide. Given that 2.5m computers currently end up in landfill sites per annum it's got to be worth considering.
OneNote was one of the few innovative pieces of software Microsoft added to its Office system last week, but it didn't add it to the Office suite - you have to buy it separately. However, since nearly everyone from students to company directors takes notes, it should find an audience, and many people may find it more useful than the spreadsheet and presentation packages they don't really need, and the powerful document processing features that are in Microsoft Word but they never use. If it takes off, it could even give sales of a new generation of Tablet PCs, arriving now, a much-needed kick.OneNote is straightforward to use: it's structured into colour-coded sections, with multiple pages in each section. You can type - or write - into the pages but you can place chunks of text and pictures wherever you want just by putting the cursor there, so you can have your main notes, an agenda in the top right corner or as part of the page title, a to-do list running down the side and a row of pictures for quick reference. You can drag text and pictures in from other documents, and you get a reminder of where the information came from.Shrink the OneNote window and the interface slims itself down, turning into a "sticky" yellow note that's handy for jotting down phone messages. You can also record meetings and the audio is saved as part of the document, synchronised to the notes you take, so it's easy to get just the clip you want when you go back to look at your notes.It's easy to pick up OneNote and just start typing or writing, but you   can also customise the stationery to suit the way you take notes. Steve Sinofsky, senior vice-president of Microsoft Office, says the program is very flexible because Microsoft studied so many styles of note taking. "There's a hallway at Microsoft filled with photocopies of notes and samples of notes from all over the world. We have people who take notes in very linear fashion, who use outlines with letters and numbers and structure; we have people who take notes in little squares spread over the paper. We have people who write notes on top of handouts, people who use calendars as a way of taking notes. Our job as product designers is to take the sum of all of those and build a product that supports all of them."OneNote works perfectly well on a desktop PC or a notebook, with text you type or information you copy from web pages and other documents. It also works well on a Tablet PC, although Microsoft is keen for it not to be seen only as a Tablet application, perhaps because Tablet sales have been variable. The first two months saw substantial sales - around 72,000 Tablets worldwide - but then sales slowed.The problem is that initially you paid a lot extra for a Tablet PC and in return you got an unusually small screen (10in or 12in at best), barely three hours of battery life and no CD or DVD drive - to keep the size and weight down to something you can   comfortably hold in one hand while writing on the screen. The slower processors used to keep the first generation Tablet PCs cool enough to hold didn't always impress, either.Almost a year on, prices are down - you can get a Tablet for less than &#163;1,000 - and sales are up. Acer hasn't managed the 20% of all notebook sales it predicted but is close to 15%. And the latest Tablet PCs have better battery life and performance because of Intel's Centrino chips.Smaller players such as Motion Computing went straight for Centrino models, but most Tablet suppliers are on to their second generation. Centrino's built-in wireless networking uses power more efficiently than adding Wi-Fi separately, although not all of the new models get a battery boost.HP's Centrino-powered TC1100 manages more than four hours, but sticking with the same design apart from the 1GHz processor makes something like Acer's new TravelMate C110 more powerful without improving the battery life. We're starting to see more than just ultra-portables, too: Acer's TravelMate 303 has a 14in screen and a built-in CD drive, the TravelMate 250PXCi is a traditional notebook with a touchscreen and Panasonic's CF-18 is a rugged device you can drop and kick around. There are more models on the way from Toshiba and Fujitsu, too.So will OneNote give the Tablet market a boost? If you're used to taking notes with pen and paper and then wondering what to do with them, it saves you filing them, wasting time typing them up or forgetting to take them to the next meeting. Audio recordings automatically   synchronised with notes mean you can click on an action point and hear who actually agreed to take it on.In short, you're more likely to do something with the notes you take in meetings, and that could be well worth the cost of a Tablet. But it's not just arguments about whether Microsoft charges too much for the Tablet PC-operating system that are   holding the market back. While there are interesting tools such as Franklin Covey's TabletPlanner - which combines the familiar DayPlanner system with a link to Microsoft Exchange - the major software players haven't got behind Tablet PC. It needs more than one application that works better with a pen to make the Tablet PC a compelling platform.
BroadbandSky TV on your PCSky is offering broadband internet users a taste of satellite TV on their PC with the launch of its SkyScape video portal. The service brings together content such as Sky News clips, which Sky has been streaming freely for a while, alongside premium footage such as Champions League and Premiership football highlights. Other paid-for content includes comedy clips from Paramount and short films from British directors. Sky is offering subscribers free access for a month, after which they'll pay &#163;4 per month or &#163;30 a year to access the service. Non-Sky subscribers pay &#163;5 per month or &#163;40 per year. More details fromwww.sky.com/skyscape.Double for quidsBT will provide a 1 megabit per second (Mbps) ADSL broadband service from November 20, twice the speed of its current broadband service, for any BT phone-line user within 2.5 miles (4 km) of an ADSL-enabled exchange. This is less than the 3.4 mile (5.5 km) range of the 512 kilobit per second (kbps) service. BT Wholesale will charge internet service providers &#163;23 a month per customer, &#163;10 more than for 512 kbps, with &#163;50 for a new connection and &#163;35 for an upgrade. This follows trials which started on October 6.AOL, which took part in BT's trials, will start offering 1Mbps across the country for &#163;39.99 on November 20, but has not decided whether to charge for upgrades. BT's Openworld and broadband services will both offer 1Mbps. Freeserve says it is likely to offer a service, but will run tests until Christmas. BT ADSL availability:www.bt.com/broadbandHardwareSony slims downSony is set to take on Casio and its best-selling super-slim Exilim digital camera with what it is billing as the thinnest five megapixel snapper. Expected to arrive in the UK in late spring, the CyberShot DSC-T1 packs a 2.5in   LCD viewfinder and a Carl Zeiss lens with a 3x optical zoom into a frame just 0.8in thin and 2.4in tall. The camera also shoots moving images, can capture four high-speed burst shots in less than two seconds and saves images on to a Memory Stick Duo card. It is expected to retail for around &#163;450. Also likely to arrive in spring is the replacement for the DSC-U20 and U30 mini budget digital cameras. The DSC-40 has a resolution of two megapixels, but is slightly smaller than predecessors.www.sony.co.ukMedia to bookToshiba is to become the first manufacturer to offer a notebook PC running Microsoft's Media Center PC-operating system. Applications, which include TV tuner, personal video recorder with electronic programming guide, Windows Media audio and video playback, can be controlled via a remote control handset. The Satellite P20-504 features a 17in widescreen display, 3.2GHz Intel Pentium 4 processor, 512MB of DDR memory and an 80GB hard disk. It goes on sale next week for around &#163;2,300.www.toshiba.co.ukToughbooksPanasonic has unveiled the latest in its range of Toughbook range of computers - notebook PCs designed to withstand a knock. Both the CF-W2 and CF-T2 feature a semi-ruggedised construction including a high-impact absorbing outer frame and robust magnesium alloy finish. The hard drive is protected by a shock absorber, while the keyboard and touchpad are waterproof. The pair can apparently withstand a drop of around 30 metres. The W2 features a 900Mhz Intel Centrino processor with integrated Wi-Fi facilities, a 12.1in TFT screen, a 40GB hard disk and a battery life of up to seven hours. The T2 has a similar specification in a smaller and lighter frame. Both are on sale for around &#163;1,500.www.panasonic.co.ukMobile PhonesClamshell to 3Following the arrival of the Motorola A835 last week, 3 is continuing to expand its handset range with the launch of the NEC e616, due later next month. The e616 is a clamshell phone set to replace 3's original handset, the NEC e606. The new model is slightly smaller and lighter than its predecessor. It features two cameras to enable 3's signature video calling, GPS for location- based services and Java for downloading games and other content. Its 2.2in LCD screen sports 64K colours - the standard for high-end camera phones. It is the first NEC 3G phone with GPRS to enable users to access data content while outside 3's 3G network.www.three.co.ukThe X factorSendo's long-promised smartphone, first mooted in summer 2001, will finally go on sale by the end of the year. The Sendo X was to become the first handset to use Microsoft's Smartphone operating system for mobiles (now known as Windows Mobile 2003). However, disagreements that have ended up in legal battles between Microsoft and Sendo now means it uses the rival Symbian 7 operating system. At 120g, it is a comparatively light, candy bar-style phone. Features include integrated video and still cameras, a RealOne audio player, Bluetooth, POP3 email and full internet access. Its TFT screen, which has a resolution of 176x220 and up to 64K colours, can be customised to give users access to favourite applications or websites.www.sendo.co.ukMobile gamingCannon fodderLast year, mobile developer Macrospace released a great turn-based title named Cannons, which took the gameplay of Worms but swapped invertebrates for tanks. Now, it has a multi- player version, Cannons Tournament, allowing up to four players to battle it out over 2.5G or 3G networks. Participants move their vehicles over a mountainous 2D landscape, using height and power controls to aim missiles at opponents. Simple but devilishly addictive - especially when up against opponents as far afield as Singapore and Israel. If you own a Nokia Java phone, download fromwww.macrospace.com. It's &euro;4.95 a month to play over the air, but you get a complete single player version with your first instalment. Other handsets will be supported soon.Stat of the week:  Women and the net52% of net users in the US are women. But in Europe the net is still male dominated. Sweden and the UK lead the way, with women forming 46 and 44% of the net population. But parity across Europe is not expected until 2010.
Once you've tasted the wireless lifestyle, it's difficult not to become an evangelist. And sometimes, the return to "dead space" can be maddening.My most memorable experience of the shift came earlier this year. I returned from Los Angeles, having spent a few buzzy days working at a range of Wi-Fi'd writers' cafes with funky titles such as Bourgeois Pig and Espresso Mi Cultura.And then I spent seven hours on a hot, grimy train back to Glasgow, in a state of seething disconnection.As my laptop collapsed after barely two hours - with my mobile phone having given up its infrared modem best an hour before - I mused on what a wasted opportunity train travel is for the wireless sector.Could it be that difficult to fit a train with electrical points and a decent data cloud (barring the odd tunnel break in transmission)? Might these swaying cocoons actually be one of the best places to wallow in an ocean of bandwidth - not just for business, but for pleasure?In the months since my trip, I've seen my questions answered. The new high-speed (and high-cost) Eurostar service from London to Paris featured Wi-Fi and laptop powerpoints in the price. In August, GNER and Virgin announced plans to fit broadband wireless to their east coast Scotland-London trains.  In areas as disparate as California, Montreal, Stockholm and Tokyo, commuter trains are running with similar schemes.The business case is promoted most strongly. There's much talk about the "mobile office" and "keeping in touch with your corporate database". A survey from research group BCWS showed interest from commuters for a service at &#163;5 per trip - "though you can probably charge twice that", said the group's Graham Wilde with cheery avarice, "because there's nowhere else they can go".There's also the possibility that Wi-Fi will make trains an appreciably more attractive option than planes   for business travellers. Trains already have the comfort and convenience argument.  And, if you can use the extra hour or two of track time to get your business life in order, while sitting at a powerfully networked computer, a Wi-Fi train ticket starts to look like a more fulfilling option.But there are many of us whose   mobile expenditures (and aspirations) aren't supported by the expense-account largesse of a corporate employer.  There are other arguments for the wireless train, which touch on more civic and aesthetic realms.My rail experiences have intensified recently, as a combination of factors (from work to relationships to   geography) have made me a regular user of the Glasgow-London service. It's reminded me what a democratic and sociable space the train is. By choosing the train over the plane, you're already stepping back from the just-in-time ethos that sees people puffing their way across the airport concourses of Luton or Heathrow, Manchester or Glasgow.Some might see that as an argument for the book, rather than the online laptop, as the ideal communications device for train travel.But the meditative, self-reflective potential of the train journey hasn't really been exploited since those famous Tony Kaye adverts in the 70s - rabbis playing chess with girls, the stiletto heels folding over on themselves, an air of fantasy and temporary escape from the grind.Yet with broadband wireless, online chess is only the most predictable of games we might be playing: at the very least, the web is a repository for our indulgent fantasies (particularly so with greater bandwidth). As for literary introspection - well, in the age of blogging, one would hardly be starved of the opportunity for stimulation or self-expression.There are those who might resist the wireless train as yet another way to colonise a personal realm with market values and work imperatives. And certainly, if the pricing is too high, then the only people who'll be tempted will frantically be trying to justify its cost.But there's a huge constituency of what I'd call "busy-ness" travellers - students and academics, volunteers and activists, hobbyists and amateurs, who have embarked on projects and agendas that don't fall within a strict market definition.I bet they would make a positive vote for the wireless train, if it were made accessible and ubiquitous. It would be a great opportunity to commit to a time of self-management and self-enlightenment, while on the way to meet friends or colleagues.Would it distract you from the sticky seats, the surly staff and the sickening coffee? Well, it might fill up some of those seats with customers. The rest would be just like your local web cafe. Except on thundering metal wheels, with Britain screaming past your window. What could be more fun?&#183;Pat Kane's book The Play Ethic is out early next year -www.theplayethic.com
Strathlachlanhas some information onNick Denton'slatest blog venture. First there wasGizmodoandGawker, next there's going to beFleshbot: a weblog devoted to providing "an intelligent guide to the [porn] images and video proliferating on the web." Denton promises "no original content; rather thumbnails and pointers". Could it be his biggest blogging money-spinner yet?
10,000 British Gas customers have opted to avoid the dreaded thud of bills on the doormat as they received their first demands via email today.The energy giant predicts that one million of its 17 million customers will be getting e-bills by 2005, a move it says will save them £10 a year if they buy both gas and electricity from the company.Research commissioned by British Gas found large numbers of people use the internet in work time for personal reasons. It added that it was a practice which employers should not necessarily frown upon because using the internet was quicker than making a telephone call or leaving the office."All but a few people who 'home from work' say that sorting out home hassles during the day frees them up to concentrate harder on their work and makes them more productive," said Richard Hepworth from British Gas.Despite the apparent enthusiasm for the scheme, British Gas customers may still be paying over the odds for their bills, according to online energy switching companyuSwitch.com. Its recent research found that more than three-quarters of British Gas customers believe that they are getting a good deal from the energy giant, despite the fact that is the most expensive supplier in the UK.Six months ago Energywatch, the gas and electricity watchdog, launched the "Better Billing" campaign. It said that two million gas and electricity customers have found themselves in debt in recent years because of billing blunders by energy firms.It also reported that 1.3 million people are behind on their gas bills and one million on electricity, with 15% owing more than £300.
"NetDay, a non-profit organization that promotes technology in schools, wants to enlist half a million students to go to its Web site (netday.org) today and complete a short survey as part of its first "Speak Up Day." This winter, it will issue a report to the U.S. Education Department, which is developing a national school technology policy," reportsUSA Today.
Wanadoo, the internet service provider and owner of Freeserve, saw sales rise by almost a third in the last three months as more customers switched to broadband internet services.The company, which is part-owned by France T&#233;l&#233;com, said sales were &euro;679m (&#163;467m) in the three months to the end of September - up 29% on the &euro;527m of the previous year. Wanadoo hopes to record a similar level of growth when it reports full financial figures for 2003.The company also promised that it will be in the black - before financial charges - for the full year.Shares in the company, 70% held by France T&#233;l&#233;com, rose in Paris as analysts reacted positively to a large increase in customer numbers during what is traditionally a slow three months for business.Wanadoo, Europe's second largest ISP after Deutsche Telekom, gained 252,000 new broadband subscribers in the third quarter, taking the total to just over 2m. Almost one in four of Wanadoo's 8.8m customers now have a high-speed, always-on net connection."Broadband internet is generating ever greater demand among our customers and is now an integral component in all our business," said chief executive Olivier Sichel."These solid results should enable Wanadoo to achieve its 2003 objectives."Separately Lloyds TSB yesterday became the latest company to launch a broadband service, increasing competition in the UK market for high-speed access.The company's Ideal brand - which already supplies telephone, gas and electricity services - launched a "no annual contract" service for &#163;26.99 a month.
Rolls-Royce workers staged a demonstration outside Parliament yesterday as part of a protest against the company's plans to cut pension benefits by up to 20%.About 100 workers from plants including Derby, Sheffield, Bristol and Glasgow, briefed MPs on what they described as a pensions "robbery" immediately before the company's annual parliamentary business presentation.Amicus said the engineering group had rejected union proposals, including increased contributions, and was pressing ahead with plans to cut benefits.The union is threatening to hold a strike ballot unless the dispute is resolved and regional officer Glen Johnson said: "Pensions are not company patronage. They are deferred earnings and should be treated as such. Rolls-Royce has &#163;19bn worth of orders on its books so there is time to find a reasonable solution before the workforce ends up on strike."
Columnist and blogger James Lileks writes some lovely stuff, and his account of setting out tobuy a copy of Pantheris no different. It's well worth reading the original, but here's a sample:"How many people did you have last night?" I asked the clerk the next day as he rang up my purchase.'Eight hundred.'[...]My wife could not understand what I was talking about. Eight hundred people, lined up at 8 PM on Friday in a shopping mall, for what did you say, a game?No. An operating system.'These people need lives,' she said.They have them, I explained. They just revolve around operating systems.'They need real lives. They need children.'They have them, I explained, and they're - but I stopped there. Leave it be."
The education secretary, Charles Clarke, today appealed for schools around the world to form partnerships through a new website set up to encourage a more international curriculum.Admitting that the UK education system did have a tendency to be "sometimes too inward-looking", Mr Clarke pledged that the website, Global Gateway, would help Britain become "more international"."We are keen to form partnerships to look at the best experiences of primary school teaching training around the world. We have lots to offer but much to gain as well," he told a conference of Commonwealth ministers in Edinburgh today."The development of the internet is a golden appointment to put schools in direct contact with schools elsewhere," he said.The website will enable schools, colleges and universities to get involved with student exchanges, teacher training exchanges and school partnerships. "I hope it will help develop a more international approach in schools in England," he added.Mr Clarke recently defended the GCSE history curriculum from attacks from German campaigners who claimed that it was too focused on Hitler and gave a distorted understanding of the country, though he accepted that the allegations were a "fair point".Mr Clarke chose not to discuss the domestic agenda, focusing instead on the "massive challenge of change" which countries around the world were facing and which could be tackled best through education."Our children are growing up in a world changing more rapidly than any time in history; those changes are going to get tougher, more radical and more complex," he said.In contrast Jack McConnell, the Scottish first minister who is hosting the conference, spoke extensively about recent achievements in education in Scotland - including the 50% participation rate in higher education for under-21s and the universal provision of education for under-fives for parents who chose it. Both are among tough targets the British government is currently working towards.TheGlobal Gatewayis due to launch in January.
How does the latest email scam work?Fraudsters have been going on email "phishing" expeditions, hoping to steal bank account details. They simply send out millions of emails, faking the email header to make it appear as if it is coming from a particular bank.The phishermen know that a certain percentage of people on the receiving end will be customers of the bank in question. They direct the bank's customers to a faked web site that looks just like the genuine Barclays or Halifax or NatWest online banking portal, and invite their victims to input their account and security information.From there it's a short step to logging in to the bona fide bank site and accessing your cash.Which banks have been targeted?Thus far, Barclays, Citibank, Halifax, Lloyds TSB, Nationwide and NatWest have seen emails trawling for their customers. All have taken steps to alert their customers and to reiterate that the banks would never ask for confidential security information.Does this mean online banking is insecure?No, it means you should never give out your pin number and account information unless you have initiated the contact with the bank.Why don't the banks have the spoof sites shut down?They do, but fraudsters have little trouble setting up another site through the limitless numbers of internet service providers.What should I do if I receive one of these hoax emails?As with all spam, you should not respond. This only confirms to the spammers that the email address is "live". Some banks have asked their customers to forward suspect emails to them. But if you know it's a hoax and it has been widely publicised, just delete the email.If you are unsure about the information in the email, ring your bank or visit its web site by using the web address you know to be genuine. Never follow links or ring numbers contained in the email.Fraudsters generally need willing dupes to help them transfer cash out of the country. This really should go without saying, but if anyone asks to use your account as a means of international money transfer, the answer needs to be no.Always check over your bank statements and credit card bills to make sure there have been no unauthorised transactions.
Customers of Halifax and Nationwide are the latest to be targeted in a sophisticated email scam to trick users into disclosing their bank passwords, it was revealed yesterday.Halifax took the decision to close its online banking operation for almost 48 hours while it attempted to track down the culprits - thought to be Russian fraudsters - and alert its 1.5m online customers to the scam. The online facility and the bank's main website were both switched back on yesterday afternoon. There were signs yesterday that the fraudsters have increased their activity over the past few days, with previously targeted banks coming under fire.Barclays yesterday revealed that eight or more customers had had money fraudulently taken from their accounts since the bank was first targeted, early last month. All have been refunded in full, said a spokeswoman for the bank, which has 3.9m online customers across Barclays and Woolwich.NatWest, Lloyds TSB and Citibank have also been hit by the cyber fraud.Emails claiming to come from the banks have asked customers to log on to a realistic but fake website and enter confidential details. The emails are being sent out randomly to vast numbers of people in the hope that a few will reach genuine customers who will divulge their details. They typically ask people to click on a link, at which point a small window pops up. Customers are then asked to input their surname, membership number, passcode and password.If people provide their confidential details, the criminals are potentially able to transfer money out of their accounts.The banks' message is that no bank would ever contact a customer to ask them to disclose Pins or password information. They have been closing down the fraudulent websites as soon as they become aware of them, but as a Barclays spokeswoman explained: "You take one of the fake websites down and they put another one up with a different service provider."On Saturday afternoon Halifax discovered people were being sent bogus emails purporting to come from the bank, some of which led customers through to a fake Halifax site."We thought the prudent approach was to bring the online facility down straightaway," said a spokesman. He emphasised there had been no breach of security, adding that the bank took the facility down so it could email all its online customers and add extra warnings to the site. The spokesman added that the scam had been traced to Russia.Nationwide said it became aware of similar scam emails on Sunday. It has put an alert on its site and emailed all customers saying it would never ask people to reveal confidential details.Barclays said after several quiet weeks, fraudulent emails purporting to come from the bank had started appearing again. One of these, passed on to the Guardian by a non-Barclays customer who had received it, carried a link to a fake pop-up window that was still in operation late yesterday afternoon. Barclays said it was looking to take down the site.
Life is short. Time is precious. We work hard and we don't spend enough time expanding our horizons or just enjoying being with friends and family. Therefore, let me reduce the number of pointless things you do this week by one. There is absolutely no need for you, or indeed anyone you know, to visit the new blog - or online journal - on Bush's website (georgewbush.com/blogif you really want to know).The Bush Blog is a collection of diary updates ("President Bush travels to Portsmouth, New Hampshire, this morning to deliver remarks to the New Hampshire Air National Guard") and links to stories from various media organisations - or their own press releases - that prove without doubt that a) the US economy is actually in fantastic shape and b) things are going really, really well in Iraq and Afghanistan.There is nothing inherently good or bad about the fact that Bush has jumped on the blog bandwagon. The manner in which he has done it, however, is a wasted opportunity. Politicians' early use of the net feels as stilted, guarded and formal as their first use of television. The Democratic contender Howard Dean has used the medium better than anyone to date for raising funds and mobilising support. He was the first to set up a campaign blog (like Bush, he has a team to write it for him). But while his blog - and indeed his site - tell you what he stands for, it doesn't tell you who he really is.Just as politicians eventually realised that the best way to use TV was to have intimate conversations with the people at home rather than deliver a lecture, so they have to learn the same about the net, and blogs in particular. At the moment, you sense they see a blog like a live manifesto, or an endless TV ad. They should think of it as the modern equivalent of knocking on doors, pressing the flesh and kissing babies. Superficial and stage-managed, yes - but also intimate and incredibly effective.And for politicians, there is a real beauty here. To get yourself across on your website or blog, there's no need to subject yourself to endless interviews with journalists or months of "intimate" fly-on-the-wall filming. Nothing but a keyboard stands between you and the world.The first politician - of whatever political hue - who uses a blog to reveal humanity, warmth, humour and intelligence (and it is not being overly optimistic to assume that there are politicians with all of the above) will truly be seen as a leader for our times. It will never be enough to secure election, but it might do a bit to remove some of the cynicism with which most of us view politicians.I imagine someone on one or other side of the Atlantic will soon make this conceptual leap. The big question is whether they'll be able to type.
We could, at long last, be close to a turning point in the fight against email spamming on the internet - though it will be a long time before the war is won. It will not seem like that to online banking customers of NatWest, Barclays and Halifax who, in recent weeks, have received illegal but official-looking emails inviting them to verify their logins and codes. This is a fraud by criminals seeking to get access to customer accounts. No reputable bank would send out mass emails asking people to put secret information in a potentially public sphere.The reason for optimism is that politicians have now realised that votes are at stake and are starting to take action. On Friday a California court fined a company $2m for sending out millions of emails telling people how they could go about spamming. This judgment came two days after the US Senate voted 97 to 0 approving the "Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing". This does not necessarily mean it will become law, but it shows the way things are going. New legislation expected to be enacted in Britain next month (implementing an EU directive) will make it illegal to send business emails or text messages without getting prior permission.This has provoked fierce reaction from marketing companies about what constitutes permission. But it does not address the real problem, because only a tiny proportion of spam starts in Europe. It is a bit like making it illegal for pigeons to visit Trafalgar Square. Although a disproportional amount of spam originates from one US state, Florida, it could easily migrate to any offshore tax haven once the heat is on.Some reports say the latest banking scam was run off servers in Russia and routed via a service provider in New Zealand as a cover. The point is that battle has been declared in a serious way. It can only be won using global weapons, but that does not mean it is not possible. Illicit sellers of Viagra can, in principle, be traced either from the product they sell or through the trails they leave on the internet. Battle has commenced.
Microsoft has been messing around with portable video players -- like iPods but for showing movie clips -- for a couple of years now, and the Windows CE-based software finally has an official name. In fact, the Media2Go code-name has been replaced by the typically stuffy and long-winded Windows Mobile software for Portable Media Centers, according to Microsoft's press release,here. "Device manufacturers such as Creative, iRiver International, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., SANYO Electric Co. Ltd. and ViewSonic Corp. have announced they are developing Portable Media Center devices." But they are still a very long way from reaching the shops.
Elvis remains the highest-earning dead celebrity, according to Forbes magazine'sannual list. Charles Schulz beats Tolkien into second place. IT angle? Oh, yes, you can download this and other Forbes lists to your PDA. It does require a copy of Palm Reader, but you can get Palm Reader for Pocket PC.
Dave Winerfinds truth lies in the middle, after reading a recentI, CringelyWindows vs Linux diatribe. "Reality lies somewhere between Cringely and Ballmer and Linus," writes Winer. "How about this. Both guys (Ballmer and Torvalds) make really shitty software."
California won its first judgment against spammers on Friday when a court fined a marketing firm $2m (£1.2m) for sending unsolicited bulk emails.The court in San Jose also banned PW Marketing LLC and its owners, Paul Willis and Claudia Griffin, from owning, managing, or holding an economic interest in any company that advertises over the internet without first notifying the attorney general. The injunction will remain in place for 10 years.The company sent millions of illegal, unsolicited emails advertising spamming tools, including $39 how-to books and lists of email addresses of California residents. The firm does not have a web site and has been accused of operating under fictitious names.Prosecutors said PW Marketing violated a 1998 anti-spam law by sending unsolicited email without a toll-free number for recipients to call to stop additional mailings. Its missives did not include a valid return address or the "ADV" label to mark advertisements, which the state requires.State attorneys also claimed the owners illegally tapped into computer users' network connections so the company could send email that couldn't be traced back to its source.Despite California's success in prosecuting the spammers, it may not be able to collect the money. Neither Willis nor Griffin appeared in court at any time during the proceedings, which began in September 2002.But Tom Dresslar, spokesman for California's attorney-general, Bill  Lockyer, said the state would do "everything it can within reason" to collect the money. Mr Lockyer said the 10-year ban could serve as a precedent for other companies or individuals accused of sending spam.California recently toughened its anti-spam laws, which prosecutors hope will lead to more success in the future. Under the new laws, individuals can sue spammers and collect damages of up to $1,000 per email.Another provision forbids sending unsolicited email advertisements unless recipients give prior permission to receive such emails.
For years, we have taken the freedoms of the internet for granted - watching the latest movie before it hits cinemas or downloading our favourite music or books. If you live in Europe, it is unlikely that you either paid for these experiences or worried unduly about the legality of them. From the end of this month, however, new European copyright laws will limit your access to some online material and make downloading or copying certain things - even if they are solely for your personal use - a criminal offence.The Orwellian-sounding European Union Copyright Directive (EUCD) is designed to update copyright protection for the internet age and harmonise laws across Europe. Its wording is long and complex, but the thrust of its main proposals is simple: devices that allow you to play legitimately acquired, but copy-protected, CDs or DVDs on your PC will be illegal, and file sharers could face an unlimited fine or a jail term of up to two years.The EUCD is supported by rights holders, but has been slammed by civil liberties groups as giving large corporations carte blanche to control how consumers use the internet and other digital devices, thereby robbing users of the "fair use" provision. Critics are also concerned that digital rights management systems, central to the control of online copyright, will let commercial organisations gather sensitive personal information about users."The main problem with the directive is that it goes further with copyright than copyright has ever gone before," says Ian Brown, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research. He argues that the implementation of the EUCD will do nothing to protect consumers, researchers and business competition, while adopting a heavy-handed approach to the criminalisation of copyright circumvention. "Copyright had always focused on people infringing rights and making copies. This goes further and says that any kind of technology that can help you do that is now illegal. The record companies are trying all sorts of ways to try to prevent copying - such as releasing CDs that you can listen to on a hi-fi but can't on a PC because it won't read it. The EUCD says it is illegal to break those copyright mechanisms even if you do it for a perfectly valid reason. So, if you buy a CD and want to listen to it on your PC at work, which is quite legitimate, you can't."The resulting legislation, which affects more than just music, is similar to the controversial US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). This, its opponents argue, has been employed by rights holders to limit competition, restrain free speech and constrain the way people use copyrighted materials."The DMCA has already proved to be a disastrous mistake in the US," says Robin Gross, executive directive of civil liberties group IP Justice. "The ban on bypassing digital controls is so broad that it has been used to jail an employee of a competing Russian software company, threaten journalists and researchers over scientific publications, and prevent innovation and competition. With several bills to amend the DMCA pending before US Congress, the lesson of the US experience is to avoid passing overly broad circumvention bans such as the DMCA and EUCD."Supporters of the EUCD, however, say direct comparisons of the EU directive with the US act are erroneous and, unless intellectual property rights are protected online, legitimate digital enterprises simply can't work. They also deny allegations that the policy is being dictated by a small number of wealthy lobby groups. "This isn't just about large corporations," says Andrew Yeates, executive director of the music business's trade association, the British Phonographic Industry. "As we have less manufacturing and more people creating and designing things, more and more people in the UK - journalists included - are going to be reliant on intellectual property rights. If we don't get a structure protecting those rights in this country, there are going to be a hell of a lot of jobs lost and other knock-on effects. It might seem like big corporate interests at the moment, but it's much broader than that."The UK Patent Office, which is overseeing the consultation and implementation of the EUCD in this country, says it has listened to a wide range of opinions. "To say the UK Patent Office is entirely in the thrall of one particular lobby group is not really fair," says Dr Jeremy Philpott of the UK Patent Office. "We have taken account of all views that were present and made a measured and balanced response."While rights holders and lobbying groups such as the RNIB were alerted to and invited to take part in the original consultation process last summer, legal experts have expressed surprise that there has been no wider public debate on the directive. "There was a consultation in August 2002, when the Patent Office put out a series of proposals," says Mark Owen, head of intellectual property at the law firm Harbottle &amp; Lewis. "But that was only made available to people who knew about it already. While there isn't really a consumers' body that deals with that sort of thing, the fact that there has been absolutely no public debate is quite astonishing."The Patent Office, however, says changes in the UK amount to little more than a tweaking of the existing 1988 copyright legislation. "It doesn't seem to lay the grounds for embarking on a major PR exercise when the directive isn't about significant changes," argues Philpott. Not informing people about changes to a law that most people know absolutely nothing about hardly contributes to the education process that rights holders like the BPI say is vital to the effectiveness of the new directive. With experts suggesting that a rash of legal actions against individual internet users is unlikely - simply because UK criminal courts are not set up to deal with them - persuading users rather than punishing them will be key.Whether or not the directive is used more as a deterrent than a punishment, it will still have a major impact on individuals and institutions and could, according to Owen, change our entire approach to rights-protected works. "Over time it could change the whole nature of copyright and the way we buy and sell copyrighted works. Eventually you may realise that what you are getting is not a thing but some sort of licence to access a concept and that licence is limited in all sorts of ways."
After five years on the New York dating scene, Kate Rolston, an advertising sales manager and sometime actor, had become a little jaded. "New York is the most difficult place in the world to date," she says. "Men are afraid to approach. And the ones who do are often all about money and status. The first thing they ask is 'What do you do?' I wanted someone with different priorities."So, like an increasing number of people in America, she turned to internet dating. Her first try, on the website Oneandonly.com, didn't yield much in the way of results. Her second try last year, on Match.com, was a resounding success.After dates with 10 or so different men, Rolston met Kyle, a health-food store owner, on December 10 last year. Seventeen days later he asked her to marry him.Rolston, 37, is part of a social phenomenon. Internet dating in the US has lost its stigma. According to figures from Jupiter Research, 21% of US internet users have surfed a personals website and 13% have posted an advertisement.In the early days of Yahoo personals, a service launched in 1997, online dating was useful only if you wanted to snare a Silicon Valley geek, admits Yahoo's spokeswoman Rochelle Adams: "There were a lot of engineers."Things have changed so much that more than 38,400 users responded to a recent promotion on the Yahoo personals site asking for real users to appear in an advertising campaign. "That says a lot about how things have shifted," she says. "A couple of years ago people might have used the site but wouldn't have mentioned it at a cocktail party. Now they are totally open about it."Jupiter estimates that the US market for online personals will generate $300m (£200m) in revenue this year, rising to more than $600m by 2007. On most of the services, it is free to post an advertisement and to peruse the personals, but members have to pay between $20 and $25 a month to correspond with other people.In Europe, Jupiter reckons revenues will double this year to &euro;40m and will reach &euro;117m by 2007. "It's the biggest category of paid content online and will be for the foreseeable future," says Jupiter associate analyst Nate Elliott. "Word of mouth has a lot to do with it. People are talking to friends who have had success using online dating - they see it     mentioned on TV. It is entering the mainstream."Match.com, owned by Barry Diller's InterActiveCorp, claims to have 9m advertisements posted on its site and currently 857,000 people paying monthly fees; second quarter revenues were $48m. Yahoo doesn't give membership or revenue figures, but personals are a key component of the company's drive to shift its revenue stream away from advertising and toward fee-based services. In the most recent quarter, Matchnet posted revenues of $8.7m, a 143% increase on the previous year.Matchnet began life in 1997, when two Israeli immigrants to the US set up Jdate.com, a website for Jewish people to meet. The company differs from Match.com and Yahoo in that it uses a variety of brands including the mass-market AmericanSingles.com, gay and lesbian site Glimpse.com, and Collegeluv.com for students. The chief revenue base for all of the firms is still the membership fees - people typically join for between two and five months at a time.The companies are now looking at ways of developing ancillary revenues including, in the case of Match.com, ticketed parties, speed-dating events, professional photo shoots, personality tests and online relationship counsellors. Users can also pay a premium to access video clips recorded by other advertisers. The company has launched a wireless service that allows users to flick through truncated profiles on their phones, including pictures, and then contact     potential dates using text messaging.Different theories abound as to why the business has exploded in the US. Tim Sullivan, Match.com president, says: "You could argue that society today has a need for this kind of service. People are getting married later in life and are moving around a lot more. Society is also becoming more attuned to using technology, particularly for communication."This kind of product has never existed before. People say it has come out of the shadow of newspaper classifieds, but the value is fundamentally different. In a newspaper, you have maybe 50 ads, with 20 words and a phone number. We have 9 million people with a depth of product several magnitudes larger, which is increasingly multimedia."Online dating has also been driven out of the closet by advertisements on mainstream media, including TV and posters. Yahoo personals mounted its biggest campaign earlier this year, including high-profile spots during the Oscars. Membership is also relatively low-cost when compared to conventional dating services, which can cost thousands of dollars.Now the big players in the US are betting that Europe will follow. Match.com has been in the UK, its biggest market outside of the US, since 2001, and the service was launched in 14 other European countries a year ago. Yahoo launched its personals service in Europe in June."This is such a phenomenon in the US, it is so widely accepted, and you are starting to see that in the capital cities in Europe," says Joe Cohen, an American running the international operations of Match.com out of Britain. "But there is still a sense in Europe of 'great idea, but that's not for me'."That's because, firstly, internet penetration is more mature in the US and, secondly, the concept of dating in the US sense is culturally new in some places. That's changing. You're seeing more people willing to just go out on dates and see what happens."Matchnet has had a site, matchnet.co.uk, in Britain for about two years but recently relaunched the service and will begin charging fees towards the end of the year. The practice of allowing free access to build a base of users is a common strategy. In the past year, the number of people with advertisements posted on the Matchnet UK site has grown by 97% to 187,000. "There's a bit of a lag but we are starting to see the same levels of acceptance and potential in Europe as we are seeing in the US," says spokeswoman Gail Laguna.Still, not everyone has yet got the message. "My mum thought it was just about porn and that I'd meet some weirdo," says Rolston. "She had no idea of the services that are out there." Rolston married Kyle on Valentine's Day and they now live together in Tewkesbury, New Jersey.
Half of all households in Britain now have a connection to the internet, according to figures from telecoms regulator Oftel yesterday.The study found that 12.5m British homes are online, with 750,000 connecting to the world wide web in the last three months alone.Efforts to promote broadband - which speeds up connection times dramatically by giving customers a permanent link to the web - also appear to be paying off.The telecoms regulator estimates that about one million dial-up customers are likely to upgrade to broadband within the next year, which could provide a boost for e-commerce companies.Oftel also compared prices for internet services across Europe and found that the cost of both dial-up and broadband connections were cheaper in Britain than in other countries.David Edmonds, director general of telecommunica tions, said: "Growth in internet access, coupled with some of the lowest prices in Europe, is excellent news."Oftel's policy of creating competitive markets for internet access continues to drive the growth in Internet access."The regulator has waged a lengthy campaign to persuade BT to lower wholesale prices it charges internet service providers for providing connections essential to the provision of broadband services.
&#183;Good to see that, despite being on the verge of multi-millionaire status, Google founder Serge Brin has not allowed the moolah likely to result from the company's &#163;9bn float to affect his sense of humour. Search for the man himself on Google and you'll find that he sits in the category Society, Subcultures, Geeks and Nerds. Self-awareness is a positive character trait - as they might say in Google's Californian home.&#183;Diary was glad to hear that Paul Myers, chief executive of online music service Wippit, has finally made a breakthrough in his bid to sign a major label. Despite his service being embraced by the independent sector early on, Myers has not been shy in detailing his frustration with the majors who, for all their brave words, have been slow to sign up. It's encouraging to hear rumours that EMI has finally taken the plunge. Hopefully, that will persuade the other majors to follow suit. And, though it's heartening to see Wippit getting somewhere, it doesn't stop Myers signing off his emails with the following Hunter S Thompson quote: "The music business is a cruel and shallow money trench, a long plastic hallway where thieves and pimps run free, and good men die like dogs. There's also a negative side."&#183;In other music download news, Diary hears that music portal Playlouder is eager to enter the increasingly crowded download space. It too has brokered deals with the indies and hopes to have the majors on board soon. Playlouder, which was praised for its Glastonbury streaming in recent years, is planning to be the first music service to launch with a legal peer-to-peer model.And, in an innovative attempt to stand out from the crowd, the service will be bundled with broadband access, with the file-sharing network limited to subscribers to the ISP.&#183;ITV signed a deal last week with BSkyB to allow it, finally, to start signing interactive advertising deals - three or four years after everyone else has been doing it.While this is good news for the interactive advertising community - at last their campaigns will have the critical mass to get a decent number of responses and attract heavyweight advertisers - Diary can't help feeling that ITV's approach to PR for this momentous event wasn't all it could have been. Surely announcing their news to the press in one of the most dramatic and bloody weeks in the network's history wasn't necessarily the best policy? But when Diary pointed out that just maybe there were one or two more important things going on in the boardrooms of Carlton and Granada, the incredulity on the other end of the line had to be heard to be believed.&#183;Owen Gibson is new media editor of the Guardian
What are your favourite websites?I really like Ijamming.net, by Tony Fletcher, a music journalist from Crystal Palace living in Brooklyn. Sometimes I think it's rather po-faced, but it's very powerfully written.Ever been in a chat room?I'm regularly in the AOL chat room, but not for fun, just to see what they're chatting about - generally Marilyn Manson and if he's gay.Most recent technological faux pas?I have an old-school iMac and I bought a digital camera last year and the FireWire to connect it. Then I realised I didn't have the OS X software on my Mac to use it. I spent five months trying to get it online without paying, then I flicked open the side of the computer and discovered it didn't have a FireWire portal. I'd spent five months when what I really needed was a new computer.Main source of news on the web?NME.com for all things rock, and for pop the BBC's TOTP site is very good. I get a newsletter from Rockingvicar.com - a PopBitch for the older, more discerning customer.Most useful website?I really like the Royal Festival Hall website, just because when you're buying tickets, you can physically see the view from where you would be sitting. It's a very interesting use of the internet.Least useful website?One useless site that is consistently fantastic is Rathergood.com. Those kittens singing the Vines says far more about the band than any amount of press could.Most irritating thing about the internet?Not having the right software and trying to get software downloads and it taking ages. A lot of the internet seems to me like an instruction manual from Ikea translated through Japanese and back again. I feel I'm missing out. While everyone else is having a great time with new software, I've not been invited to the software party.Do you still bother with old media?More and more. I love radio - the Today programme every morning, Jonathan Ross on Saturday, and Ricky Gervais on Xfm. I'm very excited about getting digital radio so I don't get interrupted by a Walthamstow cab service. On TV, I really like BBC4. Sometimes they have movies that are on general release - recently they had Etre et Avoir. Finally, I must mention Word magazine, which I love.&#183;Ben Wardle is the editor of AOL Broadband's new music channel
"The moment nearly every Windows enthusiast has been waiting for has all but nearly arrived. Windows Code-Named Longhorn 4051 has leaked onto the internet. As Paul Thurrott correctly confirmed late last evening. The select few who have been able to get hold of the build are currently working to install it. No doubt we'll see it half way round the internet within 12 hours or so," saysNeowin.Comment: This is an alpha (not a beta) version of the Windows code that will be given to the people who turn up for next week's developers conference. The Longhorn GUI isnotincluded in the code, so don't expect any fancy screen shots. Also, it's not expected to ship until 2006, by which time no doubt other things will have changed. I know this isn't going to stop 50 million of the completely clueless from saying it's a beta of the next version of Windows and they think it looks like XP, but it's always worth making futile gestures on behalf of truth.
What do 'bathetic weasels,' 'gusseted hobbits' and 'zoroastrian chipmunks' have in common? Rather than being characters in some new work of science fiction, they are examples of a craze that has taken the internet by storm.Take two obscure and unrelated words, type them into the google search bar and if the result is a solitary web page you have found a googlewhack.Googlewhacking, the search for 'Result 1-1 of 1' on the internet's favourite search engine, has become a pastime for everyone from bored office workers to lexicographers and even Nasa scientists.'It started among bloggers and from there spread through chatrooms, so that now there are people looking for googlewhacks all over the world. I think it's particularly popular with people in the UK. There's just something about it that attracts certain people,' says Gary Stock, whose website, googlewhack.com, has become the home for people to register their whacks and compare notes with other devotees.One person who was certainly attracted is comedian Dave Gorman, who first heard of the phenomenon when a stranger contacted him. 'When somebody emailed me to tell me I was a googlewhack, I guessed they were being rude. I didn't have a clue what it was. I thought, 'what's a google?' And, 'what am I doing if I'm whacking it?' It was only when they emailed back that I worked out they were talking about a page on my site.'When I realised that there were two words that only occurred together on my site in the entire internet, I felt quite excited. There's something quite special and quite beautiful about things that are so unique. It's a bit like a snowflake, they're just one of a kind.'Gorman immediately set about trying to find other googlewhacks, and soon came across one on the website womenanddogsuk.co.uk, a site devoted to pictures of women with their canines. Rather than be put off, he contacted the site's compiler and encouraged him to start whacking. Before long Gorman was in contact with googlewhackers throughout the world.Within weeks the comedian, in search of a third concept to follow two acclaimed themed BBC television series, had boarded a plane to Washington DC to meet a fellow whacker. In the following months he travelled over 80,000 miles on 25 flights in search of other devotees of the craze. His voyage, which saw him meet a religious guru in San Diego and a cross-dressing Kylie Minogue wannabe in Australia, has provided the material for his current UK tour and a book that will be out this January.Not all whackers feel the need to go to such extremes, although Stock did notice a competitive element creeping into whacking. 'A complex points system did start where different words were given more points depending on how often they occurred individually on Google.'Fortunately this trend seems to have died down a bit and most of the site's regular whackers now tend to go for words related to current events or whacks that rhyme or have some humour to them.'
BT is in better shape than at any time since the telecommunications bubble burst three years ago. Memories are fading fast of the time in 2001 when the former state-owned monopoly had to go cap in hand to shareholders for &#163;6bn to stave off catastrophe.The company is hopeful that Standard &amp; Poor's will raise its credit rating now that new management under Sir Christopher Bland, the former Army officer and chairman of the BBC, took over from Sir Iain Vallance.BT has cut its debt from under &#163;30bn to below &#163;9bn, and City shareholders are wondering if the dividend might be increased - a sure sign that they believe Bland and Ben Verwaayen, the Dutch-born chief executive, have repaired the balance sheet.BT's finances were in an appalling state after the firm overpaid for third generation (3G) mobile licences and over-expanded abroad. As a price for supporting the rescue rights issue of two years ago, investors insisted that Cellnet, BT's mobile phone company, was demerged and separately listed on the London Stock Exchange.As a consequence, BT shareholders today hold shares in both the old fixed-line business and the mobile operation, renamed MM02.And yet Bland and Verwaayen still face many challenges in a market where there is increasing competition and downward pressure on the prices that BT can charge for its services.Groups like Carphone Warehouse and Tele2 have set up ventures that aim to compete with BT on fixed lines, while in broadband and the internet, BT's rivals are numerous, and in some cases, more nimble-footed.But Andy Green, chief executive of BT's global service, says: 'There are three or four areas of growth for us, and we are doing very well in all these.' He is encouraged by   the amount of big corporate business BT is winning both in the UK and in mainland Europe. 'We have won contracts worth billions of pounds from customers ranging from HBOS and Dixons in the UK to Repsol &#91;the Spanish energy group&#93; and the state government of Bavaria in Germany,' he says.The selling point, according to Green, has been BT's ability to set up 'virtual networks' to enable large companies or organisations to communicate across their different operations, as well as with customers and suppliers. By establishing specialist telecommunications networks using broadband technology BT can provide corporate customers with voice, picture and internet services.He admits that margins for such business are under pressure because of competition, 'but that doesn't really matter at the moment as we are increasing our market share and volumes'.Green adds: 'We are moving into a digital network economy and IT directors and chief executives are aware that infrastructure upgrades will usher in greater profitability.'Part of the challenge for us is to sell more services to individual customers, as well as win more contracts, but we are hitting many of our targets.'But some City analysts worry about the ability of BT to grow revenues when its massive fixed-line residential operation is in long-term decline. The company under Verwaayen has streamlined the management system and done away with the old bureaucracy, but BT's profits are rising largely due to cost-cutting.Bland and Verwaayen have axed thousands of staff and found more efficient ways for BT to do business. They are also shifting call-centre work to countries with lower labour costs such as India, which has infuriated   British trade unions. Williams de Broe, the stockbroker, recently forecast that BT's profits would climb from &#163;2bn this year to &#163;2.6bn for the year to March 2006, representing a rise of 30 per cent.'There is still significant scope for reducing costs and improving profitability. BT is underestimated, underappreciated and undervalued,' the firm says.The financial impact of BT's loss of its directory inquiries monopoly, as well   as not owning a mobile operator, are overplayed, according to the broker. Williams de Broe's telecoms guru, Morten Singleton, says: 'BT owns the only fixed network, a cash cow that minimises downside risk.'Recently BT said it was poised to enter the pay-per-view TV market with the launch of a new BT-branded digital TV and internet service.The company is talking to Netgem and SetPal, makers of Freeview receivers, to   develop set-top boxes that will connect between the high-speed broadband internet and TV sets, enabling subscribers to watch films and other video content downloaded via the internet.The ambitions are part of plans by BT to broaden the appeal of broadband and to add premium services; evidently, it does not want to be viewed purely as a distribution network carrying other providers' services.Pierre Danon, chief executive of BT Retail, has said BT   would not try to compete against the big satellite broadcasters such as BSkyB. So it is not expected to carry live TV channels over broadband, but it could offer a form of video-on-demand, something it has been talking about for years.BT is moving to address concerns that demerging Cellnet means that it no longer has a presence in the fast-growing mobile telecoms market.It said last month that it plans to re-enter the mass-market mobile business with   the launch of a service that focuses on families and exploits the convergence of fixed-line and wireless systems to make calls cheaper.But it will be a 'virtual operator', which means that it will use T-Mobile's network, rather than invest in its own mobile infrastructure. In time, the business will give BT an additional income stream.The mobile project aims to sign up 100,000 customers over the next year.Danon says that the service will appeal to customers   who are couples or families. Calls to home phone numbers of less than two minutes would be free and line rentals would drop from &#163;15 a month to &#163;10 for additional handsets.BT is also beginning trials of a mobile phone that will allow users to make calls from home or the office through the cheaper and clearer landline network. The BluePhone, based on Bluetooth wireless technology, would automatically switch from mobile to fixed-line networks when in range of base stations.
Here we go again. According to the  New York Times,  Microsoft is planning to spend between $150 million and $200m marketing Office 2003, the latest version of its suite of word-processing, spreadsheet and presentation software.Nothing new in that, you may say: after all, Microsoft sits on a cash mountain $40 billion high, so what's a few hundred million here or there? Ah, but the marketing spend on this particular upgrade is five times what the company spent on its previous upgrade, Office XP. Since not even Microsoft throws money away, we may legitimately ask: what's up? Could it be that the boys at Redmond are beginning to worry about, er, competition?I think they are. But it's not the threat from the wonderful (and free) OpenOffice software that's bothering them at the moment. That threat is still in the incubation stage. The real competition for Office 2003 comes from previous versions of Microsoft Office. After all, if you're a large organisation that is getting on perfectly well with say, Office 98 or Office 2000, why would you want to spend several hundred thousand pounds upgrading to Office 2003 - especially when you find that it won't run on versions of Windows earlier than XP (or Windows 2000 with Service pack 3 installed)?This argument for not upgrading is compounded by the fact that Microsoft bloatware often requires throwing away your old hardware and buying new kit as well as paying for software licences.In other words, Microsoft's past success in dominating the market for office software threatens its future revenues    from that source. Bill Gates's dream of 'a computer on every desk and every computer running Microsoft software' becomes a nightmare of every computer running  old  Microsoft software.So what to do? The answer is the oldest trick in the snake oil sales manual: prey on your users' insecurities. Every document you create with Microsoft Office software carries concealed within it information about its provenance and history. If you know how to access this information, you can see who authored the document, who revised or commented upon it (and when) and so on.(This feature played a minor role in the Iraq 'dossier' story. Downing Street published a Microsoft Word document on its website without realising that its revision history could be accessed. That history was duly accessed by an enterprising, tech-savvy journalist, who then looked up the revising civil servants in a Whitehall directory and - Bingo! It became clear who had been involved.)The new version of Office includes a new feature called 'information rights management', designed to fix this. IRM essentially makes it possible for the originator of a document to control who has access to it and under what circumstances, no matter how widely the file is distributed. This is being touted as a major new 'security' feature, and for control freaks in government, law firms and corporations it will doubtless be a boon.But it also has the side-effect of making it very difficult for organisations to run a 'mixed economy' of Office software, because the folks with older versions will not be able to access IRM-protected documents.The covert strategy implicit in all this is that in the end companies will concede defeat and standardise on the new version. You would have to be exceedingly stupid to fall for it.john.naughton@observer.co.ukBriefhistory.com/footnotes
Phone company 3 has entered the UK mobile phone market like a marauding Viking.Owned by Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa, 3 has unleashed a ferocious media marketing blitz. Undercutting its rivals on 3G phone calls, it is subsidising handsets and offering generous commissions to sales teams in a bid to win one million customers from a standing start.This ought to be great news for consumers, who are expected to upgrade phones and contracts in increasing numbers this Christmas.But those expecting an all-out price war had best think again.True, the established operators are tinkering with what they offer to consumers. But they are still working out whether 3's technology and call coverage cuts the mustard. Until it is convincing enough to win consumers in large numbers, the main players will sit on their hands.T-Mobile and O2 have dropped prices while Orange has reintroduced subsidies to make mobile phones cheaper for new customers. Rates are becoming more competitive but we are a long way from a price war.If 3 begins to take customers from the established giants - Vodafone, O2, Orange and T-Mobile - maybe prices will be slashed.Until then the operators are offering sophisticated bundling and pricing strategies to keep customers either loyal or, more likely, so confused they cannot see the wood from the trees.A price war, though, would be disastrous for the big four operators coming hot on the heels of enforced price reductions by the Competition Commission on calls made to rival networks.The commission's ruling could cost the phone industry up to &#163;2 billion.It may have slashed its charges and created high demand, but 3 may run short on supplies as it only recently took delivery of a consignment of Motorola A835 camera and speaker phones and may not get another delivery of NEC sets until shortly before Christmas.It racked up a &#163;317m loss in its first six months of trading, causing Hutchison Whampoa to post interim profits more than HK$1bn (&#163;85m) below expectations.Hutchison, which paid &#163;4.4bn for its British 3G licence, was the first mobile network in Europe to offer services using the new technology. But the launch was marred by technical glitches and costs way above those of its main competitors which have reassured analysts that a price war won't be too severe at this stage.This feeling was bolstered after last week's news when 3 admitted that it may not be able to launch a pre-pay product in time for Christmas, scuppering its chances of winning those elusive one million customers before the year end.In June, 3 carried out a   management shake-up and introduced an aggressive tariff that offers customers 500 minutes of calls for &#163;25 a month, or 750 minutes for &#163;35. It now has a bargain basement &#163;15 per month tariff.BT, meanwhile, is to re-enter the UK mobile phone market in partnership with Deutsche Telekom-owned T-Mobile, and the Swedish phone manufacturer Ericsson.The company, which was forced to spin off Cellnet - its mobile arm now renamed MMO2 - in 2001, unveiled two initiatives earlier this year aimed at domestic and business customers and designed to re-establish it in the mobile market.'For people over 35, BT is an instantly recognisable brand and this could win them custom, particularly from families,' says Stephen Pentland, a partner with leading TMT consultancy, Spectrum Strategy. 'This grouping isn't served well by the existing operators. BT's reputation is of a safe and trusted operator.'Tesco Mobile - a 50:50 joint venture with O2 - is a pre-pay service which will charge a flat rate of 20p a minute for calls to all British mobiles and landlines. It operates at the bottom end of the market. Text messages will be 10p. The service will offer a favourite   numbers scheme, where users can select three UK landlines or Tesco mobile numbers, where calls will cost 10p a minute and texts 5p.T-Mobile owner Deutsche Telekom has suffered recently over concerns that it was failing to retain its US customers. But research this month from Commerzbank says these fears have been overdone.The Commerzbank experts believe the analysts' consensus and its estimates for 2003 are ahead of management's cautious guidance. On this basis, its shares have easily outperformed its peers and appear set to continue in the future.MMO2 is on course to deliver double-digit revenue growth in its core British market this year, despite expectations of a slowdown in the pace of expansion.But price cuts imposed by the Competition Commission are starting to bite, which means O2's British service revenue growth will slow markedly over the next six months.Despite increased competition, MM02 directors believe Britain's fourth largest mobile operator will meet its target if delivering a 10 per cent increase in UK service revenue and achieving a 30 per cent increase in margin in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation in the year to April   2004. In turn 02 responded to the enforced price cuts by delaying the introduction of 3G.With 128 million customers in 28 countries, Vodafone is not just Britain's biggest mobile phone company. With most of the world converted to the Newbury-based company's branding, America may be the firm's last frontier.Vodafone is just a minority shareholder in US operator Verizon Wireless, which means it cannot use its Vodafone name or invest in handsets in what is the biggest phone market in the world.Its new chief executive, Arun Sarin, will look to sell its stake which generates &#163;500m annually for the British company. In Britain, Vodafone appears ubiquitous and its recent tie-up with Microsoft to enable the two firms to work together on phone software could signal an era of even greater corporate dominance.
Broadband networking could be the multi-billion dollar salvation for telecoms companies almost crushed by the weight of the internet boom of the late 1990s.Then, a generation of prospective entrepreneurs may have lost a little startup capital on their dotcom efforts, but it was the telecoms operators who footed the bill for the global broad band networks they were supposed to use.Telecoms companies and their bankers wrote off at least $250 billion (&#163;148bn) in debts and another $750bn in market capitalisation.But still they kept building their long-distance optical fibre and local digital subscriber line networks. Now their investments are starting to pay.Reports from investment bankers such as Rabobank and Goldman Sachs say European operators' revenues from digital subscriber line (DSL) broadband access are growing at 24 per cent per annum and will reach &euro;10.3bn (&#163;7.2bn) in 2006.It could not have come a moment too soon.European operators' revenues are falling for all fixed   network services except DSL, Goldman Sachs says. Operators 'depend solely on DSL for growth'. In some cases that growth is enough to make up for declining voice telephony income.Korea Telecom's revenues from broadband grew 32 per cent in 2002 and increased from 12 per cent of total revenues in 2001 to 15 per cent of total revenues in 2002. PCCW of Hong Kong now gets 25 per cent of all its revenues from broadband.The cost of renting DSL lines has fallen by an average 25 per cent in the past year, according to Tim Johnson, an   analyst who tracks the broadband market for the consultancy Point Topic.That is partly because national network owners like BT or NTT in Japan are making it cheaper and easier for competing service providers to use the incumbent's access lines to customers.But it is also an indication of how fast the network technology is being developed and rolled out.At the beginning of this year, few telecoms operators in Europe offered commercial residential DSL access at speeds above 1.5 megabits per second (Mbps) - that is, trans ferring one and a half million bits per second to the PC - fast enough to download a three-minute music file in 16 seconds.But in the last six months, Telewest in the UK has launched a 2 Mbps service, and Telekom Austria has launched a 4 Mbps service. And just this month, Telia announced an 8 Mbps service in Sweden.This year has seen consumers bombarded with a range of other new broadband commercial services, including wireless local area networks and 3G mobile data, as well as GPRS - or 2.5G mobile - which is being adapted for laptop users.With so much choice and variety, consumers must be happy with the great value now being offered, mustn't they? Not entirely, it seems.For a start, in most countries, most consumers are still not buying.Take-up of broadband averaged just 6.1 per cent of population of the 50 or so highest income nations at the end of 2002, according to a report from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), a UN agency.The leading broadband nation by far is South Korea, where massive public investment in public telecoms infrastructure together with online education programmes have pushed broadband internet access beyond 20 per cent of the population. Most European countries do not reach 10 per cent.Consumers may still be discouraged by the price of broadband, or dissatisfied with the value they are getting. After all, internet connections are frequently lost and are certainly not as reliable as television. The speeds they have been achieving are well short of most technical definitions of broadband. International standards bodies like the ITU say broadband starts at 2 Mbps; rates only business users have been getting.Like business people, many consumers may just be getting by with existing technologies until they are convinced they need the higher speeds or the always-on features of broadband.Many users make do with dial-up access because it is cheap - although never 'free', no matter what the adverts say - and straightforward. In the US local dialling is still free, so it is even easier to make that decision.It is likely to be voice services, in the form of voice   over internet protocol (VoIP), that really boosts broadband take up. In certain versions of DSL access technology, for example, voice can be carried as a data stream on the same line as the internet and email.What is revolutionary about that is that the user can pay a flat charge for unlimited voice communications.This application has been going commercial in several markets this year and has taken them by storm. In Japan, competitive service provider Yahoo BB has signed 3 million broadband users, and 90 per cent of them take voice as part of the service. In New Jersey, Vonage has signed an undisclosed number (probably many thousands) of voice subscribers on its DSL network. In Sweden, Bredbandsbolaget has 250,000 users of its VoIP service.'By mid-2004 there'll be 10 million broadband voice users around the world,' says Dave Burstein, a broadband analyst and Vonage subscriber.The impact on traditional telephone companies is incalculable. Already, the biggest telecoms company in the world, NTT, has been forced to respond. In August, it launched its own VoIP offer to business users, in competition with Yahoo BB. NTT was the first national incumbent to make such a drastic move. But this month, France Telecom also announced a mainstream VoIP service for all business users.Operators are bracing themselves for the impact of flat-rate voice charging. Many are investing in it. A report by Yankee Group released this month says 83 per cent of European operators surveyed will be offering VoIP service within two to three years.The reason is not just that it is more cost-effective to run a VoIP network than a switched telephony network, nor even that consumers demand bundled voice and data services, but that operators believe they can produce far more compelling and lucrative services in a broadband network.For an example of how this works, look at the Fastweb network in Milan, where a startup operator has run cable to 200,000 homes and disconnected the national operator Telecom Italia. For a monthly subscription of about &euro;80, subscribers get internet access at speeds of up to 10 Mbps, unlimited voice calls, and since March this year, videocalling through digital TVs to their neighbours.Fastweb, like B2 in Sweden, Lyse Communications in Norway and Yahoo BB, bases its broadband services on optical fibre, which it has used to take broadband into a new dimension. Yahoo BB's subscribers now get a staggering 26 Mbps; a rate greater than some of the early transatlantic communications cables.Not many operators, and none of the national telcos, have made that kind of investment, although regional carriers in the US may do so in the next few weeks.There is a cost of course; the more users get in services, the more they expect in customer support. Now that telecoms operators are running traffic to PCs, users are beginning to think the telecoms company is responsible for fixing their PC when things go wrong.Aizad Hussain, managing director at NTL, says that when the Microsoft Blaster worm hit internet users this summer, the company's broadband subscribers rang NTL's call centres first.'Average call length went from 13 minutes to 65 minutes. We got gold stars from Microsoft, but don't ask me about the costs.'Still, operators like BT, with 1 million, and Deutsche Telekom, with 4 million DSL subscribers, think they have found the path to new revenues, as well as a genuine new service proposition.'I make far more from a broadband customer than I ever did from a narrowband customer,' says Ben Verwaayen, chief executive at BT, who this month said he would offer users a digital television service on their broadband connections.At the end of the day, telecoms operators are not going to turn back the broadband clock.&#183;David Molony is editor of TOTAL TELECOM, a monthly magazine of business analysis for the global communications industryTotaltele.com
Given some of the outlandish claims made by the cable companies over the last decade, cynics could be forgiven for believing that rumours of the industry's demise are not so premature after all.Cable, remember, was the future of television, a chance for small-screen junkies to get their daily fix of hundreds of new channels without the need for an ugly dish or an unreliable set-top box.Cable, remember, was the future of the internet, supplying state-of-the-art broadband networks to high-speed cyber surfers disgusted with the sloth-like services offered by old dinosaurs like BT.And cable, remember, was the people's friend, a new sort of media company that would offer packages of services - everything from mobile-phone telephony to home shopping and online betting.So confident were NTL and Telewest, Britain's two remaining cable companies, of their assured place in the media pantheon that they spent millions buying stakes in football teams, sponsoring prestigious sporting events and turning some of their lacklustre directors into multi-millionaires, much to the chagrin of investors.But what cable really was - apart from a textbook example of how not to run an industry - was one long joke. NTL and, to a lesser extent Telewest became synonymous with over-promising and under-delivering. Many consumers who wanted the services could not get them. Others opted for better marketed packages from Sky, in the case of television services, or the likes of Freeserve and   AOL for internet access. Thousands were put off by the cable firms' poor customer management, their confused branding and their constantly changing business models. As a result churn rates - the number of consumers leaving the service - shot up into double figures.And it wasn't just consumers who were fed up with the lousy service, the hours spent waiting on hold. The companies' own staff were often close to mutiny. A website called NTLhellworld was created where former employees joined consumers in moaning about the incompetence of the company's bosses and their company's failings.Inevitably, both firms crashed and burned. With crippling debts of $10.6 billion, NTL was forced into one of the biggest bankruptcies in corporate history, while Telewest has had to offer bondholders a &#163;3.5bn debt-for-equity deal.The two businesses' woeful failures were in stark contrast to the seemingly inexorable success of satellite rival BSkyB, which has more than 7 million subscribers and is now turning a profit for the first time since it switched from an analogue to a digital platform.Subsequently many have wondered whether it is worth reviving cable's corpse. But experts disagree. 'The companies could have closed down, but at the end of the day there is still something there which can be taken forward,' says Andrew Heaney, partner with Spectrum Consulting, the consultancy that advises media firms on how to develop their business models.Indeed, there is. NTL's core division has 2.75 million customers in the UK, while more than 1.7 million homes take Telewest services. Once they are combined, as all agree will happen in the not so distant future, the cable industry, for so long a tattered patchwork quilt of companies, will start to make sense.The merger will bring a   number of corporate and operational synergies that should bring substantial savings and feed down to the combined company's bottom line. And a merged business should also go some way to eradicating consumer confusion by allowing the cable industry to present a unified marketing proposition. Presumably it will also presage a name change, which considering the industry's lamentable reputation, would be no bad thing.Trevor Brignall, director of business at consultants Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young, who launched NTL's telecoms division, also makes the point that the two businesses could explore new revenue streams by leasing their networks to interested third parties.'Their networks may be attractive to new entrants such as retailers or other telcos who wish to use them. At the moment, for example, AOL uses BT's DSL &#91;digital subscriber line - which offers broadband capability&#93; but NTL could provide an alternative network where BT's isn't available.'In recent weeks both companies have taken small but significant steps to a merger. NTL has further pared down its debt, unveiling a $1bn share issue which will be used to pay off a $583m bond and the lion's share of a $650m working capital facility. Telewest has announced plans to seek a US listing, something that its US bondholders, who have ultimate control over the company's future, say is vital if they are to back its restructuring plan.Some of the companies' more optimistic financial advisers had hoped a merger between the two could be unveiled before Christmas, although this now looks overly ambitious.And yet there is a danger that an NTL/Telewest merger will be seen as an overnight cure for the cable industry's ills. 'It will not be the silver bullet that solves everything,' Heaney warns.'NTL hasn't managed to integrate its own operation yet. By adding Telewest it complicates the equation. It will take years for the merger to yield a truly single company. There are so many steps to go,' Heaney says.Brignall believes the cable industry's holy grail lies somewhere between the business models of BSkyB and Centrica. 'Sky has significantly increased the payment levels for not just its subscription TV but interactive services like gaming and other online services. Centrica now offers a whole range of services from gas to breakdown repairs.'If the cable industry could emulate either of these models, it would suggest NTL and Telewest still have huge untapped potential.But Heaney talks of wasted opportunities. The cable industry's unique selling proposition was that, unlike its rivals, it could offer consumers bundles of services. Now, though, consumers seem jaded about the cable companies' offerings and are happy to pick and mix.'It's never going to be an astounding business. One of the main problems is that it faces too much competition from the likes of BT in telephony, Sky in TV, and Freeserve and AOL on the internet. The cable companies say they are the only ones offering a triple play but most users don't want bundles, and as such they're competing against some strong operators,' Heaney says.Furthermore, new rivals have entered the arena. Freeview, the free-to-air digital platform launched by the BBC, may attract a proportion of those viewers who want more television channels but are reluctant to have a dish installed.And recent changes in the telephony market have seen a raft of new players such as Tesco and Carphone Warehouse compete to offer cheap voice calls.It means that cable is unlikely to achieve the huge   promises it once made at the height of the bull market. This does not mean, though, that it has no future.Heaney says: 'It will be here in 10 years time. There will be demand for its services, but it's going to be tough.'Brignall is more optimistic and believes cable can still be a broadband champion. 'The real benefit of a revitalised cable industry is that it will offer more competition. Cable will be good for the customer.' Now, there's a statement you haven't heard in a while.
There's an old adage to which many have become resigned: one day your new computer, modem, or piece of software is cutting edge, the next it's been overtaken by something faster, smarter, or just plain sexier.So it goes with broadband. As the market matures, the UK's internet service providers (ISPs) are exploring how to encourage more high-speed internet users and - crucially - sustain demand by introducing more advanced services.Earlier this month came two clues as to how the broadband market will progress. Tiscali - the UK's fourth largest ISP and a relative newcomer to the market - introduced a range of aggressively priced tiered-speed broadband packages. As well as offering the supposedly 'benchmark' broadband speed of 512 kilobits per second (kbps) it is offering significantly cheaper but slower services at 150kbps and 256kbps - still three to five times faster than the old dial-up internet - at &#163;15.99 and &#163;19.99 a month. And Bulldog Communications - a small London-based ISP - launched a product that is much faster (1 Mbps, or megabit per second), but priced the same as standard broadband (about &#163;27.99).In the less developed UK market, Fogg says 'the majority of users opting for broadband are going for the cheaper options' - so it will be interesting to see how Tiscali's slower products fare. But ISPs still have work to do in getting consumers to migrate to broadband, whatever the speed. Jupiter Research has found that only 13 per cent of online households in the UK have broadband, compared with 43 per cent in Belgium and 37 per cent in Spain.Freeserve - the main player in the ISP market with 2.6 million customers - could be doing more. 'We are concerned about Freeserve,' says Kai Kaufmann, internet analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, saying that its aim to make a pre-tax profit for 2004 'is not consistent with pushing broadband. Every new broadband customer is generating an estimated loss of &euro;2 to &euro;3 per month. But broadband is where in the long term - once the market has reached a critical size - we expect there to be the highest profit margins.'Mickal Halama, principal analyst at Gartner G2, agrees that Freeserve may be lagging: 'They seem of late to have slowed down in coming up with innovative ideas. There's a different ethos following the takeover by France Telecom.'Analysts report 'perpetual talk' that Freeserve will soon be rebranded after its owner, Wanadoo, France Telecom's internet arm. Kaufmann welcomes this: 'I don't like the brand 'Freeserve' - because it basically suggests to customers that they get everything for free.' He says that next year Freeserve would ideally be rebranded and start to push broadband more.Freeserve is threatened by BT Openworld's lead in the market - it is estimated to have about four times   more broadband subscribers than our 'No 1 ISP'. Freeserve has the highest combined narrowband and broadband subscribers.The advantages for BT are that it has strong brand recognition, good experience of cross-selling, and a strong content-based lure following its recent link-up with Yahoo. 'What BT is doing is trying to get the Yahoo content as close to its users as possible,' says Rob Thomas, product marketing director at Cable and Wireless, a leading supplier of internet services to business customers and ISPs. 'It is important for an ISP to clearly demonstrate that it can access the most popular sites quickly,' he says.'The way to build a profitable broadband business is to try to cross-sell as many services as possible,' Thomas says. This can range from virus, spam, and porn protection to value-added services such as Tiscali's plans to introduce paid-for music, video and - and potentially controversially - video chat.One provider for whom content is king is AOL - 'their USP is all about con tent, content, content,' says Rebecca Jennings, senior analyst at Forrester Research. 'It is essential to their making it in the long term. AOL will need a two-tier strategy with broadband: one that is selling premium content services where the users bring their own broadband access, the other where the users get the whole bundle - both broadband and content.'However, ISPs' main revenue - averaging 80 per cent according to one analyst - still comes from access subscriptions, and is likely to remain that way for many years to come as the businesses become more rationalised after the heady days of the dotcom boom. But as a critical mass of people using broadband is reached, the different services offered by ISPs could offer some very new business models. Analysts point to companies such as Vonage in the US, which offers telephony and multi-state telephone numbers over broadband.One thing is clear: the kind of broadband we thought of as the future might soon be a thing of the past.
Two high-end phones aiming to attract high-end handset buyers reached the Online test bench this week. Here's a first look at the Sony Ericsson P900 and  Motorola A835.Sony Ericsson P900One of the most eagerly awaited phones of the year, Sony Ericsson's P900 should be heading for the stores shortly. Those expecting a dramatic reconstruction of its predecessor - the P800 - will be disappointed. Most of the changes are to the design of the handset rather than to its list of  facilities.But this is still one of the most impressively-specified phones on the market.  Running Symbian's version 7 operating system with its UIQ interface, the phone  features excellent web browsing and e-mail, an integrated camera, MP3 music  player, personal information manager systems, triple band facilities and Bluetooth.It's a tad smaller than the P800 and also a little ugly. Mercifully Sony Ericsson has upgraded the flip screen that's home to the keypad, so it is now more sturdy and easier to use, if still a little awkward-looking. Perhaps the most important tweak of all is that the screen now has a resolution of 65K  colours to put in line with most of its other rivals in the smartphone market.Other key upgrades include substituting the plastic stylus (the phone is  unusual in that it has a touch screen) for a marginally more sturdy metallic one, the addition of fast and easy to use jog dial system for accessing applications, and a moving image camera.Essentially, if you liked the P800 you'll find this very much to your taste. Whether it remains the best smartphone on the market is a moot point as  the opposition is catching up very quickly. Handspring's Treo 600 (available via  Orange) is around the same size, and although it has a smaller screen it is  compatible with many excellent third party applications that have been developed  for its Palm operating system.In the Microsoft camp, the O2 XDA was always an  excellent product and its second incarnation, the newly launched XDA II, has a powerful processor, enhanced software and additions like a VGA camera and  Bluetooth. Perhaps the decision as to which high-end handset you buy is now  determined mainly by your choice of operating system and the phone network you  subscribe to.The Sony Ericsson P900 will be available before Christmas for around £350.Motorola A835A few weeks ago the mobile phone industry was awash with rumours that the 3G phone network Three couldn't keep up with demand and was running out of handsets. Well the cavalry appears to have arrived in the guise of a new clamshell phone which is due next month, the NEC 616, and this handset, the  Motorola A835, the company's third attempt at a 3G handset.Last month Motorola unveiled the A920, a high-end handset with a large  screen that runs the Symbian 7 operating system for smartphones. For the A835  Motorola has delivered a smaller phone (though it is still fairly hefty), with a more compact, less versatile screen and fewer facilities that runs on a  proprietary operating system.Just like the A920 it performs Three's signature applications rather well. With a video refresh rate of 12 frames per second downloaded footage, like Premiership football goals and MTV music clips, are very watchable and largely free from jitter and blocking.They are far better than the NEC Three phones and clearly superior to other networks attempts to offer video clips through GPRS.Video calling is also an improvement over the original NEC phones especially as users don't have to wear a headset to hear what the other person is saying.The AGPS (Assisted Global Positioning System), which shows maps and  offers direction to pubs, restaurants, cash points etc, works extremely well on demo and should prove very handy to Motorola A835 and A920 owners when it becomes fully available later in the year.Also, the Three web portal - with its selection of video clips and Wap style information - is now on a par with the Wap-based services offered by Three's rivals.Other features include stills  and video cameras, Bluetooth, MP3 player and Java.The downsides? Well, the ludicrous restrictions imposed by Three - which means users can only access a very small walled garden of internet sites - still rankles. And the limited storage of 64MB is not upgradeable - so you won't be able to keep too many MP3 files on the phone.Then there is the size of the phone - still a little too large for buyers used to dinky clamshells and cute caddy bar style handsets - and the issue of battery life, just 1.5 hours talk time or 120 hours standby.This is, admittedly, more than previous Three handsets. And on all fronts the A835 is a step in the right direction. It should be available in Three stores next week for around £100.
The catch is that you have to build it yourself. The New York Times has a feature on the odd cases people are using with cheap Mini-ITX motherboards. For the story and pictures, gohere. More examples athttp://mini-itx.com/. There's also a discussion atSlashdot.
"In my opinion, if Mozart were alive today he would not only have created the music for the last Harry Potter film, but he would also have been doing the music for the big blockbuster games."That's the view of composer Barrington Pheloung, who has written musical scores for everything from inspector Morse to the Broken Sword games.Pheloung, who was speaking at the Edinburgh International Games Festival, believes that games are still at "an embryonic stage in the development of what I genuinely believe has the potential to be the true 21st century art form, as cinema was during the 20th century."We may take for granted just how many transitions music has had to go through in order to create the full orchestral, big-money soundtracks that accompany many of today's films. But in-game music is still finding its feet, and discovering the role it needs to play in the future of games development.The main problem facing musicians composing a score for a game is that, in many cases, they are not dealing with a linear story like a TV programme or film. Instead, with more freeform games, the player shapes the way in which the story unfolds."With existing technology, there's obviously a lot more we can do than just fire off tracks," says James Hannigan, the composer behind the music scores for games like Republic: the Revolution, Freelancer and Theme Park World.Hannigan believes that, although film-style music may be suitable for more linear games and cut-scenes, developers should not be too quick to head in that direction. Games, by dint of their interactive nature, should strive to present players with new and interesting challenges. They should avoid becoming too linear and film-like.He continues: "It's important to realise that the medium is unique and the content has to be integrated into the game."A more obvious area of gaming where music has made an impact - in fact, where the music has been a major part of the gameplay - is in videogames like Space Channel 5 and Rez, and their dancing-mat game cousins including the Dancing Stage series.Many of these dancing games, which involve players rhythmically mimicking the scrolling arrows on a screen, have used recognisable songs from the likes of Kylie, S Club 7 and Steps in order to boost sales.But games have also been able to give something back to the music business, something far more important than mere licence fees, and that is exposure. Hundreds of unsigned bands apply to developers like Electronic Arts every year to try and get coverage on game soundtracks.One game that is actively trying to encourage this is 4am's new title CyberGroove, which is the first dancing mat game for the PC and features mostly unknown and unsigned artists.   	  The PC format will allow players to download new songs and choreographed dance steps from the game's website, as well as getting the chance to listen to up-and-coming new talent.For Neil Cotton, Director of 4am Entertainment, the medium is an excellent way of exposing new talent to people that might not otherwise hear it. "Most games in this genre front their products with well-known celebrities, although in some cases there can be a celebrity overload, seeing the artist become the reason for a game, rather than having a game that is backed by an artist."We're taking a daring step away from that by bringing in unknown artists who do not have a pre-prejudiced fan base, thereby creating a bigger potential audience."We're only just discovering how important music in games can be, from the successful soundtrack of Grand Theft Auto 3 (that went on to receive a full CD release) to the enjoyment and atmosphere that the right tunes can add to such an interactive entertainment medium.The music industry is also starting to take games seriously due to the unique way they can reach into people's homes and lives. There's no doubting the enormous potential that exists for these two entertainment industries to create beautiful music together.CHARTS - FULL PRICE SOFTWAREOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Pro Evolution Soccer 3 (PS2) Konami - £39.992) Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, GC) Electronic Arts - £37.993) Club Football (PS2) Codemasters - £39.994) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.995) Conflict Desert Storm II (PS2, Xbox, PC) SCI - £39.996) Finding Nemo (PS2, GBA, PC, Xbox) THQ - £34.997) Soul Calibur II (GC, PS2, Xbox) Nintendo/Electronic Arts - £37.998) Halo: Combat Evolved (PC, Xbox) Microsoft - £39.999) Jak II: Renegade (PS2) Sony - £39.9910) Rugby 2004 (PS2, PC) Electronic Arts - £37.99
Wall Street's biggest investment banks have begun jostling for the mandate to take Google public, the most eagerly anticipated flotation since the technology market crashed.The internet search engine, which has become one of the best known online brands with astonishing speed, is expected to be valued at between $15bn and $25bn (&#163;9-15bn).Google is understood to have held an initial open call for about 35 banks to pitch for the business. That was narrowed to a dozen and has been cut in half again. Although there have been some signs of life in the market for initial public offerings, levels are still way off the boom years and banks will eye the business enviously.The valuation compares with the current market capitalisation of $26bn for Yahoo and $22bn for Amazon.com.Google is expected to float early next year. Analysts said the timing was perfect as interest in the internet sector has driven share prices of key players like Amazon, eBay and Yahoo sharply higher in the past 12 months.The company is just five years old but has become so ubiquitous among internet users that "to Google" someone or something is now commonly used as a verb. It handles around 150m searches a day. A pair of computer science students, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, both 30, developed the business on the campus of the University of Stanford. Google makes money by selling sponsored links on its pages that appear alongside the regular search results as well as licensing its technology to the likes of America Online and Yahoo.The Silicon Valley-based company is expected to produce around $800m in revenues this year and up to $200m in profits. The motivation for taking the company public appears to be providing a market for existing investors, including venture capital firms and the more than 1,000 staff who hold shares.Analysts said the IPO would not signal a second internet boom in which companies with little more than a business plan could raise millions of dollars on the markets."This is not going to be a return to selling dog food online," said Ben Tompkins, managing director of investment bank Broadview International. "But there are a whole host of internet-based businesses which have set themselves up with really good revenue growth and good margins."According to the Financial Times, the company is considering holding an online auction of shares. The method could help to avoid the scandals that have since arisen over the IPOs of the internet hot stocks during the late 1990s. It has emerged that banks routinely either took kickbacks from clients for share allocations or encouraged them to buy in the after market to keep the price high and allow sellers quick profits.
Just installedOSX 10.3 (Panther)on the Mac at home - initial reaction is that it does all it promises on the tin. Multi-user switching works fine, the new Finder is a great improvement and - best of all - the whole system is a lot more responsive. Applications are loading much, much faster. Tomorrow I'm going to delve into the improved Mail app...
"Amazon.com may have earned a page in intellectual history Thursday when it made the text of 120,000 books, with more than 33 million pages, fully searchable at no charge by anyone with Internet access, a Web browser and a credit card. But while educators, librarians and customers praised Amazon's new feature, dubbed Search Inside the Book, as an important step toward the age-old goal of a comprehensive knowledge archive, the largest Internet retailer insisted it's just a way to build business," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer.
"Microsoft on Thursday reported earnings that narrowly topped expectations. Its sales rose 6 percent from a year ago. The Redmond, Wash.-based company said it earned $2.6 billion, or 24 cents per share, on revenue of $8.2 billion for the three months ended September 30. That compares with earnings of $2 billion, or 19 cents per share, on revenue of $7.75 billion for the same quarter a year ago," reportsCNet.
"When you sell your soul, don't expect to retain your freedom," writesVictor Keeganon Guardian Unlimited this morning.
Google is planning a £9bn float in March next year in a move that will spark a scramble for shares among the public not seen since the dotcom crash in 2000.In a revolutionary move, the internet search giant is also considering bypassing Wall Street and selling shares directly to investors in an online auction.Analysts have been predicting the float for the last 18 months as Google, which was launched five years ago by two Stanford University drop-outs, has grown into the most popular search engine on the web.Wall Street has been pushing for a float of the search giant, which deals with 150 million inquiries a day because it is one of the few profitable dotcoms with a loyal worldwide user base.But the company's founders hesitated because of uncertainty in the market, question marks over the revenue-generating potential of search engines and the fate of many of its contemporaries in the dotcom boom and bust.The Silicon Valley company has begun considering how to handle the initial public offering, which would be the biggest technology float for years. According to sources, the company has narrowed the list of investment banks that would handle the float to fewer than a dozen.However, it is also considering a new IPO method that would bypass investment banks and sell the shares directly to investors using an online auction system.Under the plans, Google would dramatically slash the fees paid to investment banks, which would be denied their usual cut, and ensure equitable distribution of the shares.But investment bankers have already warned that an online auction would risk setting an artificially high share price as private investors scrambled for shares in a repeat of the dotcom gold rush.Unlike the dozens of companies that floated at the height of the dotcom boom, Google already has a profitable business, making around £90m a year thanks to the sale of sponsored links to advertisers and a large, loyal user base.The company was founded as a hobby by college drop-outs Sergey Brin and Larry Page and launched from a garage in Menlo Park, California in 1998.With little or no advertising, Google quickly overtook established search engines such as Yahoo! and Alta Vista, stealing a march on its rivals as they diversified into new areas.Users praised Google for its simplicity, speed and effectiveness and developed a loyal attachment to the site rarely seen in the fickle world of the internet.Unlike other search engines Google ranks sites depending on how many other sites are linked to it, generally ensuring that the most relevant results appear at the top of the list.Its network of global sites now handles more than 150 million searches a day. And while search is still its main strength, the company has branched out into news, shopping and advertising sales.Investors hoping to make a quick profit are not the only ones looking forward to the company going public. Google, which prides itself on maintaining its left-field dotcom roots and remains based in its self-styled Google-plex in Silicon Valley, also has its detractors.Some web enthusiasts have become disillusioned with the way Google ranks sites and its refusal to reveal how its servers rank their importance. They hope that the company's flotation will force it to reveal exactly how its search technology works and how it makes its money.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Down at the Googleplex, the web search company's kookily named headquarters in Silicon Valley, things are getting serious all of a sudden. The casually dressed, nerdy but enthusiastic employees will have to get used to a stream of soberly dressed "suits" marching past the giant multicoloured exercise balls and the lava lamps, past the kitchen dispensing breakfast cereals and smoothies and past the systems engineers playing roller hockey in the car park.After years of protesting that focusing on quarterly targets and the bottom line would inhibit the growth of the company, Google's founders - Moscovite Sergey Brin and Michigan-born Larry Page - are taking the plunge and pressing ahead with a stock market float likely to value the company at more than £9bn.In many ways, the story of Google - anorakish college drop-outs invent revolutionary technology that becomes stunningly successful and takes over the world - is the archetypal dotcom success story. The difference is that the days when the business pages were filled with profiles of bright young things who were going to change the world are a long three years ago.The remarkable thing is how Google has not only survived but prospered in that period, becoming increasingly popular as its Silicon Valley neighbours were shutting up shop.It has seen off virtually every other search engine, including the four pioneers Lycos, Excite, HotBot and Alta Vista, which led the way in the mid-90s, and now has a near-monopoly on searches in offices across the globe.Brin and Page met one another at Stanford University when Sergey was assigned to show Larry around. During the dotcom era Stanford became something of a finishing school for wannabe entrepreneurs, but initially the pair got along less than famously, and argued about almost every topic they discussed.But in those heady days, when the geeks looked as though they would inherit the earth, the two students agreed on one thing - their disillusionment with existing internet search engines that simply ranked pages according to how many times they mentioned the search term. Between them they came up with the idea of a search engine that would rank pages according to their popularity with other websites. In January 1996 the two began work on a search engine dubbed BackRub because it analysed the "back links" pointing to a given website.As the buzz about the search tool grew around campus, the two founders decided to make a go of their business and continued to perfect the technology during the first half of 1998. The exact technology underpinning the Google search system is a closely guarded secret - something that has become a bone of contention for those who believe it is ripe for exploitation. But the principle has been the same since Brin and Page came up with the idea for BackRub."Google interprets a link from page A to page B as a vote, by page A for page B," the company says. "But Google looks at more than the sheer volume of votes, or links that a page receives: it also analyses the page that casts the vote. Votes cast by pages that are themselves 'important' weigh more heavily and help to make other pages 'important'." It is a "uniquely democratic" method, Google claims, making it easy to find pages other people have declared worth finding.Despite the dotcom fervour surrounding internet companies, most venture capitalists decreed Google had missed the boat and no longer had "first mover advantage" - then considered vital in the race to make an initial public offering. So Brin and Page decided to go it alone, raising close to $1m from a range of investors who saw the potential in the idea, if not its immediate money-making capacity.Andy Bechtolsheim, one of the founders of Sun Microsystems, was an early investor."We met him very early one morning on the porch of a Stanford faculty member's home in Palo Alto," Brin recalls. "We gave him a quick demo. He had to run off somewhere, so he said, 'Instead of us discussing all the details, why don't I just write you a cheque?' It was made out to Google Inc and was for $100,000."The founders then faced a desperate two-week scramble to register the company name before depositing the cheque.Google, its name based on the mathematical term googol (which represents the number one followed by 100 zeros), launched in September 1998 out of a rented garage in Menlo Park, California. Again, this was in keeping with dotcom tradition - Napster's Shawn Fanning had also launched his revolutionary music sharing site from a garage. The company grew fast as web users latched onto its simplicity, power and seemingly anti-corporate stance.Its stark white home page was in direct contrast to the gaudy, complicated portals of its rivals, and it soon became the search engine of choice for everything from serious academic research to users going online for the first time. The accuracy of its results and the cult-like devotion of its users even gave rise to a new verb - googling.In 1999, the company raised a further $25m in private funding, moved into the Googleplex and continued to expand at a frightening rate. It launched 10 global language versions, the Google directory (a subject-based list of sites) and a wireless version. Enjoying a devotion from its audience almost unheard of in the fickle world of the internet, the company started to look at ways of making money from its audience without compromising the brand and ideals that had led to its success.By 2000 Google had launched AdWords - a sales service allowing advertisers to bid on key words and have their site displayed in a sponsored search sub-listing next to the main results. It continued to diversify around its central strength of search, deploying its servers in specialised services to look for images, news, shopping and postings on UseNet, the huge back catalogue of user groups it bought in 2001.Former Novell chairman Eric Smidt was brought in as chief executive in 2001, fuelling rumours the company was preparing to float. He concentrated on signing deals with top internet service providers such as AOL, confirming Google's pre-eminence in the search market and locking out potential rivals.The tightrope between maintaining popularity with users and building revenue is one  Google is still walking today and, to date, seems to have avoided falling off. Profits have continued to grow while users have remained steadfastly loyal. However, it has not all been plain sailing. The opaque way in which listings are decided, combined with Google's increasing power has angered some sites appearing low down the rankings, who argue it is open to abuse.And because Google does not just link to the sites it catalogues but also saves a snapshot of them to its servers, it has come under fire from companies, and even governments, who consider it a publisher as well as a research tool. Last year the Chinese government banned Google for linking to a game called Slap the Evil Dictator Jiang Zemin, sparking a worldwide debate over the company's role and influence.More worryingly for Google, there are murmurings among the very web communities that made it such a runaway success - the internet enthusiasts who conduct much of their lives online - blogging, emailing and file sharing.They are unhappy the culture of the company appears to be changing, and worry it is losing its grassroots appeal. Anti-censorship campaigners have hit out at the company for removing content which the Church of Scientology said breached copyright restrictions. It then did the same when file sharing site Kazaa asked it to remove a link to an unauthorised version of its software.Omid Kordestani, the senior vice-president of worldwide sales and field operations at the company, last year told MediaGuardian the essence of Google's success remained its employees."Like Microsoft, we still have our founders on board. They're still hungry and I think that's very important. We continue to invest heavily in research and development and out of a staff of over 500, half of those are in engineering," he said.But as the company's founders prepare for a float that could value the company at over £9bn, many insist the need to comply with America's increasingly strict accounting rules and focus on the quarterly bottom line will ruin the atmosphere of collegiate research that has made it such a phenomenon.If the culture of the company is irreparably damaged, then it will suffer. Brin and Page insist they can retain the company's identity and please the moneymen. But for a cautionary tale of what not to do they need look no further than Alta Vista, the site Google toppled as the web's search engine of choice, and is now nothing more than an online also-ran.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
An interesting story on the front of today'sFinancial Timesabout the prospects of a Google IPO sometime very soon. Google executives spent last week sounding out merchant bankers about an IPO, according to the FT's source, with a view to getting a stock market listing by March next year. That FT link is likely to go behind a toll after today, although you can always follow the story elsewhere viaGoogle news:-)The most interesting part of the FT story is that the IPO could break with the traditional way of selling shares to the public. Google may opt for a public auction, which would likely lead to fewer (if any) big institutional investors getting first go at the shares, and more small investors getting in. "All the shares would end up with Aunt Agatha in Des Moines and Uncle Milt in Pittsburgh and there would be no real public market at all," moaned one investment banker. It wasn't explained why this would be a Bad Thing for anyone other than investment bankers...
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premiere online current affairs forum!connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:despite dwindling confidence in his leadership, Iain Duncan Smith has vowed to lead the Tories into the next general election. Will he manage to ride out the storm, or will plotters within his party engineer his downfall? What do you think?LadeezMan:but so why did they kill hernameless:we should all stand behind IDS as leaderBronco:she new to muchHost_Chris2:by "we" presumably you mean ToriesLadeezMan:abt wotcapitalistpiglet:I'm sure the labour party would like him to stay on!Bronco:abuot the queenHost_Chris2:Bronco what do you think about IDS as Tory leaderBronco:is he stillcapitalistpiglet:hang on I'll checkcapitalistpiglet has left the NewsRoomPashmina has entered the NewsRoomPashmina:roomBronco:hi pash were u beenPashmina:bed. went out &amp; got pissed after me anti natal classcapitalistpiglet has entered the NewsRoomcapitalistpiglet:yes he still is. Hi pashPashmina:hi pigletnameless:drinking whilst pregnant! How disgusting &amp; irresponsibleLadeezMan:wot abt the queenPashmina:i aint pregant me sister is! i was a bit liza milleni thoHost_Chris2:Pashmina how long do you think IDS's leadership will last?Pashmina:he resinged allready!!Host_Chris2:do you know something we don't know?LadeezMan:how liza minelicapitalistpiglet:hang on...capitalistpiglet has left the NewsRoomPashmina:punched a bouncer at some clubBronco:was he bigPashmina:yes but me sister held him downcapitalistpiglet has entered the NewsRoomcapitalistpiglet:he hasn't resigned yetPashmina:must of dremt it sorrynameless:IDS will survive the plottingHost_Chris2:LadeezMan how long do you think IDS will stay?LadeezMan:I think hell quit... nowBronco:did hecapitalistpiglet:hang on...Pashmina:whoa morning sicknessLadeezMan:wot abt the queenconnection to server has been terminated...
RealNetworks is planning to join the rush for the emerging market in online music.The company intends to launch Rhapsody, a subscription service, in Europe next year. It is currently available to customers in the US who pay $9.95 (&#163;5.90) a month plus 79 cents for every song downloaded.A growing number of media, retail and technology groups are rushing into the nascent market which delivers music legally over the internet.The illegal online piracy of music has been blamed by the music industry for devastating conventional sales. Global music sales fell by 11% in the first half of the year, but the early evidence suggests there is an appetite for legally downloading music.The biggest player in the advanced US market has been Apple Computer, with its iTunes service. Since the service was launched in April, users have downloaded 14m songs at 99 cents a time.A Windows version of iTunes was launched last Thursday and has already sold more than 1m songs, Apple said. It has not yet set a date for entering the European market.Rhapsody carries a catalogue of 385,000 songs for web streaming and more than 275,000 for permanent download.The Seattle company, better know for its video streaming software, said that 21m songs had been streamed on the US service during September.Microsoft launched a pay-as-you-go service in Europe last month. Users can download any of 200,000 songs from 8,500 artists. Next spring, Sony intends to offer a service in the US and Europe which will use a similar device to Apple's iPod.Others looking at the possibility of launching services include Time Warner and MTV, the cable television music channel. Roxio, a Silicon Valley software firm, has rebooted Napster, once the most notorious peer-to-peer service, as a fee-paying business.
Mobile PhonesOn the trackFinland's government has proposed a law allowing parents access to the location data generated by their child's mobile phone. The law could set a precedent for the EU, as it is based around a clause in the European directive on privacy and electronic communications. It requires the permission of anyone over 15 to pass on their location data (as you would expect), but for those 15 or under, consent is up to their guardian. Finland already has commercially available location data services.Wi-Fi wonderMotorola has confirmed that two mobile phones that feature Wi-Fi (802.11b/g) connectivity will be on sale in the UK next year . It is likely that one will work with GPRS systems while the other runs over 3G. The 802.11b/g wireless technology is provided by Texas Instruments. Motorola has also confirmed that next year it will offer a "broadband to go" Wi-Fi/3G network card for laptop PCs. Users will be able to surf wirelessly at a hot spot using an 802.11b/g connection and then get online using 3G networks the rest of the time.BroadbandTrigger-lessBT has announced 332 exchanges where it has no plans to set an ADSL trigger level, although it said it may review these in future. It includes exchanges such as Earls Colne in Essex, where campaigns have been set up to get people to pre-register for ADSL. An organisation that may help some of these, the Community Broadband Network, this week won government funding to develop its programme of sharing expertise on different technologies for broadband.Mobile gamingSporting chancesVideogame giant Electronic Arts will make history (in a modest sense) on Friday when a mobile version of its Fifa 2004 franchise is released simultaneously alongside PC and console versions - bringing mobile gaming in line with traditional formats. The Java title, co-published by Digital Bridges, is a slick, cut-down footie experience featuring 16 international teams, real players and decent AI. The visuals are improved from the Fifa 2003 mobile edition and gameplay is more complex, with headers, crosses and fouling introduced.While mobile football sims are still in their infancy, racing titles are making impressive   technical advances. IF Racing 2 from In-Fusio looks like a standard F1 racer with cute mid-'80s coin-op visuals. However, the game features a new "mirror" mode which lets you upload your best performances to a dedicated server, or download the times achieved by others and then compete against their "ghost" car on your screen. It will be released in the UK next month.Going one step further is Lotus City Racing, currently in development at British outfit Kuju. Lotus will be one of the first Java titles to offer real-time two player gaming over 2.5G networks when it's released early next year. This has been achieved using the Pecan Gaming platform built by Israeli tech company Cash-U.www.cash-u.comStat of the weekMusic to the earsForget text messaging and mono ringtones. Polyphonic ringtones is where the real action is. The market will explode from a value of &euro;80m this year to &euro;543m by 2006, according to World Wireless Forum.
Install Microsoft Exchange Server and you get a full featured enterprise mail server, capable of operating in the largest businesses, supporting tens of thousands of users. It began life using proprietary communications protocols, but now supports common internet mail standards such as POP3, IMAP and SMTP. Exchange has grown over the years, and the latest release, Exchange 2003, adds features and updates existing functions.A standard edition and an enterprise edition are available. The enterprise edition has all the features of standard, adding cluster support and can handle up to eight terabytes of messages. A third version will be bundled in Microsoft's Small Business Server 2003 package, and will only handle a limited number of users.Many companies install Exchange as a mail server, but it can be much more than just a tool for routing and storing email. Inside Exchange there are tools and technologies designed to help Windows and Office users collaborate inside a single organisation. To get the most out of Exchange 2003, you really need to be running a full Windows Server 2003 installation with Active Directory and Office 2003. These allow you to build com plex workflow applications around common office tasks and familiar tools, and build Exchange services into SharePoint portals. Exchange 2003 also introduces a new licensing model: a user licence and a device licence. The user licence allows one user to access a server with multiple devices, and the device licence is for one device with many users.Security is an important feature of any mail server. Email viruses and spam are common problems, and the combination of Exchange and Outlook has been an attractive target for virus writers. Microsoft is hoping that the new version's basic anti-spam filters and virus-scanning API will help businesses protect email services. Third party anti-virus tools can use the API to plug directly into Exchange servers, helping reduce the risk of viruses spreading to desktop PCs.So should you upgrade? If you're still running Exchange 5.5, you'll find Microsoft has various migration tools, to help you plan and manage any upgrade. Nigel Postings, services engagement manager at Microsoft UK, has been working with early adopter customers, and describes the upgrade as "making Exchange work harder for you". Moving from   Exchange 5.5 to Exchange 2003 will help you consolidate your existing mail system, reducing the number of servers and your support costs.Exchange 2000 users won't see as many benefits, though new features such as the Mailbox Recovery Centre may make upgrading attractive. As mail becomes more important to the business, Exchange's recovery tools    will help mail administrators meet mail service level agreements even if there are major server problems, as you will now be able to restore basic email services to your users before recovering data. If you're using Windows Server 2003, you can also take advantage of Volume Shadow Copy to speed up back-ups. It's probably worth thinking of Exchange 2003 as   a major service release for Exchange 2000, offering many improvements but no major changes.On the desktop, Outlook users will see some changes, especially if they're using Outlook 2003. A new cached mode connection to an Exchange server helps keep bandwidth usage down, and can help with site consolidation. Remote sites will be able to use Outlook and a DSL connection to a central Exchange server, rather than running their own local mail system. Outlook 2003 can also connect to Exchange 2003 over HTTPS, keeping mail connections to remote and mobile users secure without the additional complexity of building and running a VPN.You don't need to work with Outlook to use Exchange. Apple's latest versions of its Mail and Address Book tools, bundled with OS X 10.3, will work with your Exchange servers. You'll also find that Mozilla's free Thunderbird mail client can easily use Exchange's IMAP features.Exchange's own web mail tools have been significantly improved, and Outlook Web Access now has a user interface that looks just like its desktop counterpart (if you're using Internet Explorer), and includes a spell checker. There's no longer any need to install additional tools to support mobile phones and PDAs. Mobile devices can use Outlook Mobile Access to read mail on the road, while Microsoft's own smartphones and PDAs can synchronise with the server over any mobile data connection, including GPRS.Exchange isn't the only mail server on the market, though it is relatively easy to set up and manage compared with some of its competitors. From open source applications to IBM's Lotus Notes, there are tools that will suit every size business. If you are thinking about starting from scratch, you will need to consider your IT department's administration skill sets before deciding. It can be difficult to choose an appropriate mail server, but organisations that are already using earlier versions Exchange will find Exchange 2003 a capable successor to their existing platform.Online trial for Outlook Web Accesswww.microsoft.com/exchange/evaluation/trial/online.asp
We all know the UK government is chucking money at IT. But a market research firm last week put the spending in a scary context. According to Gartner, the government plans to spend $22bn (&#163;13.1bn) a year on IT by 2005. That is twice as much as the next biggest spending European government, Germany, and  14 times the average for other European governments.Let's assume that the differential is real and not a result of some anomaly in definition or transparency. What does it mean? A positive spin is that the investment is a sign that the UK is serious about reforming public services, in marked contrast to eurosclerotics such as France and Germany.The negative side is that this vote   of confidence in IT doesn't seem to be accompanied by any evidence of efficiency savings. In fact, the latest figures on civil service numbers, also released last week, suggest they are rising at almost the same rate as IT spending (4.5% and 4% a year, respectively).The correlation is embarrassing. Twenty-two billion dollars is a lot of money. Gartner warns that, as time passes and scrutiny grows, the government will come under pressure to prove its IT budget would not be better spent on hospitals, schools or railway track.Governments find this difficult. Conventionally, they justify IT investments as ways of running public services more efficiently, therefore providing the equivalent of extra wards, police officers or teachers. For example, one benefit of the NHS's new &#163;68m e-booking   system should be that fewer people fail to turn up for appointments, so clinics run to full capacity and waiting lists fall. Of course, it's more complicated than that. Like airlines, some clinics already compensate for no-shows by over-booking. Others use the "wasted" time to catch up with odd jobs that can't be timetabled. And others have found that a friendly phone call from a low-paid hospital clerk can reduce the number of no shows more cheaply than a fancy IT system.But, according to Gartner, attempts to justify government IT projects by return on investment are doomed. By 2007, it claims, more than half of government IT initiatives that have been cost- justified by traditional economic and financial return methods will not achieve their targets.The result, says Gartner analyst Andrea Di Maio, will be a public backlash, with the government accused of wasting billions of pounds of taxpayers' money on unnecessary technology.Gartner's solution is that rather than justifying IT spending on economic returns, governments determine success by "quality of life" measures such as stakeholder satisfaction, the use of new electronic channels and the extent to which processes are simplified.All are worthy objectives. The problem is that these soft outcomes need to be paid for with hard money. As the chancellor does his sums for his next public spending review, he may decide that other parts of the national infrastructure have a greater claim to the hard stuff.
Time Warner was still dogged yesterday by the weakening performance of its internet service provider AOL, despite attempting to begin anew by dropping the brand from its logo a week ago.In its third-quarter results, Time Warner said the online division lost a further 688,000 subscribers.The total customer base of 24.7 million is now two million lower than it was a year earlier. Advertising revenues continued to decline sharply, falling 33%.Reports in the US yesterday added further to the problems faced by the division. According to the New York Times, the securities and exchange commission, the US financial watchdog, has subpoenaed Time Warner chief executive Richard Parsons and former chairman Steve Case for questioning as part of its long-running investigation into accounting at AOL.Time Warner and the SEC declined to comment.The issues surrounding AOL soured an otherwise robust performance from Time Warner during the third quarter. The company posted sharply higher profits of $541m (&#163;319m), a near tenfold improvement on the $57m reported a year earlier. Revenues were 4% higher at $10.3bn.The company was boosted by a strong performance from its cable networks including Sex and the City creator HBO and news channel CNN, which improved operating profits by 9%.The filmed entertainment division including the Warner Bros Studio also increased operating profits by 21%, aided by the DVD releases of The Matrix Reloaded and the second instalment of Lord of the Rings.There were also disappointments. Profits fell by 25% to $158m at the publishing division, which produces Time and People magazines, owing to a weak advertising environment.Time Warner also said it would take a non-cash charge of up to $1.6bn in the fourth quarter relating to the write down of assets in its music division, home to Madonna. The company said the review had been prompted in part because of a "possible transaction". It is in negotiations to sell a majority stake in the business to British music group EMI.Mr Parsons said the group had met its debt reduction goals for the year. It ended the period with debts of $24.1bn and claims to be on track to cut that further to $20bn. Mr Parsons was upbeat about the company's prospects. "From my perspective, things are looking much better," he said.AOL remains the chief concern. Revenues at the online division fell 4.5% to $2.1bn and operating profits dropped by 7% to $150m. The company has been losing subscribers as users migrate to high-speed services.Time Warner recently said that it would offer a low-cost dial-up service under the Netscape brand in an effort to stem the outflow of subscribers. It is also trying to sign broadband customers and during the quarter added about 340,000.
