The patent wars are hotting up – and Motorola Mobility (MMI), the mobile device and set-top box company being acquired by Google, has struck a notable blow against Apple.The iPhone and iPad maker said on Friday that it has disabled the push email function for its mobile devices in Germany in an ongoing patent dispute with MMI.The disabling of the push service, which automatically sends messages from the receiving email server to the devices as soon as they're received, rather than waiting to be polled by the device, will affect customers using Apple's MobileMe and iCloud email.Apple said those customers can still receive email using other settings.The move follows a ruling by a Mannheim court earlier this month that Apple had infringed upon a Motorola patent on push email technology.Apple says it believes its own patent is valid and is appealing the decision.Motorola asserts that its patent – which the independent patents blogger Florian Müller said dates back to the days of the pager – covers Apple's implementation of "push" systems.It is the second time Apple has been forced by a court ruling in favour of Motorola to alter its offerings in Germany. Earlier in February it was obliged to remove some items from its online store in Germany when it lost a court case related to its use of 3G and UMTS systems, which are covered by MMI-owned patents.But the latter move sparked a complaint by Apple to the European Commission that the company was abusing "standards-essential" patents, which are those deemed to have been necessary to make devices compliant with standards such as Wi-Fi and mobile phone connectivity.Such patents are meant to be licensed on "FRAND" – fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory – terms, so that they are available to any company willing to license them.Denying the use of FRAND patents could attract antitrust investigation from the European Commission – as is already happening with Samsung over some of its countersuits against Apple. If found guilty of abuse, the company could be charged up to 10% of its revenues. If MMI is owned by Google then the parent company might be liable.Microsoft has also filed a similar complaint against MMI with the European Commission over its enforcement of what are claimed to be "standards-essential" patents.The withdrawal of the push email service – for which the patent does not fall under FRAND licensing – comes against a backdrop of frenzied litigation between many of the biggest names in technology as they try to assert their intellectual property and to hinder rivals in the smartphone and tablet market.Apple is currently suing Android handset makers including MMI, Samsung and HTC in various courts around the world, while a number of countersuits by the same companies are trying to hit back. Microsoft, meanwhile, has succeeded in getting many Android makers to pay it royalties on patents that it says cover Android.Apple last week won a case against MMI in Germany over its patented "slide to unlock" feature, arguing that MMI's version on its Android phones too closely matched its version, which shows "guide rails" for the unlock mechanism.Motorola said the case would not affect existing users and that it had "new designs" in place which would not infringe the patent, although it did not respond to enquiries about how the new design differed.
In the earliest days of games development, there was a Gold Rush vibe – pretty much every game invented a new genre. Then games developed and matured, settling into a fixed set of genres.In their earliest days, video games were a blank book – pretty much every one that came out was different to what had gone before. But they quickly settled down into a familiar collection of genres (some of which, like point-and-click adventures, fell by the wayside).One venerable genre which remains hugely popular is the Japanese RPG, characterised by stunning, anime-influenced artwork, strong storylines and turn-based battling, and exemplified by Square-Enix's Final Fantasy franchise. The man who created the Final Fantasy games, Hironobu Sakaguchi, can claim to be the man who wrote the book on JRPGs, and we caught up with him on a rare visit to London.Sakaguchi was in London to demo his latest game,The Last Story, to no less an august establishment than Bafta, before fielding a question-and-answer session. In a typically wry manner, he says: "There's a Japanese saying: I'm a koi carp in the kitchen, waiting to be cooked."Why the Wii?Sakaguchi's breakthrough game was the first Final Fantasy in 1987, and he explains that it got its name because he had endured two flops and decided that if his third attempt hadn't been a hit, he would have gone back to university.Now he can point to a quarter of a century's-worth of experience at crafting games. So it seems a bit strange that The Last Story should be coming out on the Wii, a console at the end of its life-cycle whose replacement, the Wii U, is already looming.It's especially considering that when Sakaguchi split from what was then Square in 2003, and handed over the Final Fantasy reins, he formed his new developer, Mistwalker, with very public backing from Microsoft. His next two games – 2006's Blue Dragon and 2007's Lost Odyssey – were Xbox 360 exclusives, and the former was a rare Sakaguchi flop.Counter-intuitively, Sakaguchi explains that The Last Story is a Wii game because he wanted to step outside of his comfort zone and experiment with it."I have a formula from the 25 years experience I have in the industry – an RPG formula," he says. "Which is a turn-based, orthodox JRPG. But for The Last Story, I wanted to completely change that formula and come up with something new."Around that time, Shinji Hatano at Nintendo, who is high up in the ranks there, said: 'Why don't we try this new type of RPG together?' When creating new things, there are always risks – you never know whether it will be accepted by gamers."So I was extremely thankful that he offered to collaborate. So the game was born not from the feeling that I wanted to create a game for the Wii, but rather from the trust that I have for Hatano-san."Telling The Last StorySo, how does The Last Story differ from the rest of Sakaguchi's oeuvre? It ditches the turn-based battle system, for a start, in favour of a real-time one which, he explains, is unique: "The battle system is probably the most important aspect of the game. We had an experimental phase of about a year, in which we had so many ideas, and the best have been incorporated in the final game."For example, the protagonist uses a move called 'gathering'. This attracts the enemies' attention towards the protagonist. So, the concept is that on a chaotic battlefield, by using this move, the player can bring order to the battlefield. Or, conversely, by attracting their attention can cause chaos on the enemy side. So that brings strategic elements."In practice, gathering works pretty well making boss-battles, for example, a matter of leading your attackers towards your Mage and archers, before going in close to finish the job yourself.The Mage is clearly the key member of your party in The Last Story: "When your party's Mage fires a magic attack, it leaves a magic circle. When the protagonist diffuses this with his move called 'gale'; this causes a secondary effect."So, for example, if the Mage attack is an ice attack, it leaves an ice circle, and when the protagonist diffuses that, it creates an effect called 'slip', where the enemies slip over. We experimented with different ideas and, in the end, I believe we've been able to create a new type of battle system."Sakaguchi is keen to highlight other aspects of the game: "We should give credit to Kimihiko Fujisaka, who was in charge of the character design, as well as the design of the whole environment."Of course, in my games, I always place much emphasis on the graphics, so I did ask Fujisaka-san to put a lot of effort into that area."And he teamed up once more with Nobuo Uematsu, the composer who is as feted as Sakaguchi and with whom he has collaborated for 25 years – leading them to be likened to a married couple, as Sakaguchi acknowledges."When it came to requesting music for the game, due to the change in the battle system, the general flow had changed," he says. "So I wanted him to change the direction of the music accordingly. But when I passed on the story-plot to him and asked him to compose the music, the three pieces of music I received were all rejected, because they didn't really match."There was no contact from Uematsu for about a month – I was worried that, if we were like a married couple, there was a danger of getting divorced. But after a month, he sent over three new pieces of music, which were used in the game."Not just single-playerThe other unexpected aspect of The Last Story is that it can be played online – players can take part in free-for-all Deathmatches, collaborative Team Deathmatches or co-operatively take on boss-battles.Sakaguchi elaborates: "The biggest difference between the online game and single-player is that the player can't use the Gathering system online. One thing that I personally dislike about online gaming is that there will always be people who use dirty words, and therefore, for Last Story's online play, I came up with the idea of players communicating with each other using the script that is actually used in the single-player game."In the game, a lot of small-talk goes on between the characters. So using these scripts, players can have decent conversations with each other. Also, I felt that gives a different experience from just simple voice-chat. One thing that is fun is attacking with bananas – making the other players slip with banana skins."No escape from Final FantasySakaguchi confesses that he is heartily fed up with people asking him about Final Fantasy – but he did create the franchise, and will forever be identified with it.Recently, Final Fantasy's veneer of quality has accumulated some unsightly chips: Final Fantasy XIII was criticised for being too linear and predictable, while the MMO Final Fantasy XIV was hideously unplayable, although Square-Enix has worked hard to fix it.Sakaguchi, predictably, is diplomatic: "I still go out drinking with Yoshinori Kitase, the current producer of Final Fantasy, once in a while, and on those occasions he does tell me that it's all fine. Sometimes, I personally complain a little bit about certain things about the franchise."But when I left Square, I left the franchise in Kitase's hands, and he promised me he would protect and progress the Final Fantasy brand. He has been my right-hand man since round about the middle of Final Fantasy III, and therefore I have a lot of trust in him."Nor, having made a real-time RPG, will he take the opportunity to declare the anachronistic, at least in Western eyes, turn-based RPG moribund."Of course, games are a form of entertainment, so new things will always be more exciting than old things," he says. "Turn-based RPGs are an established form of entertainment, and just like puzzle games never died out, I believe that turn-based RPGs will continue to exist."At Bafta, Sakaguchi's demo and Q&amp;A session was rapturously received. The Last Story is clearly up there with his best work, so it constitutes something of a last hurrah for the Wii.He remains tight-lipped about what we can expect from him in the future, beyond three games for Apple's iOS: "I am a big fan of Apple's products. They are small projects and fun for me. The first one is a surfing game".But, with the benefit of 25 years' experience in the industry, he offers some advice to aspiring developers: "Looking back, my pre-Final Fantasy games failed because I kept copying what was on the market. So free yourself, and do what is good for the game."
EA has announced through its Medal of Honor website that the next addition to the long-running shooter series will arrive this autumn, subtitled Warfighter. The February US edition of theOfficial Xbox Magazineapparently has all the exclusive details.Right now, it seems the game will be developed entirely by Danger Close, previously known as EA LA, the studio responsible for the campaign mode in 2010's re-boot of the MoH series. The game will use the Frostbite 2.0 engine – the same tech as Battlefield 3.Once again, it seems the story will involve so-called Tier 1 operators, elite soldiers working on special missions within enemy territory. As with the previous title, which was largely set in Afghanistan, it's likely the emphasis will be on real-world tactics and conflicts.This causedsome controversyin 2010, when Labour MP Liam Fox complained about the appearance of Taliban fighters in Medal of Honor – however, his comments revealed only a passing knowledge of the game content, and the Labour party distanced itself from his statement. More details on the scenario of the latest title are expected to come to light at the GDC conference in two week's time.2010's instalment of MoH was a critical and commercial success for EA, shifting around 5m copies, despite some criticism of the extremely short single-player mode. However, it failed to make much of a dent on Black Ops, which went on to record-breaking sales of more than 25m.Rumours circulating at the moment suggest that Treyarch is also preparing a sequel to its own 2010 hit, Call of Duty: Black Ops. It seems the two brands will go head to head again in 2012.
Twitter – a place to discover news, start revolutions, document history in real time and post thousands of tributes to an imaginary man, created by a comedian during a quiet moment.Showing that the Friday feeling was alive and well on Twitter, the imaginary death of the imaginary comic Gregg Jevin dominated the website's trends.It started innocuously enough, with the comedian Michael Legge postinga tweetthat read: "Sad to say that Gregg Jevin, a man I just made up, has died. #RIPGreggJevin."Before long, a flurry of tributes were pouring in, pushing #RIPGreggJevin and Gregg Jevin to the top Twitter trends – no mean feat for a comedian with about 10,000 followers at the beginning of the day.Other comedians quickly got on board. @mrpetermore dwelt with regret on his troubled relationship with the imaginary comedian: "I take back every mean-spirited, spiteful thing I ever said Gregg Jevin. Now he's dead. #RIPGreggJevin", adding: "Don't know how I'm going to break the news about Gregg Jevin to my kids. He was their role model as they are also made up."The trend – caused when there is a sudden spike in conversations around a hashtag – did create some confusion, leading one tweeter to comment: "Loving all the people asking 'who is Gregg Jevin?' But then, did any of us really know?"Before long, tributes not only from individuals but also from major publications were being posted. The Radio Times was a vocal Gregg Jevin enthusiast. Tweeting as@RadioTimes, it announced a series of programmes dedicated to the made-up man. "Schedule update: 9.30pm tonight on BBC2, the tribute programme 'Oh Well, Never Mind: The Gregg Jevin Story' … It's part of Gregg Jevin Night, which includes his films Tears from a Face (1975), Warm Protocol (1981) and Elephant! (1986) #RIPGreggJevin".TheRoyal Albert Hallalso made an announcement. "Tickets for the Gregg Jevin memorial concert here are likely to go on sale in the coming weeks," it told the dead comedian's creator.There were showdowns, with@WstonesOxfordSttweeting: "Come on @Foyles. Let's fight tonight at 10, Oxford Circus. Do it for Gregg. #RIPGreggJevin." And there were newsflashes: "Fictional character Gregg Jevin has died," tweeted@BBCWorld.Even Legge seemed surprised by the interest garnered by the imaginary comedian's passing. "Interesting that Gregg is trending worldwide. I remember when Diana died. She didn't trend on Twitter at all," he wrote.
The orphan troupe, the gelled hair, the tinkling arpeggio, the heaving city, the unseen world-threatening terror, the boastful, conclusive title; The Last Story will be familiar to fans of director Hironobu Sakaguchi's work. But it is perhaps inevitable that any new Japanese RPG from the creator of Final Fantasy will share themes, ambience and aesthetics with Square-Enix's conquering behemoth franchise.Final Fantasy – designed by Sakaguchi in 1986 as a last ditch attempt to create a successful video game – salvaged not only his own fledgling career but also the fortunes of the diminutive company, turning it into one of the world's largest and most powerful game (and movie) publishers.For any creative in his 50s, the temptation to revisit the magical recipe that made him in his 20s must me compelling. But then again, to dismiss this curious Wii game as a copycat would be grossly unfair. The surface details may be familiar, but the mechanical engine that fires the fantasy is fresh, and the experience unique for it.Indeed, Sakaguchi claims that his studio Mistwalker dedicated an entire year of prototyping to answering the design question: how can we make the JRPG battle system more interesting and dynamic? The results of that focus are smart and engaging, offering a real-time weave of offensive and defensive options with ranged and close quarters weapons that ensure each encounter is fraught with tension and tactics.You play as Zael, a young mercenary thrown in with a ragtag bad of cohorts on an unfocused quest to find fame, fortune and their identity on the diverse island of Lazulis. Here mercenaries are feared but also looked down upon, a poor man's knight characterised by brutality and efficiency, but rarely honour and poise.Zael and his friends have ambitions to become knights, and it's the twin motivations of inadequacy and ambition that fire the group through the game's 20-odd hour storyline.As with Final Fantasy, much emphasis is placed on the relationships between the cast (who, as in last year's Xenoblade Chronicles is almost entirely voiced by British actors) and endless cut scenes reveal the dynamics of the group. Occasionally heavy-handed, these exchanges succeed in giving each character personality and individual quirk and motivation, ensuring that in battle they appear as more than mere ciphers for your combat abilities, but as something closer to people.The sense of camaraderie between the group helps push you through the story when it lags in the second act, and while some lines of dialogue miss the target (particularly those that take aim at humour) the ensemble cast is more than the sum of its parts.In the opening stages of the game a unique ability awakens within Zael, marking him out as someone special. This ability, known as "gathering", can be triggered at any time during combat and used indefinitely. While activated it draws all enemy attention onto Zael, leaving your AI-controlled teammates free to wale on their foes uninterrupted.A smart risk/reward dynamic is introduced as Zael recovers a little health every time he successfully lands a strike on an enemy, the risk being that everyone wants a piece of him at once.New abilities are unlocked steadily over the course of the adventure, adding the capacity for Zael to jump over enemy heads and down-slice as he does so, or run up walls, Neo-like, before landing a vertical slice on an enemy, the impact augmented by gravity.The magic users in your group, meanwhile, must be protected as they hover before casting a spell, a floating countdown indicating how many seconds they have left before they unleash their arcane attack. These mages can produce "area of effect" spells that automatically heal comrades that stand within their circumference, or reduce  the defences of enemies.Later in the game Zael gains the Gale ability, a gust of wind that can shatter an area of effect spell, causing large amounts of damage to any foe nearby. The range of tactical options moment by moment is wide and, while the game arguably becomes a little too easy in its latter stage, the system is noteworthy and worthwhile.Outside of battle there's the usual clutch of side quests to engage in and a huge array of customisation options, with Fable-style collectible dyes allowing you to play tailor. Blacksmiths can, for a fee, upgrade your weapons and armour with the most expensive upgrades requiring rare items.The Last Story is also notable for offering some multiplayer options – a rarity in offline JRPGs. With one co-operative mode and one competitive mode, it's not the most featured multiplayer arena, but the opportunity to show off your personal, customised Zael into battle alongside other players is a welcome one.The Last Story lacks the contemporary pizzazz of last year's Xenoblade Chronicles (created by Tetsuya Takahashi, a designer that Hironobu Sakaguchi hired in his Square-Enix days). But nonetheless, the storybook ambiance, strong characters and interesting battle system make this relatively short adventure one that's worth following to its conclusion.The Japanese RPG may have suffered heavy blows at the hands of Western RPGs such as Skyrim and Fable, but The Last Story does much to demonstrate there's still life and innovation in the form. That this game should come from one of the genre's progenitors is testament to a creative spark that still fires even after all these years.• Game reviewed on Wii
A selection of 23 new apps for you today:The Guitar Collection: George HarrisonGeorge Harrison owned a fair few guitars, and now they're being shown off in an iPad app made by Bandwdth. It offers spinnable 360-degree photographs of seven of Harrison's axes, as well as histories and descriptions, and videos of various modern guitarists playing them. If you own Harrison's music, it lets you play your collection according to the instrument he was using too.iPadToca HouseAfter notching up 5m downloads of its iOS apps for kids, Swedish studio Toca Boca has a new one with a homely feel. Toca House gets children performing virtual chores, yet manages to make it fun and engaging. 19 domestic mini-games are aimed at 2-6 year-olds.iPhone / iPadThe Land of Me: Story TimeMeanwhile, parents with iPad 2 tablets should definitely check out Penguin and Made in Me's latest collaboration. It's a storybook app that encourages interactivity with the story itself: "Create your own stories by choosing the hero, the theme and how it ends then see it come alive before your eyes! Change the words to instantly alter the storyline as it plays out in front of you..."iPadNet-A-PorterFashion retailer Net-A-Porter has brought its iOS app to Android, enabling people to browse its catalogue, share their favourites on Twitter and Facebook, manage their wish list and get news and videos from the retailer's Fashion Fix blog.AndroidLookout Ad Network DetectorAs app users wake up to privacy issues, Ad Network Detector may find an audience on Android. It "scans your phone or tablet for the presence of the most common ad networks used in mobile apps, giving you insight into what types of ads can be displayed, and what information is gathered by the ad networks".AndroidThe Lion King: Timon's TaleDisney's latest book-app is based on The Lion King, with cheeky meerkat Timon taking readers through the story of Simba the lion. Music, interactivity and animation are the stars of the show.iPhone / iPadGuinness World Records Augmented RealityThe Guinness Book of World Records is jumping on the augmented reality bandwagon with a forthcoming app. This one's a preview for that, although it only works if the user has the official press pack. It has an animated shark appearing to emerge from a page, giving a glimpse at what's in store from the full app.iPhone / iPadFortean Times Weird News AppDennis Publishing has launched an Android app for the Fortean Times, promising "more than 500 stories of crudity and craziness" from around the world.AndroidCNNCNN's Windows Phone app for Nokia smartphones has been released, although only Lumia handset owners can get it – for the next few months at least. Expect news, video and the iReport citizen journalist feature, as on other platforms.Windows PhoneTangled: Storybook DeluxeDisney's second iOS book-app of the day is based on its Tangled movie, which saw the continuing adventures of Rapunzel. Again, it's a mixture of music, interactivity and, here, a floating lanterns mini-game.iPhone / iPadThe Little Blue DoggyIn a busy day for new children's apps, The Little Blur Doggy adds some French flair to the mix. It's a book-app telling the tale of a stuffed dog called Snag, with music and animation.iPadKISS by Monster Mini GolfOkay, so rock band Kiss have their own branded mini-golf course in Las Vegas. And now there's an app for it, to help people keep score on their way round. Each hole has its own, ahem, "Kisstory lesson" with facts about the band. And the app also lets players brag about their scores on Facebook and Twitter.iPhoneHarleyStreet.comMedical site HarleyStreet.com helps patients find and book appointments with private healthcare firms in London. Now it's got an app to help connect the two groups too.Android / iPhone / BlackBerry / NokiaNeoteriaNeoteria is an old-school horizontally-scrolling shoot 'em up from OrangePixel, released with the promise that more content will be added when it does more than 20,000 sales. The link above is for Android but theiOS version is here.Android / iPhone / iPadShogun: Bullet Hell ShooterTalking of shoot 'em ups, Shogun is a new Android game in the Bullet Hell genre, meaning it's not for the faint-hearted. The developers promise a mixture of retro mechanics and modern-day touch controls and visuals.AndroidPuzzlePlus: CitiesWe haven't seen the PuzzlePlus series of apps before, but they look very good. It promises a digital version of real-world jigsaw puzzles, with this version based on photos of London, Venice, Rome, Prague, Paris and Kiev.iPadBonnaroo HDWho takes their iPad to a music festival? Crazy fools, that's who. But the official app for US festival Bonnaroo is designed to be used well before the actual event, in the safety of home. It includes roadtrip recommendations, a lineup with biographies and videos, deep social features and a streaming radio station.iPadAwolnation: Megalithic MayhemUS band Awolnation have an official app, but it's far from a standard promotional one. This is a claymation game that sees the band members beating up "aliens, yetis, reptilians, bomb-wielding penguins and samurai snowmen".iPhone / iPadFC Barcelona WorldTapFC Barcelona's latest official app is out on Android: a one-touch casual game where you keep a football in the air by tapping it, with the aim of winning monthly prizes.Android60 Seconds FootballAnd another casual game for football fans from Quirky Enterprises and Chelsea Apps Factory. Here, the aim is to score as many goals as possible from headers and volleys in 60 seconds. A percentage of the revenues will go to football charity Street League too.iPhone / iPadStar StatureSnooki out of Jersey Shore and Gandhi... together at last! This app compares the heights of 400 celebrities and historical figures, with the aim of helping people understand how they measure up. The link above is for Android buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadVIVATown for PapayaAndroid social game VIVATown has been relaunched using Papaya's mobile social gaming community. The gameplay looks like a familiar mix of town-building and socialising with friends.AndroidSea StarsThis Android game looks like one for people who liked the look of Tiny Wings or Whale Trail. It's a one-touch game where sea creatures have to swim through the sea collecting coins and avoiding enemies.Android
It's Friday. The weekend approaches – two whole days of uninterrupted gaming.Has anyone bought a PS Vita yet?Or are you planning to buy one this weekend?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDilbert designs a phablet &gt;&gt; Dilbert"There's room in the market for a device that's bigger than a phone but smaller than a tablet."Google said to pick own executive to replace Jha as Motorola Mobility CEO &gt;&gt; BloombergWidely expected, but the name wasn't:Google, which won US approval for its acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings, is close to naming Dennis Woodside to run the business when the deal closes, three people familiar with the matter said. Woodside, who led Google's ad sales in the Americas before leaving that job to oversee the merger, would succeed Motorola Mobility Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha, said the people, who declined to be named because the decision isn't public.Jha made himself very rich by forcing Google to up its bid for MMI by a third. The idea that Google is going to "run MMI at arm's length" now looks like nonsense. Jha, meanwhile, is free to go and run any other struggling mobile companies with big patent portfolios. Perhaps Ottawa-based makers of keyboard-based devices.Grooveshark blocked in Denmark by copyright warriors &gt;&gt; The RegisterA Danish copyright group has won a court order to block music streaming site Grooveshark from the nation's pastry-munching pirates. In a report of questionable accuracy (the plaintiff Rettighedsalliancen is incorrectly described as a "local IFPI") at tech site Comon [Den - Eng]. Hutchison-owned mobile operator 3 must implement the block immediately. Denmark was one of the first to implement DNS-level blocking, first against Pirate Bay more than three years ago. An appeal is expected.Grooveshark increasingly looks like the MegaUpload of music streaming.Foxconn, Apple, and the Fair Labor Association respond to ABC News' Exclusive Report &gt;&gt; ABC NewsThe echoes from the Foxconn report continue:From Auret van Heerden, President and CEO of the Fair Labor Association, regarding the "five year conversation" with Apple: "The discussions began in April 2007 but stalled in March 2008. We then resumed them in April 2009 and decided to do a small pilot survey so that Apple could get an idea of how our tools might add value to their program. That pilot led to a second activity that I believe contributed to the decision to join the FLA at the end of 2011. I, of course, cannot speak for Apple but I do believe that the decision to join was probably taken some months before (and therefore well before) the New York Times articles."That is, Apple wasn't stampeded into this. All the clarifications are interesting. We're still awaiting Dell, Microsoft, HP and Nintendo's statements on Foxconn conditions.YouPorn hacked user database &gt;&gt; Is It Hack DayYouPorn got hacked and the user names and passwords leaked onto the web. The information is interesting, with passwords being very simple and most emails having been created for the purpose of consuming adult material.The common passwords contain the usual suspects... well, slightly more sexual, actually, than usual.Is the Guardian hotel behind the Times? &gt;&gt; The WeekThis is witty:According to a report this week, the Guardian newspaper is exploring the idea of opening a 'Guardian hotel' - in their own words, "an atmospheric place to unwind" where "activities" will include workshops and debates with the likes of columnist Polly Toynbee. Sounds cosy - but how will it compete with the nation's existing newspaper hotels...?Will make much more sense to UK readers than those outside.Intellectual Property blog &gt;&gt; The IPKatA general view on patent and copyright law in the EU (with analyses on topics such as Acta, Bittorrent blocks, and many others). A really interesting find. (Thanks @plasmold for the link.)Galaxy S2, 10 months, sales surpassed 20 million &gt;&gt; SAMSUNG TOMORROWSamsung's headline claims 20m sales. The content, however (via Google Translate) says "20 million in 10 months in the global market (supply base) exceeded, says Samsung on 23 February." (Paraphrased slightly.) So that's 20m units shipped, not necessarily sold except in the sense of "sold to carriers". However, carriers tend not to buy phones that aren't selling. (We've heard different tales about tablets.) The Galaxy SII was released in April and hit 10m shipped by October, so this figure implies that sales sped up over Christmas. The SII is an impressive phone in all sorts of ways. So does this mean Samsung is now being open about its smartphone sales? Sadly not - this is the latest in a series of"milestone" announcements. Samsung still isn't giving quarterly figures for its total smartphone sales. Why? Analyst rumours say it's because it doesn't want to give Apple ammunition if all those patent lawsuits go against it. (Thanks @Martway and @rquick for the link.)If Android is a "stolen product," then so was the iPhone &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaTimothy Lee:But if Google is guilty of using Apple's ideas, Apple is equally guilty. Many researchers and companies invented technologies that predate the iPhone but made it possible. As Microsoft's Buxton points out, Wayne Westerman (the multitouch researcher who sold his startup and became an Apple employee in 2005) cited the work of numerous early multitouch researchers in his 1999 PhD thesis. The iPhone incorporated key innovations pioneered by Bob Boie, IBM, Jazzmutant, Jeff Han, and others. Indeed, what made the iPhone such a great product was precisely that Apple drew together a number of innovations already developed separately--touchscreen phones, capacitive touchscreens, sophisticated multitouch user interfaces--and combined them in a product greater than the sum of its parts. This pattern of combining and refining of previous innovations is the rule, not the exception, in innovative industries. Android is simply the latest example of the pattern.Yes, multi-touch (for example) was known about for years. So were touch screens. But all the lawsuits are over implementations and specific features - not the generality of an idea. To point to Xerox's GUI again - well, the history there is that Apple paid Xerox in shares to use its ideas. (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Apple has acquired US apps discovery startupChompfor a rumoured $50m (£32m), as it looks to make it easier for iOS users to find the best iPhone and iPad apps.The news wasbroken by TechCrunch, which claims that "Apple has bought the Chomp team and technology and plans to use both to completely revamp App Store search and recommendations".Its story gave no figure for the deal, but Bloomberg hassince claimedthat Apple paid around $50m for Chomp.Apple has confirmed the acquisition but not the price, with spokeswoman Amy Bessette telling Bloomberg: "We buy smaller technology companies from time to time and generally don't comment on our purposes or plans."9 to 5 Mac has alsofollowed up, claiming that Chomp chief executive Ben Keighran now works for Apple's iTunes marketing team, while chief technology officer Cathy Edwards is a senior iTunes engineer. At the time of writing, neither had updated their LinkedIn profile accordingly though.Chomplaunched its iPhone appin January 2010 as a way for iPhone users to write short reviews of their favourite apps, and then browse a feed of other people's recommendations.By August of that year it had 400,000 active users, and had added a focus on search. At the time, Keighrandescribed itas the most personalised way to search and browse for apps, adding that: "Apple is insanely excited about this."The acquisition should help Apple with one of its key challenges: helping iOS users discover apps at a time when there are more than 550,000 available in its App Store.Buying Chomp can also be seen as a vote of no confidence in Apple's existing Genius technology, at least in the sphere of apps.Originally developed to provide iTunes music recommendations based on people's existing collections, Genius for apps wasintroduced in September 2009, suggesting new apps based on previous individual downloads and purchases.Expect Chomp to drop some of its non-iOS services quickly. In March 2011 it launchedan Android versionof its app, while in September that year itstarted workingwith US mobile operator Verizon Wireless on recommendations for its Android app store.It remains to be seen what will happen to Chomp's standalone iPhone app, although the most likely bet is that it will be pulled from the App Store at some point, before reappearing at some point as an Apple app.
A co-founder of Twitter has told its 500 million users not to spend hours on the micro-blogging site because it is "unhealthy".Biz Stone, Twitter's creative director, said users should visit the site for information but leave once they had found it.At a business conference in Montreal, Canada, Stone, 37, said that using Twitter for hours at a time "sounds unhealthy"."I like the kind of engagement where you go to the website and you leave because you've found what you are looking for or you found something very interesting and you learned something," he told the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal on Wednesday."I think that's a much healthier engagement. Obviously, we want you to come frequently."The social networking guru, also said there were no plans to increase Twitter's 140-character limit, according to the Montreal Gazette.
Tumblr is to launch a new policy banning "self-harm blogs" from the site, with posts promoting anorexia, bulimia and self-mutilation set to be prohibited.The blogging site had previously allowed blogs which promoted and depicted self-inflicted injury, but in a staff blogpost Tumblr said the policy would be changing "next week"."Our content policy has not, until now, prohibited blogs that actively promote self-harm," the post read."These typically take the form of blogs that glorify or promote anorexia, bulimia, and other eating disorders; self-mutilation; or suicide."Tumblr said it "strongly opposed" such messages, but had been faced with a dilemma:The question for us has been whether it's better to (a) prohibit them, as a statement against the very ideas of self-harm that they are advancing, or (b) permit them to stay up, accompanied by a public service warning that directs readers to helplines run by organizations like the National Eating Disorders Association.The statement said Tumblr would be implementing a new content policy "in the very near future" which would prohibit content "that actively promotes or glorifies self-injury or self-harm"."This includes content that urges or encourages readers to cut or mutilate themselves; embrace anorexia, bulimia, or other eating disorders; or commit suicide rather than, eg, seek counselling or treatment for depression or other disorders."The statement added: "Of course, we will allow any affected blogs a grace period in which to edit or download your content" – implying that if offending material was left on an individual's Tumblr account it would eventually be deleted.In addition, the site will show "'public service announcement'-style language" to users searching for terms typically related to self-harm blogs, directing them to self-help organisations and similar.
A red helicopter turns circles over snowcapped mountains. Inside, the cheery Australian pilot asks his only passenger, a&nbsp;flame-haired snowboarder: "Hey, how's it going? Up for a little sky-boarding?" She punches the air, tugs open the side door and peers out at a drop of several thousand feet. Now you're controlling her. You push the analog stick and she leaps into the white. The&nbsp;mountains below rush towards her. As she falls, she starts to spin and perform tricks. She grabs the board, flips and grabs it again, falling with style. The pilot cackles encouragement through an earpiece. She's not wearing a parachute. He's pretty calm about the whole affair.As is the boarder. The ground's getting closer but she just keeps throwing shapes. You hold the trigger and now the shapes are bolder, more audacious: she takes one foot off the board entirely, stretching and contorting to make cooler grabs. Now the Australian's getting excited. She's gone into Tricky mode. The moves get&nbsp;braver and wilder, the board's spinning faster, the boarder's free foot flailing. These are moves you've never seen a real snowboarder perform.The Aussie's whooping. Her hands are glowing red. She's gone Super Tricky. And now physics as we know it is out the window. She's flying like superman, holding the board in her hands. Now she's juggling it with her feet. Now she's spinning it on a finger as the peaks below get closer. And now she's sprouted wings. A wingsuit, with sails in its webbed armpits. She's not falling. She's flying with style.Thus ends the tutorial. Sound like your kind of thing? If you don't like showing off for the benefit of an airborne Australian, the odds are that snowboarding gameSSX(PS3/Xbox 360) isn't for you. The franchise reboot's demo was released online this week with two full slopes of ramps, railings, pipes and ravines to tear through in a bid to impress your antipodean overlord. Unlock the Tricky modes with big jumps and death-defying grabs and he gushes approval. Stumble through it, as I did, bouncing from rock to rock like a drunk on Takeshi's Castle, and he basically calls you a prick. I mean he doesn't, but it's heavily implied.Snowboarding console games began, for me, in 1997, with the release of the first Cool Boarders for PS1. I ricocheted through the courses like a knife through the Eiffel Tower, but I was 10 and playing after school with my friends, so it didn't really matter. They were just as bad. The much-loved Cool Boarders made it to five instalments before giving way at the turn of the millennium to the original SSX, one of the first crop of games released for the PS2.That SSX was never a huge commercial hit but established itself as the leader of the genre nonetheless, winning rave reviews and awards. It took the snowboarding game into new, unreal territory, introducing the impossible tricks and exaggerated jumps that are now the series' trademark. Given the choice betweencool boardersandimpossibly cool boarders, gamers didn't stop to think twice.A dozen years on, a lot has changed but a lot has stayed the same. The revamp looks to be really only an evolution of those earlier games. There are improvements, certainly, but nothing revolutionary: level design is broader and more free-roaming, with multi-path slopes, fewer obstacles and more opportunities to pull off tricks at every twist and turn, or disappear into a secret tunnel and emerge at the front of the pack. There are more courses too than ever before. More than 150, in fact, based across 27 mountains from across the world, from Everest to Mont Blanc, including nine "deadly descents" fleeing avalanches and rockfalls.The graphics have, of course, improved. The soundtrack's a little more varied. There are more characters and more character customisation. There's even one fairly major innovation: the ability to rewind time a few seconds for another attempt at a failed jump. But – being able to make a mess of the same jump twice aside – the gameplay feels much the same as ever. Which is no bad thing for fans of the genre, of course. It&nbsp;just means I'll continue to veer erratically around, barrel into rocks, hit a tree and fall over. While an Australian man berates me. In that sense it's actually pretty true-to-life.
Google, Microsoft, Yahoo and AOL say they will sign up to a "consumer privacy bill of rights", announced on Thursday by the Obama administration in a move that would bring US law closer to European data protection principles.The idea would bring stronger privacy protections for consumers, as mobile gadgets, internet services and other tools get better at tracking what you do and where you go.Administration officialsoutlined their proposalon Thursday and urged technology companies, consumer groups and others to jointly craft new protections. Such guidelines would initially be voluntary for companies, but those that agree to abide by them could be subject to sanctions for any violations.Separately, the US Federal Trade Commission – which acts as a consumer watchdog – recommended the creation of a "Do Not Track" tool to let consumers curb advertisers from studying their online activity to target ads. Google was among those which said it would incorporate it into its browser, Chrome.In announcing support for the Obama administration's privacy safeguards, the companies – responsible for delivering nearly 90% of targeted advertisements – also committed to adopting a technology called "Do Not Track" which will start being built into web browsers later this year."As the internet evolves, consumer trust is essential for the continued growth of the digital economy," Obama said in a statement. "That's why an online privacy bill of rights is so important. For businesses to succeed online, consumers must feel secure."The effort comes as companies have found more sophisticated ways to collect and combine data on your interests and habits. Beginning next week, for instance, Google will start merging data it collects from email, video, social-networking and other services when you're signed in with a Google account. In response, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) put up a page on its website explaininghow to remove your search history from Google's database.The growing use of smartphones and tablet computers has added another dimension to the tracking. Location information can give service providers insights into where you spend your time and, if you have friends who use the same services, whom you tend to hang out with in person. The discovery that Apple's iPhone and iPad, and then devices using Google's Android, kept a database of the phone's location history, caused an outcry last year; Apple updated its software to wipe the database, while Google strengthened protection around it.Data collection can help companies improve and personalise services. It can also help advertisers fine-tune messages and reach the people most likely to buy their products and services often without consumers even realising – or consenting to – it.That lack of informed consent is why the administration is seeking more data protections for US consumers, in the report issued on Thursday.How strong the protections will be ultimately depends on what rules parties can reach consensus on. The US administration's approach implies of self-regulation, because legislation to enable traditional regulation would take time.The move carries echoes of European data protection laws, which enshrine individuals' rights about privacy and put limits on how personal data can be processed. But those have been developing since the 1980s, whereas the US has always taken a more laissez-faire approach.The FTC's move follows the revelation that software companies producing games and other mobile applications often aren't telling parents what personal information is being collected from children, nor how companies are using it. Depending on how the guidelines are crafted, companies could be required to more prominently disclose when they collect such things as location, call logs and lists of friends not just from other children, but everyone.The report is not intended to replace other efforts at offering privacy protections.Leading companies in mobile computing agreed on Wednesday to require that mobile applications seeking to collect personal informationforewarn users before their services are installed. The guidelines came as part of an agreement with California's attorney general.The US commerce secretary, John Bryson, said in a briefing with reporters that the administration's proposal on privacy not only protects consumers but also gives businesses better guidance on how to meet consumer expectations.The proposal expands on widely accepted Fair Information Practice Principles crafted in the 1970s, before internet use had expanded beyond early researchers. The existing guidelines say that consumers should be informed about any data collection and given the option to refuse. They should also be allowed to review and correct data about themselves. The principles also have provisions for security and enforcement.Applying the principles to the internet era, the administration said data collected in one context should not be used for another, while companies should specify any plans for deleting data or sharing information with outside parties. Companies also need to be mindful of the age and sophistication of consumers. Disclosures need to be presented when and where they are most useful for consumers.Those closely mirror the principles used in Europe, and could ease the transit of data between the two entities; presently the less strict data protection laws in the US mean that data from Europe which will be processed by US companies are subject to a "safe harbour" agreement, in which the US firm promises to act as though it were doing the processing under European law.The Commerce Department's National Telecommunications and Information Administration plans to convene companies, privacy advocates, regulators and other parties in the common months to craft detailed guidelines that reflect those principles. Enforcement would be left to the FTC under existing laws.The codes of conduct would be specific to particular types of companies. One might cover social networks, for instance, while another might deal with services on mobile gadgets. A company that offers social-networking features on phones might adopt both. New ones could emerge as technology evolves.Although officials expect many companies will agree to the new codes, allowing them to use that commitment in marketing materials, the report also called on Congress to pass new laws to require remaining companies to adopt such guidelines. Until then, enforcement would be limited to companies that say they would abide by the codes but fail to do so.Legislation also would be needed for the FTC to give protections to businesses that follow a checklist of good practices. Known as "safe harbor", such protections would exempt companies from sanctions if they inadvertently break a code.The report comes 14 months after the Commerce Department first proposed a privacy bill of rights. The issue was later elevated to the White House and won its endorsement with the release of Thursday's report.The administration dropped a proposal in the original report to create a federal privacy office within the Commerce Department. Instead, the task of convening parties to craft guidelines is left to the existing NTIA.
iPhone productivity appClearhas sold more than 350,000 copies since its launch on 14 February, according to its UK-based publisher Realmac Software.The app focuses on To-Do lists, and has won widespread praise for its user interface, which is based entirely on swipes and pinches, with no on-screen buttons."We've sold just over 350,000 copies," says product manager Nik Fletcher. "The launch day was massive, and by Wednesday last week it was number one on App Stores around the world. It's been an incredible response."Clear costs 69p on the App Store, meaning that the app has generated net revenues of just over £169,000 so far, after Apple's 30% cut. The revenues are being shared betweenRealmac, software studioImpendingand co-creatorMilen Dzhumerov, as Clear was a collaborative project."Before Christmas we were talking to Milen and Impending about a new project, with four ideas on the table. A couple of them merged into this one really simple To-Do lists app," says Fletcher"Obviously, there are hundreds of them already on the App Store, so we had to take a really different approach. We set ourselves on the path to a really simple design, then started iterating and iterating, taking more stuff away as we go."The aim: to make an app that was as simple to use as a pen and a piece of paper, removing the interface clutter of rival apps. Clear is so stripped down, it doesn't even have dates or timers, swapping them for a heatmap that ranks tasks in order of priority."We questioned the need for every single piece," says Fletcher. "Everything in the app had to justify its position."Avideo demo uploaded to Vimeoduring the MacWorld conference in January – where Clear was being shown off for the first time – has been watched more than 814,000 times so far, building buzz for the app's launch on 14 February.Apple's decision to feature Clear as its App Store app of the week, coupled with prominent press coverage, ensured the app got off to a running start. Its low price helped too."We felt that 69p was a really reasonable price for people to experiment with it," says Fletcher. "At some points in development we did look at going down the freemium path, but there's an honesty in making an app and being willing to say to people that you think this is worth money. The old-fashioned way!"Fletcher adds that nearly 3,000 people have gifted Clear to friends already: another sign that people not only like the app enough to recommend it to friends, but to buy it for them too.So what next? The teams behind Clear are working on an update to the iPhone app, although Fletcher politely declines to give details on which new features will be included. Next after that: iPad and Mac versions, although the order has yet to be finalised."We use multiple Apple devices ourselves, and our background is as a Macintosh software company, so we know we want to use the information in Clear elsewhere," he says."For now, we're focusing on Apple devices, although we're open to the idea of taking it to other platforms. It's a case of whether we can make it a great experience and translate it well."That means an Android or Windows Phone version of Clear isn't out of the question, but that for now consolidating on Apple devices will be the focus."The scale of iOS is just amazing, and seeing the sales on launch day really opened our eyes," says Fletcher. "Everyone knows how big the iOS apps ecosystem is – it's massive – but there is nothing more grounding or revelatory than seeing it for yourself."
Those of us who travel frequently are always looking for ways to shave ounces from the weight of our carry-on bags. Recent notebook computers have offered an increasingly happy balance of size, power and weight – my current machine is fairly svelte and runs to about 4lb (or just under 2kg) – but road warriors always wish for less bulk.Which is why I'm intrigued, to say the least, at the news thatUbuntu, creator of a popular version of the Linux operating system, is planning to turn newer Android smartphonesinto the brains and storage of a desktop-capable machine. An Ubuntu-equipped phone would plug into a dock connected to a keyboard and monitor, and the result would be a desktop computer of genuine value.Ubuntu believes it's solving a real problem. "Why carry two devices, when you could carry only one?" it asks on its website."Your next high-end smartphone has far more horsepower than you'll need on a phone, and more than enough for a laptop. So we've brought Android together with Ubuntu, the world's favorite free operating system, to give you a full productivity desktop that fits in your pocket. Android for the phone experience, Ubuntu for the desktop, all on one device, running at the same time."It had seemed that tablets might fill the bill. As they've gained power, more users have opted to leave notebook machines at home or the office, using the tablets as stand-alone devices or attaching them to keyboard docks.But the iPad would not cut it for me as a replacement, even a temporary one, for my normal computing environment, because Apple has locked it down in ways that would make me crazy if I tried to use it the way I operate a desktop or notebook device. (A smart new service from OnLive, announced 22 February, will let iPad users run Microsoft Office remotely; but that's you'll need a fast network connection to even consider it.)The current state-of-the-art in the Android tablet market leaves even more to be desired, especially on the software side. Meanwhile, an experiment by Motorola – docks with laptop-like keyboards and screens that connect with several phones – is intriguing but not much more. Like the iPad, the Android systems don't yet come close enough to being suitable for the way I use my notebook.A smartphone running Ubuntu as the basis of a desktop equivalent could be more than intriguing. One reason in my case is that I'm moving to Linux for my regular desktop-notebook computing. Linux still has some gaps in its software offerings, but I've found replacements for every important tool I use on my current Mac.Ubuntu imagines that most of our data will be stored in the cloud – on internet servers from which we'd retrieve information we need for our work and entertainment. I'm still a bit leery about entrusting everything important to the cloud, from both the security and reliability standpoints, and would keep "local" copies of my most essential data (encrypted, of course, in case I lost the phone and backed up in a variety of ways, including encrypted cloud storage). I also need local copies because my mobile network doesn't work absolutely everywhere.The Ubuntu initiative gives rise to scenarios that will make some travelers drool. I imagine arriving at a hotel and plugging my phone into a dock or dongle of some kind that connects to a screen and keyboard, connecting to the internet via the mobile carrier or wifi. (I'd probably carry a keyboard with me, for consistency and security.) I'd launch Ubuntu and jump straight into my work. The combined weight of the phone and keyboard might be less than 1lb, but the personal computer would be more than powerful enough for essential needs on the road.But what happens when I'm on the plane or out of the hotel? This is the fundamental flaw of the system: you can't find a handy monitor everywhere. Perhaps offices and hotels might eventually install them in every room. But airlines? I am writing this column on a flight from Houston to Phoenix, and shudder to imagine doing it with only the phone. With an external keyboard I suppose it would be possible, but my phone's 4.3-inch screen, large enough for simple things, is fundamentally unsuitable for serious word-processing.Of course, screen size is a temporary problem. We are in the early days of innovative display technology, not the late ones. In the distinctly foreseeable future, we'll have ways to look at digital information that will almost literally make our heads spin.Google's widely-rumored "heads-up glasses"– giving users a way to see digitally produced information alongside the real world, in real time – are due to hit the street this year, according to the New York Times, and they'll be among many such devices in coming years. Eventually, we'll have images beamed directly onto our retinas.Combine a phone, keyboard (or voice recognition input) and glasses that give us the equivalent of a 50-inch display, and one can foresee at least two major impacts to the tech ecosystem. First, the phone part of that setup won't have to look remotely like what we use now. Second, fashionable eyewear will become an adjunct, in part, to the technology sector. The latter is good news for Italy's designers, I suspect.• Editor's note: The subheading first referred to Ubuntu as "the Linux creator". In fact, as the body text explains, Ubuntu is the creator of a popular version of the Linux OS, but is not the software's originator. The subhead was amended at 4pm ET on 23 February 2012
US market intelligence firm Strategy Analytics has predicted that Sony will sell 12.4m PS Vitas this year – as long as the price is dropped at some point.The handheld console, launched on Wednesday in Europe, currently costs $249 (or £229 in the UK) for the basic unit without 3G. Strategy Analytics reckons Vita's hardware sales could reach $2.2bn this year, assuming a $180 average retail price.Although that's an impressive figure, senior analyst Jia Wu, concedes that it's not enough to get Sony out of its current financial difficulties. However, he believes the true importance of Vita is its position as part of a wider range of entertainment devices."The real value of the PlayStation Vita is its drive for content revenue growth and its strategic position in Sony's entertainment ecosystem," he said. "The PlayStation Store will have a vital role in selling games, videos and other content through its online access."Crucially, the cross-platform availability of content will also boost Sony's position in competition with giants Apple, Samsung and Microsoft. Sony can leverage its console gaming business, which Apple and Samsung do not have, to build its online content cloud."Despite the popularity of Xbox 360, Microsoft lacks a serious portable console and mobile gaming device. So with PlayStation Vita, Sony further strengthens its brand, device competition and future content reach - even if the console hardware itself will not generate much profit."Unsurprisingly, Wu sees the smartphone as the biggest barrier to the Vita's success. And he has a hint for Sony. "To survive the march of smartphone's entering the casual gaming space, Sony needs to achieve the holy grail of inventing innovative new gameplay whilst at the same time investing heavily in exclusive content."In the short term, however, a price cut is what Strategy Analytics believes will get Vita moving. After its own launch last February, the Nintendo 3DS struggled to make an impact before a 40% price reduction to $169.99 (£140 in the UK) boosted sales – although the release of excellent in-house titles like Mario Kart and Super Mario 3D Land also helped. That console has now shifted more than 15m units.Despite good reviews and a strong software line-up, Vita has struggled in Japan since its launch there in December. Initial sales of 400,000 have given way to weekly figures hovering at around 20,000. There are no details yet on the European launch day figures.In other Vita news, Sony has conceded that it was a mistake not to make the 32GB memory cards available for the European launch. On Tuesday, Sony Computer Entrtainment UK managing director Fergal Garatold Eurogamer: "We've already learnt from the early days in Japan that we probably haven't got big enough memory cards introduced for the UK market. We've already gone to secure bigger size cards to bring them into the UK market."
I have just been re-reading your article onBacking up digital photos, and would like your opinion of using DVD-RAM discs for this purpose. I have used these for DVD recording and they seem to work well without any initialisation or finishing faff.We are contemplating a new computer, which has drawn attention to the rather muddled state of our folders and backups, especially of photos. We have an external USB hard drive on the main desktop PC as the primary backup, plus an assortment of thumb drives and also, in my case, a laptop. I am fairly sure everything is copied somewhere separate at least once, but we need a better system, possibly involving a network server.Hilary GeeThe long-term reliability of optical discs is still unknown, so there are no certain answers. All my backups are on write-once CD-R discs, which I reckon is the best bet for data you want to last 10 or more years. Their main limitation is that a CD will only store about 700MB of data. That was fine when I started, but it is becoming less viable every year. I am thinking of switching to SD cards, which can now hold lots of data – 32GB is affordable – and take up very little space.Partly, it depends what you want to back up. In my case, it's photos (typically up to 4MB each) and articles (10K to 100K), plus a small number of original recordings in MP3 format (30MB to 100MB). I do have some music files, but at home I still play the original audio CDs.If I still made movies, I would do backups on DVDs, which can store up to 4.7GB of data. Unfortunately, there are several different types of disc (single/double-sided, single/dual layer etc), and many different ways to write the data. However, I'd probably go for single-sided single-layer DVD+R, which has better error checking and synchronisation than the earlier DVD-R system. DVDs will not last as long as CDs, but DVD+R seems to be the closest you can get to CD-R.DVD-RAMDVD-RAM works like a floppy or hard disk, which makes it extremely convenient. DVD-RAM has even better error checking, so technically it's better for backups than DVD+R. Indeed, according toWikipedia, one of the format's advantages is: "Long life – without physical damage, data is retained for an estimated 30 years. For this reason, it is used for archival storage of data."The drawback is that DVD-RAM uses phase-change technology to write and rewrite the disc, like CD-RW. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't trust it. I'd certainly take extra care to store DVD-RAM discs away from light (especially sunshine), heat and damp.Either way, I think it's perfectly reasonable to use DVD-RAM as part of a multi-format backup system. If you have copies of your essential data on a desktop PC's hard drive, an external hard drive or server, and on DVD-RAM, you should be safe. In fact, you could make two copies of each DVD and ask a relative or friend to keep the spare copies for you. An alternative "off-site backup" is to upload essential data files to an online service, as mentioned last week (Is it worth backing up to the cloud?).NASAn external hard drive (EHD) works well if you attach it to one PC. If you have three or four PCs, or you want to share files, then it makes sense to install a network server or NAS (Network Attached Storage) drive. These have their own processor, memory, and operating system – none of which you need to know about – so they are more expensive than external hard drives. However, if you have three or four PCs, one NAS could be cheaper than three or four EHDs.You can buy NAS servers that are much like EHDs with Wi-Fi connections, but I'd go for a proper enclosure that can hold four or more 3.5in hard drives. (You can buy the drives separately: they are very easy to install.) Start with two 2TB drives so that if you run out of space, you can add one or two 3TB drives. Some NAS drives can be expanded by plugging EHDs into their USB ports.With two drives, you can get extra security by using RAID 1, where each disk mirrors the other. If you start with three drives, you can use RAID 4 or RAID 5.Most NAS servers can be used to stream media using UPnP (Universal Plug and Play), perhaps via a built-in TwonkyMedia Server. Some offer other features. For example, you can use aQNAP TS-412 Turbo NASfor remote access to files when you're away from home, as a web server, or to download BitTorrent files. You access and control it by logging in from a web browser.CD vs SDFinally, what about CD-Rs and SD cards? While researching this answer, I found an interesting paper on The Relative Stabilities of Optical Disc Formats (PDF) in Restaurator, the International Journal for the Preservation of Library and Archival Material. Briefly, Joe Iraci subjected a number of different types of disc to advanced aging techniques. CD-R won, even beating audio CDs (which I didn't expect), while DVD-RW came last.However, on this test, only CD-Rs made with (usually blue/green) phthalocyanine dyes were the winners. CD-Rs made with azo or cyanine dyes were equal last at the end of the aging process. Like many people, I've been a fan of Taiyo Yuden's Super Cyanine and TDK's "metal-stabilized Cyanine" dyes, believing these to be the safest. (Taiyo Yuden also sells CD-Rs under the JVC Advanced Media brand.) I will now have to dig out some of my oldest backups and test them!As it happens, my desktop PC has both CD and DVD drives, so it will be a simple matter to copy my old discs onto new ones. However, this will not be true of my next desktop, so it makes more sense to copy a pile of about 40 CDs to a single 32GB SD card.I already use SD cards in my DSLR and compact cameras and my digital audio recorder, and they are great for everyday use. Of course, we know the charge will decay over a long period, soSD cards are not recommended for archival storage. However, I'm sure they will last five years, and there's a reasonable chance of they will last up to 10 years unattended and unrefreshed. Since I will only need five SD cards to start with, I think I can easily do SD card-to-SD card copies after five years without too much effort. Well, with a lot less effort than duplicating 40 or 50 CD-R discs!
The full content of the Nightline programin which ABC's Bill Neil got unrestricted access to Apple's assembly company, Foxconn, in China has been put on YouTube – although it's not yet available in full on theofficial Nightline channel.The full 15-minute video opens with the drive into the factory in the night – and then during the day to the facility where iPads, iPhones and iPods have their final assembly.Intel, Nintendo, Dell and others are mentioned as perhaps working on "secret new inventions" – but that is not confirmed. Foxconn keeps its secrets.The video will show, says Neil: "How they build the world's most popular objects of desire." Reaching the assembly line requires "air showers" while wearing a static suit to prevent dust contaminating the production line.He says that it is the first time anyone from outside has been inside. Why? "If people see this line – of workers – it might change this line [of people queuing for new products]," just as knowing where your steak comes from makes you think about it differently.The scenes from the production line are fascinating. The people on the line are "young – but not 13 or 14". They are in their late teens. He expected more robots but found people: "They're mostly made by hand after hand after hand." It takes about five days to assemble an iPad.At the end of the line is Shao Ying, who carves the Apple logo. "OK", say the machines in a repetitive female-toned voice as each item comes off the line and checks OK.There are two meal breaks per shift, each of an hour, during which people may take a nap. It's not exhaustion, insists a manager, but a Chinese post-meal ritual. There's a huge internet cafe, soccer, studies; but most are there to work, and left their families because they want the work.But then Neil investigates thesuicide cluster that first brought Foxconn to wider notice in the west.Louis Woo, an executive at Foxconn, says that it took several months and several suicides before Apple and Foxconn realised there was a cluster and was shaken into action. Tim Cook, now chief executive but then Apple's No 2, went and worked with psychological experts – and so the nets were installed to make people think twice.A counsellor suggests the suicides were more to do with an influx of new migrant workers unused to the conditions – which look gruelling – than any change in working conditions.And then there was theFoxconn explosion, caused by aluminium dust, in which two people died. "We were devastated," said Woo.Neil notes that Apple is one of many companies using Foxconn: "Most of them have escaped the attention."An independent group, the Fair Labor Association (FLA), to conduct audits of several of its factories in China.Ironically, the FLA inspection is using iPads to beam the woes, entered anonymously by workers, back to servers in New Zealand.The Monday morning crush of would-be workers is astonishing – like would-be stevedores trying to get hired at the shipyards of yore in the US.Apple paid $250,000 (£159,000) to join the FLA, and is paying for the audit – but the suggestion that it will be a whitewash, or compromised, is discounted by the association.The inspector gauges the experience by whether people steal a glance: "We should be the object of curiosity. If they're too focussed, that's not good."Woo thinks the threat of suicides by Foxconn people who were working on the Xbox 360 was about conditions, not really a suicide threat. "A bizarre sort of negotiating position," Neil comments.Finally: What if Apple said it wanted to pay everyone who touches an iPad double, what would Woo say? "Why not? That would be good for the employees, right, and very good for China, and good for us because we would have more stable workers who would love to work for our company because they would get paid more than anyone else."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAfter Apple, Microsoft also files an EU antitrust complaint against Motorola Mobility over FRAND abuse &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsThis may not be what Google wants to hear as it prepares to cement its takeover:Less than a week afterApple's EU antitrust complaint against Motorola Mobilitybecame publicly known,Microsoft has also filed formal competition charges against MMI with the European Commission.With two industry leaders complaining about MMI's alleged abuse of FRAND-pledged, standard-essential patents, the prospects of formal investigations have certainly increased. Under its best practice guidelines, the European Commission will presumably make a determination on the launch of full-blown investigations within a few months. European regulators arealready investigating Samsung's related conduct, which is largely consistent with what MMI is doing in Europe.Amazon Lights the Android World on FireThe Kindle Fire is vying with the Samsung Galaxy Tab for user sessions, says ad tracker Flurry.So how can a late entrant like Amazon, with little-to-no hardware DNA, waltz in and knock off a consumer electronics juggernaut like Samsung, a company that also enjoyed strong growth in 2011?  This is where we believe things get interesting.  In short, Amazon's launch of Kindle Fire had more in common with an Apple-style launch than it did with aligning with the Android system. To date, the Android world has focused on marketing the operating system and the "power" of the devices, with quality of content and the consumer experience subordinated in priority.You can sort of guess this, but it's because people don't really buy devices based on specification. Price and ecosystem are the two key elements. Lots of interesting data in this post.How to remove your Google search history before Google's new privacy policy takes effect &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationPretty easy: "Note that disabling Web History in your Google account will not prevent Google from gathering and storing this information and using it for internal purposes. It also does not change the fact that any information gathered and stored by Google could be sought by law enforcement."Who Can Profit from Selling 1-Cent Books on Amazon? Robots &gt;&gt; Good Business[Carlos] Bueno raised money with Kickstarter to publish his book through Amazon's self-publishing service, making his book available in a variety of electronic formats and also as a print-on-demand book--each time a physical copy is purchased, it's printed specifically for that order. Bueno set the price of the book at $14.95 and has sold about 1,000 copies. But in the last few weeks, Bueno has seen his book become the center of a strange phenomenon on Amazon: the bot market. A reseller in Amazon's used books section was offering the book for $55--even though the book was available for forty dollars less on the same website.  Then another one appeared, selling for $14.94--lower than the retail price. Another was for sale for $12.50. The only way these resellers could profit would be through excessive shipping and handling charges.  Even stranger, these resellers are offering "Very Good" or "Like New" used copies of a book that is printed on demand--that is, they're offering used copies of books that probably don't even exist.Imagine if this happened in financial markets. Oh.Gabriel Rossman on David Graeber's "Debt: The First 5000 Years" &gt;&gt; Brad DeLongOh dear:How the poor debtors still sell their daughters, How in the drought men still grow fat « Code and Culture: At Unfogged there's a review (and a very funny comments thread) pointing out that the following sentence contains six factual claims all of which are incorrect: Apple Computers is a famous example: it was founded by (mostly Republican) computer engineers who broke from IBM in Silicon Valley in the 1980s, forming little democratic circles of twenty to forty people with their laptops in each other's garages.Many of the reviews offer similarly "alternative" views of other parts of history.US Air force to purchase tablets to lessen pilot load &gt;&gt; Economic TimesConsidering iPad 2, Brand Name or Equal devices:The goal is to replace the bag of manuals and navigation charts weighing as much as 40 pounds that are carried by pilots and navigators, said Captain Kathleen Ferrero , a spokeswoman for the command. "The airline industry is way ahead of us on this," she said in a telephone interview. "Most, if not all of the major airliners are already switching to tablets."Sign o' the times. (Apologies, we've forgotten who gave us the link.)Update:Air Force Special Operations Command hascancelled its planned acquisition of iPadsafter being queried about the inclusion of GoodReader software - developed in Russia. Not clear if this will hit the planned contract above.London Olympics: Olympic Travel Advice &gt;&gt; Get Ahead of the GamesFantastic interactive graphic of how London's public transport will all turn to porridge in August. Seems to be HTML5 - it's not Flash.Apple, please steal* these webOS features (*well, improve on) &gt;&gt; Ignore The CodeLukas Mathis gives a compelling listing of why webOS is better than the iPad for all sorts of daily tasks. He's completely right - the TouchPad was the great missed chance in the world of tablets, but its software is what made it so great, and these are all features that should be in any tablet interface.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A selection of 15 new apps for you today:Final Fantasy Tactics: The War of the LionsSquare Enix brought its Final Fantasy Tactics: The War of the Lions game to iPhone in August 2011, but now it's been upsized for iPad. It remains a remake of the 2007 PSP remake of a 1997 PlayStation game, with turn-based tactical battles. It costs £12.99 too – a bold move from the Japanese publisher given pricing trends on the App Store, where even Grand Theft Auto 3 has never cost more than £2.99 (and has still managed to make plenty of money).iPadOfficial Chelsea FCSamsung has teamed up with Chelsea FC for an official Android and bada app, available exclusively on its own Samsung Apps store until May. It promises daily videos, live match text commentary and stats, player profiles and other content. Meanwhile, fans paying for a Chelsea TV subscription get additional match highlights and live audio commentary.Android / badaBebo MobileTime to take a trip back in time, to when Bebo was one of the most popular social networks in the world, and seen as worth $850m by AOL. It's still around, and now there's a new iPhone app for it. Browsing friends' status updates and uploading photos – customised with digital stickers – appear to be the focus.iPhoneBon AppétitCondé Nast's Bon Appétit has a new tablet edition for iPad and Nook devices. It's kicking off with its March Tastemakers issue, with text recipes complemented by videos and slideshows, as well as other cooking tips and tutorials.iPad / NookPlayTalesMore than 1m people had downloaded the TouchyBooks app, offering e-books for kids. Now it's been relaunched with a new name, PlayTales, with more than 90 e-books to choose from. Some of them now include games, too.Android / iPhone / iPad / Windows PhoneMovellasMovellas has made its name as an online self-publishing site for short stories, with more than 46,000 chapters published so far. Now there's an app for that on iPhone, enabling people to read stories, comment on them and create lists of their favourites.iPhoneLumePoint'n'click adventure Lume has already been nominated for an Independent Games Festival award in 2012 for its Excellence in Visual Art, but now iPhone owners can check it out for themselves. Beautiful graphics include a set built out of paper and cardboard then filmed for the game.iPhoneSplinter Cell ConvictionGameloft has taken stealthy game franchise Splinter Cell to Windows Phone, offering 11 levels of jumping, shooting and creeping with Special Forces operative Sam Fisher. Xbox Live is plumbed in, naturally.Windows PhonePolar Bear HorizonCraving an arctic-animal fix after the BBC's Frozen Planet series? Oceanhouse Media's latest app produced with the Smithsonian Institution may help. It's a book-app for young children focusing on polar bears.Android / iPhone / iPadInstaMatch – The Instagram GameHere's an interesting idea: a matching game based on photo-sharing service Instagram. "Your goal is to match two similar photos of the same kind. Choose from five themes, packed with some of the most popular photos from Instagram including: World Wonders, Cities, Nature, Food, and Animals."iPhone / iPadMidway ArcadeVenerable games brand Midway is being revived by Warner Bros in this iOS app, which offers 10 games including Spy Hunter, Rampage, Joust and Defender. Additional game packs sold in-app include the likes of Gauntlet and APB.iPhone / iPadRetro RacingThe developers of Retro Racing cut their teeth making driving games for the Amiga like Nitro and ATR. They're now getting back to their roots on iOS with a new game offering old-school skidding, sliding and power-ups.iPhone / iPadSBK 2012The FIM Superbike World Championship gets an official Android app, offering live timings, news, stats and video interviews from races, as well as photo and wallpaper downloads.AndroidBunker Buster - Foursquare goes to warThis isn't the first iPhone game trying to turn Foursquare check-in data into a war game – that honour goes toFoursqWAR– but Bunker Buster is intriguing nonetheless. See units on a map of the real world, and duke it out against other players through missions and building-occupations.iPhone90ºUK firm Widebeam Digital has linked with FoxDevil to publish a puzzle game for iOS called 90º. It's a shape and colour-matching title with 60 levels and Game Center integration, as well as use of in-app payments for energy packs.iPhone / iPad
Six of the world's top consumer technology companies – including Apple, Google and Microsoft – have agreed that apps will provide greater privacy disclosures before users download them so as to protect consumers' personal data, California's attorney general said on Wednesday.The move comes amid increasing criticism over "data grabs" by a number of third-party applications which don't offer clear disclosure about how much of a user's personal data such as their address book they will store on their servers.Google also came under renewed scrutiny over its announcement earlier in February that it would streamline its privacy policy, and still faces separate scrutiny from the US Congress over its circumvention of security settings in browsers to track millions of users of its services on Apple's iPhone and iPad, and users of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser.The new agreement binds Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, BlackBerry-maker Research in Motion (RIM), and Hewlett-Packard – and developers on their platforms – to disclose how they use private data before an app may be downloaded, Attorney General Kamala Harris said."Your personal privacy should not be the cost of using mobile apps, but all too often it is," Harris said.She said that 22 of the 30 most downloaded apps do not have privacy notices. Some downloaded apps also upload some or all of a consumer's contact book to online servers – including small companies such as the would-be social network Path, and the giant microblogging network Twitter.The importance of reining in wayward apps has become urgent: there are nearly 600,000 applications on offer in the Apple App Store and 400,000 in Google's Android Market, and consumers have downloaded more than 35bn, Harris said.She said there are also more than 50,000 individual developers who have created the mobile apps available for download on the leading platforms.Harris said an estimated 98bn mobile applications will be downloaded by 2015, and the $6.8bn (£4.3bn) market for mobile applications is expected to grow to $25bn within four years.Google said that under the California agreement, users of its Android mobile operating system will have even more ways to make informed decisions when it comes to their privacy. Apple confirmed the agreement but did not elaborate.Harris was also among US state lawmakers who on Wednesday signed a letter to Google chief executive Larry Page to express serious concerns over the web giant's recent decision toconsolidate its privacy policy.The policy change would give Google access to user information across its products, such as GMail and Google Plus, without the proper ability for consumers to opt out, said the 36 US attorneys general in their letter. EU authorities have asked Google to halt the policy change until regulators can investigate the matter.Meanwhile the US's Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF)has put up a pageexplaining how people can wipe clean their Google Search History before the changes take effect on 1 March. But it noted that this will not prevent some tracking.California's 2004 Online Privacy Protection Act requires privacy disclosures, but Harris said few mobile developers had paid attention to the law in recent years because of confusion over whether it applied to mobile apps."Most mobile apps make no effort to inform users about how personal information is used," Harris said at a press conference in San Francisco. "The consumer should be informed of what they are giving up."The six companies will meet the attorney general in six months to assess compliance among their developers. But Harris acknowledged that there was no clear timeline to begin enforcement.The attorney general repeatedly raised the possibility of litigation at some future time under California's unfair competition and false advertising laws if developers continue to publish apps without privacy notices."We can sue and we will sue," she said, adding that she hoped the industry would act in good faith.
Thursday is here. Don't know about you guys, but I'm having an American Horror Story marathon tonight!
Customers of phone company Everything Everywhere, the largest UK network with 27 million subscribers, will have access to super-fast 4G mobile broadband before the end of the year if regulators grant permission. EE says it wants to put 4G into the hands of its Orange and T-Mobile customers, as well as those of Three, Virgin Media and other brands that use its network, a year ahead of schedule.The UK has slipped behind other nations, including the US, Germany and Sweden, in the mobile broadband speed stakes, and those wanting to access the internet on the go using smartphones and laptops can find the experience frustratingly slow."The UK has been ahead in this industry for many years and we need to get that back," said EE chief executive Olaf Swantee. "As we are the largest in this market we believe it is our duty to lay the groundwork for a future digital Britain."While Americans already have 4G services, other nations including France and Italy are well ahead of the UK in auctioning the airspace mobile operators need to deliver them. The British auction, the largest ever sale of national airwaves, has been delayed by legal wrangling between the operators and will not conclude until early next year. A full national rollout is now not scheduled until the end of 2013.EE has asked telecoms watchdog Ofcom for permission to convert some of its existing 1800MHz (megahertz) spectrum, already used to carry voice calls, texts, and slower 3G internet connections, to 4G.Created through the merger of two mobile networks and with a mast sharing agreement with Three, EE has enough spare capacity to offer a limited commercial service without having to buy new spectrum. With few 4G phones available, EE's service will at first work only on dongles – gadgets which plug into laptops to provide an internet connection via the mobile phone networks.With 4G, internet connections will rev up to between 8 and 20 megabits per second, faster than the average home broadband service of 7.6Mbps. The 3G connections available in the UK today are much slower, with a web page taking around 8.5 seconds to load, according to Ofcom research, and speeds averaging 1.4Mbps.EE's service, which will be on trial in Bristol from April, could launch by the end of 2012 if Ofcom grants approval by April or May.A spokesman for the regulator said: "Ofcom has received an application from EE to vary its licence for 4G use. Ofcom is considering that application and once it arrives at a view it will consult with stakeholders."The process could take between eight and 12 weeks, and will involve soundings with rival mobile phone networks and any other interested parties.
Facebook is creating a dedicated gaming team in Europe, matching the one it has in the US, to work more closely with social games developers across Europe."In the US, we have a team of engineers, product managers and partnerships folks who only do gaming, from Zynga down to two-person shops. Now we're creating that same unit in Europe too," says Christian Hernandez, director of EMEA director of business development and partnerships at Facebook.The move is the result of the recent success for several European social games companies on Facebook, including Wooga, King.com, Supercell and Nordeus. Hernandez says these companies have all managed to build healthy audiences on the social network by focusing on different kinds of games to giants like Zynga."We're in the third generation of the Facebook platform for gaming," says Hernandez. The first generation was a "mad scramble for what the heck this platform was, with not-very high-quality games", while the second generation was focused on world-building games like FarmVille, and competitive social/casual titles like brain training."Now we're in the third evolution of the gaming platform, as the world-building and social/casual space has begun to consolidate," says Hernandez."Newer players are coming into untapped areas and satisfying new types of users, who don't want to play FarmVille but might want to play strategy or shooter games, or free games around jackpot, slots or blackjack. This is the fastest growing and most interesting area."Hernandez also cites EA bringing Monopoly and Risk to Facebook; Rovio's launch of Angry Birds; and social football management game Top Eleven as good examples of social games mining new (for Facebook) genres, as well as hidden object games like Gardens of Time and Hidden Chronicles."King.com was a highly successful casual gaming company doing quite well, but they have changed the whole company strategy to focus on social gaming," he says."They went from not being on Facebook at all to being in the top developers. And Wooga came onto the platform after Zynga was big, but focused very specifically on social casual games, and managed to become the number two player on the platform – all from Berlin, rather than from Silicon Valley."Hernandez believes that Europe is "the most interesting region in terms of the innovation on top of the Facebook platform in gaming", although he adds that his job would hardly allow him to think otherwise.A recent report from Deloitte claimed that Facebook's app economy had generated £467m of economic activity in the UK, and created 7,000 jobs.He adds that Wooga is also a good example of a company competing with the likes of Zynga not through a barrage of Facebook ads, but through organic growth and user referrals.In February, the company's chief executive Jens Begemann said that only 5% of its new users come through paid ads, with 40% coming through viral features and the remainder from cross-promotions in Wooga's existing games.Mobile will be a big focus for Facebook's new European games team, bolstered by the company'sextension of its applications platformto mobile devices in October 2011.People can now discover games through Facebook's mobile apps and website, while developers can make money from in-game transactions across web and mobile, using a combination of Facebook Credits and native in-app purchases."You'll see a lot of investment from us in teaching developers how to use those channels in mobile," says Hernandez."In March we're bringing a group of engineers across and doing a tour of Europe around just the mobile platform, and how to build great apps with it. We'll have 250-300 people per event in three of the most interesting hubs for gaming in Europe: Stockholm, London and Tel Aviv."Rovio's launch of Angry Birds on Facebook has been an important moment for the social network, not least because the company put more effort in than simply porting its game across and wrapping leaderboards around it.Angry Birds' Facebook incarnation features new power-ups – earned, gifted or bought – as well as features designed to spark competition between friends playing the game. A week after its release, it already has 1.5m monthly active users (MAUs) and 530,000 daily active users (DAUs)."We spent a lot of time working with them," says Hernandez. "A key focus is adding new layers of conversation around the game, to generate stories – whether that's 'Christian just got three stars on this level', 'Christian just beat your score' or 'Christian invoked the Mighty Eagle on this level'."What areas are still under-targeted in Facebook gaming? Hernandez suggests watching the combination of "commerce and gaming" – titles using game mechanics to make online shopping more fun and social."There's one startup based in Birmingham building a very girl-centric game called Fantasy Shopper, around building your own store, and going shopping effectively with fake money for real goods," he says."It's an interesting dynamic: teenage girls going and actually building an interest board around what they'd like to buy, even though they don't have the money. And then they can do special offers around that."How about branded social games? Agency BBH haslaunched a divisionto make social games with the company behind lollipop brand Chupa Chups, for example. Are we likely to see more of this kind of thing?"We've seen it on and off, where brands want to build social dynamics into some of their campaigns. The question is whether it is really going to be a game," he says."FarmVille and other titles are still quite strong, but how do you really do that with a brand? What game would lead you to come back over and over again, so the brand becomes a permanent fixture of your life, as opposed to just a launch campaign?"The message coming from Hernandez and Facebook is clear though: the social network is very keen to convince developers that its platform is not a closed shop, off limits to new startups due to the marketing might of dominant publishers like Zynga."As a gaming platform we're just getting started," he says."Companies that came onto the platform fairly recently have become very popular very quickly, because they focused on the users and distribution channels. I still think there's a big opportunity for others to come in."
Approval of the controversial international anti-counterfeiting treaty Acta has been stalled by the European commission, which is to ask Europe's highest court whether implementing it would violate any fundamental EU rights.The decision comes as the treaty faces growing opposition in parliaments, city streets and the internet, with some countries including Germany, the Netherlands and Poland declaring they would not approve the agreement in its current form – a stance that would make it impossible to ratify, because it requires every European country to sign up and approve it.EU trade commissioner Karel De Gucht  said on Wednesday that an opinion from the European court of justice would clear what he called the "fog of misinformation" surrounding the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement."This debate must be based upon facts and not upon the misinformation or rumour that has dominated social media sites and blogs in recent weeks," De Gucht told reporters in Brussels. "Acta will not censor websites or shut them down; Acta will not hinder freedom of the internet or freedom of speech." The ECJ will assess Acta's compatibility with the EU's fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression and information or that of protection, he said.The decision to refer the treaty to the ECJ appears to reflect recognition by EU officials of the political obstacles Acta faces. Earlier this month protesters marched against the agreement in several European capitals including London, Berlin, Helsinki, Paris and Vienna. Internet lobbyists and health campaigners have rallied against it, saying that overly strict controls of copyright would exclude people from the internet and prevent developing countries from accessing generic medicines. The agreement asks internet providers to co-operate with national authorities to crack down on online piracy, for example by cutting off internet access to users who illegally download music or films if that is part of the legal framework in that country."Intellectual property is Europe's main raw material, but the problem is that we currently struggle to protect it outside the EU. This hurts our companies, destroys jobs and harms our economies," De Gucht said.At the same time MPs in a number of countries have said they will not sign it. Although the EU and 22 EU member states signed the treaty on 26 January 2012 in Tokyo, and the European council unanimously approved Acta in December, all 27 member countries have to formally ratify it for the EU to be a party to the treaty.The US has signed the agreement. Others include Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, and South Korea. Mexico and Switzerland participated in the negotiations but have not yet signed.However Germany, Poland, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Latvia, Estonia, Cyrus, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands have all refused to sign the agreement on the grounds that it endangered freedom of speech and privacyThe hacking group Anonymous claimed responsibility last week for a series of hacks against the US Federal Trade Commission and consumer rights websites, whose front pages were replaced with a violent German-language video satirising Acta.Acta has been under negotiation – almost all in secret – since June 2008. Its drafters say it is needed to harmonise international standards to protect the rights of those who produce music, movies, pharmaceuticals, fashion goods, and a range of other products that often fall victim to piracy and intellectual property theft.The treaty has been questioned by members of the European parliament. In a statement Wednesday, David Martin, a spokesman on the issue for the Socialists and Democrats, the second-largest bloc in the parliament, welcomed the decision to get the court's opinion."Trade commissioner Karel de Gucht today admitted that there are still many question marks about Acta and what the implementation of the agreement, as it stands, would mean for citizens and for the freedom of the internet," Martin said. "The parliament has been calling for more clarity for a long time, and we already requested legal opinions from several committees in the European parliament. Now this ruling will be a good guarantee for the impact on fundamental rights.EU officials say the agreement will not change EU law. They insist what was legal pre-treaty would remain legal the day after, and what was illegal would remain illegal.But they have said the EU must ratify it as an example to other countries where intellectual property rights are less well protected than they are in the EU, in order to protect European products and ideas from being stolen elsewhere.Opponents fear Acta would lead to censorship and a loss of privacy on the internet. The plan to gain court approval of the agreement has left at least some of them unimpressed."No legal debate can fix Acta or give it a legitimacy that by design it cannot have," said Jérémie Zimmermann, co-founder of the internet advocacy group La Quadrature du Net.
Of all the spooky horror adventures that hit consoles in the wake of both Resident Evil and the J-horror explosion, Project Zero was the spookiest.This cult series tasked the player with exploring hideously creepy mansions while carrying a camera capable of exorcising the spirits of wafting ghost girls. It was filled with familiar horror movie tropes like subjective camera angles and the faintly glimpsed shadows of dead children running past doorways. The last time we saw the series in the West was the third title in the quadrilogy, published back in 2005.Well, now Nintendo has confirmed that two additions to the series will be released in Europe this spring. 3DS title,Spirit Camera: The Cursed Memoir,features a young girl named Maya trapped in a creaking mansion by a ghostly women in black. Brilliantly, the game comes with a 16-page book of AR images – at certain points in the game, players can point their 3DS camera at the relevant icons to see videos of past events or dooomed characters. Creepy stuff.We'll also be seeing Project Zero 2: Wii Edition, an updated version of the terrifying second instalment, originally released on PlayStation 2. Easily my favourite in the series, it sees twin sisters Mio and May lured in to a damned village where an occult ritual must be continually replayed to protect inhabitants from the souls of the evil dead. Still shuddering just remembering it.So yes, 3DS owners who have only just recovered from the authentically jumpy Resident Evil: Revelations should perhaps steel themselves for even worse.
Yes, it's PlayStation Vita launch day, and we've covered Sony's lovely, eccentric new machine in quite some detail elsewhere. But if you can't afford to dish out £230 on a sleek new piece of consumer electronics, there's no need to feel left out of the portable gaming fun.Here are six new(ish) smartphone titles that will take your mind off today's hardware launch. Don't fret on your commute home, console (ha ha) yourself with one of these absolute gems.Beat Sneak Bandit(Simogo, iOS, £1.99)With Kosmo Spin and Bumpy Road (my son Albie's favourite ever iOS game),Simogohas already created two of the most idiosyncratically warm, beautiful and compelling iPhone games out there. Now the two-man development team has done it again. Beat Sneak is perfectly billed as a 'rhythm-action stealth puzzler' – your aim is to break into the mansion of evil clock thief Duke Clockface, and grab back all the world's time pieces. You move your character forward by tapping the screen in time with the music. On the way, he must also avoid objects and enemy guards, so it's not just your sense of timing that's tested, it's also your ability to plan ahead, work out the puzzle systems and predict hazards. I love the Loony Tunes visuals and smart design: it's a game that you can't decide whether to watch, play or hug.Call of Cthulhu: The Wasted Land(Red Wasp Design, iOS)You want tactical depth? I'll give you tactical depth. Set amid the sodden trenches of World War One, The Wasted Land is a turn-based strategy sim inspired by the works of horror writer HP Lovecraft. Guided by mysterious American chemist and occult expert Professor Brightmeer, a small group of British soldiers must do battle with an arcane supernatural legion of German zombie troopers. The weird sound effects and music make for a deliciously eerie atmosphere, and the taut, tense turn-based action will remind genre fans of the classic Xcom titles. The touch controls can be a little fiddly on the iPhone, but this is a serious,seriousstrategy game with anindepth knowledgeof, and respect for, Cthulhu lore. Awesome – and an Android version is now in development...Sploosh(Spooky Moon Studio, iOS, 69p)This smart cross between LocoRoco and Where's My Water tasks you with bringing floral life back to a series of barren cave networks by directing water through the narrow passages and open caverns. Controlling the flow is achieved by rotating your iOS device and letting the accurate fluid physics do the rest. At times, laying your device flat provides closer, more intricate control, and this really tests your patience and coordination. Sploosh has that pastel-coloured prettiness of many smartphone titles, but the handicraft good looks are attached to a really challenging puzzler. It's one to try yourself, or hand over to the kids – either way, someone is going to be delightfully occupied for hours.Sir Benfro's Brilliant Balloon(Tim Fishlock, iOS, 69p)According to designer Tim Fishlock's press release this gorgeous little game is inspired by (deep breath), "Victorian botanical illustration, puppet theatres, Terry Gilliam's animations for Monty Python, the stylings of Studio Ghibli and Yimou Zhang's film, Hero." Incredibly, all of these influences pass clearly by as you float through the air, tapping on Benfro's balloon to make it rise, and removing your finger to set Sir Ben falling through the sky. The aim is to successfully navigate a series of winding levels, avoiding wildlife and attempting to build gracefully arching moves through every screen. The pace is slow and the gentle tapping controls take a while to get used to, but the atmosphere of the game, generated by those expressionistic visuals and ambient soundtrack, will keep you engaged and entranced.Mr Legs(I Like James Games , Android, 99p)Okay, picture Jetpack Joyride re-imagined as a monochrome 1930s' animation about a man with extendable limbs. Bingo, that's Mr Legs, an eccentric endless running game in which you slide your finger up and down the screen to control the length of the character's legs. Your aim is to pick as many cherries as possible, while avoiding obstacles and pesky pecking birds. Cleverly, the character speeds up when he's tall and slows to a dawdle when he's short and mastering the control of his exact speed is the secret to surviving past the opening stages. Like Sir Benfro and Beat Sneak Bandit, this is a game you'll enjoy watching as much as playing, drinking in the bizarre aesthetics, weird sounds and daft ideas. Inspired.Triple Town(Spry Fox, iOS/Android, Free with in-app purchases)Starting out as Facebook game but now available on iOS and Android, Triple Town is an absolutely ingenious riff on match-three puzzlers like Bejeweled. The aim is to place different scenic objects on your landscape as they appear, creating rows of three so that the trio combine and transform into a more valuable item. So get a row of bushes and they turn into a tree, get three trees and they turn into a building. The better the object, the more points you receive. You also need to watch out for bears who'll trample all over your town - squish three together and they create a valuable church. What starts out as a diverting little challenge turns into a hugely engrossing and complex spatial task, requiring a wealth of interlocking tactics. For puzzle fans, this isn't so much a recommendation as a demand: download this game, now.
A selection of 10 new apps for you today:Cristiano RonaldoReal Madrid and Portugal star Cristiano Ronaldo is the latest footballer to get his own official app, following in the footsteps of Rio Ferdinand and Michael Owen. The app offers news, tweets, photos and videos, along with social features. Ronaldo is using Mobile Roadie's platform.Android / iPhoneRoad To RockThis is very intriguing: major label Warner Music Group is getting into... children's colouring book-apps for iPad. Road To Rock tells the tale of "fictional 80s hair metal band Jet Vegas", getting children to colour in the comic-book cells as they read the story.iPadStorifySocial media site Storify has launched an official iPad app, helping people "mix media from Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube" to tell stories. The website is already popular among keen Twitter users, but the iPad app should boost awareness of the service.iPadIGN TouchEntertainment website network IGN has launched a games-focused iPad app, offering news, previews, reviews, tips and video trailers in a tablet-friendly interface.iPadOh Say Can You Say Di-No-Saur?Another Dr. Seuss app from Oceanhouse Media here: this time an educational app about dinosaurs hosted by the Cat in the Hat. It's the second app in the company's The Cat in the Hat's Learning Library series, following a previous space-themed app.iPhone / iPadWordPress for PlayBookBlogging company Automattic has launched an official WordPress app for RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook, joining existing apps on other devices. It can be used to wirte and edit posts and pages, as well as managing comments for WordPress-powered blogs.BlackBerry PlayBookMighty Mouse My HeroCartoon character Mighty Mouse – of coming-to-save-the-day fame – has flown onto iOS courtesy of CBS Interactive. The game sees the hero flying through more than 60 levels battling villains and collecting cheese.iPhone / iPadLily Issue 1A company called Kidscontent has launched a new magazine for girls, with the twist that it's available on the iPad rather than as a printed product. It promises stories, quizzes, crafts, colouring, music and baking.iPadArel WarsGamevil's latest Android game is Arel Wars, which combines tower defence mechanics with RPG-style levelling up. Campaigns cover 120 stages and eight maps, and there is online multiplayer too.AndroidTaptu - DJ Your NewsNews aggregation app Taptu has a new platform this week: RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet. As on other devices, it helps you create "streams" of news based on specific topics, with social features layered on top.BlackBerry PlayBook
As I turned the wheel to steer the car through the roundabout, there was a  shriek and the flash of warning lights. Beside me, Wayne Gilbert smiled.I had, apparently, steered too aggressively into the curve. The lights and the noise came from Masternaut, a new electronic device attached to the dashboard that is claimed to nudge you towards more careful, considerate driving – and to cut fuel bills by up to a fifth. When businesses have to justify every expense, and with fuel costs up 46% in real terms in the past five years, that is a saving not to be sniffed at.Masternaut's custom-fitted "black box" has a GPS for location, a gyroscopic and inertial system to detect turns and acceleration, and a data feed from the the microprocessor that controls the engine to detect revs and use.Gilbert, chief technology officer at Masternaut, says the device could usher in the age of "ecodriving": driven by near-real-time feedback not just to the driver, but also to managers back at base.That does have its worrying side. Neal Parkinson, the company's head of consultancy, notes that in any sizeable business fleet – and especially of professional van drivers – there will be good and bad drivers, for whom the data will confirm what was already suspected. "How you then have that conversation about improvement is quite a difficult thing," says Parkinson.An autopilot it is not, yet. Today, it's more like a driving instructor that tells you when you're doing things wrong – braking too harshly, accelerating too aggressively, or turning so tightly that things might be thrown around in the back. Fit it to a van delivering porcelain and you can see it might be useful.Other settings mean it can note when a vehicle has been idling for longer than a set time, a common cause both of pollution and excess fuel use. It's like a super-tachometer, able to locate you on a map and point out where you did things wrong, or right.In the long term, says Gilbert, we'll see far more sophisticated feedback between drivers and vehicles. He's a guinea pig. "My own car is a jabbering cave of this kind of technology," he says. "In the next five to 10 years we'll see complex event-driven processing feeding back in real time to the driver."He points to the crash involving 34 vehicles on the M5 in November, when seven people died in a pile-up suspected of being caused by smoke from a bonfire. With the technology he envisages, the vehicles could have sensed the changing road conditions and given the drivers more rapid feedback – and perhaps controlled their speed as they detected stationary vehicles ahead using radar.Automatic stopping systems are already fitted to new Mercedes to prevent the classic "roundabout shunt", where drivers start forward because they see a gap in traffic – but don't realise the motorist in front hasn't moved.It's not a big step from that to the "driverless car", an idea for which Google hasfiled a patent. That would create vehicles able, for example, to guide people around tourist spots or find their way to repair shops. It, too, would rely on a GPS locatorthat would connect to the internet and figure out its location. Google admitted in late 2010 that it had been working on driverless cars when it said test vehicles had navigated more than 1,000 miles in the US without drivers, though two humans were always in the car in case the software failed.Google's engineers say robotic cars will have faster reactions than humans, which could reduce accidents and allow more vehicles into the same road space at any given speed, cutting delays.The purely driverless car is likely to be some way off, which means systems such as Masternaut's, which is being fitted in fleets in the UK and Europe, will become more common. Gilbert points to an experiment by Norwich Union in which drivers' insurance premiums were linked to how many miles they drove. The company abandoned it – but there is some suspicion that was due to actuaries who feared computers would take over their jobs of carefully working out how much to charge each age group, so that young drivers up to the age of 25 pay enormous amounts while those who might be just as risky but are older pay far less.Gilbert knows his company's systems can ensure careful behaviour: he has two sons. "I told each one, when I let them take my car out, that I'd know precisely how they'd driven it because of the feedback. I told one that if he managed five years without a crash or any points on his licence then I'd buy him a car of his own. "Gilbert had to stump up.
When I suggested I should write about Pinterest, the technology editor chortled in return: "Everyone says It Is For Girls. You are a Girl. Therefore you are Perfect to do it."And that's pretty much the perception ofPinterest, the latest social media hot thing. The company was founded in 2008, and the site launched two years ago, but although it's been steadily gaining a foothold in the US, it has only just taken off in the UK.The concept is clever and straightforward: users create "pinboards" of stuff they find around the web, arranged around themes. Think of an interior designer'smoodboard, and you've got the general idea. For now, it's invite-only, though you can request an invite via its login page if you don't have a friend already using Pinterest.So what's it like to use? Well, clunky. And slightly annoying: it insists that you connect to it via either Facebook or Twitter, which means that if you don't want to share your "pins" (bits of content that you add to your boards) with your friends and followers then you'll have to turn off all the notifications after you've signed up. The sign-up process also insists on assigning a bunch of random people for you to follow, which means you'll have to unfollow them later if their boards don't appeal.Follower modelIts following and interacting model is a cross between Facebook and Twitter. Like Facebook, there's a symmetrical aspect: to interact with someone else's boards or pins, they have to follow you, and vice-versa: unlike Twitter, you can't interact with someone you don't follow. However, like Twitter, it's open and asymmetrical – you don't have to follow back, and it's totally open; there is no option to hide your profile or any of your boards.Adding contentYou add stuff to boards either by uploading the link or by using thebookmarkletavailable  on the Pinterest site. It then offers you a series of the images from the page and a box into which you can add your comments.There are a couple of irritations here: first, more often than I'd like, the site will announce that it can't find any images or videos and therefore it can't create your pin, even though the page you're looking at is brimming with images. Your choice then is either to abandon the pin, or do it the clunky way, which is to get a screengrab of the page, upload the resulting image and make sure you put the URL of the page in yourself.Second, there's no text formatting, so any comment you add to your pin is a long stream of text: it would be nice to be able to add paragraph breaks, if nothing else.You also can't pin anything from Facebook, which on balance I think is a good thing, even though you can of course screengrab and add the image that way. It should at least give users pause to think about the privacy of the friend whose content they are trying to pin.SharingA screenshot taken at random on Pinterest's landing pageAh, yes, sharing content. Copyright is the big grey area on Pinterest: pins automatically grab an associated image that you may well not have any rights to reproduce.Yes, the pin links back to the page you grabbed the content from, but that in itself could be infringing copyright. There's acopyright declaration on the site, but it doesn't make any feint towards saying it will police content itself (meanwhile, Google runs algorithms to make sure anything you post to YouTube doesn't infringe copyright).It has taken steps toallow website owners to restrict pinningbut as Pinterest grows, the prospect of responding to what could in theory be thousands of takedown requests a day could become overwhelming.Once logged in, your landing page is a visual jumble of your pins and those of people you follow. It is a little overwhelming, and can be hard to find stuff you want to look at, especially if something is going viral: seeing the same image reproduced several times on a page is offputting. On the left is your activity feed, where you can see who's followed your boards, who's liked a pin, who might have repinned your pin (the same idea as Tumblr's reblogging).I think this misses a trick – if you click on a notification that someone has repinned one of your pins, it takes you to your original pin rather than the repin: to go on, you have to click twice to get to the repin, which in effect is a dead end – it doesn't encourage conversation and interactivity as well as it might.For me, that epitomises the clunkiness of Pinterest: it's just not easy enough to do the social bit of it. And the (potential) viral ecosystem therefore isn't quite working: when I post that I've started new boards on Twitter or Facebook, that seem to drive more traffic to me than organic discovery of my stuff by other Pinterest users.Love storyWhat I love about it, though, is how its limits are as wide as your imagination. Sure, there are a lot of mood boards and collections of images of expensive chairs. But I for oneam collecting different kinds of stuff: I've got a board collectingexamples of right-wing craziness from the US, for example; and aboard of books. Oh, and aboard about cats, of course.Brands, inevitably, love it, and Pinterest is avery strong driver of referrals, which gives a clue as to how it plans to monetise – always a tricky issue for social media services that aren't Facebook or Google+. Until recently, Pinterest wasquietly using Skimlinksto generate income from links posted by users to products. A bit of a fuss ensued, andPinterest dropped Skimlinks, saying: "Right now, we are focused on growing Pinterest and making it more valuable. To fund these efforts, we have taken outside investment from entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. In the past, we've tested a few different approaches to making money such as affiliate links. We might also try adding advertisements, but we haven't done this yet."ConclusionAs a user, I like it a lot, though I have some reservations about the smoothness of its interactivity. And like many new web services that suddenly take off, the infrastructure often creaks: I hope Pinterest will be ramping up its server capacity soon. What I like about it is its visual appeal and how the only limits to what you collect are those imposed by your vision.It might be a bit girlie to look at, especially when you arrive at a random page full of interior design or fashion boards, but it's definitely not Just For Girls.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamResearch, no motion: How the BlackBerry CEOs lost an empire &gt;&gt; The VergeWorth a full read.What we learned from the 'Nightline' report on Foxconn factories &gt;&gt; The VergeThis and more from Josh Topolsky:Foxconn executive Louis Woo said that he would actually like it if Apple demanded that the company double the pay of factory employees. Your move, Apple.January 2009: iPhone passes 1% mobile phone market share &gt;&gt; PC AdvisorA trip down nostalgia lane to a time when the iPhone had just managed to take 1% of the entire global market, including smartphones. Motorola was losing market share, Samsung was growing fast, and some company called HTC had recently launched a new phone running some software called "Android".The opportunity cost of Windows Phone &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu (who has taken our graph about changing market shares by country and improved it hugely):the speed with which Android handsets can be developed seems to be a key value of that operating system and one for which Microsoft does not have a good answer.  Nokia is now one year into its commitment to the Microsoft platform and it has a very limited portfolio to show for it (and limited sales as well.) As a result, Nokia's Symbian business evaporated very rapidly. More rapidly than the company anticipated. The dilemma for other vendors may well be how long will it take for them to develop a replacement for their Android portfolio in Windows Phone. The opportunity cost of this switch is subtle and insidious but may be the root of why we don't see a stampede toward Microsoft. Conversely, Android's contract-free, implement-at-will availability may be its greatest selling point."Opportunity cost" is the economic term for "potential value lost in other areas because of what you choose to do".Social messaging apps 'lost networks $13.9bn in 2011' &gt;&gt; BBC NewsSocial messaging applications cost mobile network operators $13.9bn (£8.8bn) in lost SMS revenue last year, a report has claimed. Analysis firm Ovum studied global use of popular services like Whatsapp, Blackberry Messenger and Facebook chat. It concluded that mobile operators must "work together to face the challenge from major internet players".Get popcorn. You already know how it's going to end.The Invisible War for Components and Production Costs &gt;&gt; Eldar MurtazinMurtazin doesn't have the best track record for predictions, but his hindsight seems pretty good:By controlling the resource, aluminum unibody production in this case, Apple left very little space for maneuver for their rivals and ensured low production costs. Other unibody manufacturers can now dictate prices to Apple's rivals who have to pay. But the production capacities are low so they can only use such chassis in flagship products while Apple is using them in mass products. Apple rivals go to great lengths trying to change this situation: Intel created a fashion for ultrabooks and aluminum bodies seem only natural for them but manufacturers are not able to get enough production capacity to satisfy the demand for aluminum bodies. Instead they use the old trick: they make 'aluminum sandwiches' - aluminum sheets cover a plastic chassis. Naturally, this solution is not very elegant though it costs slightly cheaper (applicable to laptops $1000+). This solution is too expensive to be used in laptops in the below $1000 bracket so manufacturers are forced to use all sorts of plastic there. This is a result of insufficient supply of needed components.Which explains a lot about ultrabooks and their pricing and Intel's venture fund for them. There's some interesting suggestions too that Apple is looking to tie up lots of plastic for its phones.Heavy Hangs The Bandwidth That Torrents The Crown &gt;&gt; Andy Ihnatko's Celestial Waste of Bandwidth (BETA)Ihnatko rebuts the arguments used by The Oatmeal over how if you can't get it legally now, well damn, you'll get it illegally now:I'm reminded of a Louis CK joke. I'm going to clean up a little because I'm not Louis CK and this isn't a live comedy stage. It really wouldn't come across the same way otherwise. "I'm totally opposed to stealing an Xbox. Unless Microsoft sets a price for them that I don't want to pay, or there's a new model in a warehouse somewhere and it won't ship to stores for another few weeks. Because what else am I going to do? Not have that Xbox? That's no solution!" The world does not OWE you Season 1 of "Game Of Thrones" in the form you want it at the moment you want it at the price you want to pay for it. If it's not available under 100% your terms, you have the free-and-clear option of not having it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Vita launch day! Did anyone queue to buy one last night? Have you had a go on it? What's it like? Or do you think the whole thing is a bizarre throwback to a different age of Game Gears, Lynxs and Wonderswans? Tell us all!
Google's latest animated doodle celebrates the 155th birthday of Heinrich Hertz, the German physicist whose experiments with electromagnetic waves led to the development of the wireless telegraph and the radio.Born in Hamburg, where he demonstrated great skill in grasping the dynamics of physics even in boyhood, he later enrolled to study the subject in Berlin following a year at the University of Munich.In Berlin, his progress in investigating electromagnetic phenomena was so rapid that in February 1880 he received his PhD – on electromagnetic induction in rotating spheres – at the age of 22.After becoming a professor at Karlsruhe Technische Hochschule in 1885, Hertz turned his attentions to open electrical circuits and demonstrated electromagnetic induction to his students using a condenser discharging through an open loop.In the course of doing this, he noticed an unanticipated phenomenon, the emergence of 'side-sparks' in another nearby loop. By 1888, he was able to demonstrate that the electromagnetic emissions associated with these sparks behaved like waves.The finding, which effectively clarified and expanded the electromagnetic theory of light that had been put forth by the British physicist James Clerk Maxwell in 1864, was hailed as confirmation that electromagnetic waves could be transmitted and received.Hertz's name later became the term used for radio and electrical frequencies, as in hertz (Hz), kilohertz (kHz) and megahertz (MHz).He died in Bonn in 1894 after contracting Wegener's granulomatosis, a rare disorder in which blood vessels become inflamed, and was buried in Ohlsdorf, Hamburg.• This article was amended on 24 February 2012. The original said it was in 1884 that James Clerk Maxwell presented his electromagnetic theory of light. This has been corrected.
Facebook bans images of breastfeeding if nipples are exposed – but allows "graphic images" of animals if shown "in the context of food processing or hunting as it occurs in nature". Equally, pictures of bodily fluids – except semen – are allowed as long as no human is included in the picture; but "deep flesh wounds" and "crushed heads, limbs" are OK ("as long as no insides are showing"), as are images of people using marijuana but not those of "drunk or unconscious" people.Thestrange world of Facebook's image and post approval system has been laid bareby a document leaked from the outsourcing company oDesk to the Gawker website, which indicates that the sometimes arbitrary nature of picture and post approval actually has a meticulous – if faintly gore-friendly and nipple-unfriendly – approach.For the giant social network, which has 800 million users worldwide and recently set out plans for a stock market flotation which could value it at up to $100bn (£63bn), it is a glimpse of its inner workings – and odd prejudices about sex – that emphasise its American origins.Facebook has previously faced anoutcry from breastfeeding mothersover its treatment of images showing them with their babies. The issue has rumbled on, and now seems to have been embedded in its "Abuse Standards Violations", which states that banned items include "breastfeeding photos showing other nudity, or nipple clearly exposed". It also bans "naked private parts" including "female nipple bulges and naked butt cracks" - though "male nipples are OK".The guidelines, which have been set out in full, depict a world where sex is banned but gore is acceptable. Obvious sexual activity, even if "naked parts" are hidden, people "using the bathroom", and "sexual fetishes in any form" are all also banned. The company also bans slurs or racial comments "of any kind" and "support for organisations and people primarily known for violence". Also banned is anyone who shows "approval, delight, involvement etc in animal or human torture".The 13-page manual, which is continually updated, is the bible for workers for oDesk who are deployed to police the posts and images that are sent to them any time somebody on the huge network clicks on a "Report" button.An early version was releasedlast Thursday by a disgruntled employee of Odesk, Amine Derkaoui, a 21-year-old Moroccan who told Gawker that he was paid $1 per hour to trawl through the reports and determine whether they should be removed from the site or not."It's humiliating. They are just exploiting the third world," he told Gawker.The site pointed out that Facebook's banning of some content - often with sexual overtones - has drawn the ire of users. Besides protests from "lactivists" over breastfeeding photos, it has had to contend with anger from art lovers over the removal of a nude drawing (the new guidelines say explicitly "Art nudity OK" - though "digital/cartoon nudity" is not) and in April 2011 censored a picture of a gay kiss.A Facebook spokesperson said: "In an effort to quickly and efficiently process the millions of reports we receive every day, we have found it helpful to contract third parties to provide precursory classification of a small proportion of reported content. These contractors are subject to rigorous quality controls and we have implemented several layers of safeguards to protect the data of those using our service. Additionally, no user information beyond the content in question and the source of the report is shared. We have, and will continue, to escalate the most serious reports internally, and all decisions made by contractors are subject to extensive audits."We are constantly improving our processes and review our contractors on an ongoing basis. This document provides a snapshot in time of our standards with regards to one of those contractors, for the most up to date information please visit ourCommunity Standardspage ."
The Pirate Bay is planning to defy an international crackdown on filesharing websites after the high court in London signalled that the site should be blocked in the UK.The filesharing giant said it will bypass attempts to shut it down with a more covert system for illicitly downloading films and music.The act of defiance comes as the net begins to tighten on some of the web's biggest filesharing sites, following the closure of Kim Dotcom's Megauploadby US authorities last month.The high court is expected to tell UK internet service providers, such as BT and BSkyB, to block access to The Pirate Bay for UK users. The courtruled on Mondaythat the site breaches copyright laws on a large scale.But The Pirate Bay has said it will sidestep the crackdown by "our common enemies" with a new downloading system to be unveiled next week.Ina statement on its official Facebook page, the site said that from 29 February it will stop offering downloads via torrents – which allow users to download music or films directly from their internet browser – and switch to so-called "magnet links" where users do not download files directly from the website."Before you go 'oh ma goood why why why?!!!', please understand that it's a necessary move in the saga known as The Pirate Bay," the website said in the message published late on Monday."Not having torrents will be a bit cheaper for us but it will also make it harder for our common enemies to stop us (which they can't. But everything that makes it harder for them brings more lolz [laugh out loud] to our lips). So please get used to magnets, cause they are here to stay."The Pirate Bay ended its statement pledging to fight the controversial anti-piracy pact ACTA, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, which has been roundly criticised by open internet advocates.The Pirate Bay first moved towards magnet links in November 2009, but this is the first time the site has pledged to abandon torrent files entirely.The move will make The Pirate Bay easier for users to distribute – a copy of the filesharing system will fit on a removable memory stick – and require less bandwidth to host.The owners of The Pirate Bay are unknown – but courts in the UK and other jurisdictions have moved against the site in spite of this.A Seychelles firm called Reservella Ltd has been claimed to be behind the site,according to the high court judgment handed down by Mr Justice Arnold on Monday, but this is disputed.The four Swedish founders of the site – Fredrik Neij, Gottfrid Warg, Peter Sunde and Carl Lundström – were in 2010 found guilty of aiding and abetting copyright infringement.Earlier this month The Pirate Bay quickly switched its domain name to the Swedish .se suffix in a bid to prevent US authorities from seizing control of the site.
Released in 1993, Bullfrog's Syndicate was an isometric onslaught. It was a title that implicitly sanctioned the use of flamethrowers on civilians and revelled in its bleak future vision of corporations that were too big to fail and too corrupt to care.So ... after all this time, how has EA chosen to reboot such a radical and prophetic game?"I know – let's remake it so it feels like Deus Ex, aspires to be Crysis 2 and plays like every other FPS in recent memory.""Yeah. Who's going to complain about that? Not Syndicate fans, that's for sure!"OK, that's a bit cruel – particularly as the new Syndicate is anything but a by-the-numbers shoot-em-up.However, in ditching virtually everything from the original other than a tenuous link to the story, attention is inevitably drawn to what Swedish developer Starbreeze has chosen to replace it with. The answer is plenty, but probably nothing you'll still be talking about in 20 years.First impressions are a bit underwhelming. The unskippable cut-scenes are stiffly animated but well acted, so although the likes of Brian Cox and Rosario Dawson have certainly looked better, they still add conviction to the usual hokum about a super-soldier named Miles Kilo and his shadowy corporate masters.In-game graphics veer between striking highs and garish lows; for instance, the stunning lighting effects are easily forgotten once you encounter the first weapons training sections, which are so basic they wouldn't tax a Sega Saturn.Yet such retro stylings are at odds with a level of onscreen clutter only a Sky News producer could defend. Why does the HUD display a readout for inanimate objects, complete with teeny text that disappears the moment you get close enough to read? Why do some weapons display their ammo gauge or aiming instructions slap bang in the middle of the screen? It's all a bit confusing.Syndicate plays as inconsistently as it looks. There are some great ideas, such as the Dart 6 – an embedded microchip that allows you, among other upgradable abilities, to slow time and see through walls. This, and the fact that your powers recharge faster when pulling off headshots and killstreaks, encourages a fast and furious style of combat that feels markedly different to most FPSs.Unfortunately, what might have turned into Matrix-style ballets of choreographed violence is undermined by spongy collision detection that makes it easy to run right past your enemy and melee finishing moves that lack any real impact – surely a bit of force feedback wouldn't have gone amiss?You do get hints of the game's more visceral potential – for example, when you extract Dart chips from key targets and the camera zooms in for a close up of your victim's tortured face as his skin is punctured. If only there were more moments like this, rather than a tendency to rely on yet another bullet-resistant boss to ramp up the tension.By this point, you may be thinking that the new Syndicate has nothing new to offer, but that would be a disservice to the staff at Starbreeze who, while patently no Bullfrog, have obviously worked hard on honing a distinctive style of gameplay.Map designs, though strictly linear, are littered with levers, trap doors and shortcuts, making them fun to explore and leading to some excellent multi-level shoot-outs. And it's the ranged combat that really takes Syndicate to a different level of manic unpredictability.Using psychic Breach Mode attacks to crash into a room and take out major enemies – before suppressing the rest with something like a Gauss Gun, locking on and killing them round corners – can be incredibly effective when timed correctly. Breach Mode gives you three upgradable but somewhat similar attacks (Persuade, Backfire and Suicide) as well as disabling shields on airborne or armoured enemies.There's also a compelling four-player co-op mode, with levels based on original Syndicate maps, giving you nine more tactical challenges that reward players who stick to their designated team roles. This is definitely not a game for wannabe Rambos.Ultimately, the new Syndicate is never going to please everyone. Swapping freedom and tactical depth for twitch-based thrills and teamwork has certainly made it a viable multi-platform release.However, those with longer memories may argue that rebooting Syndicate as yet another FPS, complete with identikit hero, is a bit like remaking Citizen Kane as a rom-com starring Adam Sandler. For all its multiplayer merits, I'm afraid I'm with the Luddites on this one.• Game reviewed on PS3
Space sci-fi has long been a key battleground in the eternal struggle between films and games to earn acclaim as the top entertainment medium, and BioWare's action-RPG franchise Mass Effect has fought that particular war tenaciously since 2007. Sporting production values that rival those of celluloid, all the character-development elements that make RPGs so fiendishly moreish and action that would grace a third-person shooter, the first two Mass Effect games reaped fistfuls of awards and sold phenomenally well. Small wonder that Mass Effect 3 has been earmarked by gamers as one of 2012's most wanted.We haven't got long to wait now: it's due out on March 9. At which point, all discerning gamers will be praying for more snow and Arctic conditions, bringing the country to a standstill and providing the perfect excuse to stay indoors, huddle up to their Xbox 360s, PS3s or PCs and reacquaint themselves with Commander Shepard's ever-more-desperate fight to save the universe from the Reapers. We have been lucky enough to acquire a sneak preview: publisher Electronic Arts recently showcased a number of its forthcoming games, and there, we played through the first hour and a half of Mass Effect 3's single-player game. At this point, we must warn you that it's impossible to describe our experiences without giving away the general direction in which Mass Effect 3's plot proceeds. However, it was pretty clear that what we played was more concerned with scene-setting, and that it merely paved the way for countless plot twists.Choose your gameplay styleInstantly, it became obvious that BioWare hasn't been shy when it comes to making tweaks. The customary design-your-own-Shepard system was reassuringly familiar, but the default female Shepard wasn't – apparently the new one resulted from a fan competition, but we thought she looked a bit bland and lacking in personality. Wanting to get straight into the action, we picked the (unaltered) pre-designed male Shepard, and then found a new menu choice on offer, which may offend the purists somewhat. You can choose to tailor Mass Effect 3 by picking one of three modes: action, story or RPG. Action automates all conversations in the game, story lets you navigate conversations manually, but cranks the difficulty down to casual, and RPG offers the Mass Effect experience we know and love, with a normal difficulty level and manual conversations. Naturally, we chose the latter. Next up was a chance to choose Shepard's character class, with options including Soldier, Infiltrator, Vanguard, Sentinel, Adept (denoting an expertise in biotics) and Engineer. Finally, the chance arose to shape Shepard's back-story, by selecting his origin – from choices including Spacer, which means he was born in space but to Earthling parents, and Colonist – and combat history, with Sole Survivor, War Hero and Ruthless among the choices. Clearly, the familiar Mass Effect dynamic of Shepard's relationship with his or her team remains in play for Mass Effect 3, and will again influence, one presumes, Shepard's chances of getting it on with a member of the opposite sex (always a feature of the game that provided an extra element of replay value). All the menu-based fannying around could, as usual, be circumvented by importing your character from Mass Effect 2.On with the storyAt last, it was time to dive into the story, which opened on Earth, with Shepard grounded and stalking around in a somewhat frustrated manner as a result. Once again, he (we chose a male Shepard) was given to muttering apocalyptic pronouncements about the imminent arrival of the Reapers. And sure enough, the Earth-based command centre lost touch with two deep space outposts. A brief exchange with Admiral Anderson established that Shepard would be allowed to resume command of the Normandy if the reaper invasion he was predicting did take place. And indeed it did, with suitably impressive pyrotechnics.A fairly cursory tutorial, involving Shepard and Anderson escaping the attack and finding the means to call the Normandy in to airlift them, then took place – in terms of its gentleness (negotiating small spaces and killing some Reaper grunts), it felt quite similar to Mass Effect 2's escape from the disintegrating Normandy. When the Normandy swooped to pick up Shepard, Anderson opted to stay on Earth to take the fight to the invaders. By this stage, Shepard had also acquired a familiar old character as a squad member, in the shape of Ashley Williams.Next stop MarsOnce safely installed on the Normandy, we found Liara T'Soni, expert in Prothean technology from Mass Effects of yore. Earlier, while making their fond farewells, Shepard and Admiral Anderson had agreed that Shepard would head for the Citadel, to persuade the council of the need for all alien species to band together against the Reaper invasion. But Liara provided our first practical mission by volunteering the information that some form of blueprint for a Prothean weapon – the only hope for taking on the Reapers – had recently come to light on Mars. So we headed to the red planet.There we found an unexpected enemy, human and heavily armed: Cerberus operatives. In Mass Effect 2, of course, Shepard was reconstructed by Cerberus and worked for the company, discovering uncomfortable truths about it. But normal service has been resumed in Mass Effect 3, with him once again in implacable opposition to the shadowy organisation. Here, the scene-setting cut-scenes at last gave way to proper, sustained gameplay. Albeit gameplay with a heavy focus on action – we came across one puzzle, involving arresting a horizontally scanning pair of forcefields at a precise point to enable us to get through a door, and there were no safes to hack or characters with whom to converse. There was fighting aplenty, though, which confirmed that BioWare hasn't been tempted to mess around with Mass Effect's third-person shooting engine. Unsurprisingly, given that only Bethesda's RPGs have come close in recent years to matching its accuracy and feel.There were a few experience points on offer, but not enough to allow us to really start shaping Shepard's abilities. Once inside the Mars compound, we had to activate a monorail to take us to where the weapon plans resided, then ride it through heavy Cerberus attacks. In the climactic stages, ammo (and especially grenades – handy due to some enemies possessing shields) was in short supply, so we had to resort to the familiar weaponry and abilities wheel, encouraging our squad-mates to make use of their biotics. By this stage, we had acquired a decent array of weaponry including blaster, assault rifle and shotgun, but they were all thoroughly familiar from Mass Effects 1 and 2. After fighting through to our destination, we were rewarded by a holographic audience with the Illusive Man – still apparently a central character – and that was as far as we were allowed to play.General impressionsIf you were hoping to find major gameplay innovations in Mass Effect 3, you'll be disappointed, if its initial stages are anything to go by. And who can blame BioWare for that, since Mass Effect's gameplay (bar the ill-conceived vehicles in the first game, long since abandoned) has always been spot on. There is, of course, the shoehorned-in voice recognition support for picking conversation choices via Kinect, but the likelihood of that working for anyone without an American accent lies between minimal and non-existent at best.Visually, though, it did look like it has taken advantage of every last drop of graphics processing power that the Xbox 360 (on which we played it) possesses. Story-wise, it looks nicely set up to reach more epic heights than ever before, particularly with Earth taking centre-stage for the first time. And then there's the added excitement of a new multiplayer element coming to the franchise.Multiplayer: the first details emergeBioWare has remained pretty coy about Mass Effect 3's multiplayer side, but it has let slip that it will be collected under the banner Galaxy At War, and that one of its elements will be four-play co-op. This won't take the form of a conventional story mode, but will be about: "Taking control of key conflict zones in the galaxy". You won't be able to play as Shepard, Garrus, Tali or any of the franchise's most beloved characters, but will have to build a new character up from scratch. You will, though, be able to play as Turians, Krogans, Asari or humans, and there will almost certainly be other playable alien races that BioWare hasn't yet announced.Four-player co-op is hugely attractive – every keen Mass Effect player has surely daydreamed about all their squad members being controlled by humans rather than the game's AI. And it sounds as though there will be some sort of domination mechanic, in which you and your fellow gamers go from planet to planet, clearing out Reapers. Beyond the co-op mode, BioWare will merely say that there are other strands which will constitute Galaxy At War. Whatever they turn out to be, it sounds like this time around, we'll be able to immerse ourselves in the Mass Effect universe more deeply – and for an even more sustained period – than ever before.
The first video game hardware launch of the year hits Europe on Wednesday. And while everyone seems to love the look and feel of the PS Vita, question marks remain over its prospects in a portable gaming market dominated by smartphones and tablets.So is the world still interested in a £200 dedicated gaming portable? And if it isn't, what can Vita do to change its mind?Here's our in-depth guide to the device of the moment.The hardwareWeighing in at a mere 260g, Vita is lighter and thinner than most gamers expect before they see one. The casing is sleek, glossy and reasonably robust, the "super oval" shape continuing the design philosophy of the PSP. The front is dominated by the huge 5in OLED screen, which provides gorgeous detail, colour and contrast. Playing something like Uncharted: Golden Abyss or WipEout 2048 is really quite astonishing for the first few minutes – like that first go on Ridge Racer on the old PSP.Of course, we're beginning to see smartphones with 5in screens. The Samsung Galaxy Note and the forthcoming LG Optimus Vu are creating a new category between tablets and handsets. But right now, the Vita is certainly at the upper end of portable display technology.The control configuration, too, is close to perfect. The two analogue sticks are very small – as are the standard four PlayStation buttons – but they're well spaced to ensure comfort and clarity and they are highly responsive. At last, we have a handheld format that can offer the same sort of fast, detailed manoeuvrability we're used to from a console controller – without the need fora hugely ugly add-on. Suddenly, proper first- and third-person shooters are a distinct possibility. Sure, with my large hands I found it slightly uncomfortable to cover the two shoulder buttonsandthe analogues at first, but after a few hours of Uncharted I'm getting used to it.The front has a standard PlayStation button to get you back to the menu screen, as well as Start and Select buttons. Around the edges are the USB port, a slot for games, a slot for memory cards and an extra port for as-yet unannounced accessories. Surprisingly, there's no video-out so you won't be connecting your Vita to your 50in TV any time soon. Sound is also a little disappointing with a slightly tinny playback through the external speakers, though of course a headset port is provided.The multi-touch display is sensitively tuned for gaming purposes. Interacting with the gloomy monochrome world of Escape Plan is a real pleasure, allowing you to tap on in-game items like light bulbs and signs, making them swing or collapse. And in Uncharted, you can show Nathan where to climb by simply swiping across the screen to plot out a route.Meanwhile, the huge multi-touch swipe pad on the rear of the device brings in a fresh range of tactile gaming possibilities – not least, allowing you to interact via touch without having to cover a quarter of the screen real estate with your fat thumbs. WipEout, for example, lets you slide your finger along the back to accelerate, but more interesting, is the level in mini-game collection, Little Deviants, where you prod a landscape from beneath to create little hills, thereby guiding a ball around the map.Both the back and front touchpads can be used together, so players can literally pinch onscreen objects between their thumb and index finger. In the brilliant mini-game app, Frobisher Says (distributed free with Vita pre-orders but availble to everyone in May) there's a task named Squash the Toff where you splatter the plasticine heads of regal figures by pinching them in this way. It's surprisingly therapeutic.The technologyAt the heart of the machine is an SoC with four ARM Cortex A9 processors, working together with a quad-core PowerVR SGX 543MP4+ graphics processing unit. Considering that the SGX 543 implementation in the iPad 2 and iPhone 4s is dual-core, we already have the capacity for twice the graphics performance of those devices. But that's not all: this GPU tech is apparently a unique version of the 5-series set-up, specifically tuned for Vita by Sony. A spokesman for PowerVR manufacturer Imagination Technologies told us:If you want to define the '+' in SGXMP4+, it's really all the things that Sony can take control of because they know so much about the system and how it will be used at all times. It starts from their own API for talking to the graphics, which enables them to know how data will be submitted and ultimately delivered to the screen. Then they have tight control over the SoC bus infrastructure which passes information for the graphics through the system – think of this like AGP or PCI-Express in a PC, though in fact it's neither of those standards.And then finally you have the way they've designed the cache infrastructure to control where data is at any time and how quickly it can be accessed and how efficiently it can be moved. Think: very quickly and very efficiently. Sony and its developers can control the graphics pipeline, how memories are partitioned, and how and when they render to screen. There are all sorts of low-level, to-the-metal tricks that go toward gaining the best possible performance.Can we compare the performance with PlayStation 3? Graeme Ankers, the game director, on WipEout 2048 certainly thinks so. "We've had the hardware from early on, right from the earliest prototype units," he says. "When we were working on WipEout, we did some benchmark tests against WipEout HD fury on the PlayStation 3. We took an HD track and we piped it through the Vita, we put the polys through, we put a similar shader solution through, and we were getting a 250,000 polygon-per-frame throughput – that is comparable to what we were doing on PS3. So we developed the tracks for 2048 as though we were working on a next-gen console."At the very least, the Vita specifications are at the upper end of current smartphone performance. The question is, for how long? A couple of handsets will be using the new ARM A15 chipset this year, and Imagination Technologies is already touting its massively more powerful Series 6 Rogue GPUs. Nothing stays state-of-the-art for long in this business.What's interesting is how closely this architecture parallels current thinking in smartphone design – it's almost as though Sony knows that a lot of young studios these days will be cutting their teeth on iOS and Android projects, rather than on complex console titles. There's no sign here of the PlayStation 3's arduously complicated set-up, complete with eight Synergistic Processor Units. Open Vita up and its modular design and efficient CPU/GPU system say phone rather than console.It seems then, that ease-of-development is a key concern. "The Vita is really nice to develop for," says Ricky Haggett, the co-founder of HoneySlug – creator of Frobisher Says. "The architecture is straightforward, and for the most part, the APIs are clear and easy to use. Of course, there are some teething issues – to be expected with a console that hasn't launched yet – but there weren't that many things that tripped us up during development, and the dev support team were always on hand to turn around solutions quickly."The fact that the tech of Frobisher Says – a game which aims to use every bit of functionality available on the Vita – was made by just two programmers should give you an idea of how straightforward the Vita APIs are to work with. Although, to be fair, they are awesome programmers!"At the moment, there are no indie APIs available online akin to the Xbox XNA developer centre: making games for Vita remains a closed shop for a lucky few affiliates only. However, Sony says that it will soon allow smaller developers to create downloadable Vita titles via thePlayStation Suiteprogramme, which offers a more open platform for game creation. This could be the point at which the indie devs get onboard.There are other techie letdowns. The device's front and rear-facing cameras won't tempt you to leave your Nikon DSLR at home – at a measly 0.3Mp a piece, they're far behind even the most basic contemporary cameraphones. However, Sony has said that the camera specs are designed with augmented reality games rather than photography and film-making in mind, so the lower resolution will lead to smoother framerates in AR titles like Reality Fighters.Another key bugbear: Vita is awash with proprietary formats. You need a proprietary USB cable to plug the thing into your PC or PS3, and the system has no internal memory for game data, so if you want to save your progress or download titles you'll need one of the – yes – proprietary memory cards. These come in 4GB, 8GB and 16GB iterations (the 32GB versions won't be available in the UK at launch), with the 16GB option priced at £40. For that you could get yourselftwo32GB SD Cards.Of course, this is all about controlling the peripherals market, and Sony will claim it needed a smaller, custom-built memory card solution for its feature-packed device. But with the comparatively high price of the console itself, gamers might not appreciate having to pay over the odds for memory, too. The cards are alsotinyso swapping one while on the go  is a precarious and potentially costly endeavour.The gamesThe Vita will have around 30 games available at launch. The line-up ranges from major titles such as Uncharted: Golden Abyss (above), WipEout 2048 and Virtua Tennis 4, to smaller downloadable games like Escape Plan and Super Stardust Delta. Prices are set to range considerably, with Uncharted at the upper end on £40, and downloadable games starting at a fiver for Motorstorm RC.It's a strong selection, not just in numbers but in quality. There are decent renditions of major console brands (Fifa is there, too, alongside Marvel v Capcom 3 and Ridge Racer) as well as interesting newcomers like augmented reality fighting game Reality Fighters and mini-game collection Little Deviants.A quick glance at Metacriticshows that it's the third-party titles that are scoring highest, with Ubisoft's Rayman Origins and Lumines conversions at the top of the heap, and hardcore gems Super Stardust  Delta and BlazBlue: Continuum Shift Extend also attracting average ratings over over 80.On the horizon, there are Vita versions of favourites like LittleBigPlanet, Call of Duty, Resistance and Bioshock. Sony Japan's awesome open-world physics adventure Gravity Rush should be out here in May, and as visual showcase for the hardware that isunmissable. The music puzzler Sound Shapes from Canadian developer Queasy Games could be an interesting one:I also like the look of two lesser-known downloadable launch titles – the platform puzzlerA-Menfrom Polish developer Bloober Team and Subbuteo-style augmented reality sports sim,Table Footballby Hull's own Four Door Lemon.On the subject of augmented reality, each Vita will ship with six AR cards and three apps to try them out on – just like the AR offering with the Nintendo 3DS. "We've experimented with AR in WipEout and we may well do something with it in the future," says Ankers. "The interesting thing is when you combine AR with the Vita's powerful gyros and accelerometers … you'll be able to project an image onto a specific point and then walk around it, move in close to it, get further away – and it adjusts perfectly."Ricky Haggett concurs: "tThe gyroscopes are incredibly accurate, so the games where you're moving the Vita around the real world and it is changing the display in real-time feel amazing. We'd love to make some more games using this tech because it works fantastically well!"Vita owners will also be able to download classic PSP and PSmini titles from the PlayStation Store (which also gets an icon on the main menu). According to Sony, 275 "legacy" PSP titles will be available from launch along with 117 minis (from 60p each), and more will added to the list in the future. If these are sensibly priced, it's a smart idea – especially for gamers who didn't take the plunge with PSP, but heard all about landmark titles such as Patapon, Disgaea: Afternoon of Darkness and Persona 3.ConnectivityThere are two models to opt for – one comes with Wi-Fi support, allowing you to get online via any hotspot or your own wireless internet connection, the other has Wi-Fi and 3G, so you'll be able to use it like a mobile phone and get internet access whenever you're in range of a 3G service. We found the Wi-Fi to be easy to set up, and downloading the requisite system update is quick and painless. The current version is 1.60 which adds the ability to capture video footage, and puts Google Maps on your menu.The Vita comes with a basic web browser, which currently lacks support for Flash and won't show YouTube videos. It does, however, support HTML 5, and updates will no doubt arrive later to add features. It's not the fastest web browsing experience on the planet, either, but it does the job.Perhaps the most interesting option is the Near app – Vita's answer to the Nintendo 3DS StreetPass function. It allows you to check the whereabouts and favourite games of people on your friends list, as well as finding out if anyone else is playing a Vita nearby. Gamers can leave virtual gifts or challenges for each other in specific locations, perhaps dropping off weapons, costumes or ammo. Plus, if you have mates nearby, you can set up ad-hoc multiplayer sessions with them."The next step is a location-based network, where you can leave challenges around the world and get rewarded for doing so," says Ankers. "The connected nature of the device is the key element going forward."Haggett, meanwhile, sees Vita becoming an accessory in more ambitious urban gaming sessions. "What could work is using the Vita as a peripheral device in a real life game. So if a bunch of friends went to a park to play one of those nerfgun zombie ARG things that are popular these days, they could use Vitas to do interesting stuff – like showing them where their teammates are, or warning them if zombies are near. I'm quite into facilitating more free-form experiences, so rather than dictating what the actual gameplay is, the Vita becomes a tool which different games can use."Elsewhere on the menu, there's a Party app, allowing voice and text chat between friends, even when they're playing different games. And the Group Messaging option lets you send out text messages to all your PlayStation friends. And naturally, there is support for Flickr, Facebook and Twitter, the latter via a dedicated Vita client named LiveTweet.It's a pretty comprehensive social gaming service, which exploits the intrinsically portable nature of the hardware. If Sony can produce some kind of Killer App to really exploit the sense of real-time social connectivity engendered by Near, it could be an important part of tempting sceptics over.Elsewhere, the Vita can of course connect with the PS3. This will allow users to side load their videos, music and compatible games onto the handheld, but there are more interesting possibilities. Already, several Vita titles allow in-game communication between the two machines. With WipEout, for example, Vita players can challenge PS3 owners who have a copy of WipEout HD to multiplayer racers. Cross-platform play is also supported in Motorstorm RC, Ultimate Marvel v Capcom 3, Hustle Kings and Top Darts – and some titles will be free to download on one platform if you purchase them on the other.There are also titles that allow continuous play across both platforms. In effect, owners can make progress on the Vita version, save their game, and then pick it up on the PS3 version when they get home. The forthcoming dungeon slasher, Ruin, supports this feature.Furthermore, Sony is bringing over the Remote Play functionality introduced on the PSP, which allowed certain limited PS3 content to be accessed remotely via the handheld console. At the moment, it's unclear how this will work, but Sony has demoed the PS3 game Killzone 3 being streamed from a PS3 to a Vita, so you're able to play the game wherever you are. This doesn't seem to be working right now, but a firmware update should make many of your PS3 titles accessible while on the move.And finally, the Remote Play connectivity means your Vita can also double up as a PS3 controller. At the moment, this would be a little novelty extra, but in the future it could prove a crucial part of competing with the forthcoming Nintendo Wii U console, which features a new tablet-style controller with its own built-on screen. We're all getting used to the "two screen" concept – simultaneously watching a large TV while interacting via a smaller one (for most people this means tweeting while watching Dancing on Ice, but you get the picture). If this is the way living room entertainment is going, Vita looks set to be able to capitalise.Battery lifeSony says we should expect between three to five hours for gaming. Indeed,at our recent Indie Social event, the three Vitas demo units were in continual use for over five hours. The official specs say we should also get five hours of video and nine hours for music playback (the Vita can read a variety of formats including MP3, MPEG-4, Wav and AAC). The battery recharges from empty to full in 2.5 hours.PricingThe official price is £230 for the Wi-Fi model and £270 for the Wi-Fi and 3G model. In this country, Vodafone is Sony's partner network for 3G, but it's not an exclusive deal, and you'll be able to use your current 3G sim in the device, whatever your operator.The video game news site MCV has provideda comprehensive list of pricing deals and bundles, with Amazon offering the basic Vita for just £210, and Play.com going with £213 for a Wi-Fi Vita and 8GB memory card.ConclusionNo one in the industry is going to argue with the fact that Vita is a beautiful piece of consumer electronics merchandise. And very few pundits will suggest it has anything less than a strong software line-up. The key contention is saleability: in the age of smartphones, will people still pay morre than £200 for a dedicated piece of gaming hardware any more?My answer is … well, yes, a lot of people will. Certainly Android and iOS devices cater brilliantly to those daily impulse gaming moments – if Angry Birds, match-three puzzlers and the odd isometric RPG do it for you, Vita won't be a wise purchase. Furthermore, a handful of smartphone titles (such as Dead Space and Infinity Blade) are beginning to offer some genuine console-style depth.However, the touchscreen-only interface of most phones can't provide one important element: spatial accuracy. Pinpoint control is needed for shooters or athletic third-person adventures like Batman or Assassin's Creed – and these are the mainstay genres of the console experience. With the Vita's 5in OLED screen, these will look lovelyandplay exceptionally well.Perhaps it will be something of a luxury platform – not something users will take everywhere they go (I wouldn't want to slide it into a back pocket), but perfect for longer journeys. Or for when someone else is watching TV but you still want to collapse on the sofa and play a big, meaty action adventure.And in some ways, the term "luxury" is ever-so-slightly misleading.  It's not cheap, that's for sure, and in these dark economic times it'll hover out of reach for many until a price drop occurs. But Sony says it will support Vita for 10 years – which, considered beside your average smartphone or even laptop lifespan, is a veritable eon of usage.As for the 3DS – well, this is the same old argument as the PSP v DS era: whose games do you prefer? Nintendo's machine is cheaper, more portable and sports a novelty 3D interface. Plus, Super Mario 3D Land and Star Fox 64 3D have made it a hugely desirable purchase. But then, if you actually love Sony exclusives such as Uncharted or LittleBigPlanet, or want accurate handheld renditions of Call of Duty or Bioshock, you'll be in exactly the wrong place with the Nintendo option.Like the PSP, the PS3 and the Bravia TV range, Vita is a piece of consumer tech for people wholoveconsumer tech. It's strongly specced, ostentatious, desirable, but not exactly essential for the masses. Its feature-set promises a new era of wildly interconnected gaming experiences that mine location data, chat to your home console and allow you to form weird Venn diagrams between real-life, friendships and games. But then that's thepromise; the reality may be five years of PS3 ports with the odd indie gem chucked in.Thing is, that worse case scenario may be enough for some; for many even. Sony, after all, really believes in this thing, and Sony isn't mad. You'll need deep pockets, both to buy and carry this thing, but if you're – ahem – a "core" gamer with a love of epic gameplay design, I doubt you'll regret it.What the experts sayThe PlayStation Vita is a truly lovely machine. To be honest, I'm still slightly in awe of its power, its countless inputs oozing potential and its unparalleled launch line-up of games, which would be considered strong even for a home console.However, there are niggles, most notably the generally high price of said great games, but also its reliance on the PS3 or PC as a surrogate life support machine. If you're a Vita buyer sans one of these mothers and their data-wire umbilicals, you will be reliant on proprietary memory cards (why not SD?) of excessive expense (£40 for 16GB) and unrealistic size caps (16GB is the largest, with Uncharted 4GB alone). Memory cards that, going on our evidence, you will repeatedly lose and/or curse every time you have to insert or extract due to them being half the size of a Monopoly house.It seems curiously retrograde on a system that otherwise oozes class, quality and sophistication. That said, a couple of hours in the company of WipEout 2048 or Gravity Rush and you will forgive it practically anything.Matt Hill, Deputy Editor, T3It's a remarkable handheld – the screen is beautiful, and Sony has delivered on its promise of console-quality gaming on the move. While it faces a challenge standing up to the vibrancy and low prices of the App Store, gamers will flock to Vita if great games emerge that capitalise on its raw power and flexible control inputs. It's therefore up to developers to make the best of Vita.Craig Owens, games editor, EdgeWithout question, PS Vita is a powerful device with lots of potential. I think it's the best answer the traditional parts of the games industry could have come up with against the advance of smartphone gaming. Retailers are very optimistic about the launch and hopeful that it will provide a boost during what has become some very challenging trading weeks. The trick for something like Vita to succeed is software and pricing – can that stand up to the huge volume of games apps on mobile and newer things like 3DS? Given Day One for Vita means around 30 games are available from £4.79 up to £49.99 it will certainly get off to a promising start.Michael French, editor-in-chief, MCV
Rebooting any much-loved fiction can be a poisoned chalice. How to differentiate form and evolve the source material while maintaining consistency, coherency and respect? Certainly, you can count on a fanbase that will scrutinise your every move, splintering yet further as you introduce new ideas and creases that impact upon that unblemished view of the original. It's a challenge Richard Morgan knows only too well. For four years the science fiction author has been working with Starbreeze Studios to create the narrative forSyndicate, a reboot of the 1993 classic PC strategy game. Set in a cyberpunk world, Syndicate is only the second video game that Morgan, who has written novels, comics and screenplays, has worked on. His other game project, Crysis 2, had no grand fiction to adhere to, so how has he found approaching a property with such a fanatical, vociferous following?"We had the IP bible for the original Syndicate on hand for reference when we were putting together our 2069 world and its assumptions, and there was a conscious effort to include elements from that stock that fans of the original game would recognise," he explains. "For example, you'll find yourself playing as an agent for EuroCorp, one of the syndicates from the original game, and behaving pretty much the way you'd expect an agent from the original game to behave. Fans of the old game are certainly going to recognise the furniture and they'll see some legacy pieces in freshly minted action too."Morgan has been working on the game's script since 2008, flying out to Starbreeze's offices in Stockholm on a regular basis for meetings to ensure the storyline synchs with level design and gameplay requirements or writing from home."What needs saying, I think, is that the underlying theme of the original Syndicate is one which transcends the game itself and stands alone as a classic concern of the science fiction genre in general," he says. "Syndicate borrowed from an existing memeplex of cyberpunk-derived ideas – corporate power unleashed, the death of government, biotech-enhanced operatives, warfare over data and elite data specialists, alienating night-time cityscapes, ordinary humans as disposable chaff. The reboot has all of this and more, and for a very simple reason – we're not just rebooting Syndicate, we're mining the very same memeplex the original game fed off. My mandate was simply to do something powerful with that."That "memeplex" as Morgan puts it, continues to be one of the most enduring in science fiction. What is the ongoing appeal of cyberpunk? "Cyberpunk brought two definable things to the table in science fiction – a current of underbelly noir borrowed more or less wholesale from the American hardboiled tradition and an understanding that the future was going to be primarily about the exploration of inner, not outer, space. The latter remains a truth today and doesn't look like changing any time soon; and noir has always told the truth about the human condition – to wit, that humans are a dodgy lot, corruption is an endemic social dynamic and it all ends in tears. Now, with that much truth on its side, how could cyberpunk (and its derivatives) not endure?"For Morgan, it's this exploration of the fundamental truths of our today that have attracted him to dystopian worlds, and to Syndicate's universe in particular. "The main appeal is that dystopias are an honest extrapolation from the truth of the societies we live in today," he says. "Now, for you and I, the early 21st century may not feel all that dystopian, but try being a sweatshop peon in a Shanghai enterprise zone, an east European sex slave, or a migrant worker without papers in southern California. Dystopia is the world we choose not to see, curled up in the corner of our peripheral vision and snarling quietly. Dystopia is the acknowledgment of what we are as humans, minus a bankrupt rightwing belief in the validity of existing hierarchy. Which, of course, makes dystopian fiction an immensely powerful tool for social critique. If Dickens were alive today, I'm pretty sure he'd be writing cyberpunk of some sort – he'd have seen the potential and leapt on it."Syndicate is the second blockbuster game that Morgan has worked on in as many years. What's the appeal? "Novel writing tends to be a fairly staid and lonely business – you sit in your room and type, you sit in your room and type – whereas game writing is endlessly collaborative and very dynamic; you're in and out of meetings all the time, knocking ideas back and forth with other members of the team, and the landscape is constantly changing as the game evolves. It's very much an experience in staying fresh, and I value that immensely. An obligation to stay fresh is something I think all writers need."Of course, while working in video games may gift a writer a fresh approach, this kind of collaboration also comes with sacrifices, not least in bowing to the demands of gameplay designers. "The terrain is very changeable; as the game iterates, you find yourself having to rejig, abandon or reinvent to suit. It's a very organic process and the challenge is to stay flexible, to be able to evaluate the evolving value of your material, but not to get too precious about any particular element.""But the real key to writing well for a game is to understand and accept that the story is a support structure for the gameplay, and not the other way around. You could have the greatest story in the world set up, but if it cripples the gameplay dynamics then it's still going to make for a shit game. Accepting that fact requires, for a storyteller from any other medium, an exercise in careful humility – which can in itself be an interesting challenge."
Aleks Krotoski speaks to Charles Arthur, Keith Stuart and Tiga's Richard Wilson about the case for the UK video game industry to get tax relief.They also review the new PlayStation Vita handheld console, and look at Google's alleged breach of privacy terms of their rival Apple.Plus, Charles speaks to British company Swiftkey about its touchscreen tech revolution.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Email the producertechweekly@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
It is quite fitting perhaps, that Sony's latest handheld console – the PlayStation Vita – should arrive in the midst of London fashion week. Like the delicate couture of Mary Katrantzou or David Koma, it is sleek, stylish, individual and expensive. And as with those very same garments, fashionistas may look at this beautiful device in six months' time and think, why did I buy that?Then again, they might be hopeless converts by then. One thing is certain, the Vita is something of an exciting anachronism in this age of smartphones and throwaway gaming experiences. It has a powerful processor dedicated to pushing around the latest high-definition visuals; it has two (two!) analogue sticks to provide accurate control, and it demands to be looked it – if only because it won't slip unnoticed into your back pocket: the huge 5in OLED screen has seen to that.So, it's not hugely portable by modern standards and you can't phone people on it. That's so not on-message. Ah, but you can play amazing gamessuch as Uncharted: Golden Abyss and WipEout 2048– games that won't run on an iPhone (or if they did they'd be hideous to play). It has Wi-Fi support and 3G, and thanks to its GPS function, it will allow you to locate nearby friends who also own one, for impromptu gaming sessions. You can even leave in-game items like weapons and costumes in your favourite meeting places.Imagine turning up at your local Starbucks only to get a little message on your Vita telling you that your friend Dave has left a virtual sports car there for you to pick up and put into your favourite racing game. It's not a big deal, but it's certainly clever.Vita has 30 games from launch day, and many more big titles on the way – many of which will never set foot near a smartphone or the rival Nintendo 3DS console. It can play music and movie files; it can talk to your PS3. Indeed, some games will run on both, so you'll be able to complete a level on Vita during your commute, then pick it up on PS3 when you get home.Vita, though, is the haute couture of gaming devices. It is a product that says: "Look, I love games and I can also afford really nice things." Indeed, the basic model is £230, while the 3G version is £270, but you can get both cheaper if you shop around. You'll also need expensive memory cards, probably a pouch to keep it safe, and… Oh, face it, it's going to cost you. But take a glance at that photo; it's a bit gorgeous really. And it has depth. Your friends may say: "Yeah, but I can do all that on my iPhone." Then they'll see a game like Gravity Rush or Uncharted and go, "Oh … no, I can't," and skulk away.I'm not sure how long that thrill will last, and Vita has yet to realise much of its great technical promise, but for now, it is a teeny bit thrilling. And all fashion, however lovely, however expensive, is ephemeral.
Online transactions company PayPal is to announce it is creating 1,000 new jobs in Ireland.The company, which is owned by digital auction giant eBay, already employs 1,500 people in Dublin and the Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, is expected to make the announcement about the new jobs on Tuesday.The joint announcement underlines the importance Ireland attaches to its vision of becoming the "Silicon Valley" of Europe.The new jobs, to be filled over four years, will make the company the biggest web operation of the multi-nationals that have based their European headquarters in Europe including Google, Facebook and games company Zynga.Google employs about 2,000 staff while Facebook employs about 300 in Dublin but is considering doubling in size.PayPal is the global leader in online payment solutions. It was founded in 1998 and has 232 million customers in 190 markets worldwide. The new posts are expected to be in customer and sales support.Its decision to expand so aggressively in Ireland is a fillip for the struggling Irish economy which is in its second year of a four-year IMF/EU bailout programme.
Android has taken over from Apple and now has the largest share of the installed base of smartphones among consumers in the UK, according to new figures provided to the Guardian by Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.Google's mobile OS has a 36.9% share of the smartphones in use among consumers in the UK, the company says in its latest survey, which covers the four weeks to 23 January 2012. Apple's iPhone models have the next biggest share, with 28.5% of all handsets in use. The company does not split out brands, but it is likely that Apple is the most-used brand, with Android sales split among brands including Samsung, HTC, LG and Motorola.UK smartphone installed base, by OS, January 2012. Source: Kantar Worldpanel ComTechIn terms of market share – a snapshot of ongoing sales figures for the four weeks, rather than the phones in people's hands – Android handsets have just under half the market, while Apple has nearly a third. BlackBerry-maker RIM has just over 15%, with the remaining 6% split between more than five different platforms.The data come as the survey company, which polls consumers and retailers (but not enterprises) about the handsets that they use and are purchasing, confirmed other surveys which indicate that more than half of the British population – 50.3% – now have a smartphone. It surveys users in the US, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Australia.In the US, the largest smartphone market in the west, Apple handsets outsold Android among consumers, with a 48.4% share compared with 42.8%, the company said. That indicates ongoing strength for Apple there, said Dominic Sunnebo, Kantar Worldpanel Comtech's global consumer insight director: "The jump we saw in Apple's share last period was clearly not just a blip caused by the iPhone 4S release. Although the majority of growth is coming from the new handset, Apple's latest pricing structure is also working in its favour with no discernible drop in sales of older iPhone 4 and 3GS models."But the growth has not been evenly spread. In the UK, RIM, which is under increasing pressure from both Android and Apple handsets, saw its share of UK sales fall from 18.7% to 18.1%. However, Nokia's Symbian – effectively declared dead a year ago by its chief executive Stephen Elop – saw the most dramatic fall, with a halving of its share of the installed base in a year.That was matched by a collapse in Symbian's share of UK sales, from 15.5% in January 2011 to 2.8% in 2012.Yet even that remained ahead of the share of sales achieved by Nokia's new platform, Microsoft's Windows Phone, which grew from just 0.4% in the same four-week period a year ago to 2.2% in 2012.According to Kantar Worldpanel, handsets running Windows Phone now have a 1% share of the UK installed base. Nokia looks likely to already be the largest single Windows Phone vendor, ahead of rivals such as Samsung and HTC.Sunnebo commented: "For the first time ever, you are now in the minority if you don't own a smartphone. With more people jumping on the bandwagon, there is huge opportunity for both retailers and manufacturers. However, the competition is intense."Android holds on to its lead but Apple is making inroads, increasing its [market] share of the British market from 21.7% a year ago to 29.1% now." That figure refers to a snapshot of sales, rather than the installed base.He added: "Windows Phone 7 is also creeping up, taking over 2% of the market for the first time with the Nokia Lumia 800 taking the lion's share. This looks set to continue with the expected launch of at least two new models at the Mobile World Congress conference. We forecast this will help it to grow its share to around 8% in the latter half of 2012."Sunnebo said there were signs of hope for Nokia and Microsoft in owners' engagement with their devices, which emerged from more detailed interviews: "One of the real positives for Microsoft Windows Phone is how engaged its users appear to be with its devices: 81% of handset owners have used social networking on their device in the past month, higher than both iOS &amp; Android. Meanwhile, three-quarters have used GPS, indicating that Nokia's decision to include Nokia maps for free was a price worth paying to drive user engagement."Other data that emerges from the company's research:• Android dominated sales in every country except the US, where Apple led.• Android's sales share was highest in Spain, where it had 65.8% of sales.• Android's sales share was lowest in France, at 42.3%.• Symbian's sales market share is highest in Italy, at 19.2%, though that is substantially down from 46.8% a year ago.• Apple's sales share is lowest in Spain, where it had just 9.2% of the market – the same as a year ago. Symbian previously dominated with 65.3% of sales; now it is the second, with 13.2%, but far behind Android.• RIM's sales share is highest in the UK, at 15.5%, and lowest in Australia, at 0.7% – down there from just 3.7% a year ago.Smartphone sales in different countries: comparing a four-week period to Jan 23 2011 to four week up to Jan 23 2012 in US, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Australia. Source: Kantar Worldpanel ComTechThe picture that emerges is that the market generally is split into two dominant ecosystems, of Apple and Android. RIM's share is being gradually eroded among consumers, but there is no large-scale shift visible yet towards Windows Phone – which was Elop's hope when he abandoned Symbian for Windows Phone, saying that thesmartphone market was a war of ecosystems rather than a battle of handsets.Smartphone data for countriesOtherBadaWinMobileSymbianWP7RIMiOSAndroidInstalled base Jan 201120.129.218.70.126.73.20.81.2Installed based Jan 201236.928.518.1113.11.30.70.4Change16.8-0.7-0.60.9-13.6-1.9-0.1-0.8sales (market share)UK Jan 20113721.723.30.415.50.810.4UK Jan 201249.729.115.52.22.80.10.30.2Germany Jan 201127.231.92.81.9282.73.91.6Germany Jan 201261.123.421.58.221.60.2France Jan 201135.120.611.81.921.70.67.31.1France Jan 201242.325.711.624.32.610.90.6Italy Jan 201118.719.541.446.85.62.71.3Italy Jan 201249.722.43.51.819.21.71.10.5Spain Jan 2011149.215.60.355.30.62.82.2Spain Jan 201265.89.2110.513.20.300US Jan 201154.521.714.33.21.72.402.3US Jan 201242.648.45.71.50.40.301.1Australia Jan 201123.934.23.72.330.71.31.52.5Australia Jan 201248.842.90.70.94.30.501.9Data for installed base for UK, and market share for various countries Jan 2011/2012.  Source: Kantar Worldpanel ComTechThe data for the countries.
Consumer-focused mobile apps may get more headlines, but business-to-business apps are rising fast up the priorities of companies in the US and UK, according to a survey of 1,000 executives commissioned byAntenna Software.It found that 43% of companies surveyed are currently working on a mobile app for their customers, but 42% are working on one for their employees."Investment in mobile is growing at a meteoric rate, and that's partly due to companies thinking beyond the app and beyond the idea that mobile is only critical when it comes to consumer engagement," says Antenna's chief executive Jim Hemmer.The research backs up what a number of developers have been telling me privately for a while now: that the market for B2B apps is growing rapidly, and providing a more stable revenue stream for many developers than chancing their luck in the open app stores.The survey also found that companies aren't just investing in native apps. In fact, 45% of UK and US firms surveyed are currently working on a customer-facing mobile website – more than are working on native apps for those customers.Antenna broke down some of its stats on UK businesses for The Guardian. 38% of British firms surveyed are working on mobile websites for their customers, while 35% are making consumer-facing mobile apps. 34% are making apps for employees, and 26% a mobile website for employees.The US is ahead in terms of investment, with 50% and 48% respectively making a mobile site and app for customers, while 47% and 43% are making a mobile app and site for employees.The survey found that a third of companies are planning to launch four or more mobile projects in the next 12-18 months, but identified frustration among chief information officers and business unit leaders with the slow pace and high costs of mobile development.Antenna commissioned the research from Vanson Bourne to promote its new AMPchroma mobile business product, which aims to tackle some of those challenges. It's far from the only company targeting enterprises in this way though.The research claims that the average current investment of £269k from UK and US businesses in mobile projects will rise to £590k over the next 18 months.For all the buzz around consumer-focused social, location and entertainment apps, startups reducing the mobile headaches faced by other kinds of businesses may be where the real action is in 2012 and 2013.
A selection of 11 new apps for you today:WrestleFest PremiumIf you, like me, spent far too many hours as a child battering a virtual Hulk Hogan, Ultimate Warrior, Big Boss Man and co in the WWF WrestleFest arcade game, rejoice. THQ has revived it for iOS. Current wrestlers share the billing with old favourites like Jake 'The Snake' Roberts and the late Randy Savage. Aseparate iPad versionis also available.iPhoneDiscovery Channel: Extreme WorldMiles Kelly Publishing has worked with the Discovery Channel on this iPad book-app, promising "action-packed text, astounding facts, thrilling photography, dynamic design and amazing video footage". And volcanoes.iPadLive Rugby Six NationsThis app draws on real-time data from Opta to provide text commentary and a graphical representation of Six Nations rugby matches, including comparing teams and players stat-for-stat. The link above is for iPhone, but theAndroid version is here.Android / iPhoneManchester Time MachineA team at Manchester Metropolitan University has created this iPhone app that draws on historical footage of Manchester from the North West Film Archive, and uses GPS to tag each video with its actual location in the city.iPhoneCombo Explorer for Mario Kart 7A lot has been written about smartphones eating into sales of traditional gaming handhelds, but this app aims to be more complementary. It focuses on the Nintendo 3DS game Mario Kart 7, providing a guide to the 20,230 possible combinations of characters, karts, wheels and gliders. With charts.Android / iPhoneUpping Your ElvisDon't curl your lip up at this. Oh, actually, do. This is an app to help you realise how "Elvis" you are at any point in time – by which the app's creator Chris Baréz-Brown means whether you "stand out, break the rules and make things happen". The idea being to monitor how you're feeling, and get quick "State Breakers" to get you all shook up.iPhoneMiffy's GardenStrangely, this showed up in my RSS feed as Miffy's Garden, but when you visit the App Store, the description is Dutch and the title is "De tyin van nijnte". So proceed with caution, although the screenshots appear to show an English-language option too. It's the first book-app starring fictional bunny Miffy, anyway.iPadReflections for LentAs Lent gets underway, Church House Publishing has released an app with daily reflections on Bible passages by authors, suggesting that they'll be "a good alternative or accompaniment to giving up chocolate or coffee". Aimer Media developed the app.iPhone / iPadWedding MoodboardDigital moodboards are all the rage in 2012 thanks to strong interest in Pinterest. Wedding Moodboard takes a different tack, providing an app for planning wedding themes through visuals, while also checking seasonal flowers and offering tips on planning the big day.AndroidAutism iHelp – HomeThis iOS app is the work of parents of a child with autism and a speech-language pathologist, with the aim of helping kids learn the names of 24 common items from around the home, using photos, audio and text.iPhone / iPadThe Great Escape 2012Brighton music festival/conference The Great Escape has an official app, which will provide biographies and links for all the artists playing, as well as conference session details. More info on the projectis here.iPhone / Android / Blackberry
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamU.S. Official Warns About 'Anonymous' Power Play &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe director of the National Security Agency has warned that the hacking group Anonymous could have the ability within the next year or two to bring about a limited power outage through a cyberattack.Not just Google: Facebook also bypasses privacy settings in IE | ZDNetIn other words, many companies are taking advantage of Internet Explorer's poor cookie blocking implementation for their own purposes. Their excuse is that P3P is dead and IE's cookie blocking would break their website, so they just work around the browser's privacy controls.I tried to watch Game of Thrones and this is what happened &gt;&gt; The OatmealBy the time you read this, it's gone viral.iPhone 4 antennagate class-action lawsuit settled, owners to receive $15 or a free case (updated) &gt;&gt; Engadget25 million people in the US (but not elsewhere) could benefit:We spoke to an Apple representative who confirmed that the settlement is for those customers who chose not to take a free case or return their phone back in 2010. It looks like holding out didn't get you much more than the option to take $15 cash instead.(Thanks @FlashAhAh for the link.)March 2011: Apple's Safari browser gives search marketers headaches &gt;&gt; Mediapost.comApple's dominance on tablets and smartphones presents a threat to accurately measure and optimize the performance of paid-search marketing campaigns... While Mac users also rely on other browsers, Safari remains the dominant search browser used on the iPhone and the iPad, which results in higher rates of undercounted conversions on Apple devices. All browsers can present challenges for advertisers, but Apple's focus on consumer privacy limits the viability of third-party cookie-based tracking systems. Marin's research also suggests that the conversion tracking issue is a much bigger problem than previously thought. On average, advertisers using third-party cookie-based tracking systems are undercounting conversions by 38%, severely limiting visibility into campaign performance. The white paper, however, does provide somewhat of a workaround. [Safari's] blocking [of] third-party cookies can make iOS conversion rates appear lower than conversion rates on Windows, but the study found that the actual conversion rates for iOS, minus for the third-party cookie based undercounting, were on average 23% higher than on Windows.You can see that a company which relies on its advertisers being confident that their ads are working would want to get past that undercounting.Google bypassing IE9 user privacy settings &gt;&gt; IEBlogDean Hachamovitch:When the IE team heard that Google had bypassed user privacy settings on Safari, we asked ourselves a simple question: is Google circumventing the privacy preferences of Internet Explorer users too? We've discovered the answer is yes: Google is employing similar methods to get around the default privacy protections in IE and track IE users with cookies.Well, we only need to hear from Opera and Firefox now. Oh, and Chrome and the Android browser. Who looks after those two?Windows 8 Developers Preview, Windows 8 Snap, On low Resolutions &gt;&gt; YouTubeAfter theblogpost about how you need a tablet with at least 1366x768to get the Snap function on Windows 8, here's how to do it on lower resolutions:First make sure that you have a back up of your Windows 8 Registry file so that it will be useful in case you face some problems.Didn't read much further. Also, showing it off with a projector gives a false impression. You need to have your fingers on it to see what it's like. (Snap also looks a bit too... snappy?) (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Apple briefs bloggers, blanks New York Times &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKAlthough John Gruber says that the NYT's David Pogue was in line for a briefing when he was there. Still, the pecking order exists.Apple public relations' new media pecking order &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech CNNAnd ... wait for it ... where are Europe/UK news outlets? Oh.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Well, that's Monday done and dusted. How are you spending the day before the Vita launch? Reading my massive in-depth guide later on, I hope...
A man at the centre of allegations that computers were hacked for the News of the World has been convicted of conspiring to illegally access private information for profit.Until Monday legal restrictions meant that what is known about Philip Campbell Smith's alleged involvement in computer hacking could not be reported.Smith is alleged to have hacked the computer of a former British army intelligence officer in 2006 as part of a commission from the News of the World. In a tape recording, Smith says he was in contact with Andy Coulson, the former News of the World editor who went on to become David Cameron's director of communications. Smith also claimed Coulson was in his mobile phone directory.Smith is understood to be under investigation by a Scotland Yard inquiry, Operation Kalmyk, which is examining allegations that email hacking may have been used against several dozen targets.The allegations against Smith highlight growing concern over computer hacking. Met officers are known to have approached leading members of the Labour party as possible victims, including Gordon Brown, the former No 10 communications chief Alastair Campbell, the former Northern Ireland secretary Peter Hain, and Tom Watson, the backbench Labour MP who has been particularly vocal in the phone-hacking scandal. If any of the Labour figures were targets, it is not known who carried out the hacking and for whom.The computer that Smith is suspected of hacking belonged to the former British intelligence officer Ian Hurst.The computer hacking involving Smith is alleged to have been carried out in July 2006 by sending Hurst an email containing a trojan virus that copied Hurst's emails and relayed them back to the hacker. It is claimed this was commissioned by Alex Marunchak, who was a senior editor on the News of the World when it was edited by Coulson.The material accessed by the hacker included messages concerning at least two agents who had informed on the Provisional IRA: Freddie Scappaticci, codenamed Stakeknife, and a second informant known as Kevin Fulton. Both men were regarded as high-risk targets for assassination. Hurst was one of the few people who knew their whereabouts and the emails contained information capable of disclosing this.Hurst found out that Smith had hacked his computer and went on to tape him confessing to it. Sections of that confession were broadcast last year as part of a BBC Panorama programme. Hurst told the Leveson inquiry into press standards that he had been shown a seven-page fax by the BBC containing material from his computer.Hurst said the hacker worked for a private investigator, Jonathan Rees, who was in turn working for the News of the World. Rees ran a firm called Southern Investigations and last year was acquitted of murdering a former business partner, Daniel Morgan.Rees has worked as a private investigator for the Daily Mirror, the Sunday Mirror and the News of the World. He was jailed for trying to frame a woman, and on his release from prison in 2004 he resumed his work for the News of the World, then being edited by Coulson. The defunct Sunday tabloid paid Rees up to £150,000 for his services and a bug placed by police in his south London office recorded corrupt officers taking cash for information.An internal police report said Rees and his network were involved in the long-term penetration of police intelligence and that "their thirst for knowledge is driven by profit to be accrued from the media".Hurst told the Leveson inquiry of admissions that Smith (referred to as "X" due to the legal reporting restrictions) had made to him, which were covertly recorded: "He states for a three-month period, and all documents he could access via the back door trojan: our emails, the hard drive, social media, the whole range of – I mean, he didn't say this, but the trojan that we've identified would have allowed the cam, your web cam, so he could have actually seen me or my kids at the desk."Smith was arrested in 2009 and his computers seized, but Hurst was not told his computer had been hacked until October 2011.Panorama claimed that Marunchak had decided to target Hurst during the summer of 2006. It claimed he hired Rees to do the job, and Rees subcontracted it to Smith. Marunchak denies the allegations.MI5 became aware that Smith had targeted Hurst's email in an attempt to find the location of Scappaticci. They made no approach to Hurst, apparently on the grounds that he was preparing to write an unauthorised book about his experience in Northern Ireland and could not be trusted. They may have taken steps to alert Scappaticci. They then asked the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) to investigate.Hurst told the Guardian that police "missed a number of opportunities to investigate"."In 2007 they chose not to do anything about it," he said. "In 2009, after the arrest of Philip Campbell Smith, they came again into information that my computer had been hacked and chose again to do nothing. Even in 2011 they didn't seem that interested."Hurst said he had taped meetings and conversations with Smith, during which the private investigator had said he was in contact with Coulson. Hurst says he is prepared to provide his tape recordings of Smith making admissions about computer hacking and the alleged relationship with Coulson to Leveson.In one recording made by Hurst, Smith said: "I got introduction in [sic] Andy Coulson … on my phone, he's the first name that appears before yours. I ended up deleting it." Smith is also alleged to have hacked the email of a former police officer who was acting as a police informer known as Joe Poulton. This happened between September 2005 and January 2006. This informer had been providing information about Rees and his private detective company called Southern Investigations. The hacking exposed the informer and is alleged to have been ordered by Rees.At Leveson, Sue Akers, who is leading the Met investigations into hacking, confirmed details about Operation Kalmyk, a sub-inquiry of Tuleta.Kalmyk is investigating the allegations in the BBC Panorama programme."This relates to illegal accessing of computers belonging to others for financial gain and this is the one of them that has been a full investigation as a result of the scoping exercise that Tuleta has undertaken," Akers said.The NoW has admitted liability for hacking into the actor Sienna Miller's email in September 2008. At the high court in January counsel for News International, Michael Silverleaf QC, said the NoW had unlawfully accessed the emails of the son of the serial killer Harold Shipman and the freelance journalist Tom Rowland.Christopher Shipman has said he had been shown and provided with copies of emails dating from 2004 that had been intercepted by the private investigator Glenn Mulcaire, who was regularly commissioned by the newspaper. The News International chief executive, Tom Mockridge, has denied his company's newspapers were involved in any hacking of Hain's computers.In a separate case, Smith and three others – Adam Spears, Daniel Summers, and Graham Freeman – pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit fraud by illegally obtaining confidential information. The trials were held at Kingston crown court but their outcome could not be reported until Monday.That was to avoid prejudicing another case against Campbell Smith, which ended on Monday with him pleading guilty to possessing three rounds of ammunition.The trials did not involve allegations of hacking being carried out for media clients.The case about the obtaining of confidential information involved the tactic of blagging. The case was investigated by Soca and the activities took place between 16 January 2007 and 19 May 2009. Soca officially says the operation did not involve computer hacking. But a source with knowledge of the case said: "There could have been hacking. There is some suggestion they got mobile phone passwords and pins to hack voicemails and text messages." The source said computer hacking was also possible: "They might have trojaned."The men convicted are believed to have been able to get information from banks, Interpol, the Criminal Records Bureau and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA).Summers was the blagger, with work being subcontracted to him. Smith and Freeman were business partners in a private investigation firm, Brookmans International. Freeman, who lives in Spain, would email or phone Smith about the work and investigators believe Smith would then pass the work on to Summers.In an email to a client in March 2007 about why their charges of up to £5,000 may seem high, Freeman wrote that police and Interpol databases that may be accessed were "not open to the general public and are tightly regulated", meaning that "should we be apprehended a custodial sentence" may be handed out.In an email from Smith which was copied to Freeman, he discussed trying to get information from the DVLA: "My contact is trying to get this information without causing too many waves".Smith wrote that if his contacts suspected he may be uncovered he would "drop it like a hot potato" adding: "It is getting tougher to get this information … and ensure there are no footprints left behind".Spears is a former detective inspector with the Metropolitan police.
