Wikimania: spreading worldwide. Illustration: Bill ButcherThis week's edition of our technology supplement, Online, is out...We lead on theannouncements by Wikimediathat it's going to stick its fingers in a lot more pies.Elsewhere, we look at the upcoming launch ofmovie download services, examine the ever-improvingHomeChoiceservice, and discover how South Korea puts the claims of "Broadband Britain"to shame.That's not all, of course:click herefor the complete contents.
Katamari Damacywas the cult game that became *the* name to drop in intellectual gaming circles (i.e. your mates down the pub with theIcot-shirts) Not only was it something different - a "roll-em-up" that saw you moving an adhesive ball that expanded as you picked up more and more items - it was also never released in Europe. Inventive and original gameplay,bizarre charactersAND it was import only? No wonder the hardcore crowd took it to their hearts. The good news is that the sequel -We Love Katamari- is getting a European release. EA and Namco are co-publishing the PS2 game for release in early 2006. If you still need convincing, maybe Keita Takahashi, the game's director at Namco, can help:"I am so excited about this! Basically, this is a silly game that doesn't involve a whole lot of thinking, but if you will just laugh and sing along as you roll, roll and roll, I'm sure you will find it to be a lot of fun."Quite.
That sound you can't quite hear isn't us scraping the bottom of the reviews barrel, but the gaming drought at the moment is the worst in recent years. And there is little change this week.We've coveredMoto GP, oddball Euro adventure Martin Mysteré and, belatedly, Madagascar. The latter is perfectly acceptable for the kids, though it won't last for ever. SadlyMartin Mystere- what is it with the M's this week? - sounds like it does. The game includes, "truly cringe worthy dialogue", say reviewer Rhianna. Last up is Moto GP4, which looks to be the business, particularly if that business involves donning leathers and belting it a round a track on a motorbike.
Yahoo is close to buying a $1bn stake in China's second largest online retailer, Alibaba, part of an accelerating gold rush into the world's most populous nation.The internet portal is in talks to buy a 35% stake in the Chinese company, according to reports.The Silicon Valley firm is planning to swap its Chinese subsidiary, valued at around $1bn, for the stake in the combined operation.The rapid growth of China is turning heads in the west and nowhere more so than in the still-emerging internet sector.Baidu.com, the leading Chinese search engine, sparked a buying frenzy when it listed its shares in New York on Friday. The share price rose more than 350% in the first day of trading, recalling the speculative days of the first internet boom in the late 1990s.Yahoo was among the first online firms into China in 1999 and acquired a popular local search site called 3721.com two years ago for $120m.But local analysts say that the company has found it difficult to make inroads into the market.Alibaba runs websites that connect small and medium-sized businesses with wholesalers and manufacturers and helps them to trade goods.It also operates an auction site called TaoBao for consumers, which is a competitor to eBay in China.According to Shanghai iResearch, an internet market research firm, eBay has 65% of the online auction market and Alibaba has 30%.Last year Alibaba had revenues of $46m and employed 2,000 people.It is unclear whether Yahoo would be content with a 35% stake in the long term or whether it will attempt to assert full control of the Chinese firm.EBay recently announced plans to invest $100m in China this year to build up its presence in the country. EBay entered China through a $180m acquisition of EachNet, based in Shanghai.Other American internet firms have also bought their way into China. Amazon acquired local player Joyo for $75m and Barry Diller's InterActiveCorp bought a 42% stake in online travel firm eLong for $168m.
The wheel dealMoto GP4PlayStation 2, &pound;39.99Sony, ****Having grabbed the official Formula One licence for itself, Sony has turned its attention to the two-wheeled equivalent, Moto GP. If you fancy taking on Valentino Rossi, the Michael Schumacher of Moto GP (who, incidentally, is tipped to switch to four wheels and replace Schumacher in the Ferrari F1 team in the next few seasons), without risking death, Moto GP4 is pretty much your only credible recourse.In keeping with the sport itself, previous Moto GP games had a reputation for being fearsomely difficult to play, but Moto GP4 goes out of its way to scotch that perception. For the first time, it comes with a training mode, which is much shorter and more basic than that of Gran Turismo. The career mode includes the 125cc and 250cc formulae, as well as the full-on, ravening beasts that Rossi and his challengers drive, and you must work your way up from the 125cc bikes in much the same manner as in F1 2005. This is sensible, as the smaller bikes are much more manageable, and this format gives you a crucial chance to memorise the Moto GP circuits, which is important in order to keep up with the big boys.You can indulge in quick races and time trials, and even run through a whole season with a friend in split-screen mode. It is also possible to network two PlayStation 2s and play against seven other people. Technically, Moto GP4 is hugely impressive. The graphics are absolutely stunning, and the bike-handling very convincing. While it does not quite demand the sort of reverence accorded to Gran Turismo 4, Moto GP4 is the closest thing to a two-wheeled equivalent you will find.Steve BoxerEasy does itMadagascarPlayStation 2, Xbox, &pound;39.99Activision, ***If there was ever a three-star game - solid, competent, unlikely to disappoint - then Madagascar is it. It may be based on the film and be aimed at children, but Madagascar is a pleasing gaming pot pourri, with elements pilfered from superior games. The sheer variety of each of the 10 levels is key, with the developers clearly wary of their target audience's short attention span.However, while you'll be racing and collecting, the majority of the action is as you'd expect - a colourful platforming adventure. Taking control of one of the four characters - from Alec the lion (jump and roar) to Marty the zebra (kick and leap) - players need to make use of each animal's ability to progress.Unfortunately, most of the puzzles are simple, though the difficulty does leap with some of the mini-games. These regular challenges crop up throughout the game and do add variety as well as frustration.The graphics and sound are polished and the action is tough enough for the kids, but with sufficient in-game hand-holding to ensure progress. A by-product of this is a relatively short lifespan, especially if you are a parent buying this as a summer holiday sanity aid. Still, Madagascar is probably the best film tie-in this summer.Greg HowsonA cringe bingeMartin Myster&eacute;: Operation Dorian GrayPC, &pound;29.99Artematica Entertainment/GMX Media, **There is a real need for innovation in adventure games: a few more developers putting decent stuff out there would be a good start. Martin Myster&eacute;, which is based on an Italian comic-book character, could have helped pump a wee bit of life back into a flagging genre, but due to bad dialogue, clunky voice acting and incredibly poor localisation, it falls flat on its face.There's a definite drive to try and imitate the Broken Sword and Gabriel Knight games - a semi-sensible option since these represent the cream of the slightly more serious adventure titles. The graphics and interface are reminiscent of those games and it's easy to move around and interact with objects.However, it's a complete mystery as to why the game - and even the manual and game box -were allowed to ship riddled with spelling and grammar errors, as well as inaccurate labelling and some truly cringe-worthy dialogue. Such things are integral to creating a realistic and believable atmosphere. The faults don't stop Martin Myster&eacute; being playable, they just stop it being particularly enjoyable.Rhianna PratchettTop 5 gamesXbox1.Brian Lara International Cricket 20052.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3.Fantastic 44.Sid Meier's Pirates!5.Destroy All Humans!&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; Elspa UK Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A survey of 1,000 UK households has found that 11% of adults have already been a victim of fraud, but more than half of them (58%, in fact) said they didn't want to be educated about banking security or fraud protection. What's more, nearly two-thirds of people said they were unconcerned about online banking security.Now, it seems perfectly reasonable for people to think that if banks can't be bothered to implement proper security for their home banking services then, well, who cares? Those people, rightly, assume that if a hacker gets into their bank account and transfers the cash to Kazakhstan then Barclays will give them their money back. Hence they are happy to use a password, despite the fact that passwords are not a security mechanism: they are nothing more than placebos that invite crime.In the same survey, more than two-thirds of adults said they would not pay extra for improved security. The truth is, they already pay extra for rubbish security. When the banks lose a few million to phishing, card fraud or identity theft, where do these people think the money comes from? We all pay for it in increased bank charges, higher prices in the shops, policemen and courts.The real problem, however, isn't money. It's that banks have a rather special position in society. If consumers see that hackers can subvert electronic financial services, then their confidence is seriously undermined. And there's more than anecdotal evidence that this is happening. A Forrester Research survey last year found that a fifth of customers would not open any emails from their bank and that 14% of respondents had stopped using online banking and bill payment. Research group Gartner expects poor banking security to cut 1-2% from e-commerce growth in 2005. Not just e-banking growth, but overall growth.This is why it's important to attack the problem. Not because banks are losing money, but because if the problem is not fixed, then neither the banks nor anyone else can realise the benefits of e-business, e-health, e-government and e-everything else.The banks keep talking about moving to "two factor" authentication (so that, in practice, you would need a smart card or a mobile phone or some other piece of hardware to log on rather than just a password), but have yet to deploy it. This must be for economic reasons, since the technology is straightforward and is widely deployed worldwide. Rabobank in the Netherlands, Postgirot in Sweden, UBS in Switzerland and many other banks went down this route long ago.I think the solution is simple: to put pressure on the bankers, the government should announce that from January 1 2008, it won't be against the law to log in to someone else's bank account using a password, Pin, secret word or name of favourite cake. If they did that, I guarantee that your new bank card, with fingerprint as well as Pin authentication, would turn up in the post sharpish - along with a voucher to pick up a free USB card and fingerprint reader from Dixons or PC World.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
If you remember Seti@Home, the project that uses a humble screensaver to make use of spare processing power on thousands of PCs to search for extra-terrestrial life, you already know something about grid computing. The idea is to share computing capacity when demand dictates, and its proponents claim it has the potential to revolutionise computing.Because it covers a wide range of approaches, grid computing has also spawned its fair share of jargon: utility computing, autonomic, adaptive, IBM's "on demand" computing and even the clunky "inter-enterprise computing".Although it is starting to make an impact in finance and industries that require large number-crunching, grid computing is having the greatest impact in scientific research. In September last year, the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) Computing Grid was launched. It links 6,000 computers in 78 countries to share capacity for research in particle physics.So far so good. But firms promoting grid technology - such as HP, IBM, Oracle and Sun Microsystems - feel more could be done to make UK businesses aware of the potential benefits. The solution? An awareness programme called GridUK, funded by the Department of Trade and Industry's Science and Innovation Investment Framework.GridUK is one of what the DTI calls "knowledge transfer networks". It consists of a website supported by resources from Oracle, IBM, the British Chambers of Commerce, The IT Forum Foundation and business support specialist CNR. The aim is to help businesses learn more about the benefits of grid computing so they can plan for its use.Peter Condon, technology solutions director at Oracle, says: "This initiative makes it easier for companies to access information about grid computing. It is a sign that the government recognises the importance of the technology beyond academic research. I believe this approach to computing can lead to businesses needing to buy less hardware because they can access computing power from a third party."But for some who have been watching the development of grid computing, there are concerns about whether this is the right way forward. Mark Blowers, senior research analyst at Butler Group, says firms need to be aware of the difference between the potential for grid computing and what some leading vendors are offering. "Grid was seen as the answer to a lot of computing problems, but the major vendors are pushing an IT processing resource," he says. "That's good in theory, but in practice we will have to see what that really brings to business. Some of them talk about grid computing but it's just linking computing resources in a data centre."The response from major users is similarly cautious. In June, Deloitte asked its chief information officer panel what it thought of grid computing. Half of those surveyed said there were "several substantial barriers" to introduction. These included a shortage of relevant skills in the marketplace to manage grid software, the current level of customisation and the development and complexity it requires. Many also felt the technology was not yet mature and they could not see themselves establishing a business case for its use.The panel felt that, for the time being, there are better options: 70% favoured server consolidation, while 50% favoured outsourcing.As with many emerging technologies, there is also a lack of standards to help simplify interworking between vendors and firms."It's a niche market," says Guy Bunker, chief architect at security firm Symantec. "Before grid computing can become commonplace, a new generation of general applications needs to be developed that exploit a grid if it happens to find itself in one. There also needs to be a seed change in education so that developers learn about distributed application development and how to create applications for it."Others question the cost of an awareness programme. "Grid computing is not a bad idea, but throwing public money at it will be an expensive mistake," says Dr Simon Rawling, global head of project management consultancy PIPC. "Without a fundamental approach to the government's approach to project management, the complexity and challenges of the grid project will almost certainly prove too much."Dick Willis, project manager at GridUK, is upbeat. "Grid computing is revolutionary. In the Bristol area where I work, we are starting to see how an animation company that needs vast processing for short periods of time is working with HP to use grid computing to gain the processing power it needs when it needs it. That's just one example of how grid will impact smaller companies, and the aim of this programme is to help firms like that prepare so that when applications come on stream they are ready."But for many, grid computing is best seen as an example of the cyclical nature of the computing industry. "IT veterans will remember the days of time-sharing, which faded as the price of computing came down," says Paul Arthur, business development director at BMC Software. "Now we are looking at on-demand computing where resources are organised into pools that can be allocated as required. Like miniskirts, technology comes back into fashion if you hang on long enough."LinksDTI Grid Computing Nowwww.gridcomputingnow.orgWikipediahttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grid_computingGrid Computingwww.gridcomputing.comGrid Forumwww.gridforum.org
If the government admitted that 175,000 people were locked up for no reason, it would normally expect flak. Yet the Department of Health's estimate of the number of older people confined unnecessarily to care homes triggered little outrage when it came out last month.Perhaps we're hardened to statistics, even relieved that they're not bigger. More likely, hardly anyone noticed. The figure appears in a report on telecare that, like all such documents, is destined to languish in many electronic inboxes labelled "techie guff".That would be a pity. Telecare is an idea whose time has come - more so than some of the government's other IT-based brainwaves. As usual, the barriers are mainly institutional and cultural.Telecare means caring for a vulnerable person by wiring up their home to alert remote watchers to danger signs. The technology can range from simple personal alarms that can alert a call centre to "smart homes" wired up with motion and heat sensors, flood detectors and video cameras. A computer builds up a picture of the occupant's behaviour and alerts human carers if something out of the ordinary happens.Many trials have shown that telecare can help the elderly, the chronically ill or people recovering from surgery live a fuller and healthier life than they would in care homes or hospitals.An extensive trial in West Lothian has cut the average time people spend in care homes by more than half. The kit can help in unexpected ways. In one incident, an elderly woman was trapped in her garden shed when the wind slammed the door. She had no way to call for help. However, after 90 minutes the infra-red detector in her home alerted the contact centre to the lack of movement. The centre called a neighbour from a list of people to be contacted in case of emergency, who came to the rescue.West Lothian's experiences, described in a report by Socitm Insight, are a strong endorsement for telecare. However, it is always difficult to scale up local pilot applications into the mainstream. Pilots typically receive outside funding, which can help overcome institutional obstacles. Doing things on a national scale means tackling those obstacles. First is funding. One reason why telecare has been slow to get going is that local councils usually have to buy the kit. The government says its new "payment by results" regime will provide incentives. It is also providing councils with &pound;80m to get telecare going.Meanwhile, some of the technology needs tweaking. The West Lothian report mentions the need to make monitoring devices look less clinical and more like standard domestic electronics.There are also ethical questions, of privacy and patients' consent. Finally, professionals need to adjust to the new culture. At the moment they don't even speak the same language: in social care, someone receiving telecare is a client; in the NHS, they're a patient.Building telecare in England by the Department of Healthhttp://www.dh.gov.uk/PublicationsAndStatistics
Get on the ballEngland's cricketers will be hoping they can capitalise on the victory they squeaked over Australia in the second Ashes test - and fans across the internet are purring with satisfaction at Edgbaston's gripper of a match. Cricket is one of the few sports where the action is slow enough to be followed live on the web, and where the fans are eloquent enough to make useful commentary along the way. The Corridor of Uncertainty weblog is one of the best stops for the casual reader - though the author says he's "quite new" to cricket, any lack of longevity is inconsequential. Fans wanting a sharp dose of humour are, as always, directed to the Guardian website's (in)famous over-by-over commentaries.www.cricket.mailliw.comhttp://sport.guardian.co.uk/cricketA bit of needleWilliam Morris championed fusing politics and craftwork more than a century ago, but knitting for victory is back. American homebody Lisa Anne Auerbach is one of the webheads leading the fight with her site, Steal This Sweater. It's dedicated to political knitwear, and though her views are a little radical (especially on George Bush's adviser Karl Rove), she is far from alone: the Revolutionary Knitting Circle aims to fight for justice by putting "this struggle in the faces of the elites by engaging knit-ins at their places of power throughout the world". Those wanting a gentler option could take a sweep through Vogue Knitting, linked to the magazine of the same name and, they claim, "a trailblazer through the vast and exciting world of knitting for over 20 years".www.stealthissweater.comhttp://knitting.activist.cawww.vogueknitting.comOut of this worldThe recent travails of space shuttle Discovery have re-ignited public interest in a space programme that has been on the slide recently. Fortunately for enthusiasts, the web remains a fantastic resource for space-watchers. Nasa's website is a treasure trove of information for interested readers, including a stunning gallery of images taken from the recent journey into orbit. For those who are becoming interested in space flight for the first time, such as children, explainer website HowStuffWorks has a handy guide to the details of the shuttle's inner workings.www.nasa.govwww.nasa.gov/multimedia/imagegallery/index.htmlwww.howstuffworks.com/space-shuttle.htmThe inside scoopAs we reported in last week's Online, whistleblower Michael Lynn resigned from his job in order to speak about a dangerous vulnerability affecting Cisco routers. He has since come to a deal with the networking company, which means all public records of the speech have been retracted and he is no longer able to speak about the subject. It's an intriguing story that has more missing pieces than Michelangelo's David. Thankfully, Lynn's attorney, Jennifer Granick, has given a blow-by-blow account of what went on, from an insider's perspective.www.granick.com/blog/The wired RoverThe new Premiership season kicks off this weekend, with Jose Mourinho's Chelsea side leading the pack. The champions redesigned their website last season, and are now providing branded broadband services. Those who like a dash of true fantasy football may prefer to tune in to the official Roy of the Rovers website, which catalogues the legendary cartoon strip and the 38-year playing career of its star character. One can only speculate whether Mourinho would have considered a bid for the Melchester Rovers star.www.chelseafc.comwww.royoftherovers.comSix of the bestSummer festivalsBristol International Balloon Fiestawww.bristolfiesta.co.ukEdinburgh InteractiveEntertainment Festivalwww.eief.co.ukBrecon Jazz Festivalwww.breconjazz.co.ukFestival of Historywww.battlefieldstrust.com/eventsFestival of Flightwww.flightfestivals.co.ukLondon Mela 2005www.ealing.gov.uk/services/ealing+summer+2005/london+mela.asp&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Digital divideI read Ethiopia's digital dream (August 4) with great interest and fascination. I would like to congratulate Michael Cross for the article, and the Ethiopian prime minister Meles Zenawi and his government for the visionary leadership in promoting IT in Ethiopia.While the investment is to be applauded, I believe there are other much simpler policy decisions that the government could take to promote communication in Ethiopia. I was visiting my family last Christmas and I was not able to get any connections to a mobile network in Addis Ababa. Even by African standards, Ethiopia has one of the lowest access rates to telephones and the internet, but there is only one mobile network (a government monopoly) and it was not issuing new connections because it had run out of them. I normally phone my elderly mother once a week to check on her health: her landline has been out of order for more than a month and I have to phone my sister to get news. It is the same monopoly on mobile phone service providers that controls landlines and internet service delivery.The government's investment to extend IT to rural areas is excellent, as no private business would put such funding into areas where the investment may not attract adequate returns. But if the government had taken more of a policy-making, regulatory and quality control role in the provision of internet, mobile phone and landline service delivery, uptake of IT would have been much faster, more efficient and sustainable.Samson HailuActing upSo, a grandmother in the US supplied her 14-year-old grandson with a game that simulates popping people's heads with AK47s, burying people alive in concrete, acting as a pimp and generally being an evil gang-banging car-stealing psychopath (Storm in a Hot Coffee cup, August 4). God forbid, though, that he might install a modification to see a fully-clothed character simulating sex.This woman not only deserves to lose her case, but she should also be reprimanded for illegally supplying her child with unsuitable material.Craig NaplesHome frontI was disappointed to read Ian McRobert's letter dismissing the Home Computing Initiative (Feedback, August 4) and would encourage readers to find out more for themselves about the benefits of HCI schemes - enabled by a government tax exemption of &pound;500 per year.Computers delivered through employer HCI schemes include full warranty and technical support, optional installation, no initial deposit, no credit checking, the ability to pay in monthly payments through salary sacrifice, lower finance charges, savings on tax and a choice of latest products and software. Typical savings are between 30 and 50% on an equivalent high street package.More information can be found at the HCI Alliance's website,www.ukhomecomputing.co.uk.Vivien QuinnDirector, HCI AllianceWork it outIf the Home Computing Initiative is about giving government money to help workers buy computers, surely the digital divide would be better reduced by giving money to unemployed people to help them buy computers and training, rather than helping the already employed?Robin P ClarkeBirminghamPicture imperfectI have an intimate working knowledge of the NHS picture archiving and communication system (Pacs), and think your article, (The last picture show, July 28) does not represent the true position.Viewing x-ray images on ordinary PC screens may be perfectly adequate in a teaching environment, but it would be negligent of a clinician to make a diagnosis from anything but the best quality, high-resolution monitor. It would be easy to miss a small but important detail on a standard PC monitor.There is no doubt that digital radiology is quicker, but to suggest that an examination of the chest can be completed in 45 seconds shows no thought for the patient, and as a former senior radiographer with 25 years experience, I would want to distance myself from any such remark.John PayneCrossed wiresFurther to Empty claims (Feedback, August 4), there is another problem that BT won't talk about. Our local exchange is broadband-enabled and the service works on the south side of the village. Unfortunately, the north side is fed from a different junction box and broadband doesn't work there. The reason, as a very helpful BT engineer explained, is aluminium cables between the junction box and customers' properties.John WalkerStamfordFully bookedWhen are we going to get electronic paper and books in this country? I would very much appreciate having a book where I could adjust the typeface to a size I find comfortable: reading on screen is highly unsatisfactory and not easily portable, even with a laptop.Jeremy Stein
It is not often that computer users cheer a victory for Microsoft, the monolithic software firm whose uncompromising success has made founder Bill Gates the world's richest man.But many will have shared his satisfaction yesterday after the computer giant claimed a victory in the fight against unsolicited emails when a man dubbed the "Spam King" agreed to pay the company $7m (&pound;3.9m).Scott Richter and his Colorado-based company OptInRealBig.com are alleged to have been one of the world's biggest spammers, sending a staggering 38 billion messages a year to the email inboxes of unwitting recipients, pushing everything from mortgages to pornography websites. Microsoft and the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, sued Mr Richter for $18m in 2003, accusing him of violating state and federal laws, after "spam traps" set by the software company netted some 8,000 messages containing 40,000 fraudulent statements.As part of the settlement of the latest action, Mr Richter denied the allegations but agreed to comply with federal and state laws. He also pledged not to send spam to anyone who has not confirmed a willingness to receive it, and agreed to let authorities monitor his business for three years. Microsoft is donating $1m of the settlement to a New York programme to provide computer equipment to community centres, and will spend $5m more on anti-spam efforts."People engage in spam to make money," Brad Smith, Microsoft's chief counsel, told the Associated Press. "We have now proven that we can take one of the most profitable spammers in the world and separate him from his money. And I think that sends a powerful message to other people who might be tempted to engage in illegal spam."The messages sent by Mr Richter's company will be familiar to anybody who has ever had an email address.According to the Microsoft lawsuit the subject lines included: "fwd: we have to talk", "make sure you do this" and "re: your home loan". They also contained forged sender names, inaccurate and misrepresented sender addresses and hijacked computers in 35 countries to send spam.The action against the Spam King (a title he gave himself two years ago and has been trying to live down ever since) illustrates how far the biggest internet and software providers are willing to go to combat spammers. Microsoft has filed more than 135 anti-spam lawsuits worldwide in recent years, about 100 of them in the US, and the company claims to have won $838m in judgments against the underground industry.But despite legislation aimed at undermining spammers, the US remains the world's worst culprit for unsolicited email, which at least one study says accounts for as much as 72% of all email traffic in America. It outstrips the likes of China, South Korea and Russia - all notorious havens for illegal internet activity - and the anti-spam campaigner Spamhaus says that seven of the world's top 10 offenders are based in the US.The US courts have been trying to crack down on spammers, with mixed success. One of the most high-profile victories to date came last year, when two prolific American fraudsters were caught and tried. Jeremy Jaynes and his sister, Jessica DeGroot, were caught running a fraudulent spam scam that tricked thousands out of their money, and Jaynes was eventually jailed for nine years.For some the danger of being prosecuted for sending unsolicited email is outweighed by the potential rewards - the largest spammers charge clients up to $50,000 a month to email advertisementsSpammers either find addresses through a process of trial and error, or by purchasing lists that have been harvested from around the internet. They will often use viruses to turn unprotected computers around the world into their drones, allowing them to use these "zombies" to send millions of spam emails every second.They then reap the profits in a number of ways, including fraud, demands for cash, sale of overpriced products or trying to gain access to bank details. And since email technology means the cost of sending millions of messages is almost zero, they are able to make large amounts of profit. Some experts say Mr Richter is likely to see a $7m settlement as something of an escape."I'm not so sure that a $7m victory for Microsoft even registers on the anti-spam Richter scale, or that this win means noticeably less spam for consumers," said Gregg Mastoras, senior analyst with the network security firm Sophos."One spammer says he'll no longer be sending spam; meanwhile, there are plenty of other criminals and opportunists waiting to take his place."One of the ways the authorities and computer giants are trying to crack down on spammers is to seize some of their possessions, a fate now faced by those caught drug running and dealing.AOL, the world's largest internet service provider, was yesterday due launch a competition on its website to give away $20,000 in gold bars, a 2003 Hummer H2 and $75,000 in cash it seized from a spammer as part of a legal settlement last year. "We think it's justice," Curtis Lu, the AOL deputy general counsel, told USA Today. "We're taking the ill-gotten bounty these spammers have earned off the backs of our customers and handing it back to customers."
One of the great benefits of the internet is that it costs you nothing to send someone an email. One of the great drawbacks is that it costs nothing to send a million emails, or a billion, or a hundred billion. Spam is the inevitable result.This is a problem without a simple solution. Companies have been suing spammers in North America since at least 1997, and Earthlink, an American internet service provider, won a $2m judgment against Cyber Promotions in the spring of 1998.Since then, spam has grown from trivial levels to the point where it makes up the vast majority of all emails.More must be done, but what?Change the laws: Spam is a global problem and we need all countries to enact laws that ban the sending of unsolicited commercial emails. Italy provides a good example.Enforce the rules: Spammers have been sued by US states such as New York, Washington and Massachusetts, by the US federal trade commission, the securities and exchange commission, by email suppliers such as AOL and Microsoft, by product suppliers such as Symantec and Pfizer, and even by individuals. However, most governments, companies and organisations are doing nothing.Change the system: Email was developed as a network mostly for users at US universities, research establishments and parts of the military complex, and not to provide open access to spammers and other crooks. Companies such as AOL, Cisco, Microsoft and Yahoo! are adding features to make it harder to forge emails, but others must join them.Secure your PC: Most spam is sent from Windows PCs that have been compromised, probably by viruses and trojan programs that allow hackers to control them remotely. Install firewalls, keep security fixes up to date, run regular virus checks and generally be more aware of what PCs are up to.Don't buy from spammers: Spam would disappear if nobody responded to it.
PDA revivalElectronic organiser sales soared by 32% to 3.6m units in this year's second quarter, compared with the same quarter last year, according to Gartner. The research company thinks sales could reach 15m units this year, overtaking the 3.2m sold in the last boom year, 2001. Microsoft's Windows CE (PocketPC) operating system led the way with 1.65m sales (45.7% market share), ahead of RIM's BlackBerry (23.2%). Both grew by about 64%. However, sales of Palm OS-based devices slumped by 40.9% to 678,570 units as the company switched focus to the Treo line of smartphones, which are not in PDA sales figures. Gartner puts the reversal in the PDA's fortunes down to lower prices and the arrival of models with built-in Wi-Fi networking.http://www.gartner.comCombating hatredA South Yorkshire local education authority is declaring war on religious persecution, race hate and other forms of bullying. From September, a pilot scheme will be run in the Knowlsey and Rotherham metropolitan borough areas using Vantage Technologies' Sentinel for Bullying software. It will enable teachers to report incidents and create a knowledge base to improve efforts to combat hate crimes. The scheme covers 16 secondary and four primary schools, and will run until July next year. If the trial is successful, the service will be made available to all schools in the area and possibly the wider community.http://www.vantage-technologies.co.ukDrive destructorsDell has launched a new service, Keep Your Hard Drive, for corporate customers. The basic idea is that when Dell fits a replacement drive, you can pay an extra fee to keep the old one, and destroy it. This way, you can be sure that no confidential data can be taken from it. There is no suggestion that Dell was selling the old drives on eBay, where hackers can buy them for parts plus other more sensitive material.www.dell.co.uk/servicesGrid in a boxIBM is urging larger companies to adopt its Grid architecture by offering a "starter pack" of software, hardware and services. Grid and Grow is designed to help implementers come to terms with the loose clustering of grid server networks. The pack is based on IBM's 14-blade eServer BladeCenter and offers the options of using Intel, IBM Power or AMD processors running various versions of Linux under IBM Director management software. The basic configuration starts with seven Intel blades. Additional software can be supplied according to which industry sector the customer is from, and the actual workload planned for the grid.http://www-1.ibm.com/grid/Information centreThe work of the Government Chief Information Officer (CIO) council is being highlighted by a dedicated website. The council was formed in January as a forum bringing together the 28 senior IT directors in the public sector to address common issues and improve services. Ian Watmore, the government's CIO, says that the large public sector systems are unique projects that require a well-coordinated approach if "joined-up" government systems are going to be deployed successfully. The website breaks down the various operational areas of the CIO Council.www.cio.gov.ukFree searchIBM is giving away its unstructured data search engine to software developers to help popularise the technology and improve its capabilities. The Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA) provides access to any company data to discover common terminology and relationships. This will enable companies to comply with governance legislation by allowing text, audio and images to be discovered. IBM has signed up 15 companies, including Cognos, SAS and Factiva, which is a Dow Jones and Reuters joint venture. The technology is available for download from IBM and will be available from the SourceForge site by the end of the year. IBM offers UIMA as WebSphere OmniFind.http://www.alphaworks.ibm.com/tech/uima/Organised crimeSunbelt Software, an anti-spyware tools vendor, is warning of a massive ID theft scam that has been discovered by accident. Patrick Jordan, a researcher who reports to Sunbelt, was researching a spyware toolset called CoolWebSearch (CWS). He became aware of a spam zombie on one of his computers and traced it back to an ID theft ring. Jordan also managed to download a large file containing information that would allow anyone to access numerous personal bank accounts or assume the identity of the people concerned. The FBI is investigating the claim.http://sunbeltblog.blogspot.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
BroadbandFaster and fasterCable firm NTL has announced a fresh push towards faster broadband, with the aim of making 10 megabit connections its new standard. The company's new strategy was announced amid great fanfare, and was hailed by the firm's director of internet, Bill Goodland, as "a major step towards delivering Britain's digital future". By the end of next year, the company hopes to have upgraded all of its top-tier customers - currently on 3Mbps connections - to the faster speeds at no extra cost, and is aiming even higher by using new technologies. However, NTL is far from the only company looking at much higher speeds - some, including Be internet, have said they will soon be ready to roll out 24Mbps services.www.ntl.comMusicCheap and cheerfulVirgin has become the latest company to announce a music download service for the UK. Set to go live on September 2, Virgin Digital kicks off with more than a million tracks, which are available in the secure Windows Media Audio (WMA) format. In addition to the download services, the site will also offer track sampling, internet radio (more than 60 themed Virgin stations) and rip and burn software. Virgin hasn't yet revealed the price of the service, but its US equivalent offers music at less than a dollar per track. Virgin also isn't saying whether users will be offered an unlimited streaming/download option - another feature of the US service.www.virgindigital.comSlave to progressPhilips' innovative WACS700 Wireless Music Centre finally arrives in the UK this week. The system comprises a main server unit, which features a 40GB hard drive, CD player, amplifier and speakers, and a slave unit that has just the speakers and an amplifier. The slave unit is designed to be placed in another room, with the main unit streaming MP3 or WMA tracks wirelessly to it. Users can have up to six slave devices tethered to one main unit. MP3 or WMA tracks can be transferred to the hard disk from a PC or created using the main unit's CD and integrated ripping software. A basic system, consisting of one main unit and a slave unit, costs &pound;600, with individual slave units costing &pound;200 each.www.philips.co.ukTelevisionMini mediaThe world's smallest portable media player has just gone on sale in the UK. The 32 x 55mm MPIO One features a one inch 65k colour LCD screen and compatibility with a range of video formats including MPeg4, DivX, AVI, and Windows Media Video. The device will also display JPeg images and play back MP3, WMAs and Ogg audio files. It can be charged either via its own optional lead or through a USB connection. Battery life is rated at about 15 hours. The MPIO One is available now, retailing for &pound;119, &pound;139 and &pound;179 for 256MB, 512MB and 1GB respectively.www.mp3-plus.netSony goes flat-outSony is gearing up for the launch of high-definition television (HDTV) next year with the autumn release of a range of HDTV-ready flat-screen sets. Its top-end W series features a 40in LCD (KDL-W40A12U &pound;3,800) and a 50in plasma (KDE-W50A12U &pound;5,800), both of which have an integrated Freeview decoder and a 100 Watt stereo amplifier as well as HDTV facilities. The sets also feature image processing, which Sony claims delivers an HD picture from a standard definition (DVD/digital TV) source. Sony also has new HDTV sets in its lower-end S and V ranges of flat-screen models.www.sony.co.ukGnomes for homesSky, the satellite broadcaster, last week unveiled two new products aimed at further cementing its position as one of Britain's most high-tech TV companies. A new set-top box, which will help bring the firm's much-followed high definition TV service into homes later this year, was revealed alongside a new audio add-on. The wireless Sky Gnome will be available in October and can be powered by mains or batteries. It is a small radio-like gizmo that lets subscribers stream digital radio (or the soundtrack to TV channels) elsewhere in their homes without needing an extra set-top box. Unfortunately, the Gnome doesn't have a tuner of its own, and although Sky says that it will not incur any extra subscription charges, the one-off price has not yet been confirmed.www.sky.comStat of the week - partners onlineOnline dating has often been viewed with suspicion but that is changing as internet usage hits an all-time high. Using the web to find a partner is now above board: research shows that a third of those actively seeking dates are now going online to do so.
Is technology jargon a rich comedic vein for your Martin Lukes column?It's very rich because the point about jargon is that the person you're talking to doesn't understand what you're on about. That's truer in technology than any other field. The problem though, if you're trying to make it into amusing fiction, is that the stuff is so impenetrable that it's not funny. You can do a line or two that's hysterical, but if you do too much then people just blank it out.Does email have a dangerously long memory?Not only does it have a long memory, it's just dangerous full stop. If I think of the number of emails I've sent, probably that I send every day, that are slightly inappropriate - either chatty emails to my mum that I shouldn't be doing in office time or that have got some sort of sarcastic remark about someone. That's even without doing anything that's really illegal or career threatening.Are people reluctant to send you emails in case they find their way into the column?I think some are, although the people who write the peachiest, most cringe-making emails are also the people with no self-knowledge. It wouldn't occur to them that there was anything wrong with their email at all so there's still quite a healthy supply.Any chance of an ebook version of your book?Although it's about emails it's still quite a fogeyish book really - it's really about people and it's just nice to read as a book. I don't think ebooks have actually been that successful on the whole. People still like the tactile nature of printed books. We might start a Martin Lukes' blog on FT.com for some more interactive stuff.Are blogs changing the way journalism works?I think they are and we're really complacent if we ignore that. You especially notice around elections and suchlike that the people with the really successful blogs are getting miles more readers than conventional columnists and newspapers.Are you au fait with all the text abbreviations?I'd certainly die rather than use them myself as I think they're incredibly naff. I do take an interest in them though as they're the kind of thing that Martin Lukes adores.Do you actually use a BlackBerry?I' was writing the Martin Lukes column long before BlackBerrys came out; someone said to me when they first appeared that it was a gadget that Martin would definitely have. I started writing it into the stories with no knowledge of how it worked and no doubt getting it all horribly wrong, but now the nice BlackBerry people (www.blackberry.com) are apparently so delighted by the book that they've rather sweetly sent me one. Alas, I still have no idea how to use it.So the next book will be Who Moved My Ferrari?Definitely.Visit:http://news.ft.com/comment/columnists/martinlukesLucy Kellaway's book, Martin Lukes: Who Moved My BlackBerry? is on sale nowwww.ebay.co.ukwww.ocado.comwww.hotmail.comhttp://news.ft.com/home/ukwww.google.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The peace talks are over - a war seems inevitable between the two formats competing to replace DVD to become the high definition (HDTV) pre-recorded/recordable disc standard.Discs and hardware for HD DVD (a format invented by Toshiba) and Blu-ray (which has the backing of Sony and other hardware manufacturers) are expected in US stores by the end of the year, with both camps promising European launches late next year.Yet backers of both formats are already warning that a skirmish could have a serious impact on sales."We are confident that there is huge demand for Blu-ray," argues Ben Feingold, president of Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. "However, if there are two formats rather than one, hardware sales could be down by as much as 60% and that will impact on software sales, too."David Steel, vice-president of marketing for Samsung Electronics, a company that has strong ties with Toshiba and yet is a member of the Blu-ray group, also laments the failure to agree on a unified format. "If the standards don't come together, both will suffer," he says. "Inevitably, costs to both consumers and manufacturers will be higher."Analysts at Gartner recently told VNUnet.com that a format war could take two years to resolve. Yet, with the two groups sniping at each other again this week over capacity and security, a deal seems a world away.So is it likely to be a VHS v Betamax-style fight, with one format emerging victorious? Steel thinks it will be more like the DVD recorder skirmish, where three formats battled it out, none performing as well as the industry had hoped, and none emerging victorious.The Blu-ray camp has a trump card, however - Sony has already pledged that a player will be part of the PlayStation 3 package when it launches in spring next year. (Although it should be added that Microsoft is rumoured to be considering an HD DVD as part of its Xbox 360 package, too.)While PlayStation support will ensure several million consumers have Blu-ray machines in their home, however, it doesn't mean they will invest in pre-recorded discs. Especially if a large percentage of PlayStation machines end up in second rooms attached to standard, rather than high definition, TVs.Almost everyone in the industry believes that in spite of the growth of hard disk technology, a disk-based storage system for HDTV footage is a must. Yet it appears that take-up of that system could be much slower than hoped.The real winners of the HDTV disc format war could well be online services offering HDTV and video-on-demand, and manufacturers of hard disk recorders.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In less than five years, what started out as a small side project with a budget of a few thousand pounds has grown into one of the web's greatest success stories. Wikipedia, the open, editable encyclopedia, and its sister projects have gone from absolutely nothing to 22m entries in less than half a decade. In doing so, Wikipedia - the centrepiece of the Wikimedia empire - has become the most detailed encyclopedia in history. And its breathtaking pace has yet to show any sign of slowing.As an online knowledge database, Wikipedia (http://en.wikipedia.org) has one significant advantage over its expert, professional predecessors: anyone is free to edit it. Equally, anybody is free to delete entries or add new ones. The system works by using editable web pages known as wikis (hence the name), which let ordinary users make changes as they see fit. And, in handing this power to the people, Wikipedia has become more than just a hobby - for some it is almost a religion.Last Friday, the movement held its first ever international conference, Wikimania, in a youth hostel in Frankfurt, with 400 delegates who'd flown in from all over the world.The Wikimedia Foundation is to knowledge what the Open University is to academia, except it operates on an annual budget of $800,000 (&pound;450,000) and - perhaps most surprisingly - with a staff of just one person. It is written and administered by a legion of volunteers who work for free. Tens of thousands of devotees, self-confessed wikimaniacs, squirrel away at the world's information, trying to cover "the sum of all human knowledge" in every language spoken by humans - and a few, such as Sanskrit and Old English, that are long dead.As well as the encyclopedia, the foundation also offers a dictionary, a taxonomy of the species and a nascent news service. All operate under the same ideals of openness and public cooperation without the need of financial incentive.At Wikimania, Jimmy Wales, the movement's founder, identified the next pieces of the jigsaw likely to fall into place. In his keynote address, Wales named a list of things "that should be free". While not quite commandments, they amount to 10 ideas about how the "Free Culture Movement", as he termed it, could extend the wiki ethic beyond the pages of its ever-growing encyclopedia.Among the projects under discussion are an online atlas charted by members of the public; a repository of classical music to be performed by student orchestras; a file format to rival the mighty MP3; an online curriculum stretching from kindergarten to university; and an archive of images of paintings by the old masters. In short, Wikipedia is to spread its wings over many more forms of culture.What's more, there are already 10,000 book "modules" being collaboratively written within the pages of Wikipedia. Soon, they will be published under the foundation's banner thanks to a deal with an "on demand" publisher. It could, says Wales, signal a whole new kind of book publishing.He also urged his hardcore following - the various volunteer "chapter heads" who administer the wiki projects and police the site for copyright violations and mindless vandalism - to go forth and multiply. This is important to Wales because while Wikipedia is becoming a wider movement theoretically open to anyone, only an elite of users actually bother.According to the movement's own statistics, there are 3,800 hardcore users making more than 100 edits a month, and another 18,000 who make at least five. Then there is a long tail of casual users who use Wikipedia as just another authoritative source - as they might have once used Britannica or Microsoft's Encarta, making the odd edit only if the urge takes them.As the movement gets bigger, its organisation becomes more difficult. Already there are Wikimedia "chapters" in Germany and France, who help organise fundraising and hand out administration tasks. A UK chapter (http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wikimedia_UK) is also beginning to form, with a small group of wikipedians meeting in central London every couple of months.One of its regulars, Dave Gerard, a part-time volunteer editor and full-time computer system administrator, freely admits he is "addicted" to Wikimedia and spends several hours every day on work related to the site. Like most editors, his primary motivation is to do "some public good". "I've been filling my head with information for decades," he says. "This is a chance to get it all back out again."He is not alone. Ever since the library of Alexandria was built, the dream of amassing vast quantities of information has inspired the world. "What we're doing," says Wales, is building "a world in which every person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge."Just as astonishingly, he thinks it will take just a decade to achieve this ambition. According to Wales, there are more than 22m Wikimedia entries extending across 200 languages. The aim is to provide for "every language in the world spoken by at least one million people" by 2015. If this sounds like chaos, think again: it's more akin to the ideas that fired the imaginations of 19th century political radicals such as Matthew Arnold and Mikael Bakunin. It is anarchy representing a self-regulating cooperative of free thinkers acting voluntarily for a greater common good - and it works in practice, too.There is a rumour, started by a factual error in Time Magazine, that the Wikipedia entries for US presidential candidates George Bush and John Kerry were "frozen" during last year's election campaign, so fierce was invective-laden spam being slapped around by both sides. In fact, the page was closed "less than 2% of the time," according to Wales. Even in the heat of battle, Wikipedia can be relied upon as an impartial and trustworthy source.It should stay that way. Wikipedia will, says Wales, never carry a commercial advertisement, nor rely on government funding. The Wikimedia Foundation is paid for by contributions from charitable foundations and its reading public. Help comes from all quarters: Yahoo recently donated its old servers (banks of which reside in clusters in Paris, Amsterdam and Florida) and the Foundation holds bandwidth-buying fundraising drives. In February, wikimaniacs were so keen to stump up the cash that they overshot their target of $75,000 (&pound;42,000) in just a few days. The organisation's entire budget is also online. In more ways than one, Wikimedia is an open book.Which is why it is easy to discover that there are 600,000 articles in the English language volume alone - not counting another 70,000 entries on its sister Wiktionary. More than 1,250 new articles - over 500 an hour - are added every day, and entries are becoming ever more detailed. The average number of edits - the inevitable revisions and corrections - in the English encyclopedia is now more than 10, with the entries increasing in quality as the project matures. That it achieves all this on it's small annual budget is astounding. The fact that it only employs one person is doubly so.Wales started Wikipedia in January 2001, as an offshoot to a failed commercial encyclopedia, Nupedia. He made his first fortune from his days treading the Chicago trading floors in futures and options, and made another with a dotcom that peddled content - including soft porn -in the late 90s. He now describes himself as "independently wealthy".Given that background, it's unsurprising that very little content gets censored. And the site takes a provocative stance on the copyright of old paintings, allowing images to be posted freely on the site. "I've told the National Portrait Gallery I'll see them in court," says Wales.It has so far avoided any serious trouble, though Wikipedia has twice been blocked from China - "We don't know if this was just a mistake" - and once from Saudi Arabia, but only for a few hours in each instance. In February 2002, most participants of the Spanish Wikipedia broke away to establish the rival Enciclopedia Libre, but there is now talk of welcoming them back.It could be said that the mark of a good technology is when Microsoft starts "borrowing" your ideas. Microsoft's Encarta announced in April that it was adopting wiki-style open editing for its for-profit encyclopedia. Others, such as the Free Encyclopedia, have copied the ideas pretty much wholesale.So can the other encyclopedias hope to match Wikipedia's pace? Maybe not, because Wikipedia has become something else."Books like the Encyclopedia Britannica are nothing else than simple knowledge compendiums without any political soul," says Jean-Baptiste Soufron, a legal adviser to the Wikimedia Foundation. "I am convinced that Wikipedia is the only real encyclopedia of our days because it's the only one that relies on a real political goal: to pursue freedom over content and information."LinksWiktionarywww.wiktionary.orgJimmy's bloghttp://blog.jimmywales.comWiki Statisticshttp://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Statistics_overview&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Sir Tim was interviewed on Newsnight on Tuesday night, and Mark Lawson asked him some silly questions. There's a transcripthere.Next week, Lawson will be asking Caxton and Fox-Talbot if they feel bad about Playboy and Hustler....
"A near three-year-long attempt by Apple Computer to patent the menu-based software interface of its popular iPod digital music player has ultimately proved unsuccessful,AppleInsiderhas discovered. The company's patent application, which lists Apple vice president Jeff Robbin and Apple chief executive Steve Jobs as two of its primary inventors, received a final rejection last month from the United States Patent and Trademark Office."Standing in Apple's way appears to be a prior filing by inventor John Platt, who submitted a patent application for a similar software design for a portable device in May of 2002 -- just five months before Robbin submitted his claims on behalf of Apple."Comment:as the article notes, Jeff Robbin used to work for Casady &amp; Greene, which developed the SoundJam MP3 player software that Apple bought and "re-branded as iTunes after hiring Robbin".Update:It turns out that Platt is a Microsoft reserarcher, and that he filed his patent application after the iPod was released, theSeattle Post-Intelligencerreports.
CNet is celebrating its 10th anniversary, and one of its features is a list of theTop 10 dot-com flops. WebVan heads the list, while poor old Boo.com only manages sixth...
Microsoft won a $7m (&#163;3.9m) settlement yesterday from Scott Richter, a man once described as one of the world's most prolific spammers.The software giant heralded the deal as a coup in the ongoing fight against unsolicited commercial emails.Microsoft said the money from Mr Richter and his company, OptInRealBig.com, will be used to augment efforts to combat spam and other computer misuse.The chief lawyer in the case for Microsoft, Brad Smith, said yesterday: "People engage in spam to make money. We have now proven that we can take one of the most profitable spammers in the world and separate him from his money."And I think that sends a powerful message to other people who might be tempted to engage in illegal spam."The deal is the second stemming from joint lawsuits filed by Microsoft and New York state's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, in December 2003 after Microsoft set "spam traps" that netted some 8,000 messages containing 40,000 fraudulent statements.The lawsuits sought up to $20m in fines against members of a sprawling spam ring.In the settlement announced yesterday, Mr Richter and his company agreed to comply with federal and state laws, including Can-spam, the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act.He pledged not to send spam to anyone who had not confirmed a willingness to receive it.Mr Richter also agreed to let authorities monitor the business for three years to ensure it did not send any illegal spam.In a statement released by Microsoft, Mr Richter said he has changed the way he did business."In response to Microsoft's and the New York attorney general's lawsuits, we made significant changes to OptInRealBig.com's emailing practices and have paid a heavy price."I am committed to sending email only to those who have requested it and to complying fully with all federal and state anti-spam laws."Mr Richter was once ranked as the world's third-most prolific spammer. 
Microsoft said his business sent an estimated 38 billion spam messages per year.Mr Spitzer has said he believed Mr Richter was clearing millions of dollars in monthly profits from spam.In a separate settlement announced last month, Mr Richter and OptInRealBig.com agreed to pay New York State $50,000 in penalties and investigative costs, and to use proper identifying information when registering internet domain names.Last month, Mr Richter was removed from the Register of Known Spam Operators maintained by the Spamhaus Project, an anti-spam group.
 
Stephen Kline, Mr Spitzer's assistant attorney general who handled the case, hailed the settlements as "a step in the right direction"."Will there be others who step in and take some of the business he was doing? Sure," Mr Kline said. "But no one is stepping in that had quite the volume he did."Yesterday's settlement is conditional on the dismissal of bankruptcy petitions Mr Richter and OptInRealBig.com have pending in the US bankruptcy court in Denver.Mr Richter and his company filed motions yesterday asking a judge to dismiss 
those petitions.Microsoft has filed more than 135 anti-spam lawsuits worldwide in recent years, about 100 of them in the United States. All told, the company said it had won $838 million in judgments against spammers.
An online campaign started in "sheer desperation" is calling for potential students to use their power as consumers and boycott top universities, in the hope this will force the government to scrap tuition fees.Faced with the introduction of top-up fees in 2006, the group behind the websitewww.stuffyourloans.co.uksuggests that potential students should think twice before applying to university.From next year, students will see the reintroduction of maintenance grants and bursaries, under a new system which the campaigners say should be fully reversed."Some of those who voted for the abolition of grants and the introduction of tuition fees and then top-up fees went to university. Those politicians got grants and didn't have to pay any fees. It is the ultimate hypocrisy," a statement on the website reads.According to the website, a dramatic drop in university applications is the only thing that will make the authorities take note. Stuffyourloans suggests that if students choose to go to university, they apply to one in Scotland or Wales, and ask that people not apply to universities which belong to the Russell group, the top research-led institutions."We would ask that all applicants do not apply to any of the Russell group of universities that is actively lobbying for higher tuition fees. As people do not go there they will lose money. As they lose money they will learn their lesson. Basically you are using your power as a consumer."Michael Sterling, the vice-chancellor of Birmingham University and the chairman of the Russell group, has defended the right to raise fees, claiming: "A degree from a Russell group university adds considerably to a graduate's lifetime earning potential".Barry Taylor, the communications and marketing director at Bristol University, a member of the Russell group, said: "Almost everyone realises that the &#163;3,000 fee will ease - rather than solve - universities' difficulties; talk of boycotts will help no one".The site is branded with the words "We won't pay your loans back" and encourages students to refuse to pay back their loans, in a "concerted campaign of non-payment".However, Sushant Varma, the website's press officer, has conceded that it is "logistically impossible to refuse to repay your loan, because loans repayments are taken directly out of your salary."The Student Loans Company has pointed out that anyone defaulting on loans payments will face a legal sanction, something that Dr Varma says is possible. "In theory you could face a legal sanction if you could find some way of non-repayment".The site has been branded as "irresponsible" by the higher education minister, Bill Rammell, and has also been condemned by the National Union of Students (NUS).Julian Nicholds, the NUS vice-president of education, said: "NUS believes in the principle of free education and is vehemently opposed to tuition and top-up fees. Despite this, we believe education is of immense value to the individual, that higher education exposes students to a wealth of educational, social and cultural experience, and that therefore students should not be put off university by fees."Suggesting that individuals shouldn't enter higher education is not an effective way of campaigning against fees and will simply serve to jeopardise the opportunity of many students to benefit from studying. In addition, NUS would not condone behaviour that encourages graduates to refrain from repaying their loans".
As the BBC news sitereportstoday, anti-bullying campaigners are already condemning Rockstar's school-based adventure, Bully - despite the fact that it isn't out yet, and few story or gameplay details have been revealed."Bullying is not a suitable theme for a game. It diminishes the suffering of victims," said someone fromBullying Online, perhaps entirely unaware that their concerns were merely contributing to the game's pre-release hype lode."Rockstar was not available for comment," said the reporter - clearly not experienced in dealing with Rockstar scandals. Only an amateur would waste the five minutes it takes to get a 'no comment' comment from the controversy-baiting funsters.
Newshit the game waves yesterday as a joint venture between Electronic Arts (sometimes Satan, sometimes the Chosen One) and NESTA'sFuturelabwas announced, kicking off a study that aims to put games in European classrooms. From the release:The study will look at what children can learn from computer games, how best to introduce games into the classroom and what changes might be required to make them relevant to the educational environment.We'll have to wait until August 2006 to find out children's and educators' attitudes towards games in the classroom among other titbits of knowledge, but hurrah to the UK for funding such an adventure in this odd climate of anti-games nonsense.
Yes, in a Watergate-styleexpose, the New York Times has uncovered evidence that Electronic Arts is releasing a lot of sequels this year. As the reporter points out:"By year's end, Electronic Arts plans to release 26 new games, all but one of them a sequel, including the 16th version of N.H.L. Hockey, the 11th of the racing game Need for Speed and the 13th of the P.G.A. Tour golf game. The company also relies heavily on creating games based on movies like the James Bond and Lord of the Rings series, rather than developing original brands."Okay, so it's hardly the stuff of investigative legend, but there are some interesting facts and figures in the piece as well as a hypothesis that the company will have to move away from its reliance on established brands if it wants to 'accelerate its growth'. I think not. While sales have apparently dropped 16% this year, that's more to do with console fatigue than anything else. As soon as Xbox 360 and PS3 are launched, all those casual sports sim lovers, who let themselves get behind with FIFA and Madden updates on the older platforms, will be sprinting out to Game for the latest next-gen iterations. Then the whole process of diminishing returns begins again.Still, as Spore looks to be more interesting than practically anything else developed in the west for the last few years, I'll let them off.
Steve Case, who minted a fortune identifying one trend when he founded the internet service provider America Online, is betting on another.Mr Case is investing $20m (&pound;11m) in a producer of yoga and Pilates videos and DVDs in the belief that the once new-age activities are moving into the mainstream. "We believe we're nearing a tipping point as more and more people seek healthier, more balanced lives," he said.The investment is in a company called Gaiam, whose chief executive, Jirka Rysavy, is reported to live in a cabin outside Boulder, Colorado without running water and with a bath in an outhouse. The company also sells accessories like yoga bricks and balance balls. Last year it reported revenues of $97m.Gaiam is the latest investment made by Revolution, a fund Mr Case set up earlier this year with $500m of his own money. The fund has so far spent $145m in the health and fitness area.Mr Case quit AOL after its takeover of Time Warner turned sour.
If you're up to date, podcasting - an automated way of making audio files (such as radio shows) available to download - should be old hat. The latest spin-off from this technology, said Ellen Lee in the Fort WayneNews-Sentinel, is Godcasting.According to Lee, Godcasts - "religious and spiritually themed podcasts" - have become "the most popular use of the new online technology since it debuted less than a year ago". They "range from a daily dose of Scripture to a weekly dose of the Bible translated into Klingon", continued Lee, who explained that "the vast majority are Christian-based, but they also include New Age, Jewish and Buddhist podcasts."Many of these are collected at Godcast.org, said theMilwaukee Journal Sentinel. The site was started by Craig Patchett, whose eight-year-old daughter hosts Rachel's Choice: "five to six minutes of her favourite Christian music performed by regional bands, her reasons for liking it, and a Bible verse selected and read by her".Like the TV evangelist Billy Graham, Godcasters "are not shy about asking for donations", said Charles Arthur in theNew Statesman. "The meek may inherit the earth, but the rest of us have to pay our website bills, dammit."TheDaily Telegraphovercame its initial scepticism. "It is not easy to work up enthusiasm for the embrace of pop culture and new technology by church leaders ... &#91;Yet&#93; the fastest-growing churches are those that spread the Gospel using satellite and digital technology," said an editorial. "Christians should therefore resist the temptation to sneer at those vicars who are ... encouraging their flocks to download their sermons ... Non-believers, meanwhile, can take comfort from the fact that, while listening to the Good News through earphones, even the most zealous happy-clappy is reduced to silence."Some Godcasts, however, prove problematic, saidBusiness Week's Olga Kharif, noting the LamRim show (mostly speeches by Buddhist religious leaders). "Interested listeners can also download meditations but," she said, "they are just a lot of dead air."
No need to lock up your daughters...EAhave announcedthat Wayne Rooney and Ronaldinho will be the coverstars for FIFA 2006. Gulp. Thankfully,Iain Dowiewas busy. Seriously though, the rest of the press release highlights an interesting point. The FIFA series has always been developed in Canada. This is probably why the FIFA titles historically consisted of 45 yard screamers and 5-5 scorelines - ie an unsophisticated, North American view of the game - rather than realistic football. This has been moderated in recent versions, but is obviously still an embarrassment. In this latest release EA have twice highlighted the fact that FIFA 2006 has been developed by a "multi national" team in Canada. While this sounds great in theory, it's clear that the any European influence on the development - gritty 1-0 away wins anyone? - has been lost on the final product. "FIFA 2006 will deliver a combination of attacking gameplay",says the marketing head, clearly not noticing that defending is just as important. Having all the real players and stadiums is fine, but until the developers of FIFA realise that football is more than tricks and overhead kicks it will remain runner up to Pro Evolution Soccer.
Over onNewsblog, Jane Perrone is looking at the latest tech scandal: Google has broken contact with news website CNet because it published some information about their big boss (by using, erm, Google).The search giant has sent technology news site CNet to Coventry for a year over a story written by reporter Elinor Mills. She had the temerity to employ Google's own search technology to dig out details of Google CEO Eric Schmidt's business and personal life, including how much he made from selling Google shares and the town where he lives.Seemingly as a result of the "privacy issues" raised by the piece, Google has banned its staff from talking to any CNet reporters for a year.Janerounds up the commentaryon the debacle, with the pundits almost universally wonder: what on earth are they on about?
Last week Jackpostedon Cory Doctorow'srantabout Apple's implementation of "trusted computing" (Wikipedia). Now John Gruber at Daring Fireball has alsotaken issuewith the boy from BoingBoing.To recap: Cory was upset that Apple's early developer kit for its new Intel-based operating system apparently includes trusted computing, because he thought it would deny him access to data which he owned. So upset, in fact, that he's considering ditching Apple. "If Apple carries on down this path, I'm going to exercise my market power and switch away," he wrote.Gruber says he's gone over the top and assumed that Apple's intention is to lock down data, when there's no evidence to suggest such a thing.In the actual case here, Apple's Developer Transition Kits... are (reportedly) using TPM for one and only one purpose: to prevent the OS from being run on non-Apple hardware. There is no indication, none, zero, not even a whiff, that Apple intends to enable, let alone encourage, developers to create software with the TPM file-access authorization-locking described by Doctorow above. None.This is not about third-party software developers limiting access to your data. This is about Apple limiting access to their operating system.So, says Gruber, Apple is locking downhardwarerather than data, and that's no surprise, since they've been doing that forever. It's a sensible riposte to the over-hyping tendency, even if it doesn't fully question corporate motives for possible bad behaviour... and it's worth reading if you - like Cory - are worried about Apple's plans.
Yesterday, in a terse and defiantpress release, Hong Kong-based videogame importer Lik-Sang announced that it was being taken to court by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe for selling PSP consoles to customers in the UK. A quote near the end of the release is the most interesting element:"This is the most aggressive move against its own customers that a console manufacturer has ever taken in the 30 year history of videogames", says Pascal Clarysse, Marketing Manager for Lik-Sang.com. "Sony wants to completely cut hardcore gamers away from items released in Japan or anywhere else outside their own country. A very active part of the gaming community has been enjoying Japanese gaming culture for over two decades, and that's what the Empire is now willing to destroy."Stern stuff indeed...So what's going on? Obviously this seemingly heavy-handed treatment is going to feed the mostly ridiculous anti-Sony feeling that festers away online. And really, the numbers of gamers who will secure their PSPs via import is surely going to be a tiny minority. Is it worth closing doors on the early adopters? Is it worth losing out on all that juicy pre-release word-of-mouth hype? Sony must think so.Here's the thing: Sony isn't evil, just as Microsoft isn't evil. It is a corporation that happens to manufacture videogame hardware. And corporations like to control markets. There is business sense in there. But still, I just don't get it - this breaking of the quiet understanding between console manufacturers and import specialists. It feels like the food chain - the organic balance - of the industry is being upset. Is this the beat of the butterfly wing that somewhere spells disaster?
To poke fun at the inexplicably daft and odd names given to new car models really is a cheap shot. But here goes ... Aygo. I'm sorry. Aygo? First, it's not pronounced  "A. Go", nor the vaguely Scottish-sounding "Aye. Go". Instead, Toyota tells us, "say igo". That's "igo" as in  "I go", not "igloo" without the "l", or the way Michael Howard might enunciate "ego".So, Aygo: "I go". Of course! Silly me. In that case, I'll just finish downloading a few tunes from the Aymac to my Aypod, and then I'll be ready to hop in to my Aygo and drive.But hold on. If you want to say "Igo", what's wrong with writing "igo" on the back of the car? OK, so maybe there would be some trademark problems with "iGo". Steve Jobs probably retains an entire firm of killer lawyers to injunct to death anyone with the temerity to name a product by putting a lower-case "i" in front of a word. But as a way to get around Apple's attorneys ... Aygo: how lame is that?Want to appeal to the iPod generation, Toyota? Then put an iPod-sized shelf with an output jack next to the car's sound system, but please don't call it an "Aygo" just because you can't call it an "iGo". It's no-go.That said, the car's name is its only major failing. What you're looking at here is a cleverly inexpensive version of the ultra-small city runabout. A Smart car at a sensible price that can take four 6ft adults (as long as the two in the back can do some nifty origami with their legs). You could almost fit a pair of Aygos in to the average parking space.Toyota has been here before, of course, with the admirably serviceable Yaris. But the Aygo is even smaller. I also suspect that Toyota found the Yaris was being bought disproportionately by seniors. Thus the Aygo is Toyota's attempt to  garner the yoof vote.The car's funny-face looks at the front and the quirky curves of the rear styling are the clue. Whereas the Yaris is a sober-looking little workhorse, the Aygo is obviously meant  to make you think: "Ooh, bubbly personality." With a base model price around half that of an A-class Mercedes, the new baby Toyota is aimed at the style-conscious young urbanite who nowadays will still be paying off a student loan. As a consequence, the Aygo attempts to deliver peppy performance and sassy attitude on a notably tight budget. So, silly name apart, does it meet the brief?In its favour is Toyota's engineering in the form of a three-cylinder 1,000cc engine that weighs in at a remarkable 67kg. Not to put too fine a point on it, the engine in this car will be lighter than most of its owners - something that cannot be said of many other (possibly any other) production cars.Arguably, though, the Aygo motor punches above its weight. I'm a fan of three-cylinder engines. For this size of car, why have more when three do the job nicely? The humble Daewoo Matiz led the way some time ago, but Toyota can be relied upon to develop and refine a neat idea. The downside of the threesome, which is that it can be a bit rough and noisy, is also its upside. The Aygo motor has a rasping, revvy quality motoring journalists  like to call "rorty" - giving the illusion that it is quite a sporty beast.Which it really is not. Around 14 seconds to 60mph and a top speed of 98mph do not make the Aygo much of an Aygoer. But since it will spend most of its life averaging single-figure speeds in urban traffic, this hardly matters. A nice short first gear means that, in practice, the Aygo owner can cover the ground between one set of traffic lights and the next as briskly as a car costing 10 times as much. Meanwhile, the fuel economy of over 60mpg from those frugal three cylinders will ensure plenty of said ground between one gas station and the next.Gripes? I had a few. The Aygo Sport model I tested had a stiffened-up suspension you absolutely do not want. With the wheels set about as far towards the four corners as on an NHS bed, roadholding is ample. The extra stiffness just means a crashy ride that has you bouncing all the way to the supermarket and will turn the latte you bought at the cafe into a frappe on the way back.The driver's footwell was simply not big enough for three pedals and a pair of size 10s. The gearshift, too, was little joy - vague and imprecise, and in no way answering to the description "Sport". The remedy for both faults would be to opt for the automatic clutch ("multi-mode manual transmission" in Toyota-speak). There's no fuel economy penalty, apparently, and it will also save your shoe leather.But most likely the problem lies with me and my size 10s. I am also, without being too specific, too old and weigh more than 67kg. A smaller, lighter, younger person - with daintier feet - would be more  in tune with the spirit of the Aygo. But, considering I'm not at all its intended driver, I like this car.Aydo, Ay really do.&#183;Giles Smith is away.The lowdownToyota Aygo Sport 1.0Price: £7,995 (range from £6,745)Top speed: 98mphAcceleration: 0-62mph in 14.2 secsConsumption: 61.4mpg (combined)At the wheel: Rachel StevensOn the stereo: CiaraEn route for: Shopping
KeithandAlekshave been banging the virtual drum for indie developers for ages and now it's my turn. After all, aren't these guys the future for discerning gamers? Freed from publisher conservatism indie devs can push at the boundaries of gaming, reaching out to touch the final frontier of interactive entertainment. Or so goes the theory. In fact a lot of indie developers simply regurgitate commercial releases, revisiting the staid old genres and creating clones with a little less polish. A new self-funded release goes some way to bucking this trend. Created by some ex Rare guys – they worked on Banjo Kazooie rather than Grabbed by the Ghoulies, thankfully –War Worldis a rather enjoyable mech combat game. It won't shatter your gaming expectations, or win any awards, but if you want to see what a small team can do then give it a go.
I received thatiPod Interactive Fictiongame – The First Mile - that I blogged aboutlast week. Thanks for sending it guys, but lets just say that the theory - text adventure on your iPod - is better than the practice. I was playing it on an iPod Mini mind, but squinting at the small monochrome screen was no fun. Now bring out a PSP/DS version, with some bells and whistles, and you'd be onto something…
I'm at theWomen in Gamesconference in Dundee today and while I'll leave the summaries to onemoreable, I do want to make a quick comment on what's emerged from today's fantastic sessions. Women don't play games because they perceive "gamer" as (and I'll quote an excellent presentation by Mette Fairgrieve from the ITU in Copenhagen) "male, a young man or boy, antisocial, guzzling coke and pizza and lacking basic hygiene." Women (and men who don't play games) don't play games because they don't see gaming as an asset to their self-image.That's what they say. And gosh, don't we spend a lot of time defending that.In the meantime, here are a few links to the women who've been instrumental in the development of computer games (according toErnest Adams' keynote):Dani Berry(Formerly Dan Bunton)Donna Bailey(Centipede)Carla Meninsky(Warlords)Roberta Williams(King's Quest)Carol Shaw(River Raid)Brenda Brathwaite(Wizardry)Anne Westfall(Archon)
There are "fabulous" career opportunities for women in designing and developing computer games but they - and their parents - are put off by the sleazy image of the industry, according to the organiser of the Women in Games 2005 conference which opened today.The conference at Abertay University, Dundee, brings together academics and students with industry representatives - most, but not all of them, women.Inga Paterson believes that evolving technology is making gaming family entertainment and the uptake of mobile technology is also helping broaden its appeal beyond the stereotypical male geek.As she says, the combination of television with DVD and audio and games platform is making gaming a "living room rather than a bedroom activity".Old games are being reinvented - Solitaire and Patience, for instance - and new kinds of character-based games are appealing to a wider audience, including women.Game companies will need women to design more female-friendly games but they still face obstacles breaking into the business.One keynote speaker today, designer Ernest Adams, advised women to use initials rather than first names on their CVs. He told the Abertay conference: "Remember, Ginger Rogers did everything that Fred Astaire did, only backwards and in high heels."He said women game developers also had to work backwards and in high heels - backwards because they are usually developing games for a male market, and in high heels because they are often impeded by a masculine development culture.Gleeful press coverage of secret sex scenes in games like Grand Theft Auto don't help. Abertay University has one of the best-established degrees in games design but girls are still far outnumbered by boys on the course, says Dr Paterson. She points out that parents are the biggest influence on their children's choices of university courses."They don't play computer games themselves and are not likely to encourage their children, especially a daughter, to go into the industry if they are concerned about the salacious aspects of gaming."That's not a true reflection of the breadth and depth of games available but until parents become aware they are not going to encourage their daughters."
Astronaut Steve Robinson takes a self portrait underneath the Discovery shuttle. Photograph: NASAThis weekend I took a tour through some of London's book chains in search of a book about space travel for children. And what did I find? Almost nothing.There was a time when space travel seemed the cutting edge of technology, and every kid held dreams of being an astronaut. But over the past 20 years the clamour surrounding space has dimmed - not helped by the Challenger and Columbia disasters - and so it has become less interesting to those who would make the future generations of astronauts and explorers.Perhaps the end of the cold war meant less emphasis on technological chest-beating, and less excitement for the young. Perhaps the fact that technology is now almost solely pioneered by corporations means that profits are ranked higher than aspirations in the great scheme of things. Or perhaps children's imaginations are now being captured by the internet, with the depths of space no longer as exciting when there are new, virtual worlds to explore.It seems a shame that we've lost the appetite for the bizarre mixture of the high-tech and the almost ordinary that marked out space exploration - even when they bring back amazing images, like theone above of Steve Robinsonfixing Discovery on the hoof.The underbelly of the shuttle, looming above him in front of the earth, looks for all the world like the Death Star. Surely that's enough to get any child's imagination working overtime.
Dixons is the latest retailer to give up on traditional 35mm film cameras in favour of their digital brethren. To mark the moment, Roger Tooth - the Guardian's picture editor - has written on our sister Newsblogabout the rise of digital photographyThe first cameras the Guardian bought were around £11,000 each. The latest model being bought by the paper is still a not inconsiderable £4,500, but the quality is as good as - if not better than – film, and the images are instantly available.However, for the average person and their holiday/wedding/family snaps, the 35mm film has always seemed the cheapest and most convenient solution. It was never foolproof, as most people have found when prints have been returned from being developed with "overexposed" or "out of focus" stickers on them. But you could hand round your snaps, showing your friends and family your latest exploits.No longer.
As Gamesindustry.biz reportstoday, SCi has changed the name of its forthcoming shooter sequel, Conflict Global Terror, to the possibly less controversial, Conflict GlobalStorm- but only in PAL territories. It is widely assumed that this is a response to the London bombings and the heightened state of alert in the UK.Given the jittery mood of the tabloids it's probably a good idea - and perhaps not the first intervention of political correctness into tactical shooters recently. A few weeks ago, gamepolitics.comtheorisedover changes in the design of enemy troops appearing in Battlefield 2, suggesting that EA was moving away from a sort of catch-all Muslim extremist look toward a more legitimate military uniform.With the increasing desire for visual and narrative realism, more and more developers are going to have to walk this tightrope between authenticity and exploitation in the future.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday August 9 2005The footnote on the following column by Jeff Jarvis, in which he discussed the merger of the print and online news operations at the New York Times, described him as a media consultant whose clients include the New York Times Company. Mr Jarvis would like to make clear that he is a consultant for the New York Times Company's About.com, and is not advising on the Times's integration plan.When I quit my decade-long job as a digital executive in an analogue empire, I explained to my boss (one of the Cond&#233; Nast Newhouses) that I did not want to be the change agent in newspapers ... because I was not confident they could change.Yet change they must. For as many a dark-cloud think-piece declares these days, mainstream news is under assault by scandals, declining credibility, shrinking audience, disappearing advertising dollars, exploding online competition ... and those darned bloggers.So newsrooms are at last getting serious about plugging into the internet. Last week, the New York Times announced it is merging its print and online news operations. In their staff announcement, executives said this ends a separation that "allowed our digital operation to flourish, to experiment", so now they can "raise digital journalism to the next level" - and, one hopes, so they can electrify old journalism as well. At the same time, CBS News has decreed that all its 1,500 journalists will now feed the internet. Take it from me: that's easier announced than accomplished.So what should newsrooms do in a world where the public expects news anytime, anywhere - and also demands to set the agenda for reporting? Damned if I know; that's why I quit my job. But that has not stopped me from blogging my not-so-humble suggestions:* Burn the business cards. News people can no longer think of themselves as "print" or "online". That separation - which was helpful in online's infancy - now leads to power struggles that strangle development. More important, it allows print journalists to hide behind paper, acting as if serving the public in other media is not their job. Wrong.* Join the conversation. We in big media have owned the printing press for centuries. Now, thanks to the internet, the people own their press. They are speaking. It is our turn to listen - and link - to them.* Return to newsgathering. Journalists want to make news; that is why they obsess about scoops and exclusives and waste effort putting their stamp on the commodity news everyone already knows. Why else would we send 15,000 journalists to political conventions where nothing happens? The only way for newsrooms to grow is to learn the lesson of 7/7 - that witnesses can record and report - and be open to the news that communities create. We should aggregate all the news that's fit to repeat.* Share. If we believe that more information is good for the news industry and for an informed democracy, then we must find ways to encourage growth outside the newsroom. We should share promotion by linking to citizen journalists, share content by making our stories available as feeds, share expertise by training bloggers (as the BBC plans to do), and even share revenue in open ad networks.* Throw out the clock. Newsrooms have to learn to tell what they know when they know it, not just when the edition is done. I ran up against newspaper editors who often refused to supply midday updates on the internet because "nothing's happening today". One wonders how they could then fill their pages that night.* Rewrite the paychecks. Editors should be compensated on total audience and audience satisfaction across all media. Yes, the new media produce lower profits than the old, but wishing that not to be true won't make it false. There is no growth in old media.* Blog. No, blogging is not the cure for all ills, but it is an apt metaphor for how newsrooms should operate. Reporters should put what they know into a blogging tool when they know it, and editors can publish that anytime. They should link to other resources who know more than they do, or to wire stories that already report the basics. They should ask readers what they want to know before they report a story, and rely on readers to improve and correct stories after they are written. They should share notes and transcripts. They should reveal their process and prejudices to fulfil the open-source era's highest ethic - transparency. And they should shed their haughty, institutional persona and regain a human voice, facing the public they serve eye-to-eye.Change in news is inevitable. The question is: will that change come from the old media guys or the new, from within the newsroom or from without? I'll say something that bloggers allegedly don't often admit: I don't know.&#183;Jeff Jarvis, who blogs at BuzzMachine.com, is now a media consultant. His clients include The New York Times Company at About.com (and not in the paper's newsroom).
Journalism is easy, is it not? Surely anyone can do it. After all, what is so special about writing down what you see and hear? How difficult is it to take a photograph of what is in front of you? There is a growing conviction that nothing is beyond the "ordinary person in the street", itself a meretricious description that is becoming increasingly irrelevant.People can become overnight stars, courtesy of reality TV, and instant millionaires, courtesy of the lottery. They can make their own films, courtesy of cheap video cameras. They can travel the world dressed in clothes designed by couturiers while enjoying meals in the finest restaurants. A combination of education, affluence and technology has allowed people to hurdle the traditional barriers erected by an elite that previously insulated itself from the masses at both work and play.One restriction under persistent attack is "professionalism", the notion that a job (a profession) entails lengthy and sophisticated training that closes it off to "ordinary" mortals. This may well continue to be true of medicine and the law - though both have had to adapt in the face of the modern democratic spirit - but it has never carried much weight in journalism. It has long been the case, especially since the National Union of Journalists lost its 1970s battle for a closed shop, that untrained people have walked into jobs in newspapers and broadcasting.Now, with the internet, there has been a further step-change in what it means to be a journalist because the old media organisations, especially newspapers, cannot regulate entry. Indeed, they are now desperately playing catch-up, trying to cope with the net's apparently limitless possibilities.First, there was the blogging phenomenon, with people offering first-person, eye-witness accounts of events that either contradicted reporters' accounts or, more usually, offered a more penetrating, if limited, insight.Running more or less in parallel came the photographic bloggers, people putting their pictures on line for everyone to see. The success of this new journalism was illustrated by videos of the Boxing Day tsunami and was even more notable during London's July 7 bombing ordeal when dramatic mobile phone images - still and video - appeared on the net within minutes of being taken. Then, following the aborted bombings two weeks later came video footage of the arrest of an alleged bomber.Suddenly, everyone was talking about "citizen journalists", arguing that the uncommercialised net, free from elite professional control and vested interests, offered an unrivalled way of people both transmitting and receiving the unvarnished truth.It is not as simple as that, of course. The detached journalistic professional is still necessary, whether to add all-important context to explain the blogs and the thousands of images, or simply to edit the material so that readers and viewers can speedily absorb what has   happened. There are other important considerations, too, not least resolving knotty contradictions between freedom and commercialism, and between citizenship and consumerism.The spirit of freedom is characterised by flickr.com, a website used by hundreds of people on July 7 to upload their pictures of commuters struggling through smoke-filled tube tunnels in the aftermath of the suicide bombings. Stewart Butterfield, an executive at the Canadian-based site, says: "We are committed to helping people to give their stuff away for free."But last week, a Scottish-based website, scoopt.com, was launched with a very different ambition: to act as a middleman to negotiate deals with newspapers and magazines on behalf of people who take pictures. One of its founders, Kyle MacRae, says: "I realised that amateurs who take newsworthy pictures needed help in dealing with the mainstream media. They should be able to make money for their photographs and videos."MacRae wants people to register and, should they take a picture in future that is saleable, scoopt will negotiate fees with picture editors at newspapers and magazines, taking 50% for its trouble. It probably helps that one of MacRae's partners ispicture editor on a Scottish national paper, though he does not wish to be identified.Does MacRae not feel this commercial activity betrays the internet's original anti-corporate concept of freedom? "That's a fine and noble philosophical ideal", he says. "And, if that's your bag, fine. If people want to share their pictures for free, that's OK. But we're acting for people who think otherwise."Butterfield is equally untroubled by the scoopt initiative. "We are not philosophically opposed to people making money from their photos," he says. "We don't feel that people who want to sell their 'work' are morally inferior. The bottom line is that we're libertarian."Gareth Potter, who uploaded 76 pictures to flickr after the London bombings, says the scoopt idea "looks rather tempting. It would be great to have one's photo published in the mainstream media." But there are ethical questions about the growth of what scoopt calls "the snaparazzi" (an interesting variation on the more high-minded label of citizen journalists). The Chartered Institute of Journalists (CIoJ) believes the media's use of amateur pictures borders on irresponsible and that people may place themselves at risk by training their cameras on news events, for example by rushing towards fires.It is especially exercised by ITV's London Tonight, which has appealed to viewers take part in what it calls "the exciting world of newsgathering". But, asks the CioJ, "what happens if a viewer is seriously injured while taking part? Will ITV be there to pick up the pieces and pay the medical bills?"It also points out that broadcasters appear to want footage without paying for the rights, a situation that scoopt is obviously ready to remedy. MacRea is equally concerned about people putting themselves in danger. "It's a genuine worry", he says, and he raises yet another concern, given the heavy use of celebrity pictures in popular papers and magazines. "We don't want to see people stalking celebrities," he says. "We'd be uncomfortable with that, and we make it clear to people that they shouldn't do it."Scoopt's members, who numbered around 500 after three days, get advice on how to act legally and morally, although MacRae concedes that it will be a matter of personal responsibility.What all this suggests is that despite the net providing people with a revolutionary way of becoming journalists, it does not answer the central dilemma of journalism itself: what is it for? Democratisation has burgeoned alongside the "free" market economy that encourages people to believe that everything, including information, has a price. Is that really so great an advance?&#183;Additional reporting by Owen Gibson
The 10th birthday of the internet as a mass phenomenon is rightly being celebrated this week to mark a decade since the explosive stock market debut of Netscape, which triggered the dot.com boom and unleashed a friendly browser to navigate the web. To understand the extraordinary revolution that swept the world so quickly, existing users need simply to imagine what life would now be like without email (on which corporate life depends), search engines such as Google, web companies such as Amazon, eBay and Yahoo, the ongoing explosion of online commerce, not to mention the burgeoning world of personal journals (blogs), downloaded music and films, free newspapers, web cameras, internet telephony (now the hottest thing on the web) and the growing convergence of the net and mobile phones.Already the internet has become a virtual library of Alexandria, a repository for practically everything one could want to inquire about - as long as the motivation is there. Francis Bacon said "Knowledge is power". These days we would say knowledge is empowerment, and for the first time whatever you want to know about is out there somewhere, and mainly for free. In theory, the billion or so users in the world can link up with each other to share interests or join forces to counteract the global power the web has bestowed on international corporations. There are, of course, downsides, from the hurricane of spam emails that hurtles across the web to the channels opened for terrorists, criminals and paedophiles. It has undoubtedly created a growing gulf between those with access to the web's treasure trove of knowledge and the excluded digitariat who have to add a digital divide to all the others they have to endure. But at least the new technology, as it becomes ever cheaper and more powerful, offers the prospect of bridging the divide and, by using services - such as free internet telephony, satellites and wireless connections - could leapfrog over existing obstacles. Parts of Africa will experience a technological revolution even before the industrial revolution has reached them. Overall, the web has proved itself to be a huge liberating and enabling force, even though it is still only in its infancy.Although, contrary to the instincts of its early protagonists, the web has long since been colonised by commerce, it still nurtures its founding community spirit. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the startling success of the open source movement which enables enthusiasts and professionals all over the world to work together from remote locations to produce services that are freely available for anyone with a computer linked to the internet. The thousands of products so far released include the Linux operating system (a free alternative to Microsoft's pervasive Windows), OpenOffice (an alternative to Microsoft's Word and Excel) and Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia, with well over a million entries written entirely by its readers.Most recently, the open source movement has launched its own browser, the widely acclaimed Firefox, which is taking serious market share from Microsoft. There is an element of natural justice in this because it was Microsoft's move to incorporate its own browser into its Windows operating system - which sits in 95% of all personal computers - that snuffed out Netscape's early success in the 1990s. The new owners of Netscape decide to turn it over to the open source movement and out of the ashes came Firefox to open up a new front in the browser wars. What will happen during the next 10 years can, literally, only be guessed at, since hardly any of the web's world-beating products were predicted to be successes a decade ago, even by their inventors. But, since the pace of innovation is showing no signs of slowing down, we are assured of an exciting ride.
"What follows is my take on "Ciscogate", the uproar over researcher Michael Lynn's presentation at this year's Black Hat conference, in which he revealed that he was able to remotely execute code on Cisco routers. I have been representing Mike during this crisis, so I'm clearly partisan, and what I can say is limited by attorney-client responsibilities. But while many people are speculating about the facts, there hasn't been much on the law, which turns out to be really interesting," writes Jennifer Granick on herblog. The four-part story starts with the post dated Tuesday, August 02, 2005.Alternatively, Wired has republished ithere.
"Citizen Journalism is dead. In fact, citizen journalism never lived; it was the hardening of a momentary ideal, puffed up with self-importance and glazed with a sweet optimism that kept us interested beyond its shelf life. But let me repeat, for the sake of clarity: Citizen Journalism, as a concept is dead, a dry bone to be tossed over the back fence," according to Vincent Maher, who teaches multimedia journalism at Rhodes University in South Africa. One of his conclusions,here, is:This mess we call the blogging versus journalism debate is anchored on a twist of the truth wrapped in a false promise: that this blogging army is co-ordinated and uniform in its intentions. Forget it, you've been conned by an elite and persuasive group of pissed-off anti-paperians.The Guardian's Newsblog is mentioned, having incorrectly referred to Maher as a "US academic".Maher is over-rhetorical for my taste but does make some good points. Over at PoynterOnline, however,Steve Outingdoes not share his pessimism....
In the battle to conjure up a little charisma for what, after all, are endless variations on the box-onwheels theme, one of the more obvious weapons available to the manufacturer is their choice of name. Some start from the back of the grid in terms of raw materials (when you think about it, how glamorous does 'Bristol' actually sound? Or 'Aston Martin'?), while others cheat the odds by whipping up an aura of mystery from very ordinary beginnings (TVR, for instance, derives from the first name of the legendary sports car's founder Trevor Wilkinson).Recently, eBayMotors.co.uk asked drivers to list their favourite car names (we motorists really know how to party). Topping the poll were Rolls Royce's 'Phantom', Ford's 'Mustang', Pontiac's 'Firebird' and Corvette's 'Stingray' - animals are obviously a rich source of inspiration. But there was one glaring omission from the list ... Alfa Romeo.For my money, this is the one moniker that has it all when it comes to instant street kudos. Authentic and exotic in equal measures, it conjures up an image of a bully at a school for budding Casanovas. 'Yes, I am this year's Alpha Romeo ...'Clearly playing against its macho heritage, however, Alfa's 147 is a quintessentially feminine car. From its graceful curves and agile poise, to its infamous triangular front grille (which looks more like a pair of striped bikini bottoms), the sexy 147 is a motor that will get builders whistling from their scaffolding.The 147 has been around for afew years now. It was originally launched in the UK in February 2001, and has sold nearly 360,000 worldwide. It has won 27 awards so far, including the European Car of the Year. So, clearly, the 147 is a brand that doesn't need messing with - and the 2005 'revamp' is actually more of a tweak. The front lights now sweep back along the wings, the nose has been remodelled with the addition of a mesh valence and the bonnet has been grooved with a noticeable 'V' to give the car a purposeful, dynamic look.The sporty mid-size hatchback's two main rivals are VW's Golf and Audi's A3. It is German Lutheranism vs Italian brio. And where the Germans have trumped with their level-headed reliability, the Italian's have plumped for a box of showy tricks and super-sveltestyling. There's the black suede and red piping on the seats and the polished chrome of the engine. There's the fact that the rear doors have no visible handles (they're hidden in the corner of the window) and the the boot lock is similarly disguised beneath a sliding badge. But there's no hiding the 147's silky performance.Priced from &#163;13,660 to &#163;19,040, the hatchback offers three petrol engines and two diesel engines, plus Turismo and Lusso equipment options. I tested the 1.9 JTD MultiJet which gives a frugal 48 miles per gallon and a startling 0-60mph of just 8.8 seconds - along with all the usual add-ons we now take for granted. But the one extra you're really paying for is the pleasure of saying, 'I drive an Alfa Romeo.'Braking newsIt's an often-heard fact that the sun's harmful rays can't burn you through glass. In fact they can. Bearing in mind that we spend an average of 223 hours a year in the car, be sure to cover up - or invest in laminated glass ...&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
Type 'Swindon' and 'famous for' into an internet search engine and the screen will throw up 'spiral stressed-concrete multi-storey car ramp'. Repeat the task for Reading and up comes 'number and quality of its transport links'. Maidenhead is lauded for the 'River Thames', Bracknell for 'Darren Day'.The four towns have one thing in common - the same long (186 miles), monotonous motorway runs past them. And just before it hits the capital, the M4 cuts through Slough - famous for David Brent and the mundane lives of staff at Wernham Hogg.Known as the main artery of Britain's 'silicon corridor' because of the industrial parks and commuters along its borders, the motorway has never been famed for anything all that exciting.But now the strip is bubbling up with a new type of activity. Amazingly, dating companies have spotted that a disproportionate number of people who live along the six-lane strip are signing up; if you want to find love, it appears, live near the M4.Thousands of overworked singles from Swansea to Slough are rushing back from their offices to log on to their computers and trawl through lists of potential partners.Four out of 10 of those registering on Match.com, one of the country's leading agencies, in the past three months live along the motorway - 45,000 in all.'It's astonishing,' says Sam Bedford, managing director of Match.com UK. 'We always check to see key growth areas for online daters, but we did not expect such a concentration of new users from along the M4.'Sally Powell, 40, a teacher from Swindon, separated from her husband four years ago and recently returned to the dating scene. After a period of hitting the pubs and the clubs, she decided to sign up to the internet.'People say, "God, why are you on a dateline," but to be honest I haven't had one bad date through it,' said Powell. 'You set it up in advance so if you are not keen you can just have a night out.'Powell added that, when she first separated, there was a whole group of friends in Swindon in the same situation. She was constantly set up by friends and family, but also liked internet sites because she could find people with similar interests.It is not only women. Martyn Sedlen, 32, an engineering lecturer from Bristol, started searching for love again after coming out of a 14-year relationship.Like many other M4 singles, he is not convinced that a night out on the town is the way to find your match. 'The chance of meeting someone you click with in the pub is remote,' he said.'Meeting people over the internet is much more acceptable today.'
Better late than never dept: this week, SIGGRAPH staged its fourth annualcyberfashion show.One example is the Nyx line of jackets, as shown at the Consumer Electronics Show, "with illuminated text or patterns that scroll across chest, arms, and back. Text is entered using a Palm Pilot device and beamed to the jacket display screens. A cell phone enabled Palm Pilot allows text messages, emails, and internet information to be downloaded right to the jacket. An embedded microphone provides a sound responsive function: environmental sounds can trigger various patterns that dance to the beat of the music." You should be able to buy one next year from Nyx Illuminated Clothing, 5314 S. Slauson Ave, Culver City, CA 90230. Tel: 562-989-3940 or email John Bell at niccollc@earthlink.net
Business Weekhas an interesting piece about podcasting, which points out that what had been a medium for new voices may be taken over by traditional media companies encouraged the arrival of Apple's iTMS. Movie reviewers Adam Kempenaar and Sam Hallgren, for example, now have to compete with Ebert &amp; Roeper from the Chicago Sun-Times."Apple's service, though just over a month old, is already changing the dynamics of the field. It has helped legitimize the medium, drawing traditional giants, from Ebert &amp; Roeper parent Walt Disney to Dow Jones and News Corp. As they join iTunes, they're squeezing out many of the do-it-yourselfers who evangelized podcasting. Once a podcast drops off the top 100 list, it's almost impossible for a casual visitor to find it. For Kempenaar, the future is clear: "It will be harder for a new indie podcaster to get an audience."This is not, of course, the end of the story....
Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble looks like completing a week without posting to his lively and popular blog,Scobleizer. In hislast post, he wrote:This business just sucks sometimes and people forget you're human. They think they have the right to attack you personally just cause of what you write.These people would never say this kind of stuff face-to-face but because it's on the Internet folks feel like they are allowed to be rude in ways they'd never think of being face-to-face.One thing I notice is that most of the rudest are anonymous. I also discovered something else. The rudest ones are goons working on behalf of people or movements or, gasp, even other companies, and that they are trying to disrupt things by just being rude.Sad to say, the Internet is no longer the preserve of a small number of mostly intelligent university-based life forms that it was more than a decade ago, and the civilization it once possessed has long since gone. The blogosphere also is no longer the preserve of a small number of mostly intelligent people that it was three or four years ago. The rabble has arrived; it isn't going to go away.And the pseudo-religious nutters are always going to mount personal attacks because their made-up "facts" can't be sustained by rational argument.The real problem is knowing how to respond, because it's clearly futile arguing with bigots who are not the least bit interested in truth. But the solution is not to remain silent. As a friend remarked in another context recently: "The point is that if you ignore what the idiots are saying, they end up being the only people talking."Whether or not you agree with his views, the blogosphere is a less interesting and less intelligent place with a silent Scoble.
MadagascarGamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxWhile the film received a light drubbing at the hands of the national press, the game based on this story of variously neurotic and pampered animals, as they travel from the mod cons of Central Park Zoo to the wilds of Connecticut, works a little better. Although very much a standard platform game featuring collecting tasks that quickly feel witheringly generic, you can't help suspecting that's the slightly jaded view of a grown-up who plays more games than is perfectly healthy, as opposed to its intended audience of the young and innocent. Very specifically named developer Toys For Bob does a fine job creating a friendly environment for small gamers, complete with original voice actors and in-jokes.&#183;Activision, &pound;30-&pound;40Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos TheoryNintendo DSGiven his enormous range of moves and abilities, it was never going to be easy cramming agent Sam Fisher's familiar brand of grizzled stealth action onto a handheld device which had side-scrolling limitations. However, to a far greater extent than on earlier outings for Game Boy Advance and Nokia's ill-fated N-Gage, the DS remix offers almost everything the console versions do, from night vision goggles to tactical use of multiple weapons in a fully three-dimensional environment. Unfortunately, without the power of the consoles, the DS struggles to do it, regularly leaving the visuals looking like a juddering mud-brown mess. While the touch-screen allows you navigate different menus and to aim and swivel the camera, it never quite feels comfortable. Although competent, this isn't the equal of recent Splinter Cell console releases.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;30Game to watchAdvance Wars Dual StrikeNintendo DSSadly not available here until the end of September, Japan is currently basking in the glory of a new instalment of the extraordinarily addictive Advance Wars series. Retooled for the two screens of the Nintendo DS, the game's classic strategic air, sea and land engagements see your tiny cartoon armies handle high-altitude fighting the top screen and the stylus used to drag and drop your units on the lower. Extra commanding officers and raft of new units including miniature cruise missiles and stealth bombers add to what is already one of the most honed rule sets since chess. Featuring new maps, plenty of wireless multiplayer options and several original play modes, the countdown to September starts here.
