Despite the growth in internet banking, the death of the high street bank branch remains a far-off prospect, a market analyst said today.Datamonitor said that, despite the expansion of online banking, the internet is still only the third most commonly used means of buying a financial product.The group, which interviewed people in six European countries, found that while 26% of people with internet access said they banked online, only 4% said this was their preferred method of handling their finances, compared to 79% who favoured visiting a branch in person.Britons were most likely to chose to bank online with 7.52m carrying out some transactions over the internet, though only 5% named this medium as their favourite way of banking.Alex Boorman, Datamonitor e-financial services analyst, said: "The strategies of many an internet bank were based on the idea that the death of the branch was imminent."However, Datamonitor's research confirms a growing realisation within the e-banking sector that this is not the case."Although branch numbers are still falling, it is now recognised that the branch assumes an important role as part of a bank's multi-channel distribution strategy."He added that the group predicted standalone internet banks would soon have to establish a branch presence, although this was likely to take the form of tie-ups with retailers rather than traditional branches.Despite the uncertainty surrounding internet banking, just under 30% of all banks thought they would handle at least 60% of current account and credit card applications online by 2002.The telephone was the second most popular way to buy products, with 37% of UK consumers using it to buy or arrange banking services.Datamonitor said that, despite a slow start, it also expects mobile phone banking to take off, with the number of people using mobile phones to bank to soar from 1.1m now to 27.1m by 2005.
Check that wireless thing in your purse or pocket. Is it a computer or a phone?Today the odds are heavily in favour of it being a phone, but there's no guarantee that it will be tomorrow.And with telephone traffic changing from voice to data - to web pages, instant messages, music files, and games - the computer industry is keen to get in on the action .In his keynote speech at Comdex, Jorma Ollila, chairman and chief  executive officer of Nokia Corporation, was suitably triumphalist.The mobile phone is "the world's fastest growing and most global consumer electronics device", he said."There are now more mobile phones in use than wired lines, and in the next six months, the number will go beyond 1bn."At the same time, Mr Ollila announced that Nokia would start licensing some of its core software technologies to rivals.Korea's Samsung Electronics has been the first to sign up. And in another Comdex announcement, Nokia and Sony agreed to work together to enable devices to exchange data and content."This is a task which requires broad and open interoperability between devices from many manufacturers," said Mr Ollila.Nokia, as the dominant handset supplier, clearly wants to get its software  accepted as the standard.If it fails, it could eventually find itself marooned and overwhelmed, like Apple in the personal computer market.So far, mobile phone manufacturers have done well in the voice business, and thanks to the GSM standard, most mobile users can talk to most other mobile users.That is not always the case with data, apart from SMS text messages, which will not be around much longer in any case.Data standards for things like contact and calendar data, instant messages, electronic mail and web pages are, by and large, being  established in the computer industry.The computer industry is making a hash of it, as usual, but it is still a long way ahead of the mobile phone industry.And if the mobile phone companies lose control of their software standards, it could be very hard for them to hang on to the hardware  business.Indeed, most "smart phones" are already based on software developed for handheld computers.The main suppliers are Symbian (using software developed originally for Psion handhelds), Microsoft (with a version of its PocketPC software), and Palm, which licences Palm OS.The problem is that adding applications and data support involves a lot of work for phone manufacturers, whereas adding GSM telephony is relatively easy for computer manufacturers.One of the first challengers from the computer side of the business is the  Handspring Treo, which should be on sale in the US before Christmas.Jeff Hawkins, founder and chairman of Handspring, devoted much of his Comdex speech on Tuesday to demonstrating the device, which combines the facilities of a Palm personal organiser, a RIM Blackberry and a pager with a mobile phone.The result is much smaller, and much cheaper, than Nokia's Communicator.Afterwards, Mr Hawkins said he was not afraid of competing against big  companies such as Nokia, and he was sceptical of the various cooperative deals announced during Comdex."It's very easy to say this sort of thing; it's very difficult to pull it off," he said. "You don't create great products by announcing initiatives."
Anyone who spends a few minutes with a child can easily confirm they learn things from computer and video games. Younger children may, for example, show an amazing depth of knowledge of Pokémon characters and which ones turn into what. Older ones may well be practised killers capable of fragging dozens of rivals at "first person shooters"such as Quake III. The real question is are they are learning anything useful?"Play always has value," says Dr Chris Smith, senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Central Lancashire in Preston, "but there are so many variables involved, it's hard to be specific."Something as simple as Pacman improves motor co-ordination and ought to have an impact on problem- solving in general," he says."The research seems to suggest computer games are useful in terms of computer literacy, and there's a limited amount of evidence that &#91;playing computer games&#93; leads to academic improvement. Collaboration using computers is beneficial."Gaming is far from being a solitary pastime. Many games are multi-player, and may involve two to four players sharing a PC or games console. With online games such as EverQuest, hundreds of thousands of players are interacting at once.Dan Ballin, radical multimedia manager for BT's research labs, Btexact Technologies, says parents often buy their children computers for educational reasons only to see them being used mainly for games. "This is not necessarily a bad thing," he says. "It's building their confidence and, in terms of social skills, there's quite a lot hidden behind computer games."Playing PC games increases PC literacy, and Ballin says that "when they need business skills, their familiarity with IT is of quite a high quality".Games are also at the forefront of advanced computer technologies such as graphics, user interface design, face tracking, motion-capture, and use of artificial intelligence.Ballin is involved with such techniques and the use of "avatars"- graphical figures that represent the player and move around in the game under the player's control. Avatars are a topic covered in BT's 22nd annual lectures to schools, which are being held from November 19-23.But, as Dr Smith says, there's a downside. Not all games are of educational value, and they can be misused. "I wouldn't have thought teenage games would have much educational value," he says, "but they only satisfy people for a limited amount of time." Violent games might desensitise some children but so might TV programmes and films.However, there is a good case for strategy and simulation games, which often require a high level of planning and advanced visualisation skills ("You have to carry big maps around in your head," says Ballin). Flight simulations and driving games are used to teach people skills, and some professional racing drivers use games to help them learn the tracks.Some war and strategy games help teach history, and there are simulations of most of the great battles, where you can try to win with either side. Some titles provide a vivid illustration of the problems faced, for example, by German troops on the Eastern Front in the second world war. Authenticity is not guaranteed - some things will be lost to simplify the game and make it more playable.Sim City, the urban planning game, has been used in higher education in the US. Also, resource management games such as Theme Park and Rollercoaster Tycoon teach business skills and need some imaginative thought.One believer is Miles Jacobson, managing director of Sports Interactive, which produces the chart-topping football management simulation, Championship Manager. "I haven't got a university education," he says, "I grew up playing management games!"But finding which games might help with which skills is another matter. Jacquie Disney, director of the Parents Information Network (www.pin.org.uk), says: "We've started to look at games because parents were asking the same question, and because they were concerned about the level of violence." However, PIN is looking at educational games produced for the education market, not the top commercial titles.Disney says there have been successful games with educational value, such as Broderbund's Where In The World Is Carmen Sandiego (www.carmensandiego.com), where children learn geography without realising it. She also praises simulation games such as Sim City, the "life simulator", Creatures, and some computer versions of non-computer games. These range from chess - "Lego Chess went down very well"- to home versions of TV quiz programmes."But there are too few of these," says Disney. "It's down to the size of the market they can reach when they're up against Lara Croft."
Sony of Japan and AOL Time Warner are joining forces to create a new "home broadband networking environment" that will connect a wide range of consumer devices together in home networks.The deal, announced by Sony's president, Kunitake Ando, at the Comdex computer trade show yesterday, could enable consumers to link together games consoles, TV sets, personal computers, mobile phones, camcorders, Sony's Aibo robotic dog, and Dick Tracy-style wristwatch communicators.Mr Ando said he could foresee wireless internet connections eventually becoming a standard feature of all Sony products."We believe in wireless broadband," he said. Sony has been talking about home entertainment networks for several years without delivering much of practical value.With the use of high-speed "Wi-Fi" wireless networking growing explosively in the PC market, Sony risks being left behind.The agreement with AOL Time Warner is intended to make wireless home   networking extremely easy for consumers to set up and use.Steve Case, chairman of AOL Time Warner, appeared on video during Mr Ando's speech to say that it was "still too difficult for people to connect the dots by themselves".Their goal was to make it "as easy as plugging in your toaster", he said.The agreement involves the development of a small, fast web browser   suitable for consumer electronics devices, and "the joint exploration" of   ways that AOL - America's largest internet service provider - could   connect Sony devices to the internet.However, both companies declined to give any technical details, and Mr Ando's demonstrations were showy but unconvincing.For example, he appeared to send a live video image from his watch to a PC screen by moving the watch close to the screen, but wireless networks work perfectly well when devices are 100 metres apart.He also announced an agreement with Nokia to collaborate on developing   what he called "an open middleware platform".The intention is for Nokia and Sony products to work together seamlessly.At a press conference following his speech, Mr Ando conceded that the desire to develop open systems with Nokia and America Online went against Sony's often proprietary approach.The company's "not invented here" attitude had sometimes led it to develop niche products "instead of being in the mainstream", he said. "We've changed our attitude 100% - by 180 degrees, actually."Bill Raduchel, AOL's chief technology officer, said results of the firms' collaboration would be available in "not days but not years," or perhaps a   small number of years.Speaking privately, he said he was unable to provide any technical guidelines but would wait to see what the engineers came up with.He could not say if Sun's Java language would be used, though it was designed for this sort of application, and he had promoted Java heavily during his previous employment at Sun Microsystems.Mr Ando also rejected the idea that his strategic alliance with AOL   represented an anti-Microsoft coalition.Sony has become one of Japan's largest PC manufacturers, and Mr Ando said they had "a great relationship with Microsoft".Sony "was really promoting and supporting Windows XP", though they were also competing in the games market, where Microsoft's  Xbox is taking on Sony's PlayStation 2.Sony also produces content such as movies and music where it competes strongly against AOL Time Warner.&#183;Jack Schofield is the Guardian's computer editor.
The future lies in pen and ink, says Bill Gates, the co-founder and chairman of the world's biggest software company.The Microsoft chief's vision is of people sending hand-written messages to one another. But rather than using scraps of paper and ball-point pens, they will use high-powered slate-like computers running a new version of the company's new XP operating system, Windows XP Tablet PC Edition.Mr Gates introduced the concept of the Tablet PC at last year's Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas. This year there were prototype systems on show. Compaq Computer, Taiwan's Acer and Tatung, plus Japan's Fujitsu, NEC and Toshiba are among the manufacturers developing tablet PCs, which are expected to go on sale around this time next year."I'm already using a tablet PC as my everyday computer," Mr Gates told delegates in the MGM Grand Garden Arena. "It's a PC that is virtually without limits - and within five years, I predict that it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."Most companies that have developed computers for handwritten input convert the user's handwriting into text. In Microsoft's design, the handwriting recognition is done in the background, while the handwritten text is left as it is.The difference between real ink and "rich digital ink" is that the computer-based version can be edited, searched, sent as email, and generally manipulated the same way as word processed text.The main advantages of the tablet PC are that it is portable, so it can be used almost anywhere, and that it can be used by large numbers of people who cannot type. This could broaden the market for personal computers.However, what may be more important to the PC industry is that the tablet PC provides manufacturers with a new gadget to sell to existing users at a time when sales of desktop PCs are in decline.As well as showing off tablet PCs to an enthusiastic audience of more than 10,000, Mr Gates helped with a demonstration of the Xbox games console, which is also based on some of the NT (new technology) Windows code used in XP.According to Mr Gates, Microsoft has so far sold more than 7m copies of Windows XP, which is three times as many as Windows 95 in the same period.Mr Gates said he was having a memorable week with the keynote speech, his guest appearance on the Frasier television series, the US launch of the Xbox on Thursday, and the release of the Harry Potter film on Friday. "I want to go on record," said Mr Gates, "that I was dressing that way before Harry Potter was born."
A Brazilian businessman has claimed that he is the "tourist of death" - a character that has found fame around the world in the form of a doctored image attached to an email.José Roberto Penteado has claimed that he is the lone figure in a clearly altered picture of a tourist on top of the World Trade Centre with an approaching hijacked jet in the background.The first tourist of death emails started appearing within 10 days of the September 11 attacks, and while some derided them as facetious, others welcomed them as a comic diversion to lift the gloom.Then the first deviations began to emerge with further manipulated images of the blank-faced tourist appearing, placing him in historical scenes, the Tom Hanks film Forrest Gump  for example.Doing the email rounds and at specially created websites like Tourist Guy and Tourist of Death, we could see the mystery man on the deck of the Titanic as it pulled out to sea.Sitting in the front of JFK's car just before the president's assassination, or at the Concorde crash in France.People soon started asking - who is he?Now Mr Penteado, a 41-year-old businessman from Campinas, Brazil, has claimed he is the man, according to wired.com.And in pictures Mr Penteado has provided, he does bear more than a passing resemblance to tourist guy."I believe that some friends planted my face on that body," Mr Penteado wrote in an email, which was translated from Portuguese, wired.com reports.Paul Bruno, creator of the Tourist of Death website, said the site was getting about 20,000 page views a day at its peak."I started the site because the pictures were very funny, but scattered all over the place."The original email with the first picture said: "Attached is a picture that was taken of a tourist atop the World Trade Centre Tower, the first to be struck by a terrorist attack ... This camera was found but the subject in the picture had not yet been located."
Microsoft's latest and greatest inventions are pen and ink, to judge  by Bill Gates's keynote speech opening the Comdex computer trade show in   Las Vegas last night.The co-founder and chairman of the world's biggest software company presented a futuristic vision of people sending handwritten messages to one another.However, rather than using low-tech scraps of paper and ball-point pens, Mr Gates's vision involves the use of high-powered slate-like computers running a new version of the company's new XP operating system, Windows XP Tablet PC edition.Mr Gates introduced the concept of the Tablet PC during his keynote speech in the same MGM Grand Garden Arena at last year's Comdex.This time, however, there were prototype systems on show. Compaq Computer, Taiwan's Acer and Tatung, plus Japan's Fujitsu, NEC and Toshiba are among the manufacturers developing Tablet PCs, which are expected to go on sale around this time next year."I'm already using a Tablet PC as my everyday computer," said Mr Gates. "It's   a PC that is virtually without limits - and within five years, I predict that it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."Most companies that have developed computers for handwritten input convert the user's handwriting into text. In Microsoft's design, the handwriting recognition is done in the background, while the handwritten text is left as it is.The difference between real ink and "rich digital ink" is that the computer-based version can be edited, searched, sent as email, and generally manipulated the same way as word processed text.The main advantages of the Tablet PC are that it is portable, so it can be   used almost anywhere, and that it can be used by large numbers of people   who cannot type.This could broaden the market for personal computers. However, what may be more important to the PC industry is that the Tablet PC provides manufacturers with a new gizmo to sell to existing users at a time when sales of desktop PCs are in decline.As well as showing off Tablet PCs to an enthusiastic audience of more than   10,000, Gates helped with a demonstration of the Xbox games console, which is also based on some of the NT (New Technology) Windows code used in XP.According to Mr Gates, Microsoft has so far sold more than 7m copies of Windows XP, which is three times as many as Windows 95 in the same period.Mr Gates said he was having a memorable week with the keynote speech, his   guest appearance on the Frasier television series, the US launch of the   Xbox on Thursday, and the release of the Harry Potter film on Friday."I want to go on record," said Gates, "that I was dressing that way before   Harry Potter was born."&#183;Jack Schofield is the Guardian's computer editor.
It looked like yet another nail in the coffin for web freedom. Last November, the Californian-based portal Yahoo had just lost a seven-month long legal battle in the French and US courts.At issue was the sale of Nazi memorabilia, displayed on Yahoo's auction site and held in the US. The company was ordered to block access to the offending part its site to French citizens. It looked as if a court in one country could now dictate content on a website held in another.But earlier this week a US federal judge said that the French court orders barring such auctions on US-based web sites would not be enforced. He stated that he could not enforce this judgement because it would have represented a violation of the US constitution, which gives the right to a freedom of expression.France had sought to bar Yahoo's auctions of Nazi memorabilia under its anti-hate speech laws. It had threatened Yahoo with fines as big as $13,000 per day unless it blocked French citizens' access to the items.Yahoo protested, saying it ran a French auction site that abides by local laws but could not effectively block people in France from going to other country-specific sites to access the objectionable material. The Nazi memorabilia was never sold on Yahoo's French auction site and - at the time of the trial - there is no evidence that any French citizen actually bought any of the offending material displayed on the Yahoo site.The French court ruled against Yahoo and ordered it to block the offending pages. The net result? Yahoo removed all Nazi memorabilia from all its sites in January. EBay followed suit.Civil liberties campaigners  - not natural defenders of hawkers of second-hand jackboots  - have welcomed the news. They argued that the original French ruling not only threatened free speech but that it set the dangerous legal precedent of allowing courts in one country to dictate content on a website held in another. The case was seen as a key test of how national juristriction could be enforced over the internet. A similar court case is currently underway in France regarding access to white supremacist sites, also held in the US."This has very broad implications for everyone, not only companies but also for individuals who operate web pages here in the United States," said Mary Catherine Worth, of Yahoo.In practice, the judgement might mean little to Yahoo - the company is not expected to allow Nazi memorabilia dealers back on to its site - but the principle means much more."This is a good principle, it stops countries applying their laws to legitimate activities in other countries," says Mike Pullen, a partner at DLA and an expert on e-commerce.  "You have got to keep in mind that Yahoo has not broken any laws in the States. Also, if the French had tried to repeat this in Europe, because of Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights the result would probably have been the same."It could have opened the floodgate. You have got to think what could happen, for example, to Greenpeace in the US who has been criticising French nuclear testing in the south Pacific on their site. If the French don't like the Greenpeace site, could they get that one closed down? And if you set it &#91;the French ruling&#93; as a precedent, what happens with the more repressive governments in the world?"Ronald Katz, a California lawyer representing the League Against Racism and the Association of Jewish Students  - who made the initial complaints in France - said that his clients would appeal the case to the US Court of Appeal.Read the full judgement (pdf file)
Grand Theft Auto 3PS2 (18 cert.)	£39.99 Rockstar/Take Two 	*****The original Grand Theft Autos were top-down 2D games, both ugly and controversial. The subject matter -   car crime, violence and murder - led to questions in Parliament and, no doubt, a hefty bonus for the PR company.GTA3 moves the series into 3D and is a deliciously immoral black comedy that never takes itself too seriously. Set in Liberty City, your task is to earn money by helping mobsters, while making a name for yourself in the crime scene. How you achieve this is entirely up to you.There are more than 70 missions to complete, but it is the ability to experiment that really appeals. So, for example, after running a couple of deliveries for the mafia, you can either carry on and climb the crime career ladder, or simply roam the city.Every vehicle can be driven and car jacking is easy (and essential). Pedestrianised cannon fodder is everywhere,   although get too trigger happy and the police become involved.Of course, evading the cops is all part of the fun. The crackling atmosphere is maintained by in-car radio stations, while the graphical detail - especially on the vehicles - is impressive. Unlike other computer-generated metropolises, the heavily populated Liberty City actually feels alive, even if some of the citizens resemble shuffling zombies. There are numerous weapons and, while the morality of firing an Uzi in a drive-by shooting can be questioned, the visceral entertainment can't.A fiddly save-system and ultimately repetitive gameplay don't overly detract from proceedings. GTA 3 is definitely not for children, but certainly right for you. (GH)Zoo TycoonCD	£29.99 Blue Fang/ Microsoft 	***Setting aside for a moment the question of whether there could even be such a thing, (how many people do you know who could be described as a "self-made zoo millionaire"?), Zoo Tycoon allows you to become master of your very own animal kingdom. You can take a hand in every aspect of running a zoo, from designing the grounds to deciding which animals to import, from setting the admission price to hiring and firing staff.There are two main modes of play. The freeform game, in which you build a zoo from scratch in one of a few dozen given locations and simply try to make it as successful as possible. Then there's the scenarios, which set specific aims (such as a certain income, an average level of "animal happiness", or the acquisition of a particular species).Most of the enjoyment comes from re-creating the natural habitats of the various creatures; lions, for example, require savannah terrain, a   freshwater area and a nice big rock to sun themselves on. Jaguars, meanwhile, are fond of a particular kind of tree - just be careful not to place one too near the fence, or it will climb out and start terrorising the crowds.As ever, the temptation to do everything while paused is overwhelming; the little details matter so much - and cash is so precious - that you don't want to put a foot wrong. Accidentally removing a barrier, or putting in the wrong kind of fence in the first place (there are 27 varieties), will also do some serious damage to your visitor numbers.Conducting research allows you to build more buildings and import new flora, thus making your beast ies, and thereby your tourists, happier. You can also invest in conservation programmes, which, as well as easing your global conscience, allow you to import more exotic, endangered species, thus increasing trade.Zoo Tycoon suffers from the same disadvantages as all simulation games - at what point do you stop? What, other than not failing miserably, are your objectives? But the vast array of possibilities keeps those questions at bay for a good while. Plus it looks good, and there is an undeniable pleasure to be had from watching your Thompson's gazelles frolicking gaily around their exceptionally well-designed reserve.  (AB)
Unless you have been hiding in a bunker, you probably know about instant messaging (IM). You may not know exactly why it is replacing email for those who use it often, and outperforming the good old telephone in many respects. Here then, is a quick foundation course.1)The first thing you need is a Chat client (the program you use to make and sustain contact with friends and strangers alike). There are four main options (Yahoo, MSN, IRQ and AOL) - all free downloads and varying strengths and weaknesses. King of the hill currently is Yahoo Messenger, which is why it is used here. To download, go tohttp://uk.messenger.yahoo.comand select the right option for your system. Because these downloads are quite small, you can either save them or open them from the host location, in which case the program will install and run automatically.2)Once installed, a deceptively empty new window will pop up, inviting you to add contacts to your Friends list. The problem with IM is that clients tend to be mutually exclusive, meaning an MSN pal cannot chat to an AOL one unless they are both running the same client. Assum ing your friends are using Yahoo, simply click the add friend icon and enter their email address or Yahoo identity. You can register for a Yahoo ID (allowing you to receive Yahoo email and post profile details) by registering at Yahoo. While this is not essential to using IM, if you frequent the Yahoo chatrooms, it can be helpful to check someone's profile.3)Whether or not your friend    is online you can send them IMs by double-clicking on their name in the Messenger window. Imagine IM as a partyline - as friends log on, you will hear a sound indicating their entry into the "room", whereupon you can text-chat to them, or use the icons at the top of the chat window to enable a voice call (you will need a full duplex soundcard and a mike), send them a small file (a picture or document for instance) or even use a webcam. There are set-up wizards for both webcams and voice chat, which should fine-tune the devices   to your satisfaction - although, if you are unsure, stick to text only until you know your way around.4)Text chat is enormous fun but can be dull to look at. To compensate, all chat clients allow the use of emoticons (click the smiley-face icon in the chat window or see Shorthand table, above). Yahoo has a great new gimmick called IMVironments, which are basically interactive wallpapers. Click the IMV icon at the bottom of the screen for a range of amusing or cute new backdrops, including the   excellent Yahoo Fighter.5)An alternative way to find friends is to head to the chatrooms (select Chat in the main Messenger window and pick a room), although here the problems start. Female users can find themselves bombarded by strange men making improper suggestions, and the only way to stop this is to ruthlessly manage your preferences. For safety, select Login/Preferences/ Privacy and tick the box marked Ignore anyone who is not on my Friends list. The Preferences menu is also where   you control other aspects of security. For instance, if you want to use chatrooms without attracting IMs, you can log in under Invisible mode or bar particular users from contacting you. Remember, you can also use webcams or voicechat, although a picture speaks volumes. It can be much easier to attract attention than get rid of it later.Voila - you are now an Instant Messenger. Your online moments will never be lonely again. But use it indiscreetly and you will be fighting off pests until the Y3K.ShorthandEmoticons:The one common element to most IMs seems to be emoticons, and fortunately there is a shorthand for these that works regardless of the program. Here are some of the most common ones, although all clients have a separate menu for entering them more quickly.:) = smiley face:( = sad face:)) = laughing:(( = crying:x = I love you (ahhh)Abbreviations:Even if smiley faces leave you cold, there is no avoid ing the common abbreviations. Linguists sneer at the way IM is eroding the need for punctuation and correct spelling, but when someone cracks an online joke it is easier to type "lol" (laughs out loud) than "Oh, that was very amusing", especially if you have to do so 20 times per conversation. Other common abbreviations are:TY - Thank youYW - You're welcomeNP - No problemK - OKBRB - Be right backROFL - Rolls on the floor laughing (a louder version of LOL)
When I signed up as a trainee programmer, in 1965, I was expecting to work on the LEO II - the successor to the world's first commercial mainframe computer.What I worked on was System 4 - a copy of an IBM computer. "Why?" I asked. "Is the IBM design better?"No, said my boss. "If we have a machine that will run IBM's software, then there's a lot of software that people will want to run on our machine because ours is cheaper. And IBM sells a lot more computers than we do."What a week this is. Twenty years since the invention of the commercial IBM PC; 50 since the invention, in Britain, of the commercial mainframe computer. So why doesn't our computer technology dominate the world?To understand, you have to stop asking "Why didn't LEO become a success?" It was a huge success. But it wasn't what the future wanted - a range of compatible machines.Before IBM invented the System/360 range, a small computer could not do the things a large computer could. With the /360, the small, medium and big machines were virtually identical in function and capability; the variation was in the workload. A program written for a small /360 would run on a large /360, making it possible for an enterprise to start small and grow.The sensible question would be: "Why didn't Lyons Electronic Office turn LEO into a range?" The man who headed up the LEO project, David Caminer, saw the problem as one of lack of resources. Lyons was a chain   of tea shops, not a computer manufacturer. Having sold a dozen LEO II computers and more than a hundred LEO III models, it sold out to English Electric, which abandoned LEO technology.But there was another problem: a failure of vision in the industry - at Ferranti, GEC, Plessey and even LEO's successor, ICL. Governments of the day saw military computing as the focusToday, we measure computers in terms of how many millions of transistors on a single processor chip. But LEO didnot have a transistor, because it predated its invention. Its successor, LEO II, was a different machine. The same major break was made with the transistorised LEO III - which was the workhorse of the bureau where I worked.Lyons wasn't pinning its hopes on LEO III, because it couldn't. When I programmed LEO III, it was too small to run Cobol, the language of the day. We wrote our work in Cleo - a cut-down Cobol-like language. When we looked to the future, we wrote System 4 Usercode.System 4 was the great hope of a consortium of designs. It was to be built by a new computer company formed by English Electric, LEO and Marconi, all of whom decided IBM was right. They were ahead of the field because they wanted a range that ran the same software as IBM machines. And RCA had designed the Spectra, which did exactly that. So EELM licensed the Spectra, and called it System 4; and proposed to sell it to the Post Office, to handle the Giro.The dead hand of Government sponsorship was immediately felt. It was considered desirable to make EELM a big ger company to supply the Post Office - which was holding out for an IBM /360 contract.So on to EELM, Frankenstein's monster. Full of incompatible dreams and designs, they bolted on the best-selling ICT - International Computers and Tabulators. The result was called ICL, International Computers Limited. It was a mess, but it got the Giro contract.British industry needed to set up a credible rival to IBM. The giants of computer design were diametrically opposed to the IBM range concept. They were doing unique designs, mostly for defence contracts, working on the principle that the correct way to design a computer, was to examine the task for which it was going to be built. Then you designed a programming language that best expressed the solution. And then, you designed the optimum machine to run that language.ICL carried on selling its ICT-derived 1900 range. It wasn't a true range, but it had some of the characteristics, and software written for a small 1900 could be transported to some large ones. It designed the new range in the early 1970s; a decade too late. By that time the world was hooked on IBM /360 code.Nobody in ICL tried to penetrate the American market. ICL's 2900 struggled to match IBM's /370 range, and finally, the managers gave up, and sold out to Fujitsu.This year Fujitsu gave up trying to keep the name ICL alive, and the last traces of LEO disappeared.
Cinema goers settling down to watch the new Harry Potter film later this month will find themselves caught up in the latest attempt to generate consumer interest in fast "always-on" internet access services, otherwise known as broadband.BT's internet service-providing operation, Openworld, is using the film to launch a series of cinema ads aimed at persuading people to try broadband services. The fact that BT needs to use the film as a launchpad says a lot about what has happened to the dream of a Broadband Britain.This year was supposed to see a revolution in the way businesses and domestic users accessed the internet. A host of new service providers offered to transform phone lines into broadband pipes, increasing the speed of net downloading by up to 10 times.Instead, those new operators have gone bust or reduced their plans, major ISPs such as AOL have held off any meaningful launch of broadband services and take-up of fast web connections among consumers has been disappointing.Everybody in the industry is blaming somebody else, and they each have a different view of what went wrong. The only thing the industry as a whole agrees on is that the UK is falling behind the rest of Europe in broadband access, and this could jeopardise British business's competitive position.The easiest target for an angry industry is BT, as the operator of those copper lines. Letting rivals get hold of them -"unbundling the local loop" - has been a tortuous two-year affair and only now are the remaining operators getting ready to offer customers any sort of service.Last year initial indications were that almost 50 different operators wanted space within BT's network of exchanges and by the end of this year almost a million of its phone lines would in effect be operated by someone else.So far BT has about 58 exchanges ready; only half of those have other operator's equipment in them and only 150 lines have been unbundled. Most are in BT's Battersea exchange, the first to be opened. Some of BT's rivals believe it has deliberately put every possible obstacle in the way of competition. Privately they accuse it of almost Machiavellian scheming.Richard Greco, chief executive of Bulldog Communications, is probably one of BT's most vociferous critics. "It has been an incredibly long-fought battle. Believe me, we would much rather be spending our resources and energy creating Broadband Britain than having to fight at every turn with an intransigent BT."Bulldog has deals with more than a dozen other businesses that want to use unbundled lines provided by the company for their own services. So far it has failed to unbundle a single line.Ian Stirrat, head of BT's local loop unbundling programme, denies accusations of scheming, however. Instead he has seen one of BT's biggest recruitment projects collapse as the customers it was preparing to serve - other operators - have gone bust or decided that the numbers do not add up."A year ago the politicians created enormous hype around the fastest way to get broadband across the UK, and unbundling was unveiled as the way to fix everything overnight. The reality is there will be half a dozen companies that will be quietly and systematically building their competing infrastructures. It is never going to be the huge heroic numbers it was when the industry was at the top of the dot.com boom," he said.From the original 50 companies last year there are only five players left - Easynet, Bulldog, Fibernet, Kingston Communications and Redstone Telecom - although BT has recently been approached by one new, as yet unnamed entrant.With unbundling a disaster, those looking to provide broadband access have been forced to use lines with DSL technology supplied by BT's wholesale arm. As a result, says AOL UK's head of communications, Matt Peacock, BT is "the only show in town".The problem for major ISPs such as AOL is that getting a wholesale line from BT is also an arduous process because of the company's antiquated IT systems. "The real issue that BT has is what happens from the time that a customer tells   us they would like a DSL connection and the time that actually goes live," he said.Ian Stirrat admits that while his division in charge of unbundling lines spent hundreds of thousands of pounds on a provisioning system that now lies largely unused, the wholesale arm of BT is struggling to upgrade its systems."They have a halfway house which has some significant weaknesses. That is something that is being dealt with and is very very high on the list for the wholesale broadband team," he promised. AOL also has issues with the high price of wholesale broadband access, which has forced other ISPs such as Freeserve into charging about £50 a month for the service."Until the price comes down to probably less than half the retail price that consumers are being asked to stump up, AOL will not be carrying out a mass market launch of broadband," says Mr Peacock.In fact BT is planning to roll out a new breed of DSL technology for the wholesale market in the new year which does not call for engineers to visit premises. This self-install service should help bring down the price of broadband further.The price of broadband services was attacked recently by the government's e-commerce minister, Douglas Alexander. But many in the industry believe the government has so far failed to play its part in Broadband Britain - a phrase which, after all, they coined.Last month the Broadband Stakeholder Group, which includes e-envoy Andrew Pinder and representatives from across the industry, asked the government to take the lead by increasing public sector use of high-speed internet. It also suggested that the government help meet the costs of bringing broadband to the more remote regions of the UK.So far the government has allotted just £30m to fund broadband in the regions. This compares with £700m being spent by the German and Swedish governments and state funding of £1.5bn in France.John Higgins, director general of the Computer and Software Services Association and member of the BSG, is still waiting for the government's full response to the report, due out this month."Somebody has to take some sort of leadership, and I think the real challenge areas are the public sector and small businesses and the consumer. As people start to use broadband in health and schools, they will start to expect that sort of service at home," he said.Unless the government takes a lead it remains to be seen how many movie-watchers will remember broadband after the main feature.Big SpendWhat governments spend on broadbandKorea£17bnMajority on 10-year infrastructure building programmeUS£2.3bnSupporting build-out in rural areasFrance£1.6bn£200m on infrastructure, £1.4bn in loansSweden£1bnOn networkGermany£680mOn the technologyUK£30mRegional access
The problem with being an early adopter is that there's a very short timeline from being cool to being uncool. I remember
   the first kid at my school to have a digital watch. For a while, everyone was his best friend. But within months, sleeker
   watches appeared and his was obsolete.Now, a quarter of a century later, I seem to have been caught out myself. In
   September 1999 I got hold of one of the very first Sony Aibo robot dogs. It was a limited edition - just 5,000 were to be
   made, and everyone was my best mate. I had a column in this newspaper and appeared on TV and magazines with my dog
   Gromit. But it didn't last. A MkII model appeared and sold 40,000 more. And then, last year, a new generation of Aibo
   arrived, rendering mine defunct.It had advanced features such as voice recognition that I could only dream of - or shell out
   another £1,000 for (much less, of course, than my unsophisticated original, but still a lot of money). And now Sony has
   released another two types of Aibo which could see my poor old Gromit edging ever closer to the recycle bin. The £720 ERS
   311/12 LM was unveiled in September, in white (Latte) and black (Macaron).It is the cuddliest Aibo to date - Sony calls it
   "Hi Touch, not Hi Tech". Ugh. The LM recognizes 75 words including its own name and that of its owner. It can sing and
   dance, and play rock, paper, scissors with another LM. As well as speaking (actually, shouting above any background noise)
   to it, you can pet the LM by rocking its head forward and scold it by rocking it back. The stubby tail also has sensors and so
   do its paws. Meanwhile, a horn light atop its head tells you how it is feeling. You can ask the LM to take a photo which it
   stores as a JPeg on its Memory Stick for later downloading.Or it can guard the house; although it probably won't deter a
   criminal, the LM will at least take a snapshot as it is being stolen. All the while it will be cooing away like one of the
   Clangers. More modes include one where it mimics what is said to it and another where you wave your hand in front of its
   nose and the Aibo's infra-red distance sensor plays music according to the movement. You can teach the LM a few tricks by
   manipulating its limbs, but there is no network card to link it to a PC, unlike the ERS210 that launched last year.In Japan,
   there is a cartoon series on TV featuring Latte and Macaron, and if you place an LM in front of the box it will interact with
   the on-screen antics. Basically the LM is Aibo-lite. And between you, me and my Sony insider, it is aimed at
   twenty-something Japanese girls, whose bedrooms already bulge with Hello Kitty merchandise. The £1,100 ERS220 unveiled
   on the web - and this page - today is the exact opposite. Even more so than the original Aibo, this is a Boy's Toy.As our
   picture below shows, the styling is pure sci-fi: a shiny metal-look and plenty of LEDs. This Aibo doesn't have eyes, but a
   strip of LEDs that run around its head. Its chin sensor looks like a weapon and its head sensor an antenna. It even has a
   pop-up head torch for clandestine night operations. Frankly, it's scary. Like the LM, it has a 75-word vocabulary, but it is
   far more sophisticated, with extra light, touch and temperature sensors and a faster, more accurate movement. And the
   noises it emits are more Grand Prix than kids' TV.It is Lan-ready so you can wireless link it to your PC and run Aibo
   Navigator or Messenger software. Navigator allows you to remote control your Aibo from your desktop, spying on others
   through its on-board camera, while Messenger alerts you of incoming email, which your Aibo can even read out to you. Both
   LM and 220 come with a choice of Aibo Life or Hello Aibo software on their Memory Sticks, which lets you choose between a
   newborn you can nurture and raise or a pre-grown-up version.Cheerful they are, too, but based on a weekend with Latte
   they are also extremely demanding. Without near constant play the LM sings Auld Lang Syne and goes to sleep. Left to its
   own devices, it is much more reluctant to explore its surroundings than Gromit. At an Aibo owners meeting I expected an
   enthusiastic response, but of 60-odd of them - many with at least two Aibos already - only two said they would buy one.
   "Too cutesy," was the most common response.And that is from people who spent weeks making Halloween costumes for
   their Aibos. The leaner, meaner 220 will probably prove more popular with existing owners because of its more advanced
   features, but due to Sony's strict embargo on publicity I wasn't even able to show them photos. Gromit was the only original
   ERS110 there, and while owners shouted commands at their pets, my dog wandered around occasionally cocking his leg on
   the furniture. Technically, Gromit may be obsolete, but he seems to have more personality and autonomy than the later
   generations.Yes, the new Aibos can perform better tricks, but they are less like pets than the first generation. Despite
   boasting more computing power, they seem somehow less intelligent. I reckon there's life in my old dog yet. And if I hang on
   to him long enough he might even become a collectors' item. I wonder if that kid kept his watch?
Auto suppliesI recently bought a Ford car, and was horrified to find the manufacturer had 'bundled' wheels, and engine and stereo with it. Sure it was more convenient, but it restricted my rights to choose to buy these from other suppliers, abuse of monopoly etc, etc.Tony Evansstonybonytony@hotmail.comHome straitsTwo items from a Staples advert in the Guardian of November 1: 800MHz laptop computer with Lotus SmartSuite and Windows XP - £699.00. Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition on its own - £179.99. Even Michael Jackson doesn't charge that much for a CD and a booklet!Paul Scottpaul.scott@infmansys.comAcorn anticsDerek Bourgeois's justifiable enthusiasm for the Sibelius music processing system, as it now exists for PC and Mac, overlooks the fact that Acorn-based RISC PCs, for which the programme was originally written, are still in active development. It's a huge pity that Acorn couldn't keep pace with the Finn brothers' remarkable achievement, with the result that they were unable to develop it further for the platform after 1998. The original Sibelius 7 still works superbly on RISC OS, and even now has advantages of stability and speed of input over the PC or Mac versions, although it lacks their sophisticated extras. Sibelius is a success story: the story of Acorn, and its successors, deserves to be better known.Colin Matthewscmatt@argonet.co.ukMelody makerI was interested to read Derek Bourgeois's review of the Sibelius music package (Online, November 1). Next time I have £595 that I do not know what to do with, I must buy a copy! Meanwhile I will continue to use the Guillion brothers' Melody Assistant, which costs about £10 for PC or Mac fromwww.myriad-online.com.This does pretty much all that Sibelius does, plus lots of esoteric stuff like baroque lute tablature and Gregorian neumes. Its bigger brother Harmony Assistant, at £40, will do even more tricks such as harmonising your melodies and printing out punched cards for barrel organs or player pianos.For another £10 you can get the OMeR music recognition add-on, which enables you to scan in, edit and play printed sheet music. OMeR works well, but for sheer accuracy is pipped by Graham Jones's PC-only SharpEye (£30 for the basic version atwww.visiv.co.uk). Good software need not be expensive.Bob Venningjvls17252@blueyonder.co.ukWhat's good?Tom Potts (Feedback, November 1) seems to ignore the rather self-evident fact that web pages can be linked to one another bytags in the HTML. Yes, programming skills can enhance a good web page or site, but they do not make it good. Good web design comes about just as much through the aesthetic "graphic design" skills Mr Potts treats so dismissively, allied to the ability to prepare concise content in a good prose style. Most of all it comes from consideration for the end user.Users log on to read interesting and well-presented content, and this can be done with plain, boring old HTML just as much as with any design and programming tools, which to the end user, are just garnish.  Web design should not be claimed as the province only of "professionals" with certain hard-to-acquire skills. Web design is in fact very simple, and everyone can and should be able to acquire the necessary skills without difficulty. Do we want an inclusive Web, or not?Dr Drew Whitworthpolaw@lucs-02.novell.leeds.ac.ukTraffic lightI'm not sure John Harper gets it (Second Sight, November 1). IP (and more specifically the internet) is the mechanism by which universal videotelephony will become feasible.   To work together in the internet world, two UK-based carriers need no more than a connection each to the LINX (London Internet Exchange) and a bilateral peering agreement, whereby they agree to exchange IP traffic. As their demands become greater - and more distributed across the UK - there is nothing to stop two carriers setting up "private" peering in multiple locations, as is routinely the case in the US.  Nobody needs to develop "videophone and other advanced services".Just give users the bandwidth and they'll figure that bit out for themselves. BT's residential ADSL at 512k downstream and only 256k upstream just doesn't cut it.  One thing Mr Harper does get right - I believe we do need unified ownership of the broadband "last mile", at least in residential areas.  It's just too expensive for multiple companies to build this out. But since this is a natural monopoly I'd suggest handing over ownership to local government. Is that too radical?Giles Herongiles@packetexchange.net
People finderThere are several sites to help you find old school friends, but what about the people from the youth club, pub, church or the number 38 bus? The Profiles In Time site is unique, it claims, in letting you enter your name against as many locations or events as you wish, including schools.www.profilesintime.co.ukID zapperSafeweb has been the anonymiser of choice for people who want to keep their surfing private. Users who just want to hide their IP address on message boards could try IDzap instead. The site also offers a paid-for service for people who don't want their firewall admin or ISP to see what they are doing. It costs $15 per quarter or $50 a year.www.idzap.comPotter funHarry Potter fever is sweeping the UK again, after the screening of the film of the book. Even the 24 Hour Museum is making a contribution. It has created the Potter Trails, a Macromedia Flash site with links to a wide range of places such as Leeds Castle, the Museum of   Witches in Cornwall, and the Natural History Museum in London. And it need not fear the problem that afflicts some fan sites such as Mugglenet: they become unavailable when they exceed their bandwidth limits.www.24hourmuseum.org.uk/trails/harrypotterwww.mugglenet.comNews launchIf you are not sure your news search engine is delivering the goods, here's a new one to try: Rocket News. It can be a touch fussy about your search term, but when you get it right, it delivers. You can also access news by category, as with Moreover. And according to ResearchBuzz, where I found it, "the free RocketNews is the merest taste of the paid version".www.rocketnews.comwww.researchbuzz.com/news/2001/oct18oct2401.htmlNew &amp; notedèUpdated again: the Museum of E-Failure:www.disobey.com/ghostsitesèBritain's text messaging site has been redesigned:www.text.itèEyes peeled for contemporary fine art photography:www.peeledeyeshop.comèA quick way to find a UK insurance company's website:www.e-insurancedirectory.comèThe Gospel in Lego:www.thereverend.com/brick_testamentSix of the bestTerrorismThe portalwww.theterrorismportal.comBioterrorismhttp://bioterrorism.straws.comAnthrax webliographywww.freepint.com/gary/bioterror.htmlTerrorism calendarwww.terrorism.com/calendar/Calendar.htmlTravel watchwww.terrorism.net/travel-adv.aspYahoo linkshttp://dir.yahoo.com/ Society_and_Culture/Crime/Types_of_Crime/Terrorism
How intrinsic is the computer to your lifestyle?Very! I write on a computer, having struggled with an electric typewriter for years. Much of film and TV writing is, in fact, rewriting, so computers have revolutionised the whole process. It is much easier to be brutal or bolder with cuts and changes when it is a quick copy- and-paste job, rather than hours of painful retyping. Sending your work via email is so much easier, very handy when you are up against deadlines. I always keep a hard copy of everything, having learned the hard way!Are any of your books available as e-books?None of my books, OK, neither of my two books, are e-books as far as I know. Buying them is much cheaper than downloading six hundred pages at a time. Who could be arsed anyway? Real books are sensual objects, the smell of them and the thrill of opening the first page and snuggling down for a few hours. I can't equate the experience of reading a book with sitting in a hard-backed chair in front of a screen. Mind you, they used to say that about porn mags!What computer do you use?I have always written on an Apple and have an iMac (www.apple.com/imacand aPower Book, handy for those long hours sitting around on set. It can be annoying that lots of CD-Roms are tailored to the PC market but that is getting slightly better now. Besides, iMacs come in such pretty colours!Any plans for your own homepage?Actually, a relative bought my domain name for me as a present. Unfortunately he hasn't handed it over yet, so if you type in meerasyal.com you will be directed to a site advertising forklift trucks. Well, if the acting doesn't work out_Is the net a good medium for comedy?If we can get away from those round-robin clubs that keep sending sub-Jim Davidson jokes that clog up your email, then yes, possibly. Certainly there are some really good animation sites.The Seinfeld site- when it was running - was a delight, and I would love to be able to read past scripts of classic series. The only problem with exposing or sharing new ideas on the net is the writer's nightmare that someone else will nick yours and get it made!Should there be tighter regulation of the net?I have set parental controls on my daughter's computer, which will work until she learns how to remove them, which will probably be soon! The paedophilic network needs stamping on, but it has also become a way for the authorities to trace and track perpetrators. There are complex issues to address and the net has grown so huge so quickly that a regulation debate is long overdue.Favourite sites?www.friendsreunited.co.uk,www.discovery.comcom andwww.britannica.com. As I spend so much of the time on screen writing, surfing is an occasional pleasure. I still prefer to read a good book.Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/asianlife/tv/whatson/meera_sanjeev.shtml
If the words "British heritage" remind you of a lucky escape from slide-tackling Viyella-clad ladies forcing you at umbrella point to join the National Trust, or of a Ye Olde Teahouse serving double mocha latte with extra pineapple, then cheer up. British heritage isn't just about the nouveaux poor's crumbling old piles. It is about the depth and breadth of our experience from the time we hunted and gathered, to now, today. And the resources to excavate it are all in one little package - your computer.Log on to the net and dig into the past. You don't have to grow a scratchy beard and hang around libraries to be a master historian. Start by feasting your eyes on the physical history around you. Visitwww.theheritagetrail.co.uk, which has the best general information on most UK heritage sites.This site seems to encompass the places covered by theNational TrustandEnglish Heritageand more, and if there is only a weeny chunkette of history you are interested in, then this is the site for you.The baby of obviously knowledgeable and dedicated enthusiasts, the site covers priories, stately homes, Roman Britain, maritime and industrial history   as well as oddballs such as piers. Battlefields and parks coming up, it promises.And of course it covers castles, proper manly castles like Bodiam to more girly faux chateaux like Herstmonceux. The new and improved Norwich castle has reopened, giving you more for your money including the intriguing five-seater medieval toilets. Check out the details atwww.norfolk.gov.uk/tourism.Make sure you visitwww.castlesontheweb.comso that you will have an answer to the interminable questions posed while slipping up timeworn castle stairs. You know the sort of thing - "what does that tower do?" or " what is this hole for?"Urban dwellers are besieged by history, and London folk are plain spoiled.www.ramblers.org.uksuggests walks within main towns, and Londoners should findwww.walklon.ndirect.co.ukfor a range of guided historical walks for a price of a couple of pints. Those with nerves of steel and at least 14 friends should follow the footsteps of Jack the Ripper atwww.jack-the-ripper-walk.co.uk.If groping about in the East End doesn't fire your history lobe, how about dressing up as a Civil War soldier and dying horribly in battle? Trywww.sealedknot.orgfor inspiration. You are not confined to cavalier or roundhead.www.nares.orghas details of   most re-enactment organisations, so you can gallivant as a soldier of the Second Legion or be a Pershing Doughboy. I am not sure whether ladies can join any of the armies. I do hope so.Before I wrote this I had to look up Plantagenet, which shows my laughable lack of historical awareness. I foundwww.britannia.com/history/helpful as well as the plain but awesome timeline atwww.gregg1.freeserve.co.uk. This even shows the days of the week that events occurred and includes fascinating stuff such as when typhus struck and the year that cancer and tobacco were first linked (1761).www.livinghistory.co.ukhas a colourful timeline as well as a "today's the day" page, and Nettleswade Primary School's timetrail atwww.nettlesworth.durham.sch.ukis jolly and informative.But what if you would like to get your hands dirty? Archaeological digs are notoriously difficult to join unless you are already in an archaeological society or you have snogged the professor at the faculty Christmas party.Lead your own virtual dig atwww.bbc.co.uk/historyby playing Hunt the Ancestor. It is incredibly difficult making the right choices before the builders move in.Keep fit by becoming a ley hunter. Track down ancient paths delineated by standing stones and stone circles, bar  rows and mounds, hill forts and earthworks or pre-Reformation churches using nothing but your legs, a good map andwww.leyhunter.com.If that sounds tiring, tour the ancient standing stones of Britain, using the QuickTime movies onwww.stonepages.com. You can get quite dizzy if you try hard enough. Bring out your nautical side by singing the shanties that Nelson's men sang, atwww.contemplator.com. Words and music are provided.Does anyone remember the fascinating Channel 4 programme, A Family Century, about the Carpenter family that was screened last August? That is oral history in action, and you can capture recent times by having a go yourself.But it takes more planning and finesse than merely shoving a microphone up the nose of your ancient neighbour. Check outwww.oralhistory.org.uk, which gives excellent advice on the right technique and tools for interviewing people who may never have shared their memories before.Your granny's curious statement "and they never found the body" may lead you to research your own family history. Start at www. ukgenealogy.co.uk , which has good advice and excellent links as well as access to free software you can download to your PC.Of course, the big one recommended by genealogists iswww.familysearch.org, which is a family history library catalogue from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. Don't be disappointed if you are not the heir to a lesser European kingdom. We can't all be.
Last week the US competition authorities blocked the sale of Seagram's drinks assets to Britain's Diageo and Pernod of France. Why? Because it would have given Diageo ownership of Captain Morgan (dark) rum as well as its existing Malibu (white) rum business. Diageo's offer to sell its Myers rum label to compensate was not taken up.No one made much of a fuss about that. No one likes companies to dominate a world market for anything even if it is something like rum, for which there exist lots of substitute drinks.Switch now to an even rummer deal - the proposed settlement between the US   Department of Justice and Microsoft, announced last week and, as Online went to press, being fiercely debated.Under the terms, the Seattle giant will be left with its 95% market share of the world's PC operating systems plus a similar share for its Office suite. Microsoft is also allowed to continue to "bundle" products for free as part of its operating system even though it will have to be more liberal in allowing competing products access. Microsoft will have to provide technical information to help competitors make their products compatible with Windows.This is certainly an improvement - but who will decide how much information it should provide and how speedily? Another potential improvement is that computer manufacturers (some of whom have been strong-armed by Microsoft in the past to pre-install only Microsoft products) have the right in future to install applications that compete with Microsoft. But there is no guarantee they will. Success depends on Microsoft shedding its fiercely competitive spots and its ability to intimidate. Many competitors will believe that only when they see it.In any case, as George L Priest, a consultant to   Microsoft admitted, the agreement is "backward looking" and doesn't impose restrictions on distribution of the new Windows XP operating system, or future applications to improve Windows.Most of the restrictions on Microsoft apply to its relations with very large firms. But small firms are also in the firing line, as witness Microsoft's attack on the amount of pirated software used by small companies.It may be true that the majority of Microsoft products used by small companies are illegal but this doesn't justify the company trying to extract the full price for pirated software, because the full price reflects Microsoft's overwhelmingly dominant position.In theory the settlement will be monitored by a three person technical committee residing at Microsoft's HQ in Seattle, paid for by the company. But what happens if Microsoft doesn't agree to the committee's complaints? As the FT pointed out, the only   recourse is for the justice department to go to court.But if it does decide to challenge Microsoft, no findings by the technical committee "may be admitted in any enforcement proceeding before the court". Nor can individual committee members give evidence. In practice, this could mean Microsoft need only agree to changes that suit it.We all know why this is happening. The election of a Republican administration was always going to be better for Microsoft than the Clinton government. The arrival of a deep recession in the computer industry compounded by the events of September 11 has created an imperative to get the whole thing out of the way in the hope that changing technology will make Microsoft's monopoly wither away.In fact, Microsoft intends to dominate the web in the same way that it has computer operating systems - and it won't have the authorities tugging at its tail.The nub of the case against the company is: why should it be allowed to bundle products like its media player into its operating system for "free" instead of being required to distribute them as stand-alone extras? If extras such as browsers and media players   were sold separately there would be no problem.Of course, others such as Apple also bundle in products but they only have a minute share of the market (and a case could be made against them too, if necessary). But Microsoft has more than 95% of its designated market. That makes it a monopoly. And monopolies must behave properly.It would be to everyone's advantage if there was genuine competition to sell add-ons to Windows. Who knows how much innovation, especially from smaller firms, has been stifled at birth because of the impossibility of competing with what Microsoft is bundling in free?Microsoft is a formidable company. It would still thrive in competitive conditions. Instead this episode will confirm the worst fears of globalists: that multinationals are becoming too powerful for governments to control.Even if the opposition of the states who brought the case can't do anything more, the European Commission should make sure that it, too, doesn't roll over. What's good enough for the rum industry should be good enough for computing.áComments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There is another internet - already operational - where users are receiving connections up to 100 times faster than people at home. It is a network so swift and so powerful its advocates are claiming it has already changed the way we will interact with the internet in the future.This new internet is being developed in universities and research laboratories across the globe. And although its usage might be confined to academics, its benefits could spill over into the mainstream in only a few years.Until now, the race to build the next generation of the internet has been dominated   by the US, and by one project.Internet2is a consortium of 180 universities backed by the National Science Foundation and the US Federal government.But from December 1 - for the first time in the history of the net - Europe's academic and research communities will be able to hook up to a faster network, covering more people and more institutions than its rival in the US.Geant, the new pan-European network serving more than 3,000 of the continent's academic and research institutions, will operate in 32 countries. It has a budget of 200 million euros over the next four years - 80 million of which has come from the European   Commission.Each of the 32 member countries already has its own national research network - the Joint Academic Network (Janet) in the UK, for example. But now, with universities and research institutions increasingly collaborating across different borders, they need a high-performance network that crosses those borders, too.This is what Geant provides: a pan-European network at such high speeds it completely dwarfs the internet as we know it today. The kind of speeds available on Geant or Internet2 would impress even the most up-to-date technology companies.So, if a researcher on the Janet network wants to hook up with someone in Nice or Barcelona, they tap into Geant. Similarly, if a scientist in Cambridge wants to collaborate with one at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, they tap into Internet2."The Janet network peers directly with Abeline, the structural backbone of Internet2," says Jeremy Sharpe of Ukerna, the organisation that runs Janet. "We manage transatlantic network capacity. So researchers in the UK that are collaborating with universities in the States can have a direct path through Janet and on to Abeline."Geant and Internet2 are not separate from the physical network of fibre optic cables and telephone lines that serve today's commercial internet. And it will not immediately replace the net as we know it. What both networks do is buy connectivity on the open market from the telecommunications network operators, and then earmark it for research purposes only. They don't lay any new cables and they don't dig up the road.Dante, an organisation established in Cambridge eight years ago, built the Geant network. When it goes live next month, Geant will be an entirely new network, but it is also the fifth generation of a series of networks built by them.Eight years ago, Europe was, according to its general manager Dai Davies, the poor relation when it came to telecommunications. And consequently each of Geant's previous networks has lagged behind the US. But the subsequent liberalisation of the European telecom market and the investment of a number of operators in pan-European networks such as Colt, Level Three and Global Crossing has changed all that."I think the significant change is that people have been building international networks within Europe over the last five years," says Davies. "Whereas, historically, the model has been that   each country built its own network and connected it to the other countries."But the story of the next generation internet begins not in Europe, but in the US, a shade over five years ago. On October 1 1996, in the unglamorous surroundings of a basement in O'Hare Airport near Chicago, 36 research scientists and technologists met to establish a formal project to build a new internet.For years the group had felt that the growth of e-business was beginning to threaten the experimental nature of the net. A new network was needed, they decided, where academics and scientists could work on "advanced network technologies," unimpeded by the growth of email and commercial ventures. They called their project Internet2."Today, the commercial internet is very focused on delivering a reliable set of services to paying customers," explains Greg Wood of Internet2. "But the internet itself came out of an experimental environment where   researchers and students and scientists worked together to do new things with networks. After the commercialisation of the internet, these three communities felt there was a need to return to that."Initially, Internet2 was aimed at improving connections between the different networks already held on university campuses. But very quickly, the project moved on. The researchers began to ask themselves: if a faster, more reliable academic network could be achieved, what experiments could be run on Internet2? Soon after, they began to realise that these new experiments could completely transform our perceptions of what the net could do."The internet at that speed is not just a quantitative difference," says Wood. "It's not just that you can browse the web or send email 100 times faster. It means you can do completely new things and you need a new mindset to do them."For example, the famous telescopes on the top of Mauna Kea in Hawaii are now hooked up to Internet2. Astronomers are now able to control the telescopes from their desktops in the research labs, such is the speed of the connection and the reliability of Internet2.This is partly because, from the beginning, Internet2 included technology giants   such as IBM, Cisco and Qwest. And already the lessons they have learned on Internet2 are finding their way into the commercial internet.But it is not all about networks. The experiments to be run on Geant and Internet2 are equally fascinating. And they are not confined to the research lab. Even companies such as McDonald's, Johnson &amp; Johnson and Ford are keenly watching developments on the new networks. The fast food chain has already shown interest in the tele-immersion experiments being run on Internet2. The company envisioned fitting tele-immersion cubicles in its restaurants so people away from home - even in separate countries - could have dinner with their family.The other thing about the new networks is that they are beginning to fundamentally change the way institutions interact with each other. The key thing about the new networks is that they promote collaboration. Today, institutions have to cooperate because of the sheer scale of some of the things that they do. The Human Genome project, for example, would not have been possible without large-scale collaboration. Likewise, the information coming out of Cern is now so rich in data that no one institution can cope with it."There is now a recognition that individual countries having their own science programs is much less relevant," says Davies. "The new networks are a catalyst encouraging European based cooperation in research."Europe might, for the moment, have a faster network. But the US has a head start when it comes to applications for the new internet. Geant's main problem is that - unlike Internet2 - it operates in 32 different countries, each with very different telecommunications markets. Portugal and Greece for example, are still constrained by a lack of competition in the telecoms markets. Bulgaria, Romania and the Baltic states are also lagging behind. But the centre of the network - UK, Germany, France and the Benelux countries - should benefit from the fastest network in the world for years to come."Internet2 plans to offer 10 gigabit capacity by 2003," says Marine Chartois of Dante. "By that time I think we will already be looking at 40 gigabits per second. That covers a larger area, more people and a much more difficult environment."Telecommunications networks are like rail networks. Building your network first - as we have learned in the UK - does not mean you end up with the best network. If Geant is successful next month, part of the reason for that will be because it built its network after Internet2.From data gloves to terabytesTele-immersionTele-immersion is the technology that will allow people in different parts of the world to feel as if they are sharing the same physical space. Virtual reality is really about the creation of fantasy worlds. Conversely, tele-immersion is about connecting real places in real time, through the development of "tele-cublicles". Earlier this summer, successful tele-immersion experiments were carried out at UNC Chapel Hill and the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. Jaron Lanier, who coined the term virtual reality and who built the world's first data glove in the early 1990s, led the experiments, using Internet2. Similar experiments include the use of haptics - remote feedback instruments that allow users to "feel" objects thousands of miles away.HDTVThe University of Washington in Seattle has been sending High Definition Television (HDTV) over Internet 2. The images are as good as the best photographic plates. Even usable   X-rays can be viewed. This could have profound implications. Video conferencing with TV-quality pictures is one application; remote surgery another. Experiments have included a violin master class. A seminar at the University of Oklahoma allowed teacher and pupil - separated by several hundred miles - to play in harmony.The GridAnyone who has encountered theSeti@homeexperiment - the smart screen saver that uses your computer to search for extraterrestrial life when you are not   using it - will have experienced distributed computing, where the work is shared out among a network of connected computers. Experiments being run on Geant and Internet2 want to take distributed computing to a new level. When the Very Large Hadron Collider near Geneva becomes operational in 2005, terabytes of data will start pouring out of Cern. There are simply not enough supercomputers in the world to deal with that amount of data. That is where the new networks come in. The idea is that computers held on the networks could be connected to share processing power and even hard disc space. They will be locked in to a grid - effectively creating one super computer.ÀComments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
New PCI am considering buying a new PC (and also installing Windows XP) but find the price lists I have received from local     suppliers who can build to my specifications unhelpful. Do I go for the fastest/newest processor or go for the biggest hard     disk, etc? Are you able to offer your minimum specifications for home/office needs?Alun Richardsar@cwmpas.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Any new PC should meet your needs, but mid-range systems usually provide the best value. Currently that     is a machine with a 1.5GHz or 1.6GHz Intel Pentium 4 processor, 256 megabytes of memory, 40 gigabyte hard drive, nVidia   GeForce 2 MX graphics card with 32MB of memory, CD-RW drive, 17in monitor and Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition. From     Dell, that would cost around £800 including delivery and VAT.There is no significant difference between the different P4     chips from 1.5GHz to 1.8GHz. However, more memory usually does improve performance, so I suggest getting a PC that     takes standard (SD Ram) memory chips and filling it. With 256MB modules costing about £20 each (seewww.crucial.com/uk,   you can probably afford as much as the PC can handle. A CD drive capable of writing CD-R discs is essential for taking     back-ups of home/business data.Someone buying a games machine might want a faster graphics card and perhaps a bigger     hard drive. For Windows XP, all parts must be on the hardware compatibility list. Seewww.microsoft.com/hclorhttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q131/3/03.aspSync itI use Microsoft Outlook at work, with Windows     NT, and use the Tasks, Calendar, Diary and so on. At home, I use Outlook Express as my default mail service: I have Outlook     loaded but don't use it. Can I transfer diary/calendar data from one Outlook to the other so I can have an up-to-date diary     both at home and at work?Carew Satchwellcarewandmarian@satchwell.fsworld.co.ukJS:Outlook's File menu offers an     import and export wizard that will save data from your office PC so you import it into your home machine. Alternatively,     Outlook keeps its data in a file with the pst extension, so you could search your work system for a pst file (*.pst), copy it,     and take the copy home.However, you may find it is very large, and your company may not like the idea. But both options     are so tedious you would not want to do it every day. Instead, try synchronising the data on your office PC with a web site     such as Yahoo, then synchronise your home machine with the same site. I recommendVistoor any site     that uses Pumatech's Intellisync software. A much more expensive version of the same idea is to synchronise both machines     with a PocketPC such as a Compaq iPaq.Mailing filesA friend is trying to send me some photos via email but my ISP bounces     them back as too large. Is there a way to send large files via attachments without them being rejected?Ray Physickrayphysick@fsmail.netJS:Most email programs will split a large file into a number of small files and encode the parts as     text. The file is then sent in pieces, and reassembled at the other end. Outlook Express can do this. To set the maximum     size of the parts, go to the Tools menu and select Accounts. Select the service you are using on the Mail tab and click     Properties, Go to the Advanced tab, tick the box next to "Break apart messages larger than", and type in the maximum file     size you want, eg 256K.However, email is a poor way to send large files. Either exchange them directly using an instant     messaging program such as Yahoo Messenger, or use Streambeam. If you and your friend open "freeloader" accounts atwww.streamload.com, you will be able to "beam" one another multimedia files up to 10 megabytes in size. The free account     limits you to 50 megabytes of downloads per week.It forgetsI had Internet Explorer 5 set up to connect automatically to     Freeserve, and when first installed, the "remember password" facility worked. Now I have set up another connection, I can     enter the password but it is never remembered.Richard Waddingtonrichard@rwaddington.freeserve.co.ukJS:This bit of     Microsoft programming seems to be so flaky the question is almost impossible to answer. The Microsoft Knowledge Base has     at least two articles on the topic:http://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/q148/9/25.aspandhttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/q137/3/61.asp. But usually I think the best approach is to work through the list of nine     possible solutions atwww.annoyances.org/cgi-bin/ce-showtopic/006_004and hope you find one that works.TalkbackJacob Braunerjacob.brauner@ntlworld.comwanted to set Internet Explorer to summon his Pegasus mail program when he     clicked an email address on a web page (September 6) but it would not let him. Now Nigel Greenwoodnigel@elgin.free-online.co.ukthinks he has found a solution: "a useful patch called WSendTo available from thePegasus home page". It also adds Pegasus Mail as an option on Windows Explorer's Send To menu. "I find that it works     perfectly," says Nigel.
A tentative settlement in the Microsoft antitrust case was in jeopardy today after splits emerged among the 18 states that sued the software giant along with the government.The coalition of 18 states has split into three, with two-thirds poised to settle the three-year landmark case and the others determined to go to trial.The deal to settle the antitrust charges was reached between the justice department and Microsoft, but the states asked to be given until today to evaluate the terms. Six of the states negotiated some additional terms.Microsoft expressed frustration that the federal government's state partners could not agree.     "The issues in this case have been beaten to death and they have been beaten to death by people who are worn out," Microsoft lawyer John Warden said.He said roughly one-third of the states was prepared to accept the terms negotiated by the justice department and another third had reached a supplementary agreement with the company that could allow them to accept the settlement.But Brendan Sullivan, a lawyer for the states, told the judge the remaining states were unwilling to accept the terms and wanted to proceed to trial.Mr Sullivan did not identify which states were willing to settle and which were holding out. But several attorneys general hinted at their plans yesterday.California and Massachusetts indicated they were prepared to reject the settlement as inadequate, but New York and Illinois were inclined to settle. Phil Beck, a lawyer for the justice department, said the agency had received the supplementary agreement reached by some of the states early today and was reviewing it.He described the changes as "clarifications, not substantive changes to the agreement. It does not appear to us that we'll have any objections", Mr Beck said.The rift in the coalition grew yesterday during intense lobbying over how to proceed. Trying to preserve the fragile negotiations, the court-appointed mediator, Eric Green, met officials from New York, Ohio, Connecticut, California, Iowa and Massachusetts.Negotiations continued today until moments before a court hearing, resulting in the supplementary agreement with a third of the states. The changes to the negotiated agreement include some that would affect Microsoft's business-level server computers.The settlement already negotiated between Microsoft and the justice department requires the company to provide technical details to help rivals make products compatible with its monopoly Windows operating system and to give an oversight panel full access to its books and plans for five years.It also bans exclusive contracts with computer makers that put rival software vendors at a disadvantage. But critics portray the 21-page agreement as rife with loopholes, including one clause that permits Microsoft to restore after 14 days any changes made to Windows by computer makers.It also allows Microsoft to maintain the secrecy of any technical details of its anti-piracy, security, anti-virus or encryption technology.California attorney general Bill Lockyer, whose state is home to Silicon Valley, emerged as one of the harshest critics of the settlement.He said that his resolve was hardened after listening over the weekend to advice from technical experts and officials from Microsoft's competitors, such as IBM, AOL Time Warner, Sun Microsystems and Novell.The states have been some of Microsoft's most aggressive critics and were blamed for the failure of settlement talks last year.
Computer Which? magazine has today criticised the online shops of high street names WH Smith, Dixons and PC World for poor customer service and delivery, and said consumers are better off using online-only retailers such as Amazon.A survey of 4,000 readers found that the Dixons website was seen as the worst of the three for the standard of its customer service with only 16% saying they were very satisfied.PC World came next with 32%, followed by WH Smith with 42%.Only 45% of online customers or WH Smith and Dixons said they were happy with the standard of delivery they received, with PC World only slightly better with 48%.WH Smith came bottom for availability of CDs and books through its site.Amazon came top in all but one of the five categories.Tesco's website performed well in the survey with 72% of shoppers saying they were satisfied with its delivery service and 60% with its customer service.Tessa Russell, a senior researcher at Computing Which?, said: "If you're looking for a stress-free online shopping experience, opt for one of the online-only retailers."You're likely to find more stock and will often enjoy higher levels of customer service and delivery.     "Major high street names such as Dixons and PC World are clearly letting their customers down in cyberspace and still have some way to go to catch up with their internet-only rivals."A joint spokeswoman for Dixons and PC World said: "We are disappointed by the results because we don't want to rest until 100% of our customers are 100% happy."She added that the company had recently invested £17m in its online operation to minimise mistakes.Kate Kennedy, managing director of WH Smith Online, said: "All businesses know there are areas where you can always improve."There are a whole bunch of things we have done and a whole bunch of things that are in the pipeline to address these complaints."
More than 100 million people use instant messaging (IM) programs on the net, and a growing number are using the same software to exchange files. IM programs enable users to share MP3 music files, videos and other types of multimedia, without using a host such as Napster.To join in, you have to install a messaging program such as AOL Instant Messenger, ICQ, MSN Messenger, or Yahoo Messenger. All can now be used to transfer files. If you have a version that cannot do this, you will need to upgrade.We have already taken you through how to download a messaging program in this series (July 5, 2001), so we will assume you have already done this. If not, the process is largely automatic and hard to get wrong. In this article, we will look at file transfer using AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) 4.7.Before going online with AIM, set up a folder to hold the files you want to share. AIM will create a directory in the My Documents folder in Microsoft Windows. However, this may not be the one you want to use. (My Documents is a good place to keep essential data that you need to back up often. It should not be full of large multimedia   files.) I created a directory called Shared files in my Downloads directory. Move the files you want to share into this new directory.Run AIM, click on My AIM on the toolbar, select Edit Options and then Edit Preferences. This will bring up a screen that lets you set up AIM the way you want it. Click on File Sharing, then go to the upper right, click the Browse button, and navigate   to the Shared files directory. Next, click on File Transfer and change the download directory to a better location: it can be the same Shared Files folder. Finally, in the File Access panel, select the radio button that says Allow (to enable file access for your buddies). This will also disallow access to people who are not on your buddy list.Most new IM users will be joining a group of friends    online, and will have a ready-made set of buddies. Even if you are using IM for the first time, you probably know someone who is already a user and who can become your first buddy. To add him, click the List Setup tab on the AIM control panel, right-click on Buddies, and select Add Buddy from the menu. Type in your buddy's screen name or "handle" where it says New Buddy. Click the Online tab,   sign on to the service, and find out if your buddy is online. If so, right-clicking on the buddy name lets you send an instant message, or send a file, or get a file.To send a file, right-click on the screen name and select Send File. This pops up a control panel. Click the File button and choose a file to send from your Shared files directory. To send it, click the button marked Send. After the   connection is made between your two computers, and your buddy accepts the file, it is sent automatically.Receiving a file is the same but the other way round. You will get a message saying a buddy wants to send a file, and you must click to accept it.It is best to have a message box open while swapping files as messages will appear there. However, on AIM, you cannot send to and receive from one buddy at the same time.You can also fetch files from your buddies' computers as long as they are online. Indeed, AIM tells you if your buddies' accounts are not being used (inactive), and this is often the best time to download files. To do this, right-click on a buddy's name and select Get File from the menu. This will open a directory of the folder where your buddy shares files. Highlight the file (of files) you want, and click the Get button. The files will be transferred.File transfers via AIM are usually faster than when using file-sharing systems such as Aimster and KaZaA. However, one drawback is that if a file transfer is not completed, AIM does not resume where it left off.
I found myself standing at the counter at Dixons this week asking the price of a Sony PlayStation 2. When told £199, I got
   out my phone and texted the words "PlayStation 2" to a special abbreviated telephone number (84877). There is no need to
   register first.Within seconds, I had a reply listing the five cheapest alternatives available elsewhere. The lowest price was
   £194.97 at Comet. I asked the Dixon's attendant whether they could match that price. The manager was consulted and
   promptly replied that he couldn't. So I thanked him and said I would go to Comet. (The cheapest price on rivalShopSmart.co.uk's web site was Amazon at £194.99 - but it came to £197.13p with postage and packaging.)Actually I didn't
   go to Comet because I was testing outPricerunner's new SMS comparison shopping servicenow
   available on Vodafone and BT Cellnet as well as online.Jamal Hirani, the managing director of the company, claims to have
   2.5m products on his database, which is updated every day. He has built up so much information about customers that he is
   able to sell it to manufacturers.This gives Pricerunner an extra revenue stream on top of the 50% cut the company takes
   on the 50p cost of each text message. He claims the company - 45% owned by New Media Spark - is trading profitably
   already. Comparison shopping is coming of age thanks to texting.The last time I tried it was nearly a year ago with Wap but
   soon gave up. By the time you had surmounted the delays and bad connections the shop would have shut. Pricerunner's
   service is another example of how simple technology can beat more sophisticated alternatives if it works. I have to admit,
   however, that it didn't work for me about half the times I tried (which could have been because I didn't type the name of the
   product in a uniquely identifying way).But if Pricerunner can iron out these problems, it is a potential killer application.
   Most shoppers have a phone with them all the time. If every time you are buying anything from a Nokia phone to a BMW car,
   you spend 50p to find out if there is a cheaper alternative, then you can either negotiate the price down or go elsewhere.It
   is a good example of the deflationary forces of the new economy, enabling customers to shop around for the lowest price,
   thereby bringing down the overall level of prices and making it difficult for sellers to raise them. Hirani claims there were
   4,000 requests for the price of Windows XP on the day of release last week (best price, Buy.com, £81.02 for the upgrade).This week, the service will be extended to Channel 4's teletext service and Lycos.co.uk. The texting explosion is showing no
   signs of dying. In less than three years, messaging has achieved the market penetration that it took email 20 years to
   reach. The GSM Association reckons that 250bn text messages will be sent this year. That is equivalent to more than 40 for
   every person on the planet (even though most people do not have access to a phone, let alone a mobile).With new
   applications such as instant messaging and the ability to send photos in prospect, the craze is unlikely to go away. GSM
   research shows that youngsters in Australia use the same shortcuts and word formations as in the UK and Europe, which
   suggests that a new global language is evolving. Parents worry that texting shorthand could depress spelling skills.That
   may be true but to the extent that kids use "smart" key inputting it could help, because they have to know the exact
   spelling before it works. Meanwhile, new commercial and personal applications are being announced almost daily as companies
   try to exploit the dream scenario of targeting customers on a one-to-one basis. For instance, Holiday Autos sends a text
   message confirmation for every car it rents, giving the customer immediate confirmation with all the details needed for
   collecting the car.Flyingdrumis using two-way texting technology in association with Adidas to find
   the fastest texter in the west. You have to answer a few quiz questions but the winner is not just the first with the
   answers - but who inputs the correct answers in the shortest time. The winner becomes Quickfingers txt msg champion.If
   you are looking for a mobile phone-free area, go towww.themazehouse.tvwhere web cams are monitoring a haunted house
   this week for the Sci-Fi channel. The organisers have banned mobiles and text messaging because they might interfere with
   paranormal activity. Since the introduction of mobiles 15 years ago, ghostly apparitions have apparently declined to almost
   zero. Steven Millington, who is leading the investigation, thinks paranormal phenomena may be drowned out by the electrical
   noise from phone calls and text messages. Who says they do no one any good?
Microsoft and the US justice department have reached a tentative agreement to settle their long-running antitrust case, and state attorneys general were reviewing terms of the deal, according to people familiar with the talks.Terms of the prospective settlement were closely guarded, and people close to the negotiations cautioned that precise language was still being worked out even between Microsoft and the justice department.But groups that have been pressing for tough sanctions for Microsoft immediately accused the Bush administration of "selling out" by seeking weak penalties. The antitrust suit revolved around accusations that Microsoft had used its monopoly position on the computer desktop to control the internet browser market as well.US district judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly has set a deadline of tomorrow to reach a settlement. All sides - including state prosecutors from Iowa, Connecticut, New York and Wisconsin - met late into last night with mediator Eric Green in Washington.The attorneys general from the states that sued Microsoft for antitrust violations were weighing whether to sign onto the deal, sources close to the mediation talks said. Charles James, the assistant US attorney for antitrust, disclosed the agreement to the attorneys general yesterday and said Microsoft would accept the terms, the sources said.The computer industry has eagerly been monitoring the talks, looking for a possible settlement and hoping it would combine with the release of Microsoft's new Windows XP operating system to invigorate the lagging industry that has helped drag down the stock market.The considerations in the coming days by state attorneys general and their top lawyers are important. The case was nearly settled during previous negotiations under US circuit court judge Richard Posner, who hinted afterward that states had stymied an agreement by seeking tough penalties that Microsoft rejected.Sources said the prospective agreement would ban Microsoft from drawing up restrictive contracts that force computer manufacturers to buy versions of Windows with new features, but it would allow for financial incentives such as discounts to make those versions more enticing.It would also force Microsoft to reveal the parts of the Windows blueprint that relates to Internet Explorer, but not to the operating system as a whole.Microsoft officials have warned they would not accept any broad prohibitions against bundling new features into Windows.The chairman of Microsoft, Bill Gates, has hinted in recent days of successful negotiations, saying last week that he was "fairly optimistic" an agreement would be reached.However, the Washington-based Computer and Communications Industry Association charged the administration was not pushing for tough enough penalties, such as requiring Microsoft to disclose its source code blueprints for its flagship Windows operating system."The justice department is not settling this case, it is selling out consumers, competition, and all those who want a vibrant, innovative high tech industry contributing strength to our economy," the group's president, Ed Black, said in a statement.
War gamesThe US Army is financing the development of two video games, C-Force and C-12, to help develop the skills of field commanders. In C-Force, players command a squad, and in C-12, a company. The games will be developed by the Institute for Creative Technologies, run by the US Army and the University of Southern California, with some commercial software houses. They will be produced by Rob Sears, who also produced Mech Commander and MechWarrior 3.PS2 upSony shipped 4.6 million PlayStation 2 consoles in the quarter ending on September 30, and the turnover of its games division doubled. However, the parent company ended with a loss of $111m. In the same quarter, Electronic Arts increased sales by 9% to $240m, and reduced losses to $28m. EA, the biggest independent games publisher, said its Sims range had sold almost 9m units.Beach lifeSid Meier's Railroad Tycoon begat Theme Park, Pizza Tycoon, Rollercoaster Tycoon, Skate Park Tycoon and similar management simulation games. Now Eidos Interactive is planning another: Beach Life. The aim will be to create the most satisfying holiday experience with hotels, bars, clubs, water sports and other activities.Empire warPaul Clarke may not be a familiar name but he will represent the UK in Microsoft's $100,000 Age of Empires II tournament in Seattle next week. He will play against winners from 15 countries including Argentina, Australia and Singapore.Xmas boxThe big game season kicks off tomorrow with the launch of EA's Fifa 2002 football game, usually near the top of the Christmas games chart. It may get stiff competition from Harry Potter &amp; the Philosopher's Stone, another EA game, to be launched on November 16. Other hot tips include Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 from Activision (November 9), Sega's Virtual Tennis 2 and Rage's David Beckham Soccer (November 23), and Sony's Syphon Filter 3 (November 30).
The past 20 years have denied telecoms its natural development as a medium for two-way communication by the general public. Driven by the stock market and the thinking of the finance sector, the industry has concentrated on obvious profit opportunities - global business communications and TV and internet delivery. September 11 changed all that. With air travel suddenly becoming something to avoid, people are looking urgently to telecommunications to provide a serious alternative.We need countrywide and international two-way videophone and video-conferencing services good enough for   people to use on a massive scale to replace both planes and cars. Quite apart from public safety, even the environmentalists seem not to have noticed the immense potential of this for reducing pollution. We have the technology; and at first sight it is just a matter of finding the investment and getting on with it. But it isn't as easy as that.The result of two decades of the "free market" in telecoms in Britain is a mosaic of managements, networks and technologies that is peculiarly ill-adapted to this. If you want a video-conference today you have to rent an expensive, specially set up, network that is likely to be available only to other customers of your own operator. There is a public videophone service of sorts available between BT customers with ISDN2, but it has never caught on.Conventional telephone services, in which every single telephone can talk to every other telephone, was created by a single national operator. To make it work today there have to be laborious interworking arrangements between the various competing networks.Getting public videophone going countrywide from   scratch would be next to impossible with so many disparate managements and technologies. Unified management and technical direction is essential.This call from the public cannot be denied. The department for trade and industry under its new secretary of state will simply have to put aside its traditional objections to "monopoly" and persuade the operators to   pool their UK network resources to create a single operation. Stranger things have happened recently - look at Railtrack.The straightforward way would be for Future BT and its competitors to come together. But if this seems just too improbable, there may be another way.In the past few months, one outside company has stated an interest in buying BT's complete fixed line network and another has stated a similar interest in the local cable and exchange network.Both are reported as saying   that if their bids succeed they will allow others to use their networks to provide services for the public. If one or other of these can be encouraged to succeed, the next step seems obvious: induce the cable TV companies to sell their wired networks to the successful bidder for the BT network.All would gain from this. The new unified operator would gain important economies of scale compared with its predecessors and would inherit some important building blocks of technology. The cable TV companies' broadband distri bution plans, which together cover half the country, need only a minimum of adaptation for two way operation. BT's network is further behind but ADSL is a first step.BT would get a major contribution to its debt; the cable companies would escape from their long agony of unrewarding investment in competing plant; and both they and BT would be free to evolve for the future.Whichever way it is done, it will take time and cost money to meld the present hotchpotch into a proper countrywide broadband network on which competing retailers could develop videophone and other advanced services.But with the opportunity created by the consequences of the tragic events of September 11, the chances of commercial success should be very good. Nationally, the telecoms sector would get a badly needed boost; and we would for the first time have a serious alternative to physical travel.&#183;Comments to online.feedback @guardian.co.uk&#183;John Harper is the author of Monopoly and Competition in British Telecommunications (Pinter)
Paper MarioNintendo	&#163;49.99 N64 	****Yes, it may be saccharine sweet, with visuals that a seven-year-old would dismiss as too gaudy, but Paper Mario is a deep and satisfying role-playing game (RPG).Starring the portly plumber - oddly enough, home repairs is one of the few activities Mario hasn't had a game based around - the adventure sees Mario, once again, trying to rescue the careless Princess Peach.And, as usual, the evil, yet oddly camp Bowser is the bad guy. Unlike most RPGs, usually set in dark fantasy or sci-fi settings, Paper Mario has a charming graphical look. Every character is a 2D-cutout image that flips rather than turns around, and being superimposed on to a quasi-3D environment gives the game a unique style. The main part of the game is the turn-based combat section   that will be familiar to RPG veterans.Each combatant takes their turn, either fighting or using an item. What starts off relatively simply, gets increasingly tactical, with players needing to choose carefully their action. Victory accrues points for Mario, which pushes him up a level and allows usage of more skills.Button-pushing and timed responses help alleviate the necessarily repetitive fight ing. Throughout the game, Mario meets other characters that join his team and aid in the quest. Each has specific abilities, making it important to choose the right one at the right time (only one can join you in battle).Enchanting visuals and atmosphere aside, Paper Mario is a fairly linear and standard experience. But it is all done with such charisma that both younger and older RPG fans will find themselves drawn in. The last N64 game is one of the best.  (GH)Time Crisis 2PlayStation 2	&#163;40 Namco/Sony 	****If you like playing Time Crisis 2 in the video arcades, you should enjoy the Play   Station 2 version even more. The small-screen graphics are even better than the original, the action rolls forward at a tremendous pace, and the console levels match the arcade game pretty well. There are a few extras thrown in, too, including more cut scenes and three mini-games.TC2 does not really have a story. What you get is a string of linked levels, each of which   can be completed in a few minutes by ducking and shooting at the screen with your trusty plastic light gun. The enemy battalions are only cannon fodder, except for the bosses, who can take some time to kill.So this is essentially a shooting game with no plot and no human interest, which you can learn in 10 minutes and finish during a playtime break. But what a blast! This   is, after all, an arcade game, and the real tension comes from going for high scores against the clock.There is a new, improved GunCon 2 gun for the PS2 version of the game, though you can play it perfectly well with the old G-Con 45. Still, it could be handy to have two guns.There is a two-player mode that can be played on a split screen or using two   consoles, while single players can try the double-gun mode, and blaze away with both hands.The main thing against TC2 is that, because of the subject matter, you are supposed to be 15+ to play it. In theory, this should deprive the game of a prime section of its potential audience, but how many of them will pay any attention to that?   (JS)Atlantis IIIPC	&#163;34.99 Cryo 	***There are few genres older than the adventure, and none in deeper danger of extinction. Even platform games can still be chart-toppers on some platforms, whereas with the exception of the Monkey Island saga, it is hard to recall even one adventure worth mentioning over the past five years. None the less, smaller publishers still seem committed to these towering monoliths, with both Myst 3 and now Atlantis III appearing within weeks of each other.The Atlantis games, like everything from French developer Cryo, is gorgeous to look at - with majestic, panoramic graphics and a nice line in lip-syncing when the characters talk. The game concerns the continuing search for Atlantis, this time focusing on one Lara-esque heroine and the lone warrior who decides to help her across several continents and time zones.In terms of gameplay, it is an equally familiar story, with action controlled by the mouse, and a supposedly user-friendly interface that changes functionality accord ing to the context. So when faced with a character, dialogue options will be highlighted, whereas elsewhere directions or inventory screens will be displayed. What none of these games has managed to overcome, however, is the sheer monotony of playing them.The first problem (finding the entrance to a cave), for example, took me 20 minutes to solve as each click led me to another pointless location, some only containing two possible directions (onwards and back in the direction you came from), which raises the question of why they were there in the first place.Likewise, the age-old problem of having to carry one object halfway round the map, just to click it on another "hot-spot" continues to date these games in the dark ages of computer entertainment. With realtime 3D engines that can handle these functions while maintaining a hectic pace, why would anyone want to bother with the ponderous stop/start gameplay that adventures now represent?If you are patient, the game has puzzles galore and high production values. But time has moved on, and nobody buys a &#163;1,500 computer for a glorified slide-show with occasional interaction. Unfortunately, Atlantis III seems to be lost in the same mists of time as its mythical subject.  (MA)
Napster may be on death row as a source of free MP3 files, but that does not mean people have stopped sharing     copyrighted music, TV shows, books and films.In fact, more than 100m internet users no longer need Napster and rivals     such as Aimster and KaZaA. They already have an even easier way to swap files, using free instant messaging software     from high-profile suppliers such as AOL, Microsoft and Yahoo.Instant messages (IMs) are like SMS text messages, but     better. They are sent from computers, which means most can be typed on a proper keyboard. IMs can already use different     colours, typefaces and smiley faces, and add hotlinks and other enhancements beyond the reach of today's limited SMS     system.IMs are sent instantly from one user's computer to another in peer-to-peer (P2P) fashion, instead of being sent to     a server that stores and forwards - and may delay - messages. What's more, all instant messages are free, which means     users can send hundreds a day. The result has been an explosion in the use of instant messaging, with more growth to come.Gartner Inc, a technology research company based in Stamford, Connecticut, has predicted that the number of instant     messaging users will grow to 180m worldwide by 2004. More importantly, Gartner says that 60% of all real-time online     communication - voice or text - will be driven through instant messaging technology. The company predicts that "instant     messaging will be an even more powerful communications application than email".Much IM software already enables users to     chat using text, to phone one another over the net and set up videoconferences. The ability to transfer files reliably is a     more recent feature, and rarely the reason why people start using software such as Microsoft's MSN Messenger, Yahoo     Messenger, and AOL Instant Messenger (AIM).But these programs make file swapping so easy, it can soon become a natural     part of the online experience. Of course, you should not accept files from strangers, but it is very easy to be seduced.     Suppose you are using AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) to chat online with your buddies - other users who form part of your     group because you have added their screen names to your buddy list - when the discussion turns to a song you have not     heard. Naturally someone has the MP3 file on their PC, so they select it and hit the Send button.All you have to do to     download it is click Accept. Through sending and receiving a few files, you discover     that many of your buddies have lots of files in shared folders on their hard drives, and you can fetch the ones you fancy,     whether your buddies are sitting at their computers or not. It is not unusual to find IM users who leave their computers     switched on all the time sharing several gigabytes of files.Typically, these are collections of music tracks and pop videos,     TV series such as Friends, audio books, Japanese animÀ, and collectable movies ripped from CD-Video or DVD discs. The     selection is much smaller than you would find on Napster, Morpheus, eDonkey or a similar file-sharing service, but there are     some advantages, too. File transfer speeds can be much higher with IM software, and the files themselves are much more     reliable.After all, you are downloading from a buddy who probably values his standing in the group, not some faceless geek     who doesn't care if files are misnamed, incomplete or of mediocre quality. Also, with IM services, there can be true     peer-to-peer file swapping with no central server logging what is going on. This may provide more privacy and better     security than using a file-swapping service. With a true P2P system, the server only needs to register your presence when     you log on, not what you do online.All it really has to do is collect your IP (Internet Protocol) address and pass it on to any     of your buddies who happen to be online, so their computers can contact yours directly, if required. It need not, and should     not, have any idea what users are saying, typing or sending to one another. I tried to find out from AOL and Yahoo in the US     if this is how their systems were set up, but neither could find anyone to return my calls. However, this system of     "presence", "authentication" and "notification" is the basis of Microsoft's strategy for providing .Net services, previously     known as Hailstorm.Gartner analysts expect these services to be the grounds for a titanic struggle between Microsoft and     AOL by 2003, "with Microsoft holding the technology advances and AOL as the master of marketing". By capitalising on their     P2P file-swapping functions, IM suppliers should be able to wipe out more centralised services such as Napster. However,     they may not choose to do so, because of the risk of legal action by the American music industry. Robert Batchelder, a     Gartner Group research director, says the obvious thing for AOL to do would be to collect lists of shared files - which today     are held only on the user's PC - on a directory server.That way, any AIM user could pick from thousands of files, just like     BearShare or Morpheus users. "It would take AOL all of about a week to do that," says Batchelder, "but I'm almost positive     that they have made the conscious decision not to do so. It would compromise a lot of security and privacy, and there's a     strong probability they would be called to task over the copyright issues."Napster was called to task, and it is becoming a     shadow of its former self. Mark Mulligan, a London-based music analyst with Jupiter MXXI, says it still has more European     visitors than any other music site, including Audiogalaxy. However, between February and August, the "audience reach" of     file swapping services fell from 16% in Europe to only 7.6%. Napster "went from being used by geeks to being used by     everyone from housewives to company directors," says Mulligan."It's now going back to the underground, to the savvy     college kids." Mulligan also thinks the record industry will stop any similar services developing, unless users pay for     copyright. "They are so alive to the issue now, they will not allow a Son of Napster to occur. They will nip the growth in the     bud," he says. But Batchelder thinks there may be a way round the problem. He says file sharing services "may provide the     enabling technology" to host Napster-style directories, "but wash their hands of whether it is put to infringing use".This is     similar to the "common carrier" concept that underlies the operations of the US telephone and postal systems: they are     responsible for the service, not the content. Companies providing directory technologies, rather than directories, could still     be accused of assisting copyright violations, but there are arguments in their defence. First, says Batchelder, they can     claim that there are substantial non-infringing uses for the technology; and second, they can say that preventing such uses     involves prior restraint, limiting free speech."In the US, these are monumental constitutional issues," he says. This is the     line he expects Aimster to take in its defence against a lawsuit filed by the Recording Industry Association of America. "If     the argument is about first amendment rights and prior restraint, it's going to be very, very difficult to beat. I think the     music industry is going to meet its Waterloo," says Batchelder. And if some of the popular file-sharing systems are ruled to     be legal, and are not converted to payment-based systems, they could continue to run alongside instant messaging services.The two approaches would be complementary. But what the balance would be like, no one knows, because no one knows how     much file-sharing goes on between buddies. It could be 10% of the market, or 90%. You could find out by recording     everything people do with their computers - as Jupiter MXXI does with its panel of users, for audience research purposes -     but it has never tried to extract figures for this kind of file sharing. "You're right to highlight that as a real growth area,"     says Mulligan, "but it's so difficult for anyone to turn that into a successful business model."
In the days of pen, ink and manuscript paper, a remote 12 years ago now, composers had to create their scores by hand. This was immensely time consuming as, while working down the page of a large orchestral score, all repetitions had to be written out again and again, but also in the process, any transposing instrument encountered, such as clarinet, horn or  cor anglais had to be written out at its correct transposing pitch.Indeed, if you were composing for brass band, the only two instruments that remained untransposed were the bass trombone and timpani. Furthermore, once the score was completed, every part for every player had then to be copied by hand from the full score. For a large symphonic work this could take months, and the likelihood of mistakes creeping into such a repetitive and mind-numbing process was so large that every part had to   be carefully checked for errors.With the invention of the first desktop music publishing packages, everything changed. Suddenly composers were able to do what writers had been able to do for some time and create and print their scores using a computer.The earliest packages, such as Score and Finale, were very good at their job, but had a steep learning curve. Another breakthrough was the begin nings of the ability for composers to hear the notes they had written, as these packages implemented digital playback via musical instrument digital interface (Midi) and the computer's speakers. Part extraction was also built in to the packages and, although difficult and clumsy to implement, it was none the less a huge time saver, and the resultant parts were much easier for the performers to read.Then, in the early 90s, everything changed again. Twin brothers, Ben and Jonathan Finn, still Oxbridge students, produced a brilliant new program that was written specifically for the Acorn Archimedes. The Archimedes was technically superior to the standard PC and had graphic capabilities in a different league, but ultimately it suffered from too small a user base to remain viable.The Finns, for obvious reasons, called their program Sibelius, and it was perceived as a miracle by those who used it. Many composers bought an Archimedes simply to have access to the program. For the first time, composers had access to a music writer that was easy to use and totally intuitive. In fact, the newly fledged company's slogan was: "Manuscript paper that can think."Another tremendous breakthrough was its ability to play back large scores with all the instruments sounding a very reasonable Midi approximation to the real thing. For the first time in musical history, it was possible to hear what an orchestral work sounded like before employing an orchestra and without the monumentally difficult task of reading the score in one's head - a gift given to very few.However, the Archimedes reached a crisis point where only a relatively small number of users of Sibelius kept the machine alive, and it inevitably passed away. But by this time the PC's graphics had improved dramatically, and its Microsoft Windows interface enabled the Finns to start again and rethink the entire program not only for the PC, but also for the Apple Mac, which had always had a superior graphical interface.With a stroke of genius, the programmers devised the means of creating a file format that was completely interchangeable between the two types of computer. Suddenly the whole world of composing and music publishing could be united in a way previously unattainable. This is not all, as the Sibelius team has managed to create utilities built into the program that can   translate files written for both Score and Finale, its two main rivals.What is it exactly about Sibelius that makes it so easy to use? The answer lies in its extremely clever and carefully thought-out user interface. The moment you load the program, you are confronted with a blank screen that looks like high quality paper.Creating instruments on it is simply a matter of choosing them from a simple dialog box, and the program is intelligent enough, unless specifically instructed otherwise, to create the instrumental staves in the correct scoring order, placing the wind above the brass above the percussion above the chorus above the strings, all of them correctly labelled and bracketed.Add a key signature from another dialog box and, if you have selected the score to be a transposing score (a simple toggle switch), all the instruments have the correct key signature for their individual transposition requirements.It is impossible to describe the degree of satisfaction that creating the initial blank page gives to the user. It looks so good and beckons you to fill   it with notes. Thereafter every operation retains this simplicity and functionality. You can play the music in from a Midi keyboard, or use the computer's keyboard by simply typing the note names, or you can click on the screen with the mouse.You can cut and paste music from one place to another and, if you copy a passage from, say, a flute to a clarinet then the transposition is done for you instantaneously. You can play back individual instruments, selected groups of instruments or the whole score starting from any position. Furthermore, you can select any note anywhere to find out exactly how long your piece   lasts up to this point. Part extraction is a dream and is near instantaneous.I could eulogise for hours about just how fulfilling Sibelius is to use. Watching the excitement of my pupils when they use it for the first time is proof enough of its outstanding qualities. There is even better news for existing users as an entirely rewritten version of the program has just been released.It is called Sibelius 2 and has a wealth of fantastic new features, including the ability to make instant arrangements and orchestrations in a variety of styles. Those who have been using the earlier version of the program should   upgrade to take advantage of what is an even greater achievement. The files are very small and can be emailed to publishers. What a difference to posting bulky scores via snail-mail with the forlorn hope that some day they might be returned.The crowning inspiration is a new website, www. sibeliusmusic.com , at which all Sibelius users can deposit their scores to be seen and played by visitors all over the world once they have downloaded a simple plug-in called Scorch. The piece can be bought online like any other commodity, and the purchase will license the buyer to print a copy of the music and the parts if available. Sibelius will then pass on most of the purchase price to the composer who uploaded the score.There are already thousands of pieces on the site, which has excellent search and browse facilities. Never has there been a time when one's music could be appreciated and evaluated immediately by anyone in the world with internet access. Thanks to Sibelius, the world of composing and publishing has changed for ever, and much for the better.&#183;Sibelius costs £595 (inc VAT) professional price, and £339 (exc VAT)  educational price
The Lux Centre in east London shut its doors last month, seemingly for good. The news that the beleaguered digital arts venue had "suspended all operations until further notice" came as a blow to the new media designers, independent filmmakers and digital artists who had made it their home.But away from Hoxton Square the outlook is not so grim. One option remains for those short of a showcase for their work - they could always move up north.No less than nine digital arts festivals will take place in the north of England this autumn. Collectively, the loose network of festivals is creating a cultural climate that the capital cannot match. Although the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) is attempting to redress the imbalance with its own digital festival in December - entitled So What Do You Want to Do With It? - London no longer has the space or funding to compete when it comes to the digital arts.The reason for these digital divides between London and the regions is political. For at least three years, the regional development agencies and the EU have been ploughing cash into digital arts and media in the north of England. Both bodies hope to stimulate a new media culture that will, in turn, regenerate former industrial Goliaths such as Manchester, Sheffield and the west midlands."Five years ago, when digital media was first   exploding, you couldn't get any money for it," explains Andy Stamp, co-director of Sheffield's Bastard TV festival. "The national funding system was based on old-fashioned arts like theatre and opera. Now the cultural agencies like the Arts Council, the Film Council and the Regional Arts Board have woken up to digital media, and that has all changed."But more importantly, one of the things going on &#91;in the arts&#93; in Britain is a copying of the European political system, which is based on regional rather than national government. The major regional development organisations like the Yorkshire Development Agency and Scottish Enterprise, which usually deal with industries such as coal and steel, have all started to work with IT and computers."But it is not just public money that is keeping new media culture alive in the north. Many digital media practitioners earn their keep in the north's large computer games industry, while the lively club scene - in Leeds, Sheffield and Manchester - offers enough work to keep others in Mac PowerBooks and digital cameras for years to come.With so many festivals to choose from, what is the work actually like? As you might expect from nine separate festivals, it is incredibly mixed. Work ranges from the ultra-futuristic visions ofStelarc, an Australian performance artist who quite literally fuses himself with machines. His new work, Hexapod, features a large   "intelligent" insect-like robot and will be premiered at the Now Festival, a three-week-long digital extravaganza in Nottingham.At the other extreme there is Bong! Smack!, a massive sound installation that last weekend dominated the ancient city of York. The work made use of five of the cities' bell towers, including the Minster, each joined by an array of sound created by people from York and from around the world via the net.Other works of note includeForty Part Motet, a   sound installation from Janet Cardiff, also at the Now Festival; electronic music experiments at Futuresonic in Manchester; and pioneering work with mobile phones at Metapod in Wolverhampton."There is very little happening in London &#91;in the digital arts&#93; outside the commercial sector," says Andrew Chetty. He should know, Chetty is director of Nottingham's Now Festival and the ICA's director of digital arts. "What you don't want is the commercial sector to be the only representative   of new media work. I think the capital needs a more mixed ecology."With the demise of the Lux, London is in danger of becoming a desert for the digital arts. Which is bizarre because so many artists are based in London. The trouble is, so few cultural institutions are interested in supporting them."Next year looks even rosier for digital arts festivals in the north. Next spring, Newcastle will open its Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, which will feature a designated digital department. Liverpool'sFoundation of Arts and Creative Technologywill also get its own purpose-built centre for digital arts, which is believed to be closely modelled on the groundbreaking V2 media lab in Rotterdam.And it is not just the large, urban centres that are benefiting from government and EU investment in digital   culture. Smaller centres such as Huddersfield, Hull and York each have festivals of their own this autumn."There is something regenerative about digital technology," says Kit Monkman of York's Sight Sonic festival. "It is cheaper to set up in the north than it is in London. There is also an abundance of old buildings that have lost their original purpose. We work, for example, in a converted 17th-century building. More and more people are becoming attracted to the quality of life up here."Eventually I think you will see the creation of a tighter network of festivals in the north of England. You could run them simultaneously over a two-week period. We would not only attract more people from the south, but also visitors from the US and Europe."So if you want to catch cutting-edge digital work this autumn, it's high time to hit the road north.Festival highlightsNow Festival, Nottingham Oct 22-Nov 11.www.nowfestival.org.ukMetapod, Wolverhampton  Oct 31-Nov 3.www.metapod.comTwo Cultures, Bradford Nov 7-8www.theculturecompany.co.uk/pages/twocultures/tc_set.htmlFuturesonic, Manchester  Nov 13-18.www.futuresonic.comBastard TV, Sheffield Nov 30-Dec 1www.convergence-arts.com
For more than 40 years, teenagers in poster-spattered bedrooms have pored over rock and pop magazines - New Musical Express or Sounds offering a rite of passage between the Beano and the latest Booker-winner.Remember your own favourite rock writers? Charlie Gillett, Karl Dallas, Jenny Fabian, Tony Parsons, Nick Kent and Jon Savage trigger poignant memories of time and place as surely as any guitar lick or bass line. But most of us treated their oeuvre as ephemera - we binned each week's Melody Maker and left our copies of Rolling Stone and Oz to moulder in the loft. Payola scandals, the Stones' interminable busts, that last interview with Hendrix, the shock of punk's assault on prog-rock's pomposity... all gone to landfill.No great loss, the literati might say. Wrong. For the best rock writing, often dismissed as pretentious froth in its day, transcended the frippery it chronicled, especially after the "new journalism" began infiltrating the music press in the late 60s (Hunter S Thompson's modern classic Fear and   Loathing in Las Vegas, for instance, first appeared serialised across two issues of Rolling Stone in 1971).Of course, little of the genre was lost forever. In fact, it is about to be celebrated in print and great swathes are set to resurface online.Paul Gorman's coffee table compendium, In Their Own Write (launched today by Sanctuary Publishing as a "definitive account of the collective madness known as the music press") charts the rise of pop hackery. From 50s Tin Pan Alley and typewriters to MTV and the email age, these heartwarming tales reveal a constancy of drink, drugs, back-biting, score-settling and general bitchiness.Today also sees the launch of Rock's Backpages, a searchable online library that brings long-forgotten   gems within the reach of any nostalgic music fan with internet access. The site is the brainchild of Barney Hoskyns, a freelance music journalist and one-time US editor of Mojo magazine."We set up Rock's Backpages (RBP) to aggregate nearly 50 years of rich, unique and compelling writing," says Hoskyns. He believes the collection has wide appeal. "Our content is not exclusively from the music press - many of the pieces appeared in newspapers, including the Guardian. But whatever their provenance, the interviews and articles cover virtually every seminal figure in rock and pop and thereby have evergreen value."The public's appetite for this sort of writing is proved by the success of retrospective magazines like Mojo, Uncut, Goldmine and Record Collector," adds Hoskyns.He believes the site will tap into the substantial and affluent constituency of baby-boomer music enthusiasts, a niche he feels has been poorly served online. As well as that core readership, Hoskyns also hopes the site will attract a "catching up" market of under-30s and time-rich silver surfers, interested in genres such as   jazz and blues. "Our library already contains several thousand articles," says Hoskyns.It is not entirely a stroll down memory lane, however. As well as articles published within the past few years, the site's front end includes a weekly, contemporary magazine for which Hoskyns has commissioned exclusive new writing.How will RBP pay its way?    Hoskyns is realistic about the commercial aspects of the site. "We will charge a modest user subscription and we believe Rock's Backpages will become a community where the thirtysomething to mid-50s age group will spend serious money on music and related products. So we are looking at strategic partnerships. We already provide content forTower    Records onlineand the revampedVH1 UK site, with click-throughs to our site. We are also syndicating archive material to make sure that the writers see a fair return on their work."Hoskyns is confident that Rock's Backpages will prosper, despite the harshness of the economic climate. "We have done our homework, taken things one step at a time, and we are certainly strong on in-house expertise. On the editorial side we have Mark Pringle, former editor of the BBC movies website; William Higham, who cut his teeth at Virgin Records; and former Mojo editor Mat Snow as consultant."Hoskyns claims several other keys to dot.com success: niche market, low overheads, strong brand names in his writers and source publications, exclusive content, and a concept difficult to duplicate offline. "Best of all," he concludes, "we have the trump card of being a bloody good read."
Search onMirago is a new UK search engine that offers searches by geographical region. So if you want information on, say, Richmond, north Yorkshire, you won't get a list of sites on Richmond-upon-Thames. You can also search by category: education, shopping, finance and health.AskAlix.com, a European business directory, is also worth a look. The site functions as a virtual Yellow Pages, but with a few twists - it lets you locate a business via the nearest airport, motorway or railway station.www.mirago.co.ukwww.askalix.comCup ticketsThere is still time to buy tickets for next year's World Cup. Although, the first round of tickets sales ended on April 30, a second "random selection period" runs from November 16 to January 15. All applications received will be entered into a draw that will take place in February. Good luck.  Meanwhile, a sneak preview of some of the futur istic stadiums that will host the games can be found at the unofficial site Worldcup archive.com.www.fifa.com/wc/2002/index_E.htmlwww.worldcuparchive.com/SPECIALS/venues.htmlGive bloodThe national Blood Service has launched a new website to bolster its campaign. It has been tarted up with a vampire theme to appeal to young people. The accent is on fun rather than hard information, but you can register to donate blood via the site and receive a &#163;20 Virgin Wines voucher for doing so.www.vampirenightly.comwww.blood.co.ukNuff saidIt may have stopped production more than 20 years ago, but appetites for The Sweeney seem undiminished. Now Carter and Reagan have   a site of their own, and it's pretty good, too. There is a full episode list, Sweeney-style tips, and a rhyming slang dictionary. There are also a few RealVideo clips, including the immortal line: "We're the Sweeney, son, and we haven't had any dinner."www.thesweeney.comWorkers unite!The UK's growing peace movement now has a website of its own. Media Workers Against the War aims to "promote pluralism in debate, the free flow of information, and the public scrutiny of official pronouncements". If you feel strongly about the allied action in Afghanistan and want to get involved, this is where you need to go.Elsewhere, the Indymedia movement, which made its name representing anti-capitalism, is beginning to refocus its attention on the defence of civil liberties. Other sites, such as the   Muslim Peace Fellowship and CND, have their own takes on the war.  And if you want a different perspective on the war - in English - then visit Afghan-web. This US-based Afghan website is compiled from all kinds of sources, including Pakistani and Iranian publications.www.mwaw.orgwww.indymedia.orgwww.afghan-web.com/aop/today.htmlwww.mpfweb.orgMy T-shirtFancy designing your own T-shirt? Here is a site that will help you do it for &#163;20. Just email the site a picture, and the cash, and they will send you the T-shirt.www.tshirtcandy.comPack your bagThe backpackers' bible, TNT magazine, has a new site full of useful information for   those staying in the UK, including a job search message board and free ad placement. Hostelworld.com is another useful site that lets you book budget accommodation in advance via the net. Meanwhile, Guardian Unlimited has launched this year's Netjetters. The two winners will win round-the-world tickets. You can follow their progress via weekly bulletins, and email them tips and advice.www.TNTmagazine.comwww.Hostelworld.comhttp://travel.guardian.co.uk/netjettersWho rules?Inspired by C Wright Mills' 1956 tract The Power Elite, Theyrule.net is a Flash-enhanced site that attempts "to make some of the relationships of the elite of the US ruling class visible". The site maps out the names of the directors of top companies, and then displays their connections with other companies and US government institutions. The result is a simple but effective document that reveals the networks of power. It is one of those sites that leaves you wondering why it has not been done before.www.theyrule.netNew &amp; noted&#183;www.jewishreunion.co.ukaims to expand on the success of FriendsReunited.&#183;The Bush-Bin Laden connection explained:www.bushnews.com/bushmoney.htm&#183;The Birmingham Museum of Science and Discovery has launched a handsome site atwww.thinktank.ac&#183;Listen to previews of Goldie's new album atwww.trustthedj.com/goldieSix of the bestGuy FawkesRemember, rememberwww.firework.org.ukThe horrible conspiracywww.innotts.co.uk/~asperges/fawkesBonfire nightwww.bonefire.orgTraditional recipeswww.hookerycookery.com/bfire-menu.htmFirework safetywww.fireworksafety.co.ukFirework reviewswww.firework-review.org.uk
How important is an online presence to the Tate?Extremely. The Tate.org site has ambitions to be the sixth Tate site, after Tate Britain, Tate Modern, Tate St Ives, Tate Liverpool and the store. The web presence helps people prepare for a real world visit and people can access the site after visiting a gallery, to find out to review and reconsider what they have seen. But perhaps, most importantly, the site interface is designed to provide those visitors who are unable to travel to the galleries with an opportunity to engage with the artworks on display.What can visitors to the Tate site find?Details of what is going on in each of our galleries, including exhibitions listings and web casts of events. There is also information on 25,000 works from the Tate collection - we will have the complete collection of 50,000 online by spring 2002. There is an online shop where they can buy prints, books and gifts - even a new range of underwear designed by Agent Provocateur! We also have some fantastic examples of Net Art.Is the net a good showcase for art?It is a fantastic showcase for art. It allows us to display more objects than we can physically fit in the gallery walls to people all over the world at a time that suits them. The net is also providing an extremely versatile and challenging new medium for artists to work with and curators to present on!Is the net helping to make art more accessible?I think it really is. Most museums worldwide are digitising their collections and offering access to these via the net, as well as a range of support materials that simply would not be feasible to provide in the gallery. How can that not be a good thing?What computer do you use?At work I use aToshiba Tecra 8200. I started off on Macs, but I am now a fully fledged PC convert, which is a shame, as I would rather support the underdog! I also have a Compaq iPaq and a Psion Revo.Do you have any favourite websites?I lovewww.heavy.com. The design and content are superb and work well together, although it is inevitable, but a shame, that they have now started charging. I am also a big fan ofhttp://rhizome.org, which is the best online resource for new media art.I also shop atwww.tesco.comas it really works. Good examples of galleries online arewww.sfmoma.organdThe Whitney.Do you have any favourite gadgets?My juicer, my DVD player and my Sony digital video camera. Oh... and aTiVopis top of my wish list!Visitwww.tate.org.uk
Costly choiceThe assumption that rich media portals will be the key driver for broadband take-up (Online, October 25) demonstrates a naive belief in the inevitability of convergence.Just as toasters and kettles have not combined into integrated breakfast-making machines, televisions and computers remain separate. The PC is primarily a tool for creating and editing content. Although a broadband-enabled PC is capable of receiving rich media content, most users prefer to watch movies on a conventional television. Rich media works best when it is short, simple and places low demands on both end user and content provider.The real impetus for broadband take-up is not top-down delivery from media monoliths, but the benefits gained by the home user in having a fast and stable information conduit. Broadband-enabled users cite rapid access to conventional    websites, reliability of connection, and fast software downloads as principle benefits of switching. Furthermore, as the furore over Napster and the popularity of Morpheus, Gnutella  et al has demonstrated, peer-to-peer file distribution systems are beating the media giants at their own game.Jonathan Kayshoes@clara.co.ukYet another article about the low take-up of broadband in the UK. Yet another article claiming this won't improve without better content. Yet another article that fails to acknowledge it is the cost of telephone calls that are the chief factor in depressing internet usage.Joseph Nicholasjosephn@globalnet.co.ukOnline replies:There is no extra charge for data calls with broadband data connections such as ADSL and cable modems.Cut the imageWith regard to Rachel Holdsworth's letter (Feedback, October 25), the popular perception of programmers is ill informed. Programmers are not all the nerdy geeks of popular culture! We do not work on our own. We work in teams. Nerds are not good at teamwork. Nerds tend not to make good programmers. Any   worthwhile activity requires "intense interest in getting abstract ideas to work", and the more abstract the ideas, the more crucial it is to have good communication skills. So many people with these skills are put off joining the ranks of programmers due to these misconceptions.People migrate to more "people-oriented" positions because they are less demanding.Jolyon Wrightjw@i1here.fsnet.co.ukLimiting ideasThe email from Holly Larson did not refer to the school she attends which she says encourages science yet only has one-seventh of her year studying chemistry and physics. She does not comment on access to careers advice. If the advice is well founded, with links to industry, I am sure her friends would have a clearer understanding of the world of engineering. It is a world not just of "gadgets" that range from the microprocessor to the jet airliner, from the communication satellite to the mobile phone.Engineering is about creating gadgets in the real world and of managing the people and infrastructures involved in all the processes. Being a professional engineer is a challenge requiring not just mathematical skills, a sound understanding of the sciences of physics and chem  istry, but also management skills, communication skills and imagination. Computer skills are vital in everything engineers do nowadays.Limiting one's horizons to designing web sites might be satisfying for a year but with the skills she has, engineering can provide a rich, well-rewarded and varied career far beyond the limited world of gadgets and web sites. I suggest she seeks information from the professional mechanical, electrical, aeronautical and civil engineering institutions such as the I.E.E., I.Mech.E., R.Ae.S and I.C.E.John G Steeljohn.steel@ntlworld.comRe Holly Larson's comment "I want to design websites, but I would never go into computer programming or software design." If you can't program, you will never be able to do more than one page per website. How else will you be able to program the link to another page? I would never consider employing a junior web designer unless they could program in at least ASP and Javascript. If you can't program, you will be what is called a graphic designer.Tom Pottsmadtom1999@yahoo.comCurly issuesYour article on the replacement of HTML with Curl only briefly mentions cost. A read of Curl's website reveals the    following: "Our license fees are $0.0005 per kilobyte of Curl code executed on a client device. This includes Curl applets, packages and scripts; but does not include data or images. We only charge content owners or publishers, not end users." Surely this raises questions about the viability of a long-term replacement to HTML being a technology with a licence fee structure of publisher pays-per-view?Paul Andersonpaul.anderson@nottingham.ac.ukBT bites backI note that Colin Barnden (Hurry up, BT, Feedback, October 25) is the IT manager of a small company in Northamptonshire and, while this letter is being written in a private capacity, I am in fact a small employee of a large company that operates nationwide and is called BT.Letters such as Colin's offer little that is constructive to any debate, being, as they are, just unpleasant snipes. He sees nothing worthy of any praise about BT having enabled "just about every local exchange around", but whinges because we have not yet enabled his. Our realities are harsh and commercial, not virtual and instant.Should he not be pleased that an OAP can surf? And doesn't he reserve any criticism for NTL &#91;the cable TV   company&#93;, which seems totally uninterested in his situation?I am glad that through "extreme effort" he has managed to track down someone to look into the situation. Well done, Colin. Hard work will only make you stronger.Laurence Moorelaurence.moore@bt.com
Move itIs it possible to transfer text stored on old 5.25 inch floppy disks on to 3.5in disks for use on a more modern     computer?Keith Mardermarder1234@marder.fsbusiness.co.ukJack Schofield replies:It should be very easy, but it depends     on three things. First, physical compatibility. You need to have a 5.25 inch floppy drive and a 3.5in floppy drive. Hardly any     PCs have 5.25in disks these days but you may find a friend has one. In extremis, you can fit a 5.25in drive to your PC, if     there is room. Second, operating system compatibility.The operating system has to be able to read the data sectors on the     5.25in disk. This is not usually a problem as the 5.25in disk will probably be in DOS format which, one way or another, can be     read by almost any operating system on many different types of hardware. Third, application compatibility.You may be able     to move the file but do you have an application that can read it? If the file is in plain text format, then almost any program     will read it. If it is a proprietary file format, it may be impossible to read it without the software used to create it.Some     programs, such as Microsoft Word, have large sets of filters that will suck data out of a wide range of different formats. It     may therefore be possible to use Microsoft Office to read data from an obscure application and then save it in a format     that you can use in a new one.Remember Jack's First Law: Never put data into any application unless you know exactly how     you are going to get it out again. Data is expensive (if only in terms of the time needed to create it) and lasts forever,     whereas hardware and software are cheap and rarely last more than a couple of years.Double takeWhen I bought my PC it     came with Outlook Express installed, so I used this to send and receive emails. Later I purchased Microsoft Office and     switched to Outlook as my default mail client. From then on, I never had cause to use Outlook Express again.However, a few     weeks ago one of my sons opened Outlook Express, just to see how it varied from Outlook, only to discover two or three     unread emails - one of which was quite important. In what circumstances are emails sent to a secondary mail client? Would I     need to remove Outlook Express to ensure this doesn't happen in future?Margaret Smithmsmith51@supanet.comJS:Mail is     not sent to an application, such as Outlook or Outlook Express, it is sent to a mailbox storage area on a host computer. You     can then collect it with the software of your choice. Someone may have used OE to collect messages without noticing, or OE     may be set up to send and receive messages automatically on start-up. You can find the tick-box for doing this by going to     Tools|Options and selecting the tab marked General.It is in the middle, under Send/Receive Messages. You can prevent OE     from fetching any more messages by removing its ability to access your email accounts. Select Tools| Accounts and click     the Mail tab. Highlight each email service and click the Remove button. Outlook is a personal information manager designed     to work with other Microsoft Office programs, and it also synchronises with handheld computers.However, it does not have     the ability to read Usenet newsgroups, which OE does. Also, OE is part of Internet Explorer. For these reasons, it is not     usually removed.OutclassedI help run a small school network that uses MS Networking to share directories from a server     so each class and child can have their own directory for their work. However, the children keep accidentally moving or     deleting theirs (or other children's) directories. Is there any way of locking the directories in place while allowing files within     them to be written/changed/deleted?Mike McLoughlinmmclough@yahoo.comJS:Using the Windows System Policy Editor     (Poledit) provides some security, and there is a useful tutorial about it atwww.elkantler.net/security/security.htm. You     could also try some file/directory protection tools such asMikko Technology's File ProtectororSoftpile's Easy File Protector. You might also find Roxio's GoBack 3 useful. This allows you to "roll back"     what users have done to return a PC to an earlier state, without losing files created in the meantime. However, Windows 9x     was not designed with security in mind, and in the long term, you should be thinking about moving to a system that enables     an administrator to control the set-up for many separate users. For Windows users, the obvious candidates are Windows NT,     2000 and XP.TalkbackWilliam Allenresponded to last week's memory lapse problem with     information about another way to find a hidden internet password. The idea is to get Dial-up Networking to keep a record of     what happens when you log on. Open the Ppplog.txt file and about 50 lines down, "just after the point where your Username     is sent in plain text, you can read your password as sent in plain text".For details, seehttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q140/7/91.ASPandhttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q156/4/35.asp&#183;Earlier,     John Wood had built a website using Microsoft FrontPage 2000, and wanted to include a quiz with multiple-choice questions. I     suggested Score, a free Microsoft quiz-making utility. Unfortunately, this disappeared in the vandalism, sorry, in the     redesigning of Microsoft's website. However,Richard Nice,Neil SmithandMatthew Nilanall suggestedHot Potatoesinstead.Nilan says: "It's very flexible and very easy to use. It's not freeware but it is free of charge for non-profit     educational users who make their pages available on the web."Stephen Spirosuggested theCastle     toolkitwhich does exactly what is wanted. For other ideas, see Sunil Hazari's page at the     University of Maryland:http://sunil.umd.edu/documents/assess.htm
At the risk of depressing older readers, last week marked the 25th anniversary of the release of New Rose by The Damned,     the first British punk single.Yes, a quarter of a century has passed since spiky hair, anarchy, the pogo, chaos,     straight-legged jeans, ripped T-shirts, safety pins and amphetamine-fuelled, three-chord guitar pop winged their way into an     outraged British consciousness. Which means it is 23 years since I bought my first punk record - well, a Blondie 45 - under     the impression that the revolution had started and everything was going to be different.Sadly, I was correct: Thatcher was     elected in 1979 and the revenge of Little England began in earnest. So much for youthful fervour and the widely held belief     that the young punks would soon burn themselves out. All these years later, The Damned (with Dave Vanian and Captain     Sensible remaining from the original quartet that featured Brian James and Rat Scabies) are still touring and recording, and     communicating with fans atwww.officialdamned.com.Here, alongside such staples of music sites as a discography and     biographies, you will find the delights of Captain Sensible's 2001 US tour diary. "The flight was a breeze," notes the Captain,     "possibly aided by some excellent tranquillisers that &#91;drummer&#93; Pinch had procured just before the trip. Trouble was, every     time he awoke from a quick snooze, he complained that the 'sodding things weren't working' and took another one."But while     such official sites are by no means rare - The Buzzcocks' site atwww.buzzcocks.comgives the lowdown on original 'cocks     Howard Devoto and Pete Shelley's recent recording under the irreverent moniker of buzzkunst - it can take an age to find     reliable information.Many punk bands imploded years ago so official sites don't exist or, like The Clash siteWestway To The    Worldwere set up to plug retrospectively released product. Far better to visit the lovingly     compiled gLondon's Burningwith its links, lyrics and guitar tablatures. Or try former Clash     frontman Joe Strummer's homepage atwww.joestrummer.co.uk.As befits their chaotic history, The Sex Pistols' web     presence is similarly confusing. A mini-site atwww.virginrecords.com, set up when the band briefly re-formed, is long     gone. Instead, try the cleanly designed God Save The Sex Pistols atwww.sex-pistols.net, or for news on Johnny     Rotten/Lydon go towww.john-lydon.com. The band's former bassist and principal tunesmith Glen Matlock has a site atwww.glen matlock.comwhere you will find dates for The Dead Men Walking "lark", a kind of could've-been-a-contender   supergroup tour featuring Glen, Pete Wylie of Wah!, Kirk Brandon of Spear Of Destiny and Mike Peters of The Alarm. Such a     nostalgia fest hardly seems punk at all.The second hassle with finding decent punk sites is the sheer number of cyberspace    destinations. For that reason I have not listed sites for US bands, except to note that punk would never have happened    withoutThe Ramones.TheGoogle punk directorylists 1,341 sites devoted to bands, and that is before you get into     subsections such as Flyers and Posters, Garage Rock, Riot Grrl and Christian Punk. (Visit Christian Punks Unite athttp://skatenbass.tripod.comto find "scripture chosen to support Christian punk".) This explains why the Ultimate Band     List,http://ubl.artistdirect.com, is invaluable.Type in the name of the band and you will find a biography, a links page and     information on downloads and streaming media. Look for links at House Of The Rising Punkhttp://ubl.artistdirect.comor     Worldwide Punkwww.worldwidepunk.com. Via such gateways, you will find brilliantly obscure sites.Ever wondered what     happened to The Adverts' mainman TV Smith? Visitwww.tvsmith.comto find out. Or Mark Perry, singer with ATV and     founder of the legendary fanzine Sniffin' Glue? Atwww.markperry.freeuk.comyou will find Mark cheerfully slagging off the     "navel-gazing toss" purveyed by Elvis Costello and Nick Cave. You could be forgiven for thinking that not a lot changed 25     years ago, except that boys were given another excuse to make lists, but the Women Of 1970s Punk atwww.comnet.ca/~rinasuggests otherwise.Pre-punk, chicks were, broadly speaking, allowed to sing folk songs and make tea. Thanks to the     trailblazing efforts of the likes ofThe SlitsandSiouxsie Sioux of The Banshees     fame, feminism barged into the rock 'n' roll boys' club. And if you want further proof that punk     changed people's lives, go to the Early 80s Punk Rock Survivors community athttp://communities.msn.com/earlyeightiespunkrocksurvivors, where you can "bullshit about the bad old days".
Manchester is to become the first city in the world to have high speed, wireless internet access at restaurants, pubs and coffee shops.A system using short range radio waves to link laptops and palm pilots to the internet will be installed in hotels, restaurants and universities on Friday as part of a test run. Users will be able to switch on their laptops and connect to the internet without having to plug into a phone line.The technology, known as "bluetooth", uses microprocessors mounted on, or imbedded in, walls and connected to an aerial. The processors will allow internet users to work at speeds 10 times higher than they would by using a phone line. A user will need to buy an adaptor for their laptop, or ask for a built-in wireless adaptor when buying a new machine.The Manchester scheme, launched today at the city's International Finance and Enterprise Week, is known as Speedwave and will go live in 70 sites in the city from February. It could be extended to the public sector services.Philip Coen, chairman of the Manchester communications firm, Netario, who developed the service with Swedish partners, said: "All the major telecoms players payed around &#163;26bn in licences to the government last year to allow people access to the net at high speed using mobile phones. But the telecoms were not planning to offer this for another two years."
It is the biggest, slickest spin campaign in history, a $1 billion marketing drive which wants the world to believe it can all but singlehandedly pull PC makers back from the brink of destruction, kickstart the new economy and drag us all out of recession.But it may end in tears.Launched with a fanfare only marginally less euphoric than the one the US gave the Moon landing, Windows XP, Microsoft's latest baby, is being pitched by the software giant as nothing less than the future of computing.The event was deemed so important that no lesser a mortal than Sting played a gig in New York to herald the launch of the new operating system - the software which allows your computer to run a suite of other applications.The product was unveiled by Microsoft's executives in 63 countries worldwide. Microsoft chief executive Steve Balmer hired the Royal Festival Hall to ram the message home in Europe. 'This is the beginning of the end for technology that baffles, confuses or puts a barrier in the way of helping you do what you want to do,' Balmer purred. 'This is the product that will start making computing as easy as picking up the telephone or turning on the television. Welcome to tomorrow, today.'Meanwhile, over at HMV's flagship store on London's Oxford Street, new band the Electric Soft Parade produced and broadcast the fastest ever music video, using Windows XP's Movie Maker package. A raft of Microsoft's partners - from computer maker Dell to chip manufacturer Intel - were trundled out to talk up Windows XP's potential.In a clearly symbolic gesture, Bill Gates, Microsoft's founder and chairman, popped up to open the Nasdaq, the US stock exchange for hi-tech firms, shortly before Windows XP was launched last Thursday. The message was obvious. After months of doom and gloom, King William Henry the Third was riding to the rescue, bringing prosperity back to the good old US of A.With the sort of planning Jo Moore would be proud of, Microsoft drew up a detailed campaign to ensure all media were on message. Leaked to    online zine  The Register, Microsoft's control freakery was exposed in full. 'Several Windows XP stories will be timed with the launch, including stories in  Wall Street Journal,  Fortune,  New York Times,  eWeek and Associated Press,' the campaign's spin doctors boasted before going on to grade the coverage they expected to get.But already cracks are starting to appear in the grand plan, cracks which could jeopardise the software giant's goal of taking back the 'world's largest company' mantle - a title it lost as the tech market slumped.Microsoft is predicting that sales will climb to between $7.1bn and $7.3bn for its second fiscal quarter, compared with $6.5bn last year - thanks largely to Windows XP.Microsoft believes the software - complete with a digital media production studio - is a must-have product that is practically recession-proof. 'This is about giving people an amazing experience,' said Oliver Roll, Microsoft's marketing director. 'It's a really cool product. If you're a budding Stephen Spielberg or Fatboy Slim, this is for you.'The central plank of the firm's campaign is that it 'has the potential to reinvigorate the IT industry'. At a time when the industry is desperate for good news, it is small wonder that the likes of Dell and Intel are singing its praises to high heaven - or wherever Gates resides these days. The launch of new Microsoft operating systems has in the past given significant fillips to the computer industry, and the software giant argues that this time is no exception. Many older computers simply can't handle the new product, so those who want Windows XP will have to buy more powerful PCs with greater memory.About a third of PCs in the UK will be able to carry Windows XP already, and Roll predicted that 'for those that can't, it will help stimulate new PC sales. Although consumer confidence has been dented, it's still pretty healthy in the UK.'But analysts are pouring cold water on Microsoft's claims. The Gartner Group predicts PC growth will slide 6 per cent in the fourth quar ter of this year - despite the launch of Windows XP. Gartner concludes that PC life- cycles are getting longer - which means IT managers are refusing to upgrade their firms' computers as often as they have done in the past.With the PC market saturated in the developed world 'the target market will be relatively small and unlikely to have much impact'. The analysts point out that, despite the way Windows XP has positioned itself as a multimedia product, consumers may prefer to spend their cash on web cams or digital   video recorders. In addition, many technology experts argue that Windows XP is not really that much better than the last Windows package.Admittedly it is more secure and less likely to crash, but cash-strapped IT managers and consumers may be prepared to make do with what they have at the moment. 'Companies are becoming increasingly cost-conscious,' said Alain Falys, chief executive of the Open Business Exchange, a technology and services company. 'We've seen a huge change in the past six   months: they're focusing on their return on investment.'Microsoft has truckloads of case studies to prove how Windows XP will save consumers time and money. But if they fail to bite, the impact on Microsoft could be profound. This is because Windows XP - which in most cases will retail for around &#163;80 - is much more than a new-generation operating system. It is central to Gates' avowed aim to dominate the internet, the company's so-called .Net strategy.In the future, Gates believes Microsoft customers   will rent his software as a service, downloading it over the internet, rather than buying it in a box. For this vision to be realised, Microsoft needs to establish an unbreakable relationship with customers - and this is where XP comes in. 'XP is the cement that will unite Microsoft's .Net strategy, which aims to build an environment that will dominate both the desktop and the virtual world of the internet,' consultant Simon Moores said. Thus the new product comes complete with a range of licensing options that effectively lock customers into taking upgrades when Microsoft decides. Already the likes of BP and Marks &amp; Spencer are warning that the new system will result in a 94 per cent increase in the cost of software licences. And this is before Microsoft starts to introduce a whole range of new applications compatible with Windows XP.'Those applications may be delivered on a pay-per-view basis to the customer, and this will represent Microsoft's next great leap forward, with Windows XP acting as a portal to Microsoft's virtual shopping mall,' Moores said.But unfortunately for Microsoft it has picked a lousy time to launch its latest bid for global domination. All the hype in the world won't drag the global economy out of its current malaise. The awful prospect for Microsoft is that it's not bigger than the market. It just thinks it is.
Some observers might be experiencing an acute feeling of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu when looking at Windows XP. The package appears to bundle together a suite of products - everything from an MP3 player to a digital photo system.This practice, of course, is what landed Microsoft on the receiving end of the biggest anti-trust trial in history. That case focused on the bundling of Microsoft's Internet Explorer.This time around things are very different, the company argues. Rather than 'bundling' together products, Windows XP is one-brand new technology. 'It's a misconception that we're bundling products,' said Oliver Roll, Microsoft's marketing director. 'We've built the code from scratch. All we're doing is innovating with software.'Nevertheless, the package brings together a range of digital devices in a single point. 'This gives the legislators an opportunity to look closely at what Microsoft is up to,' said internet consultant Simon Moores. Indeed Microsoft is already facing a fine of up to &#163;1.7 billion by the EU for abusing its dominant market position. EU competition commissioner, Mario Monti, is still considering his options and the launch of Windows XP may tilt his hand.Liberal MEP Chris Huhne said he hoped the launch of Microsoft's latest product would prompt businesses and consumers to write to Monti. 'Many people will need a new PC to run the monster,' Huhne said.Critics also complain that the new software package tightens Microsoft's grip on customers, chiefly through a technique called 'product activation'. This places an imprint on the software which locks it into the PC, making it impossible to move it to another machine.Roll says that this is to ensure the product can't be replicated by software pirates. 'We want to reduce the number of people who don't pay for the software so we can invest more. Why should customers who pay be penalised?'Nevertheless this does mean Microsoft's hold on the customer is stronger than ever, a fact confirmed by Windows XP's licensing system, which upgrades the computer's software when the company, not the consumer, deems fit. Many of the UK's leading companies have already expressed fears to DTI Secretary Patricia Hewitt that the new software licensing deals will result in UK plc paying an extra &#163;880 million a year.Their fears do seem to be justified if what happened after Microsoft launched its star application - Office XP - is anything to go by. The Gartner Group concluded: 'Microsoft is betting the bank on its new &#91;office&#93; licensing system. Many businesses... could be paying as much as 107 per cent more after 31 July 2002 &#91;for an upgrade&#93;.'The question is whether regulatory authorities have the stomach for another investigation into Microsoft at a time when the markets are depressed. Many companies would be dismayed by such heavy-handedness at this painful time. But unfortunately for Microsoft, Mario Monti so far has not been one to shy away from taking a tough line.
The chairman of Ericsson, the world's biggest maker of mobile phone infrastructure, is to resign after the Swedish company reported another quarterly loss.But shares in the company jumped today in Stockholm as figures revealed positive cash flow in the third quarter. The company also defied market expectations of a loss in the key networks division in reporting a small profit.Lars Ramqvist will be replaced by Michael Treschow, the chief executive of Electrolux, the world's largest appliances maker. Ericsson reported a third quarter loss of 5.8bn Swedish kronor (£385.6m), compared to a profit of 4.1bn kronor a year earlier.Mr Ramqvist is resigning as Ericsson grapples with a severe downturn in the telecoms industry that has led to a cancellation or postponement of orders. Consumer demand for new phones, meanwhile, has dropped off as the recession bites.In response to the downturn, Ericsson has shed 22,000 employees to save 7bn kroner a year and spun off its handset division into a joint venture with Japan's consumer electronics firm Sony. The telecoms equipment maker said it is not currently planning any further job cuts despite a weak 2002 sales outlook for its key product, mobile systems."We have not yet finished our efficiency programme... but we believe that, in essence, it is sufficient to bring us back to profitability next year. &#91;There are&#93; no &#91;new&#93; programmes at all," Mr Hellstrom said."It is a rather mixed report but mainly positive, primarily because of the profitability in systems and the positive cash flow," said Mikael Laseen, an analyst at Nordiska brokerage.A year ago, wireless equipment companies were banking on strong growth on the advance of next-generation wireless networks, especially in Europe and parts of Asia. But the world economic slowdown has forced Ericsson, Nortel of Canada, Lucent Technologies in the US, and Nokia, the Finnish company, to scale back their ambitious expansion plans.
Senior management at Sportal will today meet with big shareholders to discuss the possible closure of the business after a board meeting last night left the future of the online sports company in the balance.Sportal, seen as one of the UK's top net businesses, was saved from collapse in August by an injection of &#163;8m from investors including French billionaire Bernard Arnault.That cash, which followed a desperate six-month hunt for funds, was supposed to take Sportal through to profitability next year, but the continued downturn in dot.com advertising and the impact of last month's US attacks has lead Sportal's board to consider winding up operations.Earlier this week, Sportal said "significantly deteriorating market conditions" had led the company to re-evaluate all its options, and management   have opened talks with potential bidders. It added that the recession in the internet industry looked set to continue far into 2002.Last night the board of Sportal met to consider its next step, but no decision on the future of the company was reached. A spokesman said after the meeting that the company's board plans to meet with a number of its major shareholders to discuss the situation further today.
MI5 has taken the unprecedented step of posting an appeal for information about potential terrorists on dissident Arab websites.Its message in Arabic has been placed on sites MI5 knows is accessed by extremists, includingislah.org, a Saudi opposition site, andqoqaz.com, a Chechen site which has advocated jihad, or holy war.MI5 wants to attract people "on the edge of extremist communities who are sufficiently shocked &#91;by the September 11 attacks&#93; to want to contact the agency", a security source said yesterday.The message reads: "The atrocities that took place in the USA on 11 September led   to the deaths of about five thousand people, including a large number of Muslims and peoples of other faiths."It continues: "MI5 (The British Security Service) is responsible for countering terrorism to protect all UK citizens of whatever faith or ethnic group."If you think you can help us to prevent future outrages call us in confidence on 020-7930 9000."The message on the islah site received 700 hits within 24 hours and attracted only 16   "vitriolic" replies, according to security sources.They acknowledge that MI5's open attempt to tap a potentially useful market could attract hostile responses and cranks.However, they said that since September 11, the number of calls on MI5's public telephone number has tripled with a higher proportion than normal - about half - described as "useful".MI5, which so far has posted its message on just two websites, intends to place it on more of the 15 known to   be used by radicals and dissidents.But some of them have been shut down by the FBI.MI5 officers do not engage in discussions or "chatlines" on the internet.The initiative is designed to encourage people to call the MI5 number. The switchboard is staffed by trained intelligence officers who will ask those who appear to have genuinely useful information to meet an MI5 officer face-to-face.The idea is to widen MI5's net of informers in Britain as   well as encouraging "walk-ins" at British embassies where officers of the secret intelligence service, or MI6, are posted.The Chechen site has been chosen because a number of Muslims in Britain are known to have fought in Chechnya.There, security sources say, they "bonded" with sympathisers and supporters of Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network.
Digital styleThe new SiPix StyleCam is one of the smallest and most stylish digital cameras ever created. Around the same size as a packet of cigarettes, it's supremely portable and considerably less carcinogenic. It also doubles as a webcam so you can capture basic videos when it's connected to your computer and, when you are out and about, you can take pictures in "streaming snapshot" mode. Back at base, you can then use the   supplied software to merge these consecutive snaps into a video file. The best news is the price. At &#163;60 the StyleCam is a digital camera that costs the equivalent of just four disposable cameras (once you have added in development costs).This comparison is apt. At a top resolution of 640 x 480 pixels, the StyleCam's picture quality is well below that of the latest digital cameras, making the images more suited to emailing than printing. There is no zoom and no LCD screen for you to check the pictures you have taken. However, the 8MB of memory can store 65 shots at the highest quality setting, and the camera runs for ages on a couple of AAA batteries. Aside from the low resolution, the only real drawback is the lack of a flash; if you want to take pictures in the dark, this isn't the camera for you. However, if you want something stylish, affordable and tiny enough to keep in a jacket pocket or a handbag, the StyleCam is well worth a look.ContactSiPixon 020 8899 6026 for more information. The StyleCam will soon be available fromWest Coaston 0118 952 1500. (AE)Helpdesk hellThe adventures of the Bastard Operator From Hell (BOFH) have entertained geeks around the world for years.Anyone who has ever worked in an IT department will relate to author Simon Travaglia's tales of high-jinks on the helpdesk and the brutal ins and outs of corporate office politics.NowThe Register, current home to the BOFH, is turning their hero's antics into what they are claiming is the "world's first pay per view, sponsored, weekly video strip".The Register is hoping its UK readers will now stump up 20p an episode to watch a new series of BOFH-inspired adventures specially created   for streaming across the internet.Like Big Brother earlier this year, users will pay for access to the streaming content via their mobile phones, or by calling a premium rate phone number. They will be given a username and password to allow access. The series kicks off today.  (NM)Walk the talkEricsson's new T39 phone contains a wealth of features that early adopters would have killed for a year or two ago. These include GPRS (always-on to the mobile internet), triband (usable in the US), infrared, email and texting. And all shrunk into a    dinky phone weighing only 86g, and costing only &#163;69.99 (headset extra) at Carphone Warehouse.  But its real selling point is Bluetooth wireless enabling you to answer the phone from a headset instead of having to reach into your pocket: a small step for mankind but a big leap into a new technology. Technology analysts Forrester says there will be 235m Bluetooth-enabled mobile devices in Europe by 2006.  I found it tricky to set up, but once "paired" with the headset, the phone worked well at only small cost to the quality of reception. You soon get used to pressing a button on the ear piece, but not to walking around with a gadget on your ear, usually worn by the likes of Madonna. But that takes nothing away from a very impressive phone and another masterpiece of miniaturisation from Ericsson. (VK)
Apple has unveiled a stylised, portable MP3 player this week which boasts what the company calls a "breakthrough" in storage space and industrial design.The iPod, roughly the same size as a pack of cards and weighing 0.23kg, sports a large five gigabyte hard disk, enough to store 1,000 songs.Apple also claims an entire CD of music can be transferred to the device in 10 seconds, or a thousand songs in 10 minutes, thanks to its FireWire connection. That also means the disk space can be used as portable storage space for digital cameras and other devices.A rechargable battery gives 10 hours' continuous playback, and can be recharged through FireWire. The iPod will also "sync" with new Apple iTunes2 software, also announced on Tuesday, which will mean the iPod's MP3 collection will automatically update when it is plugged into an Apple computer."With iPod, listening to music will never be the same again," Apple CEO Steve Jobs said at its launch on Tuesday. "Apple has invented a whole new category of digital music player that lets you put your entire music   collection in your pocket."The new machine is - at &#163;329, including VAT - much more expensive than the most popular MP3 players.But visually the iPod is as striking as you would have expected from the maker of colourful iMacs. Finished in brilliant white, similar to today's iBooks, the facia is dominated by a 160 by 128 pixel backlit display and a large scroll wheel which controls the playlist. The    on-screen display uses familiar Apple fonts and menu design. The software running the device will be upgradable to support future file formats.The iPod is a further attempt by Apple to put its computer hardware at the centre of what Jobs calls the "digital lifestyle".A recent revision to the company's iBook and Powerbook line of laptop computers saw FireWire ports included as standard. The ports, previously only available on higher-end machines, allow the iPod, digital cameras and other devices to be connected to the computer via a high-speed link. Hard disk sizes were also made substantially bigger, with sizes starting at 15Gb, to accommodate the needs of multimedia files.&#183;The iPod will go on sale in the UK on November 22 at the MacExpo in London.
Today's launch of Microsoft Windows XP had all the razzmatazz, hype and sheer scale we have come to expect of a major launch from the American software giant.Expect, over the next few days, to see plenty of eulogies to an operating system that is certainly a great improvement over previous versions of Windows, and that might even offer a leg up to flagging computer sales.XP has lots going for it: it is easy to use, relegates the dreaded command-line interface of old to a dusty corner, and is stable - your XP-running PC is now much less likely to crash. It sports a sexy new look likely to be popular with domestic users, and a host of new features to make using the internet easier and more fun.But not everyone will be greeting the new software with glee, for this new release is about a lot more than simply making your PC work better. No man is an island, and no computer is un-networked these days, goes the thinking.Windows XP is an operating system that looks to the internet in the same way that Windows 95 looked to the desktop.Windows 95 was, of course, the operating system that finally, conclusively, won the desktop war, and handed Microsoft its mighty monopoly in desktop systems.More than 90% of the world's PCs now run some version of Windows and, with that issue settled, Windows XP is looking to the internet. That has some observers - like the Consumer Federation of America and some computer industry analysts - seriously concerned.Microsoft has been proven in court to have abused its monopoly power, by bullying rivals and business partners, tying users into its software and setting out to eradicate opposition rather than compete with it.There are fears that Microsoft - still unregulated while the court battles continue - is doing its best to quickly colonise the internet before the US courts agree on a remedy for its bad behaviour during the 1990s.In truth, the company's push for the internet has already begun. We have had the browser war, won by Microsoft when it incorporated Internet Explorer into Windows 98. Now we have the multimedia war - Windows XP incorporates Windows Media Player, a strong rival to the market leader software from Real (Real.com).The form guide suggests only one winner, which is perhaps the reason why the European Commission has announced it is extending its probe into Microsoft's behaviour to include the issue of bundling Media Player.According to recently leaked documents, the EC could impose huge fines on Microsoft, and force the company to unbundle its software to encourage competition.AOL Time Warner is also in Microsoft's sights. XP incorporates Windows Messenger, an advanced instant messaging program which is a direct rival to AOL's Instant Messenger, as well as similar services from the likes of Yahoo!, the web portal.Looking to the future, XP is also considered a first building block in Microsoft's vision of the future as encapsulated in its .NET strategy, essentially an operating system for the internet.Critics say this will extend the company's reach into the next generation of computing, allowing it to control the way we communicate across the net. Its reach will run from the programming languages used to create services to the way we verify who we are to others in the online world.Critics of Microsoft say this shows Microsoft has failed to learn from its anti-trust trial experiences, and demonstrates that the company will continue to attempt to kill off opposition as long as it remains unregulated. They will be greeting today's razzmatazz and hype with caution, and a renewed campaign to bring Microsoft to heel.&#183;Neil McIntosh is the deputy editor of Online
Microsoft today officially unveils its new XP operating system in the biggest product launch from the software giant since Windows 95 six years ago.Undeterred by its long-running antitrust case with the US justice department and investigations from the EU, Microsoft has bundled a host of new applications such as a web browser, an email programme, an instant messenger and a digital photo editor with the new operating system.The Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, is hosting a big corporate bash in New York, while the chief executive, Steve Ballmer, is in London for a marketing campaign that will cost $250m (£175m). XP costs $199 (£139) for the full version and $99 for the upgrade.This time, there were no nocturnal queues as for Windows 95, but PC manufacturers are hoping for big sales of XP to boost  the flagging personal computer industry. As XP demands a huge amount of memory, the PC industry hopes that it will lift PC sales, which fell by 10% in the third quarter, the first decline in sales since 1986.Mr Gates, one of the richest man in the world, has described XP as the "most important tool that's ever been created" and has rejected accusations that the new operating system steamrolls smaller rivals."If you look at the value of the stuff that's in Windows XP, compared to the stand-alone packages you'd have to buy for the equivalent, that's many hundreds of dollars," Mr Gates said.But critics see XP as further evidence of Microsoft's aggressive anti-competitive behaviour - which led to the US courts branding it a monopolist. In one of the most criticised features of XP, the software effectively locks the user into upgrading the system whenever Microsoft sees fit.Alarmed at Microsoft's ability to dictate when users have to upgrade their system, several companies, including BP, GlaxoSmithKline and Cadbury Schweppes, have collectively written to the trade and industry secretary, Patricia Hewitt, complaining that Microsoft's tactic will generate a 94% increase in the cost of software licences. The companies want Ms Hewitt to refer Microsoft to the office of fair trading.Even as Microsoft ties new features into XP, the European commission is currently investigating Microsoft for illegally bundling its Media Player with Windows. The software programme competes with products from RealNetworks and Apple Computer.Another feature that has sparked concern is Passport, which Microsoft hopes will be the standard online authentication system, storing website passwords, credit card numbers and other personal information required to complete internet transactions. By requiring Passport sign-ups in order to use such features as Windows Messenger, Microsoft has opened itself to accusations that it is coercing people into giving personal information.There are security risk worries also if Microsoft hold personal information on millions of internet users. Mr Gates dismisses those concerns, although Microsoft has suffered serious security breaches when hackers gained access to the company's internal network.As Microsoft unveils XP, state attorneys general involved in the antitrust case against Microsoft are redoubling their efforts against the company. They plan to hire one of Washington's most prominent lawyers, Brendan Sullivan, to push for tough action to curb Microsoft's monopolistic practices.Mr Sullivan rose to national prominence as Oliver North's attorney during congressional hearings stemming from the 1986 Iran-Contra scandal. The hiring of Mr Sullivan reflects uncertainty among the states about how aggressively the US department of justice is pursing its antitrust case.
'Plus plus plus plus plus plus!" That, according to Ken Kutaragi, is the videogame business. The smiling, dapper president of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc (SCEI) is talking, in his charmingly idiosyncratic way, about the future. We are in SCEI's Tokyo headquarters, a few days after this season's surprisingly high-quality Tokyo Game Show. And Kutaragi is determined to prove that his baby, the PlayStation 2, can withstand the threat of new competition from Nintendo and Microsoft."I heard about these new consoles, yes," says the 51-year-old visionary, known affectionately as Ken-san, who engineered both PlayStations. "We welcome them. But the new person from Seattle, and our old friend Nintendo, they have different concepts. The newcomer from Seattle, the computer is their core competence. Their components and concept are almost PCs. Nintendo? Talented, nice entertainment. Mario, and so on. They are attracting a young audience first. But we are creating content, pioneering a new market."Kutaragi is especially encouraged by the fact that, finally, software of high technical quality and aesthetic invention, such as the beautiful in-house adventure ICO, is appearing on PlayStation 2. Not that he worries whether videogames are art or not. "Art? Yes, very nice. But we are in the entertainment business. Maybe some creators can express their artistic concepts through our form of entertainment. But we are a product." Nevertheless, Kutaragi's product is only as good as the entertainment that comes with it. And to that extent he is candidly apologetic about the length of time it has taken developers to get their heads round the PlayStation 2's unusual internal architecture."Yes, the parallel architecture is very deep, but difficult. We should have made it easier for content creators in the beginning," he admits. "With PS1, a nice platform, they ran everything on the metal. Now, a very clever person can perhaps catch up with PS2 in several months. A top publisher can get to grips with it and find out the secrets we have put in there. But newcomers who only have experience with PCs - they're very   different, only one processor. It took them two years. But now it's very nice, developers are getting very high performance out of PS2."There have been rumours flying around recently that Sony has plans to enter the handheld market. Any truth in that? "Well, the Gameboy Advance... very very nice, but the display quality is not attractive enough," Kutaragi says, with a sad smile. (Nintendo has come in for much criticism from gamers disappointed with the GBA's extremely dark LCD screen, and has recently switched screen providers.) "Nice concept, nice content. But using current technology, it is difficult." Sony is interested in developing a handheld, he confirms, but it has to wait - "maybe two, three years from now" - for low power-consumption semiconductors and better screen technology. To illustrate the latter point, Kutaragi picks up a PS1 with Sony's new portable LCD screen attached. "This is brighter than many CRT monitors," he says proudly. "And it's very fast. It can display 60-frames-per-second animations. The Gameboy Advance screen is very, very slow."But Kutaragi doesn't really want to talk about future Sony products, especially not about a PlayStation 3, even though he is doubtless hard at work designing that machine's circuitry right now. For now he is concentrating on selling the PlayStation 2's online capabilities. "Next year we will be connecting as many PS2s as possible to the network," he says. This strategy is not about mere competitive online gaming, but content distribution. Eventually, Sony wants to deliver content to you over its own portal. Movies, music, games, the whole shebang.For the moment, though, as Kutaragi is at pains to point out, traditional channels are not going anywhere. "Our primary medium is still CD-Rom and DVD-Rom," Kutaragi insists. "They are not going to disappear. They are the most efficient distribution medium. Very nice, very cheap, established infrastructure. Eventually we want to enhance the bandwidth to the level of HDTV, but that is not possible right now. Even so, we can do nice things with 8 megabits per second." The "nice things" go beyond simple ping gaming, where you and I compete in a fragging   tournament or driving game over the internet. They include ideas such as being able to download new cars into Gran Turismo 3 as soon as the manufacturers announce new models.But hang on. All this talk of networked PlayStation 2, with USB keyboards and mice - isn't Kutaragi trying to turn the console into a PC? "I don't think of this product as a PC," he insists. "It's like a TV. PC, yes, nice tools for creators, but this is pleasure. Like a mobile telephone. It should be convenient and robust. Your grandfather should be able to use it."And what about the simple fact that videogame console peripherals have always failed in the past? How is Sony going to make its consumers want to buy the broadband adapter for their PS2? Kutaragi tries to wriggle out of the question by insisting that the adapter "is not a peripheral", simply because it fits flush into the machine's main chassis. Er, right.In fact, what Sony is currently considering is a subscription model, along the lines of satellite TV. You pay a small monthly fee to use the Sony network, and the hard ware is thrown in free. As well as Sony's recent deals with AOL in the US, and Telewest in the UK, and its port of RealPlayer to the PS2, it is working with Japanese company DoCoMo to investigate connectivity with third-generation (3G) mobile phones.Kutaragi thinks consumers will bite. "Communication is the ultimate entertainment!" he announces. "DVD and CD is nice, but it's still stand-alone entertainment. People want to talk, collaborate with each other. That's why they live in cities, gather in restaurants and bars." To encourage take-up, every in-house Sony game currently under development will have network features built-in.Perhaps the most intriguing part of Kutaragi's vision for the broadband future is that it will make current excitement about the console wars, and who has what must-have game, irrelevant. "In the future, broadband will connect all appliances - console, TV, phone, PC, everything. Then exclusivity means nothing."Kutaragi then delivers an astonishingly provocative statement. "The ideal situation is that PS2 can connect to Xbox," he says, with a little   smirk. Is this just a coded declaration of contempt for the newcomer from Seattle (not once does Kutaragi pronounce the word Microsoft), a declaration that Xbox couldn't possibly hurt Sony? Kutaragi won't be drawn. "My kids want to connect to their friends," he explains. "Communication is key."It sounds as if Sony is planning to reposition itself as a content provider first, knowing that its hardware near-monopoly cannot last. Maybe it is a little afraid of Microsoft and Nintendo after all.On the other hand, Kutaragi finishes in a highly relaxed fashion by chattering about the limited-edition line-up of brightly coloured PlayStation 2s that are launching in Japan in December. Each one has the colour and finish of one of his favourite cars. "Cars are my other hobby," he explains happily. "I have BMW, Mercedes... PlayStation 2 is nice design, but I love cars." These might be testing times for the videogame industry, but Ken Kutaragi doesn't seem like a nervous man.&#183;Steven Poole travelled to Tokyo as a guest of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
Project EdenPC&#163;29.99Core/Eidos****It was recently revealed that Core Design, the developers of Tomb Raider, used an employee in the marketing   department to record Lara's grunts and groans. Five years on, and professional standards have not risen. Its latest game, Project Eden, is laden with atrocious vocalisation. Thankfully, the game itself is better.Set in a hackneyed future - Blade Runner strikes again - your task involves shooting and puzzle solving. But this is no one-man mission. Eden gives you the choice of controlling one out of four characters and you can switch   between them at any time. Players can give orders to the other three, but the whole system relies heavily on the artificial intelligence of those not under your direct control.Thankfully, despite a few half-witted moments, the AI is adequate. Unfortunately, the same can't be said for the graphics which, while suitably futuristic, are rough around the edges.Then there is the combat. In both third- and first-  person view, the fighting sections are unwieldy and confusing. The controls make picking off enemies a frustrating exercise that gets worse as the game progresses.Luckily the main meat of the game - the puzzle-solving - is more satisfying. Controlling four characters, each with different abilities, makes for some engrossing situations, with lateral thinking required to conquer the conundrums. The emphasis   on team problem solving works especially well in the multiplayer mode, although it is easy for one player to move between characters. There is variety, too, with vehicle-based sections involved.Project Eden is a worthy attempt at something different, with the four-character dynamic working well. Let's just hope the budget for any sequel can stretch to decent voice actors. (GH)Planet of the ApesPC&#163;19.99Visiware/Ubisoft***While the Tim Burton movie was generally considered to be well made but pointless, the idea of a video game based on the much-loved ape franchise has been around for more than three years. Most pundits agreed that real-time strategy would have suited the idea best, but what we ended up with is a third-person arcade adventure with a half-naked hero.Such a formula has not exactly harmed the Tomb Raider series, but then the idea of Lara Croft in a makeshift bikini has a lot more appeal than Ulysses, the Tarzan-wannabe we get lumbered with here. Your hero's task is to escape from the ape compound, rescue a few co-conspirators (Dr Zaius, Zira and Cornelius),   and mount the beginnings of a makeshift rebellion. This is achieved through levels of jumping, pushing switches, and occasionally battling it out with reasonably animated apes. POTA is never that impressive, rarely as good as it should have been, and yet somehow greater than the sum of its meagre parts.The failings are obvious and hugely familiar to this genre: a slow and cumbersome 3D camera, an equally fiddly control system which sees your hero struggling to move in the right direction at times, and a graphics engine which seems to consist mainly of the colour brown. The action is repetitive and sub-Lara in terms of quality, with few weapons at your disposal and none of visual set pieces which were a Tomb Raider trademark.So why does it deserve three stars? Well, POTA succeeds for the same reason as even the worst Star Wars games do, an excellent story made credible by a convincing level of detail. The first time you come across your apish enemies, you begin to   derive real pleasure from outsmarting them, ducking behind doorways, hitting and running where you can. Yes, the control system makes it frustrating and betrays its clear console origins, but you always find yourself sneaking back for one more go.If you loved the movie, this is just as good in its way - if not, there is still a good few hours of aimless escapism hidden beneath the dullish-brown wrapping. (MA)
It was billed as the launch of Microsoft's latest operating system,   Windows XP. But it was more of a PC industry love-in, starring cuddly   Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive officer, who made it to   London for the show.The packed audience at the Royal Festival Hall on the South Bank this   morning was spared the usual Bill Gates-style nerdy demos by men   clicking buttons to make incomprehensibly geeky things happen on giant   screens. Instead, speaker after speaker described the event as "the   industry launch of an industry product". Everyone supports XP, if only   because, when it comes to capturing customers, there's no real   substitute for words like "new" and "improved".The cast of supporters included representatives from manufacturers   (Dell, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard), retailers (PC World, Jessops),   websites (Lastminute.com, QXL, Egg) and more, topped off with a video   of Richard Branson explaining how Virgin was going to use XP for   everything.The PC industry, faced with a sales slump, wants everyone to buy a new   PC loaded with XP, preferably before Christmas. The internet industry,   dot.bombed for the past year, wants to offer new and lucrative services   using XP-friendly features that make it simpler for consumers to spend   money online. And the suppliers of printers, cameras and other   peripherals are keen on XP because it makes their devices easier to   use.Windows XP does, of course, have a technical advantage. It is based on   the Windows NT (New Technology) core that is already the standard in   businesses, and runs millions of websites. In that sense, Windows XP is   much the same as its predecessor, Windows 2000. What is new is the   refettling of that code to make it consumer friendly. XP takes what is,   in IT industry jargon, an enterprise operating platform and repackages   it for the living room.In the run-up to the launch, Jim Allchin, the Microsoftie in charge of   the teams producing XP, kept telling us how much his mother liked it.   This morning, Steve Ballmer told us how much his kids liked it. And at   least for Windows XP Home Edition, these are key parts of the audience.   For years, Microsoft has been criticised for not providing consumers   with an operating system that doesn't crash, and that ordinary people   can use. Well, now it has.
