1The Sims 22Star Wars: Battlefront3Burnout 3: Takedown4Tiger Woods PGA Tour 20055Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War6Resident Evil: Outbreak7Conflict: Vietnam8The Simpsons: Hit and Run9Call of Duty: United Offensive10Colin McRae Rally 2005Source: Elspa, compiled by Chart Track
Aren Christopher Elliott is two years old and lives in Key Largo, Florida. His mother is called Kari Astrid Haugeto, and she describes herself as a "vocalist, scuba-diving instructor and travel writer". His dad, Christopher James Elliott, describes himself as a "travel writer, scuba-diving instructor, and a pretty darned good pillow to sleep on". Aren, who has fair hair and the cutest little smile, attends the Lutheran Haven Early Childhood Center. If you would like to see Aren for yourself, or if there is any other detail, no matter how small, that you would like to know about Aren, then feel free to log on towww.elliott.org/aren/and fill your boots. Aren is the subject of one of the world's first baby blogs, and pretty much every burp and fart of his life so far is documented for us all on the worldwide web.Baby blogging is fast becoming an international phenomenon. Most baby bloggers are American, but the briefest of web searches will lead you to kids of all nationalities. One I found yesterday opened with a picture of two-year-old Niall from Hertfordshire. Niall can't eat anything with cow's milk, and dislikes being told "No". I could go on ...Baby blogging may have begun as a way to keep distant family members in intimate touch with a new baby in the family - a round-robin letter of the modern age. But if you're posting something on the web, then it can be found by strangers, and that makes these blogs a different creature entirely. You will not be surprised to hear that it is not just family members who log on to these sites. Complete strangers often end up as keen fans of individual baby blogs - some of them do indeed have all the makings of a great cult blog - and a myriad web of links now stretches between baby blogs on different continents.The attraction of these blogs is fairly hard to fathom at first glance. Bloggingmommies gives links to about 850 kiddie blogs. A brief foray through them unearths a disturbing number of home-schoolers and pro-lifers saying things such as "DS1 did such a cute thing today". To get one handy tip on dealing with colicky babies, you have to plough through a lot of random outpourings. "We left home this morning at 10.15 to participate in the annual Right-to-Life Walk-a-thon," blogs one mother."Lincoln and I didn't actually walk." Another begins: "My knitting class was so much fun." Someone else offers up the lyrics, in full, to a Leonard Cohen song and one more mommy provides, in some detail, her daily dinner menus.But as you trawl, it becomes obvious that these parents - often stuck in the house with kids most of the time - are creating a virtual community for themselves. Clancy Ratliff, a student of rhetoric and feminist studies, is studying the weblogs of mothers for her doctoral dissertation at the University of Minnesota. "People may think, 'Oh, this is just someone's blog about changing a diaper,' " Ratliff told the Seattle Times last week, "but these are women who are using blogs to have a voice in the public sphere ... it's a pretty powerful thing for a lot of women."And, it would seem, for a lot of men too. There's an interesting preponderance of dads in baby blog world, perhaps because blogging offers a way to pin down or catalogue the fluid, insane, contradictory world of  childrearing. Log on toTrixieupdate.comkept by Ben MacNeill, a stay-at-home dad from North Carolina, and you'll find toddler Trixie's gaping mouth, with arrows pointing to the few teeth she now has, giving the name of each one ("Excelsior" "Defiant" "Invincible"). No doubt Trixie's mother is out there at work somewhere wishing MacNeill would get off the computer and clean out the fridge. Blogging may also be a way for disenfranchised dads to feel really involved. One dad - British this time - blogs his partner's pregnancy in meticulous detail - sometimes offering a couple of entries in one day. (Foetus-blogging is often a prelude to a baby blog, it turns out.)Naturally some bloggers are more interesting and articulate than others. William Mitchell, who is a Stanford University academic, and research director at a thinktank in Silicon Valley, says blogs are the new "baby book".While you would be unlikely to pick up pen and paper unless your child did a really stupendous thing, he says, it is easy to idly tap in a new cognitive milestone before you check your emails each morning. "I have written far more in the kids' blog than I ever would have in the baby books," blogs Mitchell, "The baby book was a place mainly to commemorate firsts - first words, first steps, first haircut. With the blog, in contrast, I write more about everyday stuff. It's social history, not a timeline."Whether or not our kids will ever avail themselves of this socio-historical resource is a moot point. "By the time they are my age, my kids are likely to record just about every waking moment of their lives," writes Mitchell. "At that point, recording an event won't be the notable thing: turning off the recorder, going off-the-record, choosing not to capture an event, will be the notable act."Of course, if this is the case, our kids won't have time to read their baby blogs. But if they do dip into them, they will surely gain the sort of insight into their childhood that could fuel years of therapy.But blogging is a dog-eat-dog world: while it may have your kids in therapy, it might well keep you out of it. From a parenting perspective just getting it all off your chest could be really helpful if you have spent the day with a tantrumy three-year-old. And getting replies from other, random parents across the globe all saying, "Yes, my little Timmy is a demon too," could certainly make you feel less alone.But before you leap online, you may want to ask yourself whether your child will really thank you for his blog. In 20 years' time, when the little tyke who just killed the hamster is trying to get into the diplomatic corps, will he really want this information posted at the touch of a button? Or when your teenage daughter is getting ready for a hot date, will she really want her Googling boyfriend to know she wet the bed till she was 10?People have also questioned the wisdom of publishing internet pictures of your toddler in the bath. When family images go public, things can get complicated. Of course you can set up your blog so that only friends can access the picture (using a password) - but not many parents can be bothered with such security measures. The briefest Google will lead you to baby blogs plastered with naked toddlers romping in and out of the bath.Baby blogs are a curious thing - the bloggers combine altruism and community spirit with a strange, slightly blinkered self-absorption. But they certainly seem happy, and their numbers are growing. It's "a way for &#91;family&#93; to be a part of our lives without actually being with us," writes one blogger. Frankly, were I the grandparent of some of these blogged children, I would view this last point as a blessing. But this, of course, is the best thing about baby blogs: you can always (b)log off.
A lot, obviously, is being written about Tony Blair's speech to the Labour party conference yesterday. Some of it is good, some of it is bad.As far as tech-heads go, there was one interesting thing that came out of what he said - and here's how the Financial Timesreported it."An expansion in the broadband network to give every household access to high-speed internet connections by 2008 would be promised in Labour's manifesto, Tony Blair revealed.""The prime minister's pledge to "end the digital divide by bringing broadband technology to every home in Britain that wants it" is markedly more ambitious than the government's existing target of ensuring all schools gain broadband access."I'm not so sure this is a bold, ambitious or even particularly difficult step. Mr Blair is not saying Labour will deliver broadband into every home in Britain; what he is saying is "the network should be widened to make sure 100% of households have the option of broadband".As we reportedlast month, BT's new policy on enabling exchanges with broadband and extending the reach of high-speed internet lines will mean that 99.6% of the country should be served by ADSL exchanges by July next year.That gives the government three and a half years to achieve broadband capability for the remaining 0.4% of the population. That last minority might prove more expensive and awkward than the rest - but surely it has to be possible well within the limits set by Mr Blair.If there's one thing we don't need, it is more soundbite policies that give the illusion of progress.
Reports of the death of CDs have been greatly exaggerated, according to research published yesterday which said legally downloaded music would represent only a fraction of sales in five years' time.Jupiter Research has estimated that digital music revenues will grow to &euro;836m (&#163;550m) by 2009, a big jump on the &euro;10.6m it achieved at the end of last year but only 8% of the estimated total &euro;10.2bn European music market.Jupiter's report suggested that it would take some time, perhaps even a generation, for digital downloads to overtake CDs as the main way of buying music. From their late 20s, consumers are typically more resistant to swapping their CD player for a portable device, according to the report.Mark Mulligan, a Jupiter analyst, said: "If you follow the line from the graphs, downloading is not going to replace CDs any time soon."The research, which used consumer behaviour surveys as well as industry reports, is less bullish about the outlook for digital downloading than other recent studies. Forrester Research last month suggested that online music delivery would be worth a third of the total market by 2009.Record companies also hope that legal digital downloading will take off, partly as a way of combating the growing impact of illicit services.Jupiter cited several reasons for the continuing dominance of CDs.The penetration of CD players dwarfs other digital music devices. About 90% of all European homes have a CD player, whereas only 6% of internet users own a device such as an iPod or MP3 player.Other issues include  the lack of availability of many albums online and the fact that it could be more expensive to buy an album's worth of tracks online than to buy the equivalent CD.Uptake was also affected by slow internet connections.Partly because of these factors, consumers were "grazing" when it came to downloading music, buying a few tracks here and there. The average iPod owner had downloaded 10 tracks, a tiny fraction of the machine's capacity.Mr Mulligan also believes that the issue of user rights could dampen enthusiasm for legal downloading. Unlike CDs, which can be played on any brand of player, legally downloaded music can usually only be played on a limited number of devices. Purchases from one of Apple Computer's iTunes stores, for example, can only be used on Apple's iPod.These factors meant that online downloads would not simply replace CDs in the way silver discs replaced vinyl in the 1980s, said Mr Mulligan."We are not seeing &#91;legal downloading&#93; as a replacement cycle, more of a complementary alternative."Digital downloads are expected to grow, though, against a slightly declining CD market.In 2004 Jupiter expects online sales to quadruple to &#163;46.2m, driven by Napster and the iTunes music store as well as increasing sales of devices used to store and listen to music. Yet the total market in 2009 will not have grown much since 2003.Other new market entrants include superstore group Wal-Mart, which recently launched its online music store, and Microsoft, which unveiled its WMP10 service in August.The UK is expected to dominate Europe's digital music market, accounting for 30% of sales by 2009.Jupiter differentiates between the success of legal downloading and illegal file-sharing. An estimated 800m illegal files are available on the internet, downloaded from services such as Kazaa, DirectConnect and iMesh.
UK developerIOMOhas hovered in the Java download chart for the last few months with its simple but extremely playable Pub titles - and now the company is extending its range. Joining best-sellers Pub Pool and Pub Darts will be Pub Pinball, Pub Fruity, Pub Football and, best of all (if only because I suggested it to the company and they went and made it), Pub Fight.Due out over the next month, Pub Football allows players to take part in a virtual sunday morning pub league. As with previous titles in the series, the designers are keen to accurately capture the full pub atmos (Pub Darts memorably had seventies flock wallpaper behind the board), so games will take place on municipal pitches covered in litter and dog mess. We're also expecting a generous selection of crops, badly timed tackles and fat blokes having to take a rest five minutes after kick off.Pub Pinball takes you back indoors as you compete on a traditional pinball table - covered in fag burns obviously. Pub Fruit provides a classic 'bandit' fruit machine with nudge, hold, reel spins and minigames. Then there's Pub Fight in which you must protect your bar from a series of drunken opponents ranging from goths to skinheads and crusties. I'm hoping that each class of bar fighter will have their own signature moves, and that perhaps each fight will be occasionally interrupted by girls in short skirts screaming, 'Don't Kev, it's not worth it!'.I quite like the way that mobile games can get away with taking the mick like this, messing about with themes you could never explore in a full console or PC release. Not sure where the Pub series can go next though. There's always Pub Meal in which you attempt to fend off botchulism after consuming a dodgy chicken curry at the local Ravenous Rat(tm) family pub. Or maybe just Pub Closing Time, where you have to fight your way home through pools of puke, dropped kebab hazards and gangs of sub-human males looking to end their delightful evening of sparkling conversation by putting someone in hospital.No wonder the Pub games are so successful - the idealised image of traditional pub life that they portray is now starkly at odds with therealityof a friday night on the town. Maybe IOMO should just release Pub, a game that allows you to sit and enjoy a pint of well kept beer in a traditional English public house, where decent music plays softly in the background, where there are no vodka-based fizzy pop drinks, or themed interiors, where you can smoke if you like without upsetting the family diners eating from a franchised, centrally-prepared menu dispatched to 300 other identical pubs in the vicinity.Forget it, these might be games, but they have to havesomebasis in reality.
"A novel method of optical data storage could soon* be used to hold a terabyte of data on a disk the size of a normal DVD, say researchers at Imperial College London, UK."New Scientisthas the details.* "Provided funding can be found, the team believes it should take about five years to perfect the technology and a commercial version could be available by 2010."
Further to the information from the land of Elves that the greatChristopher Leewill be "appearing" as the King of the forthcoming, hotly-anticipated Massively Multiplayer UniverseEverQuest II, I thought I'd put together a list of famous folks who've laid their dulcet tones to interactive entertainments. In no particular order….Hairy footedSean Austinand pipsqueakHaley Joel OsmentinKingdom HeartsUber-BondPierce Brosnanand DameJudi DenchinEverything or NothingThe burlyVin DieselinChronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay(though that's cheating 'cause his production company made the game)James Earl "I am your father" JonesinCommand and Conquer: Tiberian SunSupa RappaEve, soft porn star and FBI-agentDavid Duchovnyand bat boyAdam WestinXIIIAs budgets for games spiral out of control I beg to ask, are they worth it? Go on, give me your dream team.
It's been sci-fi and soccer the last few days. And no, sadly that doesn't meanSpeedball. Most of my time was spent on Star Wars Trilogy: Apprentice of the Force for Game Boy Advance, my Online review this week. After watching the DVDs I was in the mood for all things Star Wars, even a generic 2D platform game. Elsewhere I revisited the weightier adventuring ofDeus Ex: Invisible Warand had the lads round for some Pro Evolution Soccer 4. Deus Ex, in particular, was a treat. Much maligned on release earlier this year for being a dumbed-down sequel, Invisible War's atmosphere and tightly focussed environments were a pleasure to return to. Yes, excessive signposting takes away some of the freedom, but is that a bad thing? I loved the original Deus Ex, but it was certainly bloated in places. It's a shame thatWarren Spector, head of developers ION Storm, has left the company. Deus Ex: Directors Cut – taking the graphics and focus of Invisible War – would do very nicely. Away from the sci-fi there was Pro Evolution Soccer…Four player, two versus two, Pro Evolution Soccer 4 on the PlayStation 2. Some day all Saturday nights will be like this. Even yet anotherdefeat for the Saintscouldn't dampen the atmosphere. While only preview code, it's clear that Pro Evo 4 is shaping up to be a winner. The pace is faster than before, but the control and feel of the players is tighter than ever. It is still delightful to flick a header into the path of a striker or play triangles on the wing. My concern over new player tricks – a step too far into FIFA territory – seems to be misplaced. Yes the top players can pull off some silky trickery but it is hard to do and rare to see – much like real life. The only real issues at this stage are a hint of slowdown when the penalty area gets crowded, although Konami assure me it will be sorted before release. Even free kicks and the menu interface – the main gripes of previous games in the series – have been semi-fixed.Finally my review game – Star Wars: Apprentice of the Force on Game Boy Advance. I won't spoil your undoubted anticipation for the review, but don't expect, as I optimistically did, a game as good as theSuper Star Wars trilogyon the SNES. These games would be fantastic on GBA – or is it just rose-tinted spectacles? Where they as good as I remember?
We know a lot of you have been hankering for Guardian RSS feeds. Guess what?They're here.Not only can you subscribe to Onlineblog and the Guardian'svariousotherweblogs, but you can also get feeds of our UK, international, sport, football, arts and books news.Click here for more information.
Microsoft's top lawyer warned yesterday that consumers faced higher prices for computer software because of the European commission's ruling that the US company had abused its dominance of PC operating systems.Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, said the ruling in March that his company should hand over secret codes to rivals and sell a "degraded" version of Windows without its Media Player audio-visual software in Europe would cause it "irreparable damage".Speaking ahead of Microsoft's appeal this week at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, he urged a negotiated settlement but said the US software group would comply with any ruling, even at the cost of millions of dollars.On Thursday, Microsoft, which was fined a record Euro 497m (£330m) by the Brussels competition authorities on March 24, will urge the court of first instance to suspend the commission's proposed "remedies" until the full case is heard - in up to two years' time.The commission, which refused to comment yesterday on Mr Smith's offer of fresh talks, is expected to argue that any delay would render the remedies irrelevant because the market will have moved on by the time the case ends in a few years. It began in 1998.But Mr Smith accused the European Union of risking customers' interests and industrial competitiveness by backing the "special interests of a handful of our rivals".In effect, he singled out RealNetworks, maker of RealPlayer, as the main beneficiary and pointed to a dynamic market for media players, with Apple, Sony, Virgin and Real successfully competing. Yahoo!, he said, had just entered this market by buying MusicMatch."There's no reason to think any of those companies will go out of business in the next two years," he said, pointing to a rise in the number of digital media formats used on the 1,000 top websites.Mr Smith argued that European multimedia companies would have to spend more developing new services than elsewhere because of Brussels' decision to impose a "degraded" version of Windows. "We'll be offering a new version of Windows basically designed by the European commission," he said. Microsoft will also argue that the decision to force it to hand over protocols, or secret software codes, to rivals would cause it "irreparable damage" by infringing its patents and trademarks.
The Wall Street Journal asks some interesting questions about the decision by so many technology bosses to openly back candidates in the upcoming US election."Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, and its CEO, Steve Ballmer, are supporting President Bush for a second term. So are WalMart CEO H Lee Scott Jr, eBay CEO Meg Whitman and Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina."On the other side of the political aisle, Warren Buffet, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, and Steve Jobs, CEO of Apple Computer, are economic advisers to Senator John Kerry's campaign and plan to vote for him.""Prior generations of America's business leaders tended to keep their political choices private... but backing a candidate in a divisive election could put CEOs and their companies in a difficult position."Comment:I can't say that knowing Bill Gates plans to vote Bush really helps me warm to either of them, but I'm suspicious of any powerful business leader who openly backs a political party. Are they true believers, or are they after a few breaks further on down the line?Or are they just after a little bit of glory? The WSJ quotes a Washington insider with an insightful take: "We're in the age of CEO as rock star, so more executives want the celebrity status of endorsing a candidate".
Had a look yesterday at the capabilities ofNvidia's new GoForce 3Dchip, which is set to be installed inside the upcomingGizmondohandheld (release date October 29).The jury's out on Gizmondo (at least until we actually see one in operation) but at least we know it will be extremely powerful in the graphics department - the video quality really was quite stunning.
The excellent US site Wireless Gaming Review has areportfrom the Tokyo Game Show, covering the latest Japanese mobile games. Highlights include Metal Gear Solid 2, Biohazard: Stories and Street Fighter II. And here we are in the UK, still thinking that Pac Man on a mobile is a pretty neat idea...
A Leeds-based company claims to have devised an easy to use, leak-proof corporate email system.Jeftel says it uses the principles behind such peer-to-peer services as Napster along with complex encryption technology to prevent emails being seen by in-house IT managers or being retained by internet service providers.For &#163;25 a year, executives worried about information being leaked either to rivals or the press can create a new, safe address. Messages sent from it can be opened only by their intended recipient and, unlike existing email services, copies are not made either by the sender's internal systems or third party ISPs.Robert Barr, head of development at Jeftel, said the service would be invaluable for executives who need to send information to which they do not want colleagues to have access."If you're looking to inform other directors of some planned redundancies, for instance, you do not want your IT department to know you are going to be sacking staff."I do not think people realise how insecure email really is."The service, which Mr Barr says can be downloaded and installed on a PC without the aid of an IT expert, relies on the sender and recipient having the software. It sits alongside existing email products such as Outlook Express, and Jeftel is targeting more than 10 million users by 2007.It was developed following a meeting with Mishcon de Reya, lawyers to Princess Diana's memorial fund, and is likely to be attractive to the legal profession.But it could present a headache for City regulators who increasingly demand that copies of emails be retained for investigatory purposes.As a result, a new version of the service is planned for this year which will store encrypted emails on a separate server.
Pleased was I to come back from my travels to discover an article in techno-social-lifestyle online/offline magWiredabout the latest in virtual worldSecond Life's bid to take over the hearts and minds of the universe. Last week Ibloggedabout an area in the online space which simulated the experience of schizophrenia for players who wished to explore visual and aural hallucinations from a safe but curious distance. This week the "game" is the medium for the latest in educational attainment.Returning to uni after (cough) years I was both horrified and thrilled to discover how much learning and labour could now be done from the comfort of my office chair, far from the potential humiliation of behind-the-hands tutters of my fellow students at one of my regular academic gaffs. Personal issues aside, one of the greatest things the internet provides the erudite is incredible digital access to libraries, journals, papers, luminaries and unpublished (but still valid) research from across the globe. Indeed, distance learning - a phenomenon I'm still sceptical of - is now a valued method of educational exchange.So it was almost inevitable that online spaces, likeSecond Life, could become areas in which pupils and professors could gather and interact...educationally. Hooray! It's not just research liggers like myself who recognise that such spaces could be valuable.Linden Lab,Second Life's creators areproactively promoting the practiceby distributing free accounts to teachers at universities and colleges for their students to use, in tandem with classwork, homework and (ahem) eventual subscription fees.Among those institutions who are already embroiled are top 20-standing US schoolVassar College, Trinity University in San Antonio, TX,University of Texasat Austin and San Francisco State, and curricula includes urban planning. From my own slant, I can't wait until psychology is added to the list.ConsideringSecond Lifehas a thriving adult community, seminars could prove to be rather eventful.
"Google, the internet business that made its mantra "do no evil", is accused of pandering to attempts by the Chinese government to censor certain websites," reportsthe Telegraph"The internet icon launched its news service in China recently, which many hoped would help the country move to a new era of openness. Yet early tests of the service reveal that Google blocks search results that would show internet pages banned by the authorities. "Comment:If it's true, this seems like a disastrous mistake on Google's part. They've tried very hard to retain that image that so many early dotcoms had of social awareness.This revelation would bite into Google's presence in two ways: firstly by undermining those values it claims are so dear and secondly by undermining their actual product; if Google doesn't give you the entire web at your fingertips, then why should you use it?(The Telegraph might also like to be made aware that Google's corporate slogan is "don't be evil", not "do no evil")
The Tokyo Games Show took place over the weekend. Some good coveragehere, if you can ignore the ads. Highlights include the unveiling of a stack of PSP and DS software and the latest on Metal Gear Solid 3 and Resident Evil 4. Another highlight was Yu Suzukispilling the beanson the forthcoming Shenmue Online - a massively multiplayer version of the Dreamcast classic.
The regularly updated topical squad-based shooterKuma\Waris set to add a series of missions based around Senator John Kerry's time in Vietnam. Due for release on October 8, the downloadable levels will put you in command of Kerry's Swift Boat as it chugs down the Mekong Delta. Using real-world intel and lots of background data, the developer hopes to give subscribers a unique insight into this pivotal election issue. Check out more screens and infohere.So, which UK stories do you think should be added to Kuma\War's controversial news gaming project?
For any of the 15 million viewers addicted to ITV's Popstars in its original incarnation, the memory of Darius Danesh murdering the Britney Spears song Hit Me Baby One More Time will live long in the memory. Now reborn mobile phone network 3 is hoping to tap into that sense of event TV as it launches its first major deal with a broadcaster to show clips of Simon Cowell's latest ITV series The X Factor. While Danesh, who returned to the scene of his earlier ignominy to enjoy success in Pop Idol, will be glad that no one can replay the moment ad infinitum, contestants in the latest show won't be so lucky.The deal, with The X Factor producer Fremantle Media, allows the network to show additional content to its subscribers that hasn't featured in   the show. Although Endemol experimented with mobile video content in the last series of Big Brother, 3 claims the deal is a watershed as the first time that a network operator has done a big deal with a prime time show.For a supposedly cutting edge technology, the evolution of video content on mobile phones has, at times, been painfully slow. It seems like a long time ago that mobile networks were shelling out billions for third generation network licences and we were all talking about high quality video and music content on the move.But with Vodafone finally unveiling plans last week to launch 3G handsets before Christmas and the other big operators putting the finishing touches to their strategies, expect video mobile content to become a talking point over the next few months.While operators offer some video services over so-called 2.5G networks   such as Vodafone Live, they tend to be short, jerky, unsatisfactory experiences. The improved technology of 3G allows video clips to be streamed or downloaded in something close to broadcast quality.And, as 3 marketing director Graeme Oxby points out, it's a development that should not only be of interest to tech-savvy early adopters and specialist digital content providers but to the broadcasting industry at large.   "It's an important landmark. It's the first time any operator has done a deal for video content on this scale. It's running over the full 16 weeks and it allows Fremantle to fill in the gaps between the programmes themselves," he says.As the interest of "super-indies" Endemol and Fremantle proves, broadcasters and independent producers are increasingly looking towards mobile content as a means of supplementing their revenues. Alongside merchandising and broadband web content, they see it as both a way of bringing in extra cash for their brands and sustaining viewer interest from one programme to the next.In a world of hundreds of channels where loyalty is becoming a thing of the past, sustaining interest in "event" programming is going to become ever harder. So exclusive broadband and, in particular, video mobile footage is seen   as a key element in keeping viewers hooked between shows and linking from one to the next.For The X Factor this means the relatively straightforward idea of packaging up two-minute audition clips that aren't shown on the programme and making them available for subscribers to dip in and out of whenever they get a moment on the move. So cringe-worthy singers, who were savaged by Cowell and fellow judges Sharon Osbourne and Louis Walsh, and who would otherwise be left on the cutting room floor, can be enjoyed as a moment of light relief while travelling, performing much the same function as amusing email clips for desk-bound office workers."I'm absolutely convinced that this isn't about taking existing video programme lengths and putting them on a mobile phone. It's about picking up new moments - it's absolutely not   about broadcasting over a mobile," explains Oxby.This theory is one that will be tested to the limit in the coming months and years as the onward march of technology makes it possible to beam digital TV pictures direct to mobile handsets, with trials already under way in Oxford. Meanwhile, the arrival of so-called "video iPod" type devices will allow their owners to carry around hours of video content to watch on the move.Then there's the impact of competing technologies such as wi-fi broadband and the data services that radio companies are planning to provide over spare digital spectrum. But 3, which with the four existing networks handed Gordon Brown a whopping &#163;22.5bn for their licences in the heady days 2000, is pinning its hopes on the fact that 3G will complement rather than compete with these other technologies. They hope that as a means of delivering topical video content, on demand, in two to four minute chunks, 3G will win out.And Oxby believes that more innovative uses for the medium are just around the corner judging by the enthusiasm shown by those producers and broadcasters who, as he puts it, "get it". "It's quite interesting, there are two or three companies in each area that are really excited. But there's still a bunch of companies who aren't even on the right page. We're learning together," he says.For 3, which,after a shaky start now has upwards of 1.2 million subscribers, it's essential that it gets its approach to video mobile - one of the 3G's key selling points - right before its more established competitors enter the market. In the early days following its launch last year, the network was hamstrung by poor coverage, expensive prices and unappealing handsets.Most of those problems have been remedied, but Oxby is frank in admitting that the recent upsurge in subscriber numbers has been mainly driven by big cuts to call and handset charges rather than the attractiveness of video content and video calling. That said, he believes that the last three months, which have also seen Glastonbury highlights and the debut of a new deal with the Premier League that offers goals five minutes after the final whistle, have marked a step change."With what we've done in the last three months - with new music, with The X Factor, with football - there are now far more reasons to show your mates what can be done on a video mobile," he says. More attractive video services, better presented and easier to find, have also started to become reasons to sign a contract with 3, he believes, rather than just added extras once users have come for the cheap calls. "It's making the difference very real and very tangible."And while 3 made its mistakes in public in the early days, when much of its video content was slow to download and hard to find, Oxby reckons the experience has stood the company in good stead. For 3, it means thinking more like a broadcaster or a magazine publisher than a stuffy network operator."We've learned a hell of a lot. The presentation is probably as important as the content. There's no point in embedding great content in the depths of a product - their train has arrived or their coffee has come by the time they've found it." And so, as scheduling becomes less important on the TV set in your home, it seems that the dark arts will live on in your pocket. Simon Cowell, for one, will be delighted. His victims perhaps less so.
Apparently Dan Rather didn't get my email. "Dear Dan," I wrote back in January, "as you probably know, it's an election year. And in election years people sometimes do bad things. Bad things like forging memos that appear to show that George W Bush received special treatment during his time in the National Guard in the 1970s. Bad things like sending those memos to CBS in the hope that they'll report them without taking any real steps to verify their accuracy. But don't worry," I continued, helpfully, "all you have to do if you receive such a memo is to run it through Google to see if, say, your source is a notorious Bush-hating fantasist who claims that the president has sent 'goons' to intimidate him. Shouldn't take you more than a couple of minutes and it'll save you looking like a bit of a prat."Maybe Dan was out of the office when the email arrived and his secretary forgot to pass it on. Or maybe his Hotmail was over quota.   Whatever the reason, the CBS news anchor clearly didn't get the message. Because had he done so, he wouldn't have mashed his reputation to a pulp two weeks ago by reporting just such a bogus anti-Bush document. The prat.Of course this isn't the first time the media have been fooled by a bad hoax but what makes this scam so interesting is that it was exposed, not by a jealous rival news organisation, but by a humble blogger. Or, to be exact, a humble blogger and a couple of hundred self-appointed experts.A few hours after Rather's 60 Minutes report was broadcast, an angry fellow called Buckhead posted a message on the rightwing discussion siteFreerepublic.com. Buckhead had noticed something about the Bush memo that apparently no one at CBS had spotted: that the fonts used weren't available on typewriters owned by the military in the 1970s. Uh-oh. The claim was seized upon by a blog calledPowerlineblog.com, which became a clearing house for theories about the memo. Before long, messages were pouring in from hundreds of self-appointed typewriter experts and ex-military types pointing to other aspects of the document that could only have been produced with modern word processors. For the right-leaning bloggers, this was dynamite. They might as well have discovered that the Turin Shroud was created in Photoshop and laser-printed on to Lycra.And yet CBS held their ground, with news president Andrew Heyward saying that he saw "no percentage of possibility" that the documents were fake. The forgery claims spread from blog to blog until, eventually, the protests became so loud that they woke up the mainstream media. Finally stories about the hoax hit the front pages, and Rather had to admit that he'd been duped. Victory for the people of Blogistan over the arrogance of traditional media. Hurrah!But while it's fun to crow about Blogistan's role in "Rathergate",   there are important lessons to be learnt by both sides about the relationship between bloggers and the mainstream media. For the bloggers, the lesson is simple - no matter what Matt Drudge might tell you, a hot story in Blogistan is still worth nothing until the mainstream media pick it up.But for the mainstream media, the lesson is more harsh. Your obsession with scoring points over your rivals means that your fact-checking methods will never, ever, beat those of Blogistan. When 60 Minutes (or the Sunday Times or the Mirror) is handed a bombshell political document it will consult experts in an attempt to determine its authenticity. But it won't make the document available on the internet, inviting thousands of self-appointed experts to pick holes in it prior to broadcast. That would be insane.Or would it? Perhaps Rathergate is a sign that it's time for the mainstream media to change their methods. Perhaps every news organisation should create a blog for fact checking. Perhaps the next time a potentially election-altering document lands on a journalist's desk, they should immediately publish it online, and let the good people of Blogistan weave their peer-reviewing magic before any allegations are broadcast. And, who knows, perhaps the publicity generated by this review process would actually increase viewing figures when the (now meticulously fact-checked) story eventually reaches the screen. Of course, this will spoil the journalist's exclusive but surely journalism isn't just about ratings and profits? Surely it's more important to get the story out, and to get it right than it is to trounce your rivals with blockbuster scoops that later turn out to be embarrassing hoaxes, isn't it Dan? Dan? Are you listening Dan? Hmmm. Perhaps I should send him another email.
"Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology say they have used spinach to harness a plant's ability to convert sunlight into energy for the first time, creating a device that may one day power laptops, mobile phones and more," reportsAP."A top layer of glass was coated underneath with a conductive material and a thin layer of gold to aid the chemical reaction. In the middle, the spinach-peptide mixture sits on a soft, organic semiconductor that prevents electrical shorts and protects the protein complexes from a bottom layer of metal. By shining laser light on the "sandwich," researchers were able to generate a tiny current. While one device by itself can't generate much energy, billions of them together could produce enough electricity to power a device."
When Renault's seven-seater Espace brilliantly combined our desire for big cars with bigger families 20 years ago, it gave hope to anybody with three or more kids, provided a goldmine for minicab drivers and, more than anything, created a massive headache for every other car manufacturer trying to get a foothold in the lucrative MPV market.The groundbreaking Espace  was so successful, it's been the bestseller in its class each and every year since it was first produced, that it's taken the combined efforts of Fiat, Citro&#235;n and Peugeot to come up with any viable competitors to it. They ganged up by swapping body parts and sharing know-how in a sort of collaborative, automotive orgy and have come up with three 'different-but-the same' MPV models. Fiat gave us the Ulysse (&#163;17,595), Citro&#235;n the C8 (&#163;18,595) and Peugeot the 807 (&#163;18,600).To celebrate the Espace's 20th birthday, I decided to test best of the rest, splashed out the extra fiver, and went for Peugeot's 807. The Espace (&#163;19,575 - market leaders get to charge more) and the 807 are both variations on the box-on-wheels theme. But the 807 is very much a box of tricks. Every gizmo has been incorporated, and after a week I was still discovering new switches, levers and gimmicks. The big talking point in our family were the electric sliding rear doors with remote-control operation. This meant that by pressing the key fob you could open the back doors while you were still struggling across the car park. This may sound like a fairly pointless advantage, but you'd be amazed how quickly you get used to it. And now having to actually open a car door by hand has suddenly become an almost unbearable fag. There was also the added excitement of the sweepstake my wife and I ran as to how long it would be before one of the children got their head/hand/leg trapped in the door. In the end we both lost as, incredibly, my sister-in-law's left breast became the car's first victim.Once over the fun of flicking open the doors, there was plenty of other button activity for idle thumbs. There was the DVD in-car TV screen with infrared headphones, digital climate control, electrically operated seats with 'memory function' (though we never figured out what the seats might be remembering about our buttocks), parking sensors, auto headlights, rain sensors, tyre-pressure sensors, and on and on. There were also electric windows with 'anti-pinch' features (again, the kids disappointed us by failing to get trapped).The 2-litre diesel engine gave us nearly 40 miles to the gallon, which, given the car's size, seemed a bonus. There were a few oddities - the handbrake has been moved to the right-hand side of the driver to create a sort of corridor down the centre of the van; a good idea, but it means you catch your thigh every time you try to get out. And the instrument panel is easily the ugliest face I've seen since Barry McGuigan last did 12 rounds.In all, though, it's a pedigree Peugeot - and though it may have taken two decades to finally catch up, the 807 has all it takes to end Renault's reign.Braking newsWhen it comes to reasons for being late with a hire car, National Car Rental has heard it all. But maybe the best excuse was a transvestite at the wheel of a 4x4 who said, 'Sorry, but I'm not used to driving in high heels'
In 1976, the American singer-songwriter Tom Waits released a song called 'Step Right Up', in which he impersonated the souped-up sales-pitch of a veteran street hawker. 'Everyone's a winner, bargains galore,' he began, describing an array of items including perfume, an engagement ring, smoke-damaged furniture, and a mythical product that lasted a lifetime, mowed your lawn, picked up the kids from school and removed embarrassing stains from sheets. The product, which never needed winding, was being sold at an unrepeatable price because it cut out the middle man.Earlier this month, tickets for a Tom Waits concert went on sale at Ticketmaster, and, this being his first London show for many years, sold out in about 30 minutes. Thirty minutes after that, the same tickets for the same show began appearing on the internet auction site eBay, alongside 25 million other goods such as engagement rings, perfume and lawn mowers. 'Hi,' one listing began, 'You are bidding on two tickets together to see Tom Waits get Real Gone on his whistle-stop tour of Europe. He's doing one date in the UK, his first since '87. But I'm telling you what you already know. These tickets are in the stalls in row D with seat numbers in the twenties ... I sat in the exact same seats for Lou Reed recently and they were bloody fantastic. Face value is approximately &#163;70 each. Bid with confidence ... ' The auction lasted three days and attracted 23 bids. The opening price was &#163;140, but this soon started to rise. Someone called 'apocomusic' tendered &#163;250, but was swiftly outbid by 'scruffymessiah2', who offered &#163;300. 'Frogut1' bid &#163;470, and 'spwmojo' came in at &#163;490. Then things got serious: 'neilthackeray28th' bid &#163;565, but was outgunned by 'arvind1963' at &#163;640. On the final day, 'Jackdoor13636', who had previously bought 12 other items on eBay, most recently spending &#163;4.99 on a rare VHS tape of Tom Waits performing a Cole Porter song, made a bid of &#163;650. Spwmojo was having none of this, and so increased the price to &#163;671 with only 41 seconds of the auction remaining. But with 23 seconds left, jackdoor13636 decided to bid again, finally winning the tickets for &#163;691, plus &#163;3.75 postage, a mark-up of more than &#163;550. Let's hope Tom doesn't have an off night, or add any extra dates.The seller of the tickets, medschool33, is an experienced eBay trader, and has made a profitable hobby out of selling desirable products. His most recent sale, completed last Wednesday lunchtime, was for another pair of Tom Waits tickets, in the second row of the stalls ('Absolutely not too close because even front row is some distance from the stage'), which went for &#163;640. His is a hobby that didn't exist a decade ago: previously one had to stand in the rain outside a venue to spend crazy money on touted tickets, but now one can enjoy this experience at home.The eBay phenomenon has also changed our lives in other ways. Since its formation nine years ago, unwanted second-hand goods are no longer just things we pack in bin liners and take to the charity shop and car boot sale; everything has a value to someone, and in a global marketplace this value tends to be higher than the one we may obtain in our high street. There is nothing that will not sell. Batman cars, pairs of shoes, autographs, fruitcakes, packets of Pez candy - I put one of each of these up for sale a few days ago and many people were genuinely interested.The British site - eBay.co.uk - is based in a neo-classical square in Richmond. Next week the company celebrates the fifth anniversary of its first sterling sale, and its reception area contains a cuttings file thick with five years of eBay madness: the story of the Scottish landowner who used eBay to buy back the Meissen china that was stolen from his drawing room; the foiled attempt by a ship broker to sell a decommissioned British aircraft carrier; how one eBay user helped another when he was trapped in his garden shed.  Many articles retell the mythical story of eBay's founding in 1995, when a ponytailed man in Silicon Valley called Pierre Omidyar tried to expand his fianc&#233;e's collection of plastic Pez dispensers by setting up a virtual trading community (Omidyar now says this is a 'romanticised' version of events - the first item he sold was a broken laser pointer. The name eBay sprang from Echo Bay Technology Group, Omidyar's consultancy company).There are press releases with lists of what one cannot sell on eBay (fireworks, drugs, firearms, lock-picking devices) and lists of how fast things sell. On an average day in the UK someone buys one mobile phone per minute, a model train every three minutes and a laptop every two minutes. There are no figures for the impact this has had on the postal service. Further statistics suggest nothing but remarkable growth: there are 114 million registered worldwide users, with 7.6 million in the UK. There are more than 25 million items on the site at any given time with about two million listed in the UK. Unusually for an internet venture, eBay has been profitable since its launch, and last year its revenue rose 79 per cent to $2.17 billion (attained by taking a small percentage of every winning bid). Its stock market value stands at about $43 billion. Between January and March more than one million people in the UK used eBay for the first time.Accordingly, eBay has made the ultimate transformation from trademarked proper noun to verb: I may eBay that vase later tonight; my decorator spends all his evenings eBaying for a 1982 BMW. Relatively few people talk of QXL-ing an item, although QXL was once the more successful online auction site in the UK (it now specialises in trading 'adult' material, ie  Swedish Meatballs 5).The managing director of ebay.co.uk is a likeable 38-year-old, square-faced man called Doug McCallum, who has been in the online business for 10 years, first at Capital Radio and Pret A Manger and then at a healthcare supplier. He has been at eBay since 2002, but his relationship with what he likes to call the 'eBay community' began in 1998, when he bought rare science-fiction books from a man he had never heard of on the other side of the world. Almost all eBay users experience a similar seminal moment, something on a par with one's first successful email. The realisation that the 'global marketplace' may actually exist outside the pages of the  Economist usually begins with a fruitless quest for something one is passionate about, only to find that several thousand other people also collect airline sickbags or maps of the Tokyo subway system.McCallum says he now buys and sells about 50 things a year. He has sold a car, hi-fi speakers and a fireplace, mainly big things so that he knows what it's like for other people to ship things that are unwieldy. He has an eBay positive 'feedback' record of about 150 (an approval rating which logs the number of successfully completed purchases or sales). Like many users he will go to great lengths to protect this record, lest adverse comments affect other traders' trust in him. 'I once sold a computer to someone who wrote back saying it was missing the dongle that connected it up,' he explains. 'I then scoured the universe for this thing to get it to him, finally finding one in America which meant I made practically nothing on the sale but I did avoid negative feedback.' McCallum told me that the one single eBay purchase that made a big difference to the public perception of his company was Cherie Blair's purchase of an alarm clock to wake up one of her sons. 'The idea that someone who is that successful is using the site for frugal purchases just caught the public's imagination.'He is also pleased with the number of women who appear in the newspapers with stories of 'unlocking the entrepreneur within' by giving up their jobs and making more money by using eBay to buy and sell shoes. I wondered about the effect all this was having on charity shops, but he said that charity shops loved eBay. Shop managers withhold items that they hope will fetch more at auction, and enterprising charities hold their own eBay-only auctions. McCallum then clicked on his computer and brought up eBay pages dedicated to good causes, including the opportunity to bid on a sale of lunchtime 'dates' with minor celebrities in aid of Breakthrough Breast Cancer (The following day, 'an afternoon of fine dining and laughter' with Lord Brocket attracted 26 bids and went for &#163;1,020, while the same kind of thing with Vicky Butler-Henderson - 'lunch with a beautiful lady who will dazzle you with her first-class knowledge of exactly what goes on under a car bonnet' - pulled in 43 bids and went for &#163;2,650.).   Doug McCallum said he wished that people would begin to see eBay for what it really was - the biggest storage facility in the world. As an example, he mentioned a DVD he owned of the 1993 rugby world cup. He doubted whether he would watch it again soon, and he was thinking of selling it. 'I can release it out into the marketplace absolutely secure that the vibrancy of that marketplace means that if I really do want to see it in 10 years' time it will be there, one click away. It's wonderfully liberating - you can let go of all of that stuff!'McCallum said that eBay was rapidly expanding into a store where buyers go to find brand-new items far cheaper than elsewhere online; the night before, he said he had bought a pushchair for &#163;60 below any competitor. I mentioned the Tom Waits tickets, and the idea that eBay was turning us all into racketeers; he argued that eBay merely democratised access. I raised the possibility of some form of regulation to protect fans and promoters and musicians. 'I couldn't disagree more,' he said. 'I think that's a nanny state view of the world. I think it's the right of the individual who owns the ticket to resell it - eBay allows people to buy at whatever price they wish to pay.'We talked about the eBay 'university', a group of eBay experts who hold seminars around the country to educate heavy users ('powersellers') about best practice and maximising profits (this facility will be available to eBay novices next year). Inevitably, the university is an idea imported from the United States, as is the concept of 'consignment stores', shops where those unwilling or unable to sell items online themselves may bring in things to be sold on eBay by professionals. McCallum believes that there may already be such a shop in west London, and although eBay will not endorse them officially, he is keen to encourage more.In California, companies such as AuctionDrop and iSold It are already well established, and a business plan of a store shortly due to open in Los Angeles called Auction Valet sets out the principles with clear logic: 'What allegedly began as a way for collectors to find obscure items has become a huge and efficient marketplace for every conceivable product. The amazing fact remains that although eBay is used by millions of people to purchase, only a fraction use eBay to sell. Many people have garages, attics and shelves of items that are viable items for sale on eBay. The barrier to entry as a seller is sufficiently high to enable a middleman to efficiently enter the marketplace. Such barriers to entry include the technical proficiency and time required to adequately research an item's auction value, photograph the item, create an auction, track the sale, collect the funds, pack and ship the item. Most people queried agree that they would prefer a middleman to handle those details.' In return for this service, the middleman store will take about 29 per cent of the winning bid.One possible hindrance to the growth of such stores in Britain may be eBay's first UK television advertising campaign, which starts running in a few days. This will attempt to show the less confident computer user how to buy on eBay for the first time, and to encourage those who already buy to branch out into selling. 'It's the heritage of a nation of shopkeepers,' McCallum says. 'We have always been a trading nation.' There will be two separate campaigns, before and after Christmas. On the day I visited one location in south London they were filming the post-Christmas ad, intended to encourage viewers to recycle their unwanted presents. A laddish actor in his twenties sat on a wall outside a terraced house in Vauxhall talking to another actor on a bike. The lad held up an Argyle sweater and said: 'My grandmother! She always gives me a jumper I won't wear. But someone else will!'  This six-second scene, which inevitably took half a day to shoot, was the last sequence in a trail of traded items that included a pair of stilettos, lights for a rally car and a toy for a yapping dog. The message was: someone wants everything. The other advert stresses the amount of new items on sale, and both end with the tagline 'Buy It. Sell it. Love it. eBay.co.uk'. If the ads work, new users will soon encounter the detailed instructions on the eBay home page about how to buy and sell safely.While most transactions are carried out without a hitch, there are inevitably winning bidders who fail to pay and sellers who fail to ship goods. Although eBay offers limited compensation if items don't materialise (especially if they have been paid for by PayPal, its own credit-card payment facility), it can only issue warnings against the bigger cons. Last week, Which? Computing magazine estimated there were 200 fraudulent auctions placed on eBay every day, some easier to spot than others. Many regular users have received convincing scam emails requesting bank and credit card details and threats to close an eBay account, and there is a vast amount of too-good-to-be-true offers on non-existent new laptops and iPods requiring untraceable cash payments by Western Union and MoneyGrams. Despite all one's better judgments, these are often extremely tempting, especially as sellers now offer to email the vendor a copy of a shipping receipt, which inevitably also turns out to be fraudulent.All the heavy users who were emailed for help with this article wrote back with reports of the pleasure and profit that eBay brings. 'I believe that eBay is one of the most important innovations of our generation,' a woman called Wilma Mae Ward told me. Ms Ward left her job as company director three years ago and now spends about eight hours a day trading vintage fashion items on eBay from her home in London. 'To have the opportunity to truly create a business from second-hand items in your home and to be able to sell worldwide with almost no start-up costs is nothing less than revolutionary. I don't have a fancy expensive website sitting there waiting for people to find it. I immediately have bidders/buyers from all over the world. How amazing is that? So weigh it up - stressed-out director or chilled-out eBayer, selling clothes and not worrying about passing trade, making a great living and having an awesome lifestyle. I can sit in a coffee shop with my laptop and run my business. Now that's what I'm talking about!' (Wilma Mae Ward is an American.)Most eBayers will confess to at least one bitter story. Recently in the Spectator, Petronella Wyatt wrote of her new-found passion for buying designer handbags. These bags were cheaper than you would pay even in Toy Town, and of course one particular bargain failed to arrive. She then withdrew her winning bid on another bag after fretting over the unusual methods of payment, and received an email back from the seller 'which read like something out of The Godfather '.Even experienced buyers get stung. The following example is typical. Madonna announces her new show at Earl's Court and Wembley Arena, and despite the fact that tickets are priced at &#163;150 plus booking fee, the good seats at the front sell out within minutes. A browser on eBay sees three tickets on sale at a central block at Wembley just eight rows from the front, and snaps them up for &#163;550, just a fraction over face value. The seller has been trading on eBay for three years and has an exceptional feedback record of several hundred with wholly glowing recommendations from past users. This is in June, a couple of months before the show, and the buyer waits patiently for the tickets to arrive. And waits. Emails are sent to the seller, who replies immediately and politely, saying he hasn't yet received them from the promoter, but it's only a matter of days. The seller gives his full address in Milton Keynes. But the tickets have still not come a fortnight before the show.Then I received this email: 'Hello,' it begins. 'Firstly can I please apologise for having to send you this email. I am writing to let you know that there will be no tickets sent to you that you ordered from me, but before you shout and scream at me please read on. There is an honest and genuine reason why and proof/evidence of this will be forwarded onto you as soon as available. 'I AM genuinely sorry about this but it is out of my control as you will eventually know. with regard to the money paid, please DO NOT worry - a full refund will be issued and also if there are any extra monies involved (hotel, train, etc) then please let me know. 'I feel bad enough about this as it is so please do not send any rude or abusive replies. I am fully aware of the disappointment caused though hopefully you will be able to source elsewhere. Once again, I AM really very sorry and once again I will refund the full amount.'Six weeks later, long after my wife and youngest child have recovered from the negligible disappointment of not seeing the show, there is still no explanation and no refund. Perhaps some terrible tragedy has befallen the seller; I can live with the loss. Undeterred by this setback, I have continued to trade on eBay since. Like many modern addictions, it is proving a little less joyous and a little more of a chore as time goes on, but it still beats car-boot sales.   The five items I sold last week did quite well. Nigel Slater generously agreed to bake a large fruitcake for The Observer 's Christmas appeal, which sold for &#163;51. A signed selection of Eddie Izzard DVDs and promotional lipsticks went for &#163;63.03. A pair of Jimmy Choo size 40 diamante and satin high heels, rescued from The Observer  fashion desk, also for the benefit of the Christmas appeal, sold to a instant-paying woman called Louise in west Yorkshire. I then sold an old Batman car and Batboat, valuable in its original box, for &#163;395.01. A packet of fruit-flavour Pez, which was an ironic sale designed to take the eBay story back to where it began nine years and 100 million transactions ago, sold to a buyer in Germany for 10 pence, plus much postage. The buyer is called 'mikiolek', and he or she has yet to complete payment.Mine's a Datsun: what they're buying on eBay1 Wayne HemingwayDesignerI collect anything that's culturally significant. And cheap. I don't spend a lot of money on it, I treat it like going to a jumble sale, I look for things that make me smile. I got some vintage Blackburn Rovers T-shirts for my kids and nearly all the Christmas presents come from eBay. We even bought a car for my 17-year-old daughter, a Datsun 120y. My oldest kid has made at least &#163;3,000 from selling old BMXs and Choppers that he's collected and he's paid his way to university on that. My favourite buy was a 1970s Dansette record player from Japan that I've always wanted and it's fantastic. It's difficult to get a bargain on eBay these days, unless you want something nobody else wants - which is good for me because I do want stuff that nobody else wants.2 Sally BramptonEx-editor Elle, now a novelistMy eBay triumph was a huge Heals sofa which was worth &#163;2,000 and I got it for &#163;74. The bigger the site gets the more problems come with it. There's lots more dodgy people selling, so you've got to be careful. I always check the feedback and only use people with 100 per cent rating and I always buy designer labels. In the last year the vintage section has gone mad. I like antique linen nightgowns and I used to buy them in fleamarkets, then I started getting them on eBay for &#163;4. But suddenly everybody's cottoned on - every other garment says 'Kate Moss' or 'Sienna'. So you actually know who the style icons of the moment are. And you can also tell from the bidding prices which designer label is really hot - Prada's going way down at the moment and the Balenciaga bags are the top of the list. So as an ex-fashion person I find it riveting as research as well.3 Tyler BruleFounder of Wallpaper* and head of design consultancy WinkreativeRecently I've been buying any memorabilia to do with Japan Airlines from the 1950s to 1970s - guide books, luggage tags, in-flight service pieces. Japan Airlines had a fantastic corporate identity and they've destroyed it with the one they rolled out recently, so I'm trying to amass a collection of the old one. There's a lot of it around and the starting prices are incredibly low, but there's three or four keen buyers around the world bidding against me. My best eBay buy was a book which celebrated the launch of their first passenger jet. They produced a special-edition book for passengers on the inaugural flight and it's a wonderful example of Japanese printing and graphic design.4 Shaznay LewisSingerI mostly like using eBay to shop for clothes, especially shoes. I browse through the books and stuff but it's mainly the fashion I'm interested in. I bought a great pair of Marc Jacob shoes recently for just &#163;80. I like using it because it's a relaxed and private way to shop, no one is looking over your shoulder while you're doing it. There is a great selection of fashion there so it's much easier; you don't have to go to 10 different places to find something.5 Edith BowmanRadio 1 DJI'm not a total eBay obsessive, more of a nosy cow in wanting see what kind of stuff's on there. I'm a bit scared about making that step towards being a regular buyer, because I know I'll become obsessed. I mostly buy memorabilia and  Star Wars gumpf. When we have guests on the show we do an eBay search on them and find out what kind of random stuff of theirs is on it - the other day we found a signed drumstick from The Darkness. My best buy was a  Star Wars poster signed by George Lucas for about &#163;100. I hope it  is his signature - it might be dodgy because it was only a hundred quid.6 Sophie Ellis BextorSingerI got into eBay about four years ago because I was trying to get hold of a Blythe doll I'd spotted in a photographic book, and after that it just kind of snowballed. I've bought vintage handbags, lampshades, unusual shower hooks, all sorts. I think the weirdest thing I've bought was this 1950s gadget you hook into the zip on the back of a dress so you can pull if up if no one is around to help you. It's brilliant.Jenny Clover
What if ants could turn the microscopes on the scientists studying them and, after beady-eyed surveillance, demand a revolution in their scrutinisers' accustomed ways?This is more than a variation on Lilliputians for a new Jonathan Swift to consider; it's a metaphor for a real-life reversal of multinational power that has no precedent.Management tomes of the late 1990s - like Bill Gates's droning Business, the Speed of Thought - explained how the internet might be used to study customer behaviour minutely, through, for instance, 'data mining'. Companies, they said, could use the intimate understanding so acquired to address customers' needs and preferences, on the companies' terms.What no one foresaw was the shocking extent to which the internet would change the terms of trade between corporations and society. Certainly not that one of the world's largest drug companies, which is among the richest and most influential industries of all time, would be the first victim of the shift.The crisis that began the containment of pharma power is a runaway rate of drug injury. In England alone, reactions to drugs that led to hospitalisation followed by death are estimated at 5,700 a year and could actually be closer to 10,000, according to a study in The British Medical Journal  in July. The researchers reckon that adverse drug reactions are costing the NHS &#163;466m a year.Drug injury has been worrying experts for decades. But after the thalidomide tragedies of the 1950s, the subject failed to catch fire for politicians and the public until the recent antidepressant controversy. Last month, that debate made headlines when Britain's GlaxoSmithKline, the world's second-largest pharma, denied any wrongdoing, but agreed to pay $2.5m to settle a lawsuit filed by the State of New York accusing it of fraud for concealing evidence of its antidepressant Seroxat's potential for harming children, while doing them no measurable good.In a sequel last week, a group of about two dozen American parents sued GSK seeking refunds for treatment of their children with the drug.The GSK suit created the tipping point in the pharmas' change of fortune and has revealed the force behind it. The formal complaint drew heavily on research by public health campaigners and consumer advocates about the hazards of antidepressant use. These activists had toiled in deepest obscurity - some of them, for a decade - until their discoveries were featured on a  Panorama programme, 'Secrets of Seroxat', in autumn 2002. A follow-up broadcast the next spring, 'Emails from the edge', analysed 1,370 messages from viewers about the first programme, mostly from people reporting antidepressant withdrawal reactions including shock-like sensations in their heads, and thoughts about self-mutilation, violence and suicide.The outcry that followed forced GSK to make a stunning admission. In June 2003, it corrected its prescribing instructions for Seroxat, revising its estimate of the risk of withdrawal symptoms from one in 500 to one in four.Infinitely more frightening than that reluctant confirmation of a drug's potential for harm was that in the years GSK spent denying it, this pharma had the backing of institutions that we, the public, rely on to protect us from poisoning by prescription. The Royal College of Psychiatrists had insisted only a year earlier that 'there is no evidence that antidepressant drugs can cause dependence syndromes'; a patient information leaflet approved by a regulatory body also said as much.The events that led to Seroxat's exposure would seem to suggest that it was television power that forced GSK to recant. But it was really the internet that allowed public health activists to do an end run around GSK's and the medical authorities' denials of the drug's risks. An explosion of websites dedicated to vivid accounts of antidepressant reactions told these campaigners about hundreds of thousands affected by a problem that officially did not exist.The internet was 'groaning with evidence'; over time, the 'cover-up became more obvious as the weight of scientific evidence got stronger and public protest grew'. Those are quotations from a magisterial history and analysis of the antidepressant crisis by two leading campaigners, Charles Medawar and Anita Hardon, in Medicines Out of Control?, a new book recommended by the  Lancet as essential reading for members of the parliamentary committee examining pharma influence on health policy, whose hearings began last week.As critical to the pharmas' outing as the raw data on the internet was this medium's capacity for handling complexity - at the speed of firing neurons. Mood medicines are arguably even more complicated than computers. Software's complexity is largely restricted to the science behind it, and to products and their intermeshing with other products. Pills have extra intricacies that follow from variations in formulations of the same types of drugs, in the range of possible   reactions, some of them subtle, in patients - even to different doses, in the same person - and consequences not just from interactions with other drugs but with non-pharmaceutical treatment and lifestyle aspects such as diet.Health campaigners trying to decide what the pharmas could reasonably be blamed for shared vast stores of data about such complexities by - among other means - encyclopaedic technical postings on their websites. Some of these sites also feature open access to years of correspondence between the activists and regulatory officials and pharma executives. Postings like these have allowed rapid international co-ordination between the campaigners.Pharmas bent on redeeming their reputations have suddenly begun to use the internet to publish what they once fought for the right to conceal. GSK's first notable response to the filing of the recent lawsuit was to start posting both negative and positive findings from drug tests on its web site. But it is far from the only pharma with a history of secretiveness about trials, and at least three of its rivals have copied its turnabout, with Eli Lilly and Merck making the most radical moves towards transparency.Even top-ranking pharma executives might not yet grasp that this is only the start of a progressive stripping away of power. They could do worse than adopt for a model Gulliver, who reacted to his entrapment by the Lilliputians with a 'promise of honour', for fear that the showers of tiny arrows his captors used to disable him might be far from the worst they could do.Bitter pillsBit by bit, health activists in Britain and America
have uncovered the core of pharma might: a
sinister mesh of hidden influences in the
regulation and practice of medicine that is
painstakingly dissected in Medicines Out of
Control? by Charles Medawar and Anita Hardon.In both countries, clinical drug tests are paid for
by the pharmas, who tweak the trials' design for
the best possible results. Until recently, only the
most favourable findings got published in the
20,000-odd biomedical journals, many of them
dependent on pharmas for funding. The drugs are
approved for marketing by regulators, whose
salaries are mostly financed by the subjects of
their evaluations - since pharmas pay to have
their products vetted. The medicines are then
prescribed by doctors routinely courted with
pharma gifts - from free pens to family skiing
holidays - meant to persuade them to change
their prescribing habits.
The race is on to create a gadget to outgun the iPod - playing not only music but movies - and usurp it as the ultimate icon for Christmas shoppers.Six portable 'video jukeboxes' are already on the market at prices ranging from &#163;200 to &#163;400. The hand-held devices have a screen similar to in-flight movies and a hard drive which stores films, television, home movies, music and photographs, typically downloaded from a PC. Owners can record a favourite TV programme one evening and watch it on the bus the next day, or use it to keep children occupied on a lengthy car journey.More portable media centres will flood the market in time for Christmas as the hi-tech giants take a multi-million pound gamble. But although the devices mark an evolutionary leap forward from music players like the iPod, matching that product's fashionable status will be tougher.The iPod, made by Apple, stormed ahead of the competition with its sleek design, user-friendliness and casual endorsement by celebrities spotted wearing its distinctive white headphones. The video players are bigger and have already been criticised as clunky and lacking finesse.Conspicuous by its absence from the market is Apple itself. Industry speculation has centred on the prospect of an 'mPod', with rumours that designs drawn up last year were torn up amid doubts that video on the go will ever catch on. James Bernard, lead product manager for Microsoft Portable Media Centre, said: 'Apple have said they don't see a future in video. We see that as a mistake.'Microsoft has launched its operating system on a device made by Creative, now available, and on two more, from Samsung and iRiver, due out before Christmas. The Creative Zen Portable Media Centre has reportedly been snapped up by David Beckham and Britney Spears. Priced at &#163;370, it has a 3.8in screen and can store up to 85 hours of video, 9,000 songs and tens of thousands of photos. But battery power is a concern: it claims seven hours of video or 22 hours of audio, after which the device has to be recharged. All downloading of video or audio must be done via a PC, whereas some of the portable media centres can record directly from a TV.In turn, the content stored by a portable media centre can be plugged into a TV set and watched on a normal size screen.Some experts predict that the downloading of films could make DVDs obsolete. Bruce Eisen, executive vice-president of CinemaNow, an American online movie store which already has some titles in Britain, said: 'I think ultimately the digital downloading of movies will displace DVDs. I'm not saying next year, or even the next five to 10 years, but it will happen. To my kids, or my grandchildren, the idea of selling content on shiny pieces of plastic will be silly.'Ashley Norris, publisher of tech-digest.com, urged caution. 'People are used to listening to music on the go but they've never wanted to watch video on the go. The British reserve will stop people watching Coronation Street on the bus.'
Rex likes to take it easy and sit in the sun. He lives in Norwich and is looking for someone to spend sunny afternoons with.Nicky is from Swansea and describes herself as homely; she loves being pampered.But scroll a little further on this particular webpage and the lists of likes and dislikes become more bizarre.Poochie from West Midlands likes to lick people and his favourite treat is pig feet.Poppy from Wolverhampton likes to nibble on rawhide bones and play with a piece of rope.And Duke from south-west London enjoys drinking from the toilet and is looking for someone to fetch sticks with.These are among the first 40 recruits on a dog dating website, "Cold nose... Warm heart", which began two weeks ago.And the venture seems to be spawning friendships between owners as well. Paul Scott's dog, a spaniel named Spot (likes to be stroked, is loyal and enjoys chocolate drops) was matched with Sparkle, a dachshund (likes playing in the garden, is slightly aloof, seeking a clean, good looking companion).And Paul (window cleaner) met Andy Barrat (IT professional) and they became mates. Paul, 26, explained: "I came across this site... and I thought, that's really cool, I could go out with another person with another dog and I'm sure my dog would like it as well."Spot and Sparkle both live in Cornwall, about 10 miles apart, and it's not hard to meet."I would have never met Andy usually," Paul said. "He wears a suit and plays computers, and I'm just a window cleaner, but he's a fun bloke and we get along well and there's Spot and Sparkle, this sausage dog running along - it's like the hilarious odd couple."Spot never really had any dog friends and he's always been just with me. He was so excited to meet Sparkle. It was like discovering Christmas morning as a child - that's the sort of expression he had on his face."Andy, 34, says Sparkle played with other dogs in the park only occasionally. "It needs other dog company. And this is great - after registering I can have as many friends for Sparkle as I like."Caroline Polledri, 25, set up the agency because she didn't like walking her dog, Harry, alone in the forest near her home and wondered about him finding a companion.Owners must pay &#163;10 to register their pets, and the agency promises a discreet and confidential service."I started thinking about dating for dogs, but my friends were saying, 'it must have happened in America already' and it hasn't."There's a certain tone that suggests some may have registered their dogs under the guise of curbing their own loneliness."I am looking for a strong dog to take care of me" says one, and another, "I am looking for a playmate to cuddle".When Ms Polledri is asked what she thinks of this, she laughs. "Perhaps in some cases, people are hiding behind their dogs to try and meet people."
You know an album cover's a classic when it gets ripped off by another band,knockoffproject.comis an excellent gallery of originals and the copies that followed - most are parodies like Weird Al Yankovich's take on Michael Jackson's Bad, retitled Even Worse.For true originality visit Great Album Covers That Never Were (www.theartrocks.com), a project where a selection of artists redesign the sleeves of iconic albums. Among the treasures atwww.danacountryman.comis a Virtual Museum Of Unusual Album Cover Art, whilewww.heavy.com/diesel2focuses on the worst examples of the form. Meanwhile, the model of one of the cheekiest sleeves ever - Herb Alpert's Whipped Cream And Other Delights -is milking (sorry) her infamy atwww.whippedcreamlady.comby selling out-takes from the famous photo session.
SudekiXBoxAlthough programmed in Brighton, Sudeki goes out of its way to look like an amalgam of virtually all previously released Japanese role-playing games. What this means is soullessly generic characters in shiny-looking suits, a girl whose armour scarcely preserves her modesty and the dull, lifeless staple of the genre: random encounters with groups of monsters to fight in return for experience points. The voice acting, while more unusual, really doesn't help, veering wildly between camp-Austrian and main character Elco's mockney, which is so poor you expect him at any moment to launch into a rendition of Chim Chim Cheree. Its colourful landscapes and pretty villages look very beautiful, and combat gets progressively more interesting, but with its many flaws and sans decent plot, what emerges is deeply insipid.Microsoft, £40Full Spectrum WarriorPCKnowing how to shoot things is all very well, but in the frankly terrifying world of modern warfare, you also need to know how to get around cramped urban environments riddled with AK-47-wielding terrorists and machine gun emplacements. Converted from its original Xbox outing, the highly engaging tactical drama of controlling Alpha and Bravo fire teams in a fictitious Arabic country (that is emphatically not Iraq. No, definitely not Iraq) works at least as well using mouse and keyboard. Again, your own shooting skills are never put to the test, only your abilities as commander in engaging the enemy with one team, while using the other to flank and kill them. The immaculately honed structure of engagements and the intelligent reaction of enemies make this a uniquely satisfying tactic-'em-up.THQ, £35Headhunter: RedemptionPlaystation 2, XBoxPicking up the story 20 years after its first instalment, we rejoin an even more grizzled Jack Wade and newly liberated sidekick Leeza X (who, despite having a name like an R&amp;B star, never actually lays down any lyrics) in their fight for an underground resistance movement led by someone called The Man Who Walks With Machines. So far, so very silly. Gameplay switches between Jack and Leeza in a series of third-person missions hampered by an aiming system that happily locks onto distant, inanimate objects rather than the gang member standing right in front of you, firing a gun at your head. Twitchy controls, cheesily obvious item placement and a slavish devotion to performing tasks in the prescribed order hamstring this straight from the start. Second Sight and Psi-Ops do it all way better.Sega, £40
The four-car family is becoming an increasingly common phenomenon in affluent, gridlocked, Britain.According to research from Zurich Insurance, more than a fifth of families with driving-age children living at home now possess four cars. And almost half of these households have three cars.The research shows a picture of modern family life where children are staying at home longer and driveways and streets are being overcrowded with their cars.The creation of these one-family traffic jams is being subsidised by parents who are paying an estimated &#163;545m a year to cover their children's driving expenses.The figures from Zurich show the extent to which today's young people are being indulged.More than 40% of cars being driven by 17 to 21-year-olds are gifts from parents.Almost a fifth of parents then go on to pay their children's entire motoring costs and, perhaps unsurprisingly, a similar proportion of parents fear that their children are financially spoilt.It wasn't that long ago that people talked about a two-car family as a sign of affluence. But this latest snapshot of free-spending middle England shows car ownership accelerating past this with 41% of 17 to 21-year-olds now having their own car.Zurich's Adrian Saunders says the rise of the four-car family is being driven by a mixture of changing patterns of family life, increased wealth and concern about safety. A big factor is the trend towards older children staying at home.High house prices and student debts have led to more young people not moving out to buy their own places - so these twentysomethings are adding to the family car pool.Safety is a big issue for parents and giving their teenager a car is a way of ensuring they get themselves home from a night out.Parents are also likely to be tired of being a teenager's   taxi service. Mr Saunders says that the rise of the four-car family also matches other indicators of "mass affluence" - and that as disposable income has increased, the relative cost of buying a car has decreased.The Zurich findings will also lend ammunition to anyone wanting to tell today's teenagers that in economic terms they're having it easier than ever.According to research from the AA, parents born in the 1960s would have grown up when car ownership was still a minority activity, and only a very small number of children would have been taken to school by car.By the 1990s, the positions had reversed, with a shrinking minority of households without a car, and most children being driven to school. Now this generation of children are being given their own cars by their parents. Parents are also contributing to their insurance costs.Only a third of these young drivers have organised their own.I n response to the growth in multi-car families, Zurich has its own "family fleet" motor insurance policy, which provides cover for all the cars owned by parents and their children at the same address.This seeks to get round the problem of young people not being able to build up their own no-claims bonus when they are still being covered through their parents' insuranceUnder the scheme, children are able to acquire their own no-claims record.With young drivers facing hefty insurance costs, it can be tempting for them to be added to their parents' policies.But insurance broker, the AA, says that young people should bite the bullet and find their own insurance as a no-claims record can soon cut the cost of premiums.And a spokesman says that it is worth shopping around for any "discretionary" reductions that could be offered to families seeking to insure several vehicles.
Lucky XBox Live subscribers have the chance to win a trip for two to the development studios of the hotly anticipated titleHalo 2in "sunny" Seattle, WA for a sneaky peek at the game before it's release later in the year. All you've got to do is wait until 22 October (a very special day) to find out if you've won.Sometimes dreams can come true.Cheersgamesindustry.biz
After initially only letting their players use the proprietary Atrac format, Sony has announced that it will make future players compatible with MP3."Currently, to play an MP3 file on a Sony music player, the user must use Sony software to covert the song into Sony's ATRAC format, a cumbersome procedure that tends to reduce the sound quality of the newly formatted file," reportReuters."Having a digital music player that's open to multiple formats is seen as a must-have feature if Sony is to woo back customers who have switched to the iPod."Comment:Our gadget guru Ashley Norris is highly impressed by Sony's new player hardware, although converting tracks to the Atrac format - even on the fly - was its biggest downfall.Sony's got a legion of devoted brand supporters and a good reputation among high street consumers - could its decision to support MP3 be the first move in a serious attempt to take on the iPod?(I just wish they'd all dump DRM formats. Locking consumers into hardware patterns might be a common technology industry ploy, but if you're looking to break into the wider music market, it stinks. People should be able to play any tracks they own on any player they have.)
Jason Kottke's recent post on evidence that points to a possible Google browser has started a lot of brains ticking over.So what's the evidence that he's pieced together so far? Well, Googleplex hosted aMozilla developer day; they bought the domaingbrowser.comearlier this year; and they've beenhiring former IE builders.I haven't seen any other reports which build much further than Jason's investigations, but Google has issued some non-denial denials - so it could be a case of where there's smoke...Is this another example of the new phase of established web firmsattacking each other's territory?
The official UK Java downloadchartwas released today, covering the month of August. And guess what? Tetris and Pac Man are still in the top slots. Did I just image the last twenty years of game development?Whatever, it must be a sobering state of affairs for developers looking to push the genre in new, more interesting directions. Is mobile gaming - as a mass entertainment medium - going to be forever stuck in the eighties? Is this down to the limits of the technology, or maybe the fear that afflicts users when faced with a multitude of unfamiliar choices on their network provider's games portal?Or maybe people really,reallylike Pac Man.
...emotional messaging is what we'll all be doing in the future. That's if Siemens' CX70 EMOTY phone has anything to do with it. I don't know how I missed out on this device when it was launched in Munich a fortnight ago as it sounds quite astonishing. You get a choice of three cute avatars (Wobble, Handy Andy and Cubus) who can be sent out to friends within a multimedia message - and by touching, stroking or rigorously shaking the phone, it's possible to communicate your emotions to the onscreen character who then turns them into a relevant facial expression. Lord knows what'll happen if you try to send a message from the train, car, or while sitting on the washing machine.This ain't the first phone to employ sensors for, um, physical interaction - Nokia's 3220 got their first. Butthatonly has a modest tilt sensor, and doesn't star three characters called Wobble, Andy and Cubus. Plus, the CX70 boasts a 3D Java engine. It is a work of genius. Genius after seven Red Bulls and a bucket of Skittles, perhaps, but genius nonetheless.Morehere.
Get in! Sports Interactive and SEGA today announced the release date forFootball Manager 2005- the footy management game from the team behind Championship Manager. The big day is November 5th, which means addicts - and you know who you are - have only a few weeks left to do that bit of DIY or book that weekend break with the other half. But forget Man Utd vs Liverpool, or Southampton vs Portsmouth, the biggest battle here will be off the pitch. Publishers Eidos have retained the Championship Manager name and will releaseChamp Manager 5later in November. Will the brand sell itself or will punters see Football Manager as the true sequel to Champ Manager? Seems likethese customerson Amazon have already made their minds up.
At the recent Edinburgh Games festival EA's Worldwide Executive of Music, Steve Schnur, gave a keynote speech entitled"Videogames are the new Rock'n'Roll."Now, this may sound like corporate trend-speak, the sort of hackneyed appropriation of media slang that suits use to wow other suits. But Schnur is certainly putting his money where his soundbite is. Take a look at EA's current batch of releases and you'll find soundtracks packed with zeitgeist-defining (or at least zeitgeistsemi-aware) artists:Paul Oakenfoldis composing the themes to FIFA 2005 and GoldenEye Rogue Agent;Black Eyed Peasappear in the Urbz; severalDef Jamruffians show up in the crazed beat-'em-up romp Def Jam Vendetta; and the likes of Burnout 3, FIFA and Need For Speed Underground 2 are chockabloc with licensed tracks.So what's the thinking behind this music policy? What do EA and the artists themselves hope to gain from this set-up? I spoke to Steve recently and he gave me a very unselfconcious insight into the way EA thinks about music.How do you choose the artists that appear on a game soundtrack?Our choices are never random; the music must be so fresh and creative that not only does the gamer discover their favourite new band and song through the game, but hearing the music will always remind them of the great time they had playing the game. My staff and I all come from extensive A&amp;R and music marketing backgrounds. We track record charts, mix tapes, college radio and independent scenes all over the world. We work with record labels, publishers and artists often more than a year in advance to ensure that, in an EA Game, the music will always matter.The Def Jam titles are interesting in that they actually star the musical artists. Is this something you can see expanding to other artists and games? Is so, who and how?Def Jam Vendetta was a landmark title that both set the standard and broke the mold. Now it's no longer enough for artists to just have music in their favourite games; they want to be in the games themselves. They want to see a character that has their face, their voice and their moves, kicking ass in a blockbuster title. Forget soft drink endorsements; for artists, being in a game is now the ultimate thrill. And for EA, having artists in a game is now the ultimate challenge.For our highly anticipated new Sims spin-off The Urbz, The Black Eyed Peas appear as themselves throughout the game, teaching players hip moves and unlocking special missions. In addition, the game features exclusive versions of nine tracks from the band's upcoming "Monkey Business" album. In fact, Will I. Am went back to the studio to custom mix the songs in 'Simlish,' the game's official language. It's the very first time a band has re-recorded their album in another language specifically for a game. It's an unprecedented partnership between a game developer and an international multi-Platinum band, and the buzz on this title is huge.How involved were the Def Jam artists in the game design?Videogames are a natural extension of hip-hop culture, and the worldwide popularity of Def Jam Vendetta was due in large part to its capturing the flavour of the Def Jam universe. The artists were the key to it all. And believe me, nobody played Vendetta more or knows the game better than the Def Jam artists themselves. For Fight For NY, the artists were very involved in the games design: they had amazing ideas for their characters' dialog, fighting styles and finishing moves, as well as for the plot itself. We couldn't – and wouldn't – have created the game without them.EA has yet to release a music title like Dance Dance Revolution or SingStar – are you looking into these areas?We are indeed looking into this area. Dance Dance and SingStar are interesting in that they bring physical interactions – dancing and karaoke singing, respectively – to simulation gaming. EA redefined the simulation genre with The Sims, which is the best-selling game in history with over 34 million units sold. And when Electronic Arts does create an interactive music simulation title, we believe that we will redefine the genre once again.How interested are the artists themselves in getting their music on videogame soundtracks?The fact is that nearly all artists want to be in video games. Besides being gamers themselves, they know that the person playing a video game is the exact same person buying their albums. And unlike radio or MTV, videogames can – and do – represent every genre of music equally. Over the past two years alone, artists like Outkast, Radiohead, Franz Ferdinand, Faithless, The Streets, Green Day, The Hives, Air, Fatboy Slim, Snoop Dog, Morrissey, Christina Aguilera, Busta Rhymes, Kings Of Leon, The Roots, Queens Of The Stone Age, The Red Hot Chili Peppers, DMX, Sum 41, Nelly, The Crystal Method, Jimmy Eat World, Jane's Addiction, The Donnas and literally hundreds more have become an enthusiastic part of EA games. Being associated with a top game makes an artist's image - as well as their records, concert tickets and merchandise - an even bigger part of their fan's lives. If you're an artist and want to know who your audience is, what they do and what they're listening to, you can bet your career that they are playing a video game right now.
Following theannouncementthat the Nintendo DS handheld will launch in the US on November 21st comes the welcome news that the Metroid DS game has been altered since the E3 event in May.Normal controlsvia the d-pad have been added, rather than the stylus control shown in LA. I had a go then and was disappointed by the gimmicky feel to it - using a stylus to control Samus felt decidedly odd. The DS is due out in Europe in Q1 2005, assuming Nintendo remember where the continent is.
All formats, all prices1The Sims 22Burnout 3: Takedown3Conflict: Vietnam4Resident Evil: Outbreak5Shellshock: Nam '676The Simpsons: Hit and Run7Spider-Man 28FIFA 20049Need For Speed: Underground10WWE: Day of ReckoningSource: Elspa, compiled by Chart Track
Second Lifeis a kind of massively multiplayer online game, but its unique properties don't revolve around magic swords, defeating orcs or learning the powers of theJedi. Instead, Second Life is a community-based virtual world in which everything is created by the players, for the players. It's a kind of tool for people to interact and express themselves in all kinds of different ways. All kinds.One of the latest simulations deposited into the landscape was created by "the research arm of a California university" and offers visitors - anyone who joins the game by paying a subscription fee - the chance to see inside one perspective of a schizophrenic mind. Warts and all. Lysergic Acid Diethylamide for the wired brain.For more information, checkthisout. It should explain it better than I can.
Creating a blog to track the progress of your PhD thesis might seem like the ultimate delaying tactic - a way to avoid ever actually writing the thing itself. But for Esther MacCallum-Stewart, currently doing a D.Phil thesis on popular culture during the first world war at the University of Sussex, the opposite has been true. She began blogging about her thesis (www.whatalovelywar.co.uk/war/) in February 2002, initially to keep track of the ideas she was developing. "I realised I was making notes all over the place, and they weren't making any sense at all."The blog has helped her focus her research more effectively, she says. Its search functions let her find ideas quickly, while its public nature means she can work on her research wherever she is. And the blog's format makes it easy to link to and track the massive amount of first world war-related material online. Over time, the site has also brought her to the attention of other academics, non-specialists and the media. Though it may go quiet as her thesis deadline looms early next year, MacCallum-Stewart is planning to keep the blog going. It's become an indispensable part of her academic working life, she says.She is not alone. Some of the blogosphere's biggest names work in academia - Glenn "Instapundit" Reynolds, one of the web's most popular bloggers, is a law professor at the University of Tennessee. Even so, when MacCallum-Stewart started, she was something of a pioneer, at least on this side of the Atlantic. Now many others working in academia are using blogs to develop and share ideas, both with academic peers and general readers.It's no surprise that academics specialising in the net should blog. It's equally unsurprising that researchers pushing boundaries in very technical fields are unlikely to share cutting-edge discoveries on a blog. But most academics fall between these two poles and increasing numbers are using the technology. Crooked Timber (www.crookedtimber.org), an academic group blog, features a long list of links to academic sites, taking in everything from law, classics and philosophy to history and anthropology.Most blogs are individual efforts, but earlier this year, the University of Minnesota Libraries announced UThink (http://blog.lib.umn.edu/), an initiative intended to make it easy for faculty, staff and students to use blogs, either for educational or personal purposes. The university has also made blogs an object of academic study. The rhetoric department has just published Into the Blogosphere (http://blog.lib.umn.edu/blogosphere/), an essay collection about blogging that covers weblog journalism, the gender/ethnic biases of the blogosphere and much more.Academic researchers are drawn to blogs because they're useful knowledge management tools. MacCallum-Stewart says that her site quickly became a kind of "mind gym", a place to test out and develop ideas and to hone her prose style. The social networking side of blogging became very important here, she says. Her blog helped her build links and share ideas with researchers in the area at other universities.More interestingly, her blog has drawn in non-academic readers. Writing every day for them - making sure her arguments on current popular myths about the first world war are clear and concise - has helped her prose style, she says. "I think I write in a more accessible, less academic way now," she says. The sense of connecting with a larger public is important, she adds. "You get so obsessed with a thesis. It's just you most of the time, so to be able to talk about it to all sorts of people is very useful."Over the past decade, academics have used mailing lists, discussion boards and learning journals, but these have usually existed behind university firewalls. In contrast, blogging can invite the rest of the world into the common room - and some believe that can only be a good thing."It was important to me that my research be publicly accessible," says Anne Galloway (www.purselipsquarejaw.org), who is doing a PhD on the effects of ubiquitous computing on space and culture at Carleton University, in Canada. "My work is supported by government scholarships. I wanted to see how weblogs could be used to encourage greater academic accountability to the public - and greater public interaction with academic research."But many more traditional academics are suspicious of taking their ideas public in this way. For some, the blogging academic is the latest incarnation of the media don, ready to simplify complex ideas in return for a few minutes of fame. Others are wary of sharing ideas before they are ready - or of seeing original theories stolen before they are published."People do worry about copyright," says MacCallum-Stewart. "I've found some of my stuff on other people's sites occasionally. They get stern emails and usually take it down." She points out that blogs date things, so putting ideas up can be like putting down a marker, making sure the world knows you came up with a particular idea first.University tutors are also experimenting with blogs as teaching tools, using them to disseminate links and information to classes, sometimes as places where students can collaborate on group projects. A specialist in social and political philosophy at the University of Bristol and a long-term blogger, Crooked Timber's Chris Bertram used a blog last year to supplement a course on Rousseau's Social Contract (http://rousseau.typepad.com/). "The blog became more like a course noticeboard," he says. "I think the students found it a little unfamiliar." As a result, he only got one student comment during the course. However, he is continuing the experiment this year, planning to integrate the blog more fully into the course in a bid to get the students "more interactively engaged"."Using a blog to get information to the class is useful," says Jill Walker (http://huminf.uib.no/~jill/), who teaches at the Department of Humanistic Informatics at the University of Bergen, in Norway. "But it's more important to teach students network literacy." So students on her web design and web aesthetics course blog for a term and pick out selected posts to be graded as part of the course assessment. Walker's students aren't just learning about online style or web design, she says. They're learning to work on and with a network. "If a student links to something another blogger has written, that blogger is likely to link back to the student's work, and hey presto, the student is part of a larger debate that extends far beyond the classroom."In the same vein, Charles Tryon (http://chutry.wordherders.net) gets students to blog for a first year composition course he teaches at the school of literature, communication and culture at Georgia Tech in America. Last year, they kept personal blogs. This year, they are working on group blogs while Tryon coordinates the class via a blog (http://democracymatters.blogspot.com), which points students to relevant material online. He suggests that blogging - reading and writing posts, following links and discussions - encourages students to think critically about technology and how it affects the way we write and think.Tryon adds that "blogs are no substitute for class discussion". Some suggest that eventually, blogs will become just one part of the general digital tool kit available to teachers. Others suspect they may have more lasting effects on academia.Steven Shaviro (www.shaviro.com/Blog), professor of English at Wayne State University, Detroit, says blogs could supplement the peer review system. "Academic writing and publishing depends on peer review. It serves as a filter to weed out slipshod work. But it is also constraining - the norms enforced by peer review, by dissertation advisers, journal editors and so forth, often have a built-in bias against new, experimental work. So I can see blogs as an alternative space for research, not replacing peer review but existing alongside it."For Walker, blogs make academics more accountable for their theories. "If I write something about people, academically, and publish it online, they'll find it and talk back in their blogs. I have to deal with that. I can't stay safely in my ivory tower. And frankly, I don't want to."Others are less happy about the idea. Crooked Timber's Bertram warns of a growing tendency for universities to seek to impose "more corporate control over what academics do. The weblog format is open and public - I think that's a very good thing. But some universities now want to adopt forms of proprietary courseware that actually lock out people from outside the university."He mentions recent events at the University of Birmingham, which stopped hosting personal websites and blogs maintained by academic staff, following controversy over links to allegedly anti-semitic content. New guidelines introduced by the university say staff sites must now be relevant to their academic or administrative work."As more academics become comfortable with this technology, I expect we'll see lots of confrontations between academics who want to use blogs and adminstrators who want to exercise more control," Bertram says. "It's difficult to predict what will happen. But it would be a pity if things become more restrictive than they are now."
It is just over a year since 12-year-old New Yorker Brianna LaHara first hit the headlines. Last September, she made news by agreeing a $2,000 out-of-court settlement with the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) after swapping tracks illegally online.At the time, some scoffed that this hard-nosed attitude towards downloaders was an American phenomenon and would never arrive on Europe's less litigious shores. But, it seems, similar action in British courts could be imminent."We are close to the point of litigation," Steve Redmond, director of communications for the BPI - the industry body which represents the majority of British music - said last week. "There has been a phenomenal rise in the amount of legal downloading, but ultimately court action is the only thing that has proved effective in stopping illegal downloading."It is the strongest warning yet from the British labels, who were reticent to mention the possibility of legal action until earlier this year."It is understandable that record labels are in a dilemma about chasing the file sharing systems themselves," says Paul Brindley, the chairman of MusicAlly, a research and analysis company. "That has not proved successful in the past, so they are left with either taking action against the internet service providers - which is possibly even more difficult - or against the end users themselves."Despite the possibility of negative reaction to court cases, the industry remains bullish in painting a bleak picture for those using peer-to-peer networks in the UK. The BPI believes court action is more important than public relations - even if they involve children: "Obviously, you have to be as sympathetic as you can afford to be," said Redmond, "but most shoplifters are kids, too."He was speaking at a Guardian-sponsored event last week that considered the public relations aspects of addressing the file sharing problem. Organised by MusicAlly, the talk threw the differences of opinion into sharp relief. On one hand were technology enthusiasts who believe that prosecuting illegal downloaders is tantamount to commercial suicide, while on the other stood the record executives and lawyers prepared to instigate legal action.Despite the recent success of legitimate music downloading, driven by the phenomenal popularity of Apple's iTunes service, the music industry remains desperately concerned that illegal file sharing is causing great damage. That opinion is not shared by everyone, however."Piracy is not a major obstacle to the success of legal downloading," says Russell Hart, the chairman of Entertainment Media Research. "We have identified that a key issue preventing legal downloading was a lack of information about where and how to do it."The group's survey of attitudes to downloading showed that few shun legal services in favour of file sharing: "Users were far more concerned about security issues with their computers, a lack of broadband, and a lack of a credit card to actually pay for downloads."Similarly, some argue that it is successful marketing, rather than litigation, which has driven the rise in legal downloading, citing the popularity of Apple's iPod and iTunes service. It may be wide of the mark to assume that the RIAA's tough stance is responsible for the rise in legal downloads, though it clearly has an effect."Overall, the ultimate outcome of legal action in America doesn't seem to have been too bad," says Brindley. "But in the UK we tend to hold back a little more, and I expect there to be some negative reactions if litigation takes place. There really needs to be more of the carrot as well as the stick."It seems difficult for the record industry to complain about its predicament when sales in Britain are actually rising for the first time in five years. Cynics have called the figure a "blip", but some suggest that downloading actually complements record sales rather than destroys them."Even hardcore downloaders see the CD as a preferred format," says Hart. "Downloading is a utilitarian and unemotional purchase. That's unlike a CD, which still carries a lot of emotional weight and, for example, allows people to show off their record collections to their friends."This symbiotic relationship is further boosted by new initiatives such as the arrival of the music download chart. It has proved a shot in the arm for the services involved, and after an initial settling down period, the download top 20 seems to run more or less in line with the physical singles chart.There is clearly a perception gap between what the industry believes and what consumers really think.A common complaint is that innovation too often seems driven by technologists such as Apple or marketers such as Coke. What people aren't seeing is the record industry actually taking on the job of driving legal downloading forward itself.These arguments will grow if - or perhaps, when - file sharers are taken to court. Even within the industry, there is divergence. Some smaller labels with weaker distribution networks view peer-to-peer as a kind of viral marketing that can promote products in areas they would otherwise be unable to reach. Artists, too, are prepared to buck the industry line if there is a danger of alienating their fan base.Such concerns are widely voiced. Court action may be an ingredient in turning people toward legal services, but it could also prove a mortal public relations blow to the music industry at a time when it is struggling to shed its image as a corporate monolith. Time will tell which version of the truth wins out.Insiders' viewsTim Duffy, M&amp;C Saatchi"Any campaign against illegal downloading must rely on brutal simplicity. Simple ideas enter people's brains and stay there longer. We need focused targeting, aiming not at morally delinquent downloaders but those who are wavering. I don't think legal action is necessary to have an effective campaign."Mark Borkowski, Borkowski PR"I think what we are seeing is a disconnect between the record companies and the public. Pop Idol shows the danger of paying to get into people's hearts ... we now have very savvy audiences who actually want to take on the music business."Steve Redmond, BPI"There is some very good news regarding legal downloading, which has grown massively in the past year. Legal downloads are now equivalent to a quarter of the singles market. However, we are close to the point of litigation; it is the only thing that has been proved to be effective."Neil McIntosh, the Guardian"The industry faces disaster if it thinks suing teenage girls will win it a PR coup. With digital rights management likely to remain insecure, and sharing of music certain to continue, the only way labels can kill piracy is to persuade people that it's naff and wrong. They can do that by creating amazing online services and through clever marketing. The big labels then also guarantee their relevance in the industry's future. Right now, their place at that table is not secure by any means."www.musically.comhttp://pro-music.orgwww.bbc.co.uk/radio1/chart/top40/download.shtml
Vodafone yesterday began its campaign for dominance of Europe's Christmas market for mobile phones with nine new handsets it will use to provide 3G services offering everything from video calls to downloadable games and television clips.The company is the first big European mobile phone operator to show its hand, having spent billions buying up 3G licences in the heady days of the dotcom boom. Rivals including Orange, T-Mobile and O2 are expected to follow suit in the run-up to Christmas as they take on market entrant 3.Using its position as the world's largest mobile operator, Vodafone has secured exclusive rights to a third of its new handsets for the festive season - signalling, industry analysts say, that it means to take a leading position in the new market."This is a statement of Vodafone's intent, and it will have certainly generated cause for concern among some of its smaller competitors," said Ben Wood, principal analyst at industry watcher Gartner. "This is Vodafone saying, 'we are the biggest and we have got the toys first'."Although details of the prices Vodafone will charge for the phones and the services on offer will not be revealed until November, the move is a further attempt by chief executive Arun Sarin to increase the power of the brand at the expense of the handset manufacturers, especially market leader Nokia, which have dominated consumer choice in the past.As the mobile phone moves from being a device for making voice calls on the move to an integrated media and communications tool, with the advent of 3G services, Vodafone believes the brand of the operator providing these services should be far more important than that of the handset maker.Vodafone is not alone in this. Although none of its rivals has come up with anything like as comprehensive a range of 3G phones, there are some early statements of intent. Orange has lined up LG's U8150 and SonyEricsson's Z1010 for its 3G service, both of which are likely to carry a network logo.T-Mobile, which already has a 3G service in Germany using Nokia's 7600, has promised to introduce the SonyEricsson Z107, Nokia 6630 and Motorola E1000 to the UK before Christmas. It is expected to seek a prominent position for its logo.O2 has yet to show its hand but has had considerable success in producing own-brand products for niche markets such as its XDA integrated phone and personal digital assistant.Network branding demands are anathema to Nokia, but the firm is in its weakest position for years. Its failure to produce handsets priced for the mid-range market allowed rivals from the Asia-Pacific region as well as European manufacturers such as Siemens to steal market share.Two years ago the launch of the Vodafone Live suite of services, which use existing network technology, presented the world's biggest operator with the perfect opportunity to teach Nokia who is boss ahead of the launch of 3G.The service went live with a Vodafone-branded phone produced by Asian manufacturer Sharp that immediately garnered praise - and awards - from the rest of the industry. More important, the phone was a big hit with consumers, proving that operator-branded data services could produce an increase in the amount customers spend every month.The phones announced by Vodafone yesterday continue the trend of putting the operator's brand ahead of the handset manufacturer's.Seven of the nine handsets - made by Motorola, Sharp, Samsung and SonyEricsson - carry the red Vodafone Sim-card logo on the front. One of the other   two phones, Motorola's C980, carries a large red "speech mark" - Vodafone's logo - in the centre of the phone.The odd one out is the sole Nokia handset in the portfolio, which Vodafone has also not secured on an exclusive basis.By way of proof that the Finnish company is still putting up a fight, Nokia's 6630 phone has the Vodafone name in grey rather than red and a very small speech-mark logo on the zero key. This will operate as a "hot button" to take consumers straight to the operator's suite of new 3G services.Vodafone's chief marketing officer, Peter Bamford, yesterday denied that the 3G phones mark a dramatic shift in the way the company deals with handset manufacturers, but he admitted that the dynamics in the industry have to change because of the new technology."Once upon a time the men from Nokia, Ericsson or Motorola would appear with a box of handsets and we would buy them. Now, if a customer wants to get the full breadth of the services that the technology can offer, the phone has to be integrated."That means network operator and handset maker have to work more closely together. But Nokia does not seem to be playing ball."What you see happening is that in the   portfolio of terminals there are different levels of integration with Vodafone. We started working with different people along the way and had different levels of opportunity to get the branding on in the way we would like," Mr Bamford said."If you have a very, very strong brand in a market, you're going to feel more keen to protect that than if you are a new entrant. The starting positions of Nokia and Sharp were quite different. &#91;But&#93; we have reached alignment with all the   handset manufacturers that both brands are important."Mr Wood believes the fight between Vodafone and Nokia is far from decided either way. "This is very much a case of the posturing going on between Nokia and Vodafone. There is absolutely no question that, with over 30% market share in western Europe, Nokia is still a product that is well liked by end users, regardless of what us commentators might say about their decline."
At long last the government has fixed a switch-off time (2012) for analogue television so everyone will have to buy a digital set or convertor if they want to watch TV after that date. Actually, it has not fixed a date. What has happened is that Ofcom, the regulator, has and it is widely presumed that the government will accept it, not least because it will side-step any political flack that might have arisen if it took the decision itself.But why does it need to take so long? Originally the government set a target range of 2006 to 2010 for switch-off but, like so many of its targets, it will now be missed, and in the process, the UK may lose its claimed position as the world leader in digital television.The reasons for procrastination are partly to do with consumer politics (the embarrassment of "refusniks" who say they won't go digital at any cost) and partly business - the industry's ability to deliver digital sets and convertors (including for video recorders) in time.Digital television has been a spectacular success story in the UK. And it is coming at us from all directions: satellite (Sky), cable, terrestrial (the impressive Freeview) and even down a 50-year-old telephone line (HomeChoice). A few months ago, Ofcom described it as one of the most successful market-led technologies ever and predicted that penetration could rise to between 75% and 85% just by leaving market forces to themselves.Earlier in the year, a Department of Industry survey found that 50% of respondents opposed pulling the plug on analogue signals by 2010. However, the latest figures show that 55% of people have already switched to digital to take advantage of interactivity, multichannel TV and, in many cases, video-on-demand and access to the internet. It could prove the best way of bridging the "digital divide" between those that have internet access and those that do not.If Britain is to reap the benefits of digital TV quickly - including the release of spectrum that can be sold off profitably for more productive uses - then there needs to be a sense of urgency. The fact that switch-off won't happen for up to eight years does not exactly create that sense of urgency. There is no reason for anyone to buy an analogue set any more - except in areas that can't get digital reception - since they will become obsolete in 2012. But people will continue to do so because it seems so far away and they may think that in eight years' time, the set they buy today may serve as a second or third set if the prices of set-top convertors come down.Ofcom has some ideas up its sleeve to persuade manufacturers and retailers to push digital sets, but why not incentives for consumers as well? If the government were to levy a special tax on analogue sets and use the proceeds to cut the price of digital ones, then it would win either way. If people continued to buy analogue sets, it would build up a war chest for later use. And if they stopped buying analogue sets, then switch-over could come earlier than 2012. We should, I suppose, be grateful that at long last we have probably got a switch-off date. But it could, and should, have been at least two years earlier.
Furl, the personal filing system that lets you keep track of interesting sites and share it with your friends,This is an extract from an email to Furl users:"Tomorrow we will be making an official announcement that Furl has been acquired. However, we wanted you to be the first to hear the news. We are joiningLookSmart, a provider of Web search and research-quality articles search, in addition to other high-quality search products.""This is exciting news for several reasons. First, because LookSmart acquired Furl for the same reasons you probably use it - it is a great service that works well - and LookSmart has no intention of changing the things that make it great. On the contrary, LookSmart is committed to making existing features even more powerful."They also answer the question that many of the users will be worried about."You might be wondering whether Furl will continue to be a free service, and the answer is: "Yes!" Furl will create revenue through the display of relevant, contextual advertising on search and content pages. This revenue source enables us to continue offering Furl free of charge."In fact, they're increasing the amount of memory allocated to each user to a huge 5Gb. Let's see what happens.
PhonesConsumers may not get the messageThe original BlackBerry had a pager-style design befitting its role as a corporate email tool. With an eye on consumers, Vodafone is offering the BlackBerry 7100v, which keeps the push email system but looks and feels like rival smartphones such as the Orange SPV E200.The Qwerty keyboard has been jettisoned in favour of keys in which one button houses two letters. Users press the button and, in theory, the SureType predictive text system works out the words. However, the keyboard is slower than the original.The 7100v, which costs from nothing to &#163;82.50 plus monthly fee, boasts more storage (32MB), an effective web browser and is relatively easy to set up. It is a superb email device - especially for corporate customers who get messages forwarded the moment they hit the company server. However, it is hard to recommend to consumers, since messages are only forwarded every 15 minutes and there's no way of instantly accessing messages by pressing a receive button.www.vodafone.co.ukWraps come offNokia has taken the wraps off the successor to its popular 6600 Symbian-based smartphone. Scheduled to launch next month, the 6670, see below, sports many of its predecessor's features, including its Series 60 interface, but it is housed in a casing that is a smaller and slightly thicker version of Nokia's 7610 consumer smartphone. Largely aimed at the corporate market, the 6670 features a comprehensive selection of email facilities, including the ability to read most attachments. It also offers personal information management facilities and its web browser is compatible with PDF files. Other features include a one megapixel camera, music and video playback, a 65k colour screen and Bluetooth.www.nokia.co.ukE3 phone homeAmstrad has become the first manufacturer to deliver a home videophone aimed at the mass market. The E3, see right, the third in its em@iler internet phone series, features a colour screen that enables users to see a video image of the person they are talking to. While video calls, which cost 50p per minute plus the price of the call, can only be made to owners of other E3s, users can send still images from the phone to PCs, mobiles and other E3s. The phone, which also features email and internet access, goes on sale imminently for &#163;99 or &#163;180 for a pair.www.amstrad.co.ukHardwarePlay on the flySony has announced a flyweight version of the PlayStation2 games console that will be in the shops in time for Christmas. The announcement coincided with the release of sales figures that showed the company has now shifted more than 6m PS2 units in Britain. Although the new version represents no enhancement in the four-year-old console's hardware, it has been re-engineered to fit into a much smaller box, around a third of the size and half the weight. The new model, which will go on sale on November 1 for &#163;105, will come with a built-in Ethernet connection for broadband compatibility, and will initially be sold in the familiar charcoal black.All in oneSony has also unveiled a home PC it is billing as a mini audio-video system. The &#163;999 VGC-M1 sports an all-in-one design that includes a folding keyboard that hinges up against the screen when the unit is not in use. With the keyboard flipped up, the audio facilities can still be operated by the remote control. Also included is a 15.4in widescreen that displays images from the PC's integrated TV tuner and DVD player, a 3.06GHz Intel Pentium 4-M processor, 512MB of memory and a 160GB hard disk.www.sony.co.ukCinema notebookHP is to launch the Pavilion dv1000 Entertainment Notebook PC - a laptop that offers a range of home cinema style facilities. The &#163;1,000 unit features a 14in widescreen display accompanied by integrated Harman Kardon speakers. It also boasts HP's QuickPlay system that enables users to watch movies and listen to music without having to boot up the PC's Windows operating system. The PC can also be integrated into HP's &#163;200 Notebook Expansion base xb2000, which enables it to assume the form factor of a desktop PC. It sports an Intel Centrino processor, is 2.3cm thick and weighs 2.39kg.www.hp.co.ukWireless storageIomega is rumoured to be bringing to the UK a storage system for home and small business users that can be integrated into wireless networks. The NAS 100d is accompanied by an 802.11b/g adapter that enables files to be transferred wirelessly to the 160 or 250GB hard disks. The unit, which is compatible with Windows, Macs and Linux-based computers, also features a 10/100Mbps Ethernet port for fixed-line connections and incorporates a pair of USB 2.0 ports to enable further external storage units to be added. There's no confirmed UK price or launch date, but should the NAS 100d ape US prices, it will retail for around &#163;350 for the160GB unit and &#163;450 for the 250GB.www.iomega.comStat of the week:Broadband take-upThe broadband juggernaut gathers speed, as users around the globe switch to faster internet. Since last year the number of always-on connections has grown by 55% worldwide. Still, the different varieties of broadband still account for just 14% of all web access.Narrowband:86% (802m)DSL:8% (78m)Cable:5% (45m)Other:1% (9m)Total:934mSource:Computer Industry Almanac/Point Topic
Feel the forceStar Wars BattlefrontXbox, PlayStation2, &#163;39.99 Pandemic Studios/Lucas Arts&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Released in the same week as the DVD of the original films, Star Wars Battlefront is a hugely entertaining affair with one large caveat: if you don't have online capabilities for your Xbox or PS2 then subtract a couple of stars from the total.Running around blasting computer controlled opponents, or "bots", is fun, but only for a while. Replace these bots with humans - 24 on Xbox Live, 16 on PS2 - and Battlefront comes into its own.Taking famous set pieces and planets from the movies, this is a blast for Star Wars fans. Both sides, Empire and Rebel, have different soldiers and vehicles, all with specific strengths and weaknesses. There's nothing like shouting at a mate and dodging laser fire before jumping into a snowspeeder.One player then pilots the vehicle while the other attempts to fire the tow cable round the legs of an AT-AT walker, just as in The Empire Strikes Back. Likewise, it's hard not to smile while commanding an Imperial Walker and blasting Ewoks and Rebels.There is some strategy involved; each side aims to control various parts of the map which then allows reinforcements to be brought in. But it is the heat of combat that makes this such fun. It may lack some polish - the single player plot is wafer-thin nonsense - but Star Wars Battlefront is highly recommended for console owners who can go online.Greg HowsonShown the doorSilent Hill 4: The RoomPlayStation2 (also available for PC, XBox), &#163;39.99 Konami/Konami&#42;&#42;&#42;Once the zenith of controversy, survival horror has seemed tired recently. The latest in the disturbing Silent Hill series tries to broaden the appeal by adding arcade action sequences to the point-and-click adventure.The idea at the heart of this game - being trapped in your bloodstained apartment with no one able to hear your screams - is a minimalist conceit worthy of a Japanese horror movie. Using alternative realities that allow you to move around in a series of third-person flashbacks feels like just another compromise to the demands of making games over making movies. Similarly, you're constrained by an inventory system that allows you to carry no more than two ammo clips, and tedious onscreen hotspots that have to be clicked one by one. While the visual effects are impressive, the photo-realistic camera induces nausea if watched for long periods.But the biggest problem is not being able to turn precisely to tackle enemies who otherwise lack the speed or intelligence to threaten. Games such as Second Sight have shown us that survival horror can be done without unfairly stacking the odds against the player. Silent Hill 4 is like an exhibit in the London Dungeon - occasionally scary, but strictly for tourists.Mike AnderieszZombied outResident Evil OutbreakPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Capcom/Capcom&#42;&#42;     The Resident Evil series of zombie-shooting and puzzle-solving third-person adventure games is one of gaming's best-loved franchises. But Outbreak, the latest instalment, possesses precious little merit of its own.Sadly, it represents a classic example of a franchise that has persisted beyond its sell-by-date, and which has been subjected to tinkering that has all but removed its finer attributes.Outbreak started life as an online-only game in Japan - necessitating a shift in the focus of its gameplay - but in the UK, where Sony's PS2 online gaming system failed to take root, it has been converted into a single-player game. As a result, the gripping storylines revolving around zombie infestations have been neutered. Instead, Outbreak has five missions which, although they refer to Resident Evil games of yore, have no narrative thrust.There are a few legacies from the online version: you order artificial intelligence allies around and the game carries on when you enter the inventory screen. But the screen is clunky and unintuitive, so you find yourself beset by zombies while trying to reload your gun. In gameplay terms, Outbreak is familiar: you deal with zombies and find objects with which to solve puzzles. In terms of atmosphere and graphics, the game is faultless. But all the changes merely serve to underline how antediluvian the control system now feels.Steve BoxerTop 5 games:  GameCube1WWE: Day of Reckoning2Second Sight3Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour4Spider-Man 25Pokemon ColosseumSource: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack&#183;Keep up with the latest from the world of games with our Gamesblog, atguardian.co.uk/games
PC progressI have a pretty good set-up at the moment but intend to upgrade to a PC that will last a heavily game- oriented family for the next few years. Is there anything round the corner that may make it worth waiting? I don't mean Longhorn, but hardware advances.John PendleburyJack Schofield replies:There are always new things on the way, and a high end PC is almost guaranteed to be "obsolete" as soon as it is taken out of its box. However, there are particularly big changes coming around the corner. These include Intel's Socket-T processor slots and Grantsdale and Alderwood support chip-sets, DDR2 memory chips, PCI Express expansion slots, Serial ATA hard drives, and High Definition Audio (HDA) with support for 7.1 surround sound. Dual-core processors are also on the way. All this new stuff will undoubtedly take time to bed down, so I wouldn't rush to buy it. It will also get much cheaper as it comes into widespread use. If you can't wait a year, today's not-so-high-end systems are fast, remarkably cheap, and will certainly last a few years.Keeping itI do a good deal of research, which involves collecting pdf reports, finding websites, and copying statistics. I have been looking at software such as Onfolio to use as an organiser. I need to capture websites locally because I do not keep hard copy of the sources and would be in trouble were the site to delete the pages I want. I own Filemaker Pro but find it too cumbersome. Do you have any suggestions of better software for this purpose?Sam ChapnickJS:The simplest way to archive old web pages is to use the Web Archive, single file (*.mht) file format in Internet Explorer. Unfortunately, this is poorly supported in other products, perhaps because people mistakenly think it is a Microsoft file format. It's actually a MIME email message format (RFC 2557: MIME Encapsulation of Aggregate Documents). If your browser cannot open it, your email software probably can. Fortunately, Christopher Ottley is now developing the equivalent but, we hope, better Mozilla Archive Format (MAF) with MHT (MHTML) compatibility as an extension for the Firefox web browser.However, if you want to store web pages, texts, documents and other types of file in the same database, I can't think of anything better than askSam (www.asksam.com), of which SurfSaver (designed for saving web pages) is a variant. AskSam can store texts, web pages, Adobe PDF files, email messages, Excel spreadsheets and other types of data in the same database, and there is a free trial version.It can be hard to get going with both askSam and FileMaker Pro. It helps to produce a small, simple database first, to get familiar with the interface. After that, look for a template that does the sort of thing you need, then adapt it.On the caseCan you confirm that it doesn't matter whether you use upper or lower case in email addresses? Many people feel the need to tell you which bits of their email are in capitals, and regard you with suspicion if you don't do the same.Andy BallJS:Every email address has two parts: a "local" name and a domain name. The domain name, which comes after the @ sign, is by definition not case sensitive. However, local names, which come before the @ sign, are allowed to be case sensitive, though they rarely are. The problem with using case sensitive names is that an MTA (Mail Transfer Agent) such as a gateway may "mung" the case, though it is supposed to preserve it. In practice, then, a viable email address will let you use upper and lower case according to taste.One point to watch is that password checkers usually are case sensitive. This can make a difference when an email address is used as a log-on name or password.Better viewsIn my office we take a lot of digital photos, and need to compare lots of often very similar images to pick out the ones we wish to use. We are using Windows 2000 or NT and so don't have XP's very useful facility to view image files as a slide show or film strip.Robert NisbetJS:IrfanView (www.irfanview.com) is usually the first thing to try, because it is both good and free. There are also many commercial options, such as ACDSee (www.acdsystems.com). Picasa photo album software (www. picasa.com) also does what you need, and is free now it is owned by Google. It catalogues your hard drives and may find image files you did not know you had.Backchat&#183;Last week, Jamil Shehadeh said that one advantage of a 1Mbps ADSL connection was you could upload files at 256kbps as opposed to 128 kbps. Phil Garner and Isaac Abraham point out that both services give 256kbps upstream speeds, though this may not be true of cable connections.
Hip American sportswear manufacturer Oakley has just unveiled the Thump - a pair of sunglasses that features an integrated MP3/WMA player. The shades, with 128 or 256MB storage, go on sale in the UK later this year and are expected to retail for between &#163;300 and &#163;400.The glasses are a shrewd move as they tap into one of the hottest areas in consumer electronics: wearable gadgets. Oakley follows Oregon Scientific, which recently paraded the MP120, a music player that attaches to bathers or goggles, iRiver, whose N10 is an MP3 player in a necklace/pendant, and Deja View, whose Camwear 100 is a camera that hooks on to glasses.Perhaps most impressive is the Philips/Nike MP3Run, a &#163;250 music player that connects wirelessly via Bluetooth to a pedometer in a running shoe. "When a person wants to find out how far they have run and at what speed, they push a button on the remote to hear it through the earphones," explains Todd Selwyn, the company's marketing manager for audio.Philips is also working to tackle the core weakness of Flash memory-based wearable players - limited storage. Next year, it will debut a technology that will enable large capacity hard disks to be incorporated into music players used when exercising.Another ploy is to integrate gadget functionality into watches. Several years ago Casio developed a watch with integrated camera, while Motorola and Samsung paraded prototypes of mobile phone wristwatches. Several companies offer MP3 watches, while others include timepieces that can be used as storage devices because they sport USB connectors.Yet shrinking devices to the size of a watch presents new problems. Ian Heseltine, telecoms manager of PDD, a British design company, believes that while gadgets need to be easy to carry, "some makers are driven by what is possible rather than by what is required. Hence, gadgets are getting smaller but often less usable".Heseltine also believes that integrating gadgets into clothes will not prove successful. "People expect gadgets to last longer than fashion items. What do you do when your MP3-playing coat becomes unfashionable?"Heseltine predicts the future could belong to systems such as the Personal Mobile Gateway, developed by IXI. This features one wearable device as a gateway that connects wirelessly to other gadgets such as email terminals and music players attached to parts of the body. And while there are some gadget lovers who would like to have their iPods surgically implanted, Heseltine thinks it's unlikely.www.oakley.com/catalog/eyewear/thumpwww.oregonscientific.co.ukwww.mydejaview.comwww.philips.co.ukwww.pdd.co.ukwww.ixi.com
This is a eulogy to an anonymous friend. Anonymous out of respect for the person concerned, who didn't want his name in the papers while he was alive, and certainly wouldn't now. For his family, of course, too.But also out of respect for his colleagues. To name my friend, or even where he worked, would point an unfair finger at individuals who may be searching their consciences already.My friend was that most denigrated creature in modern Britain, a civil servant. Worse, a civil servant working in IT. To the public, that means at best a buffoon, incapable of making a pile in the "real" world. At worst, it implies the functionary of a totalitarian conspiracy.My friend was neither. Rather, he was a conscientious man in a suit who cared about his area of policy, and wanted it done right. He believed that decent IT had the potential to make a big difference to public services, even to save lives.He didn't say so, much. As a medium-ranking civil servant, it was his lot to operate anonymously in the middle ground between government policy and its front line consequences, which usually meant sorting out some mess.I met him more than 10 years ago, when his field was riddled with scandal and incompetence. Quietly, he earned a reputation. After Labour's 1997 victory, my friend found himself in a hotter seat.The new e-agenda had a far higher political profile. Targets were no longer aspirations, but there to be met. There was money to do the job, but also a ruthless "delivery team" focused on making it happen, no matter what technical or professional obstacles lay ahead. With the media and parliament poised for any sign of failure.It was tough, an utter change of culture. So far as I could tell, my friend loved the new challenge. The few times we met - furtively, in corridors - he looked exhausted but thrilled to be working with people who never went home.Some, he hinted, wouldn't stand the pace.My friend died three weeks ago; suddenly and in shocking circumstances. A report is being prepared for the coroner.I have no evidence to connect my friend's death with his work, and I'm not inclined to pry. The Guardian has a code of conduct covering such matters. But sudden death in the prime of life always provokes thoughts.Here's one. We know that the massive IT infrastrucure on which this government has based its public service reforms is one of the most complex projects ever intended. We know that politically driven targets - inspired by the gung-ho claims of an immature IT industry - are pushing software engineering to, and beyond, its limits. If public servants are being driven to attempt impossible tasks, we ought to consider their limits, too.We're also told - not least by 20-year-old sitcom repeats - that civil servants are indifferent to policy success or failure. In the modern argot, they "lack a delivery-focused culture".I'm not sure my friend would agree.
If Scotland Yard has a black museum of IT embarrassments, the national firearms database must be a star exhibit. A national database of shotgun and rifle licences was recommended by the inquiry into the 1996 Dunblane massacre, and it has been government policy since 1997. A database was due to be in operation in 2002: it wasn't.This week, the Police IT Organisation (Pito) announced that the National Firearms Licensing Management System had reached the landmark point of "alpha testing". This means it is ready to go out to police forces to see if it works. It will then go on to beta testing, which means it will handle real data. Lancashire Constabulary and the Metropolitan Police will run it alongside their local registers.Only after this pilot testing will the register be ready for full service. The target is December: it will then be plugged in, force by force, across Britain, starting in England and Wales.If this 21st-century system is proceeding at the pace of a Bow Street Runner, it's not the fault of any individual. Rather, it is a consequence of history: the UK has 52 geographic and six non-geographic police forces, constitutionally independent and each more or less responsible for its own IT.Last June, the Bichard inquiry into the Soham murders blew a whistle on this arrangement. It called for a revolution in police IT to ensure "national solutions are delivered to national problems".When local police budgets are matters for local accountability, it is not easy to reach a common acceptance of IT solutions. Bichard also called for a national IT system for England and Wales to support police intelligence "as a matter of urgency" and investment in the Police National Computer (PNC).Pito, which describes itself as the "integration and technical authority for the police service", is the agency bearing the brunt of most of this work. But despite being a sizeable organisation with 700 staff and a spend of &#163;370m this year, it has little power to tell local forces what to do.Its latest business plan, published last week, paints a picture of an over- stretched agency under heavy pressure to deliver a lengthening list of systems. Introducing the report, chief executive Phillip Webb says that shortfalls in funding have led the organisation to "curtail some planned work". This includes enhancements to the national police web portal,www.police.uk, to make it a two-way service.Webb says that while the portal will continue in service, without additional funding "its position as a significant route through which the public can supply and receive information cannot be enhanced". Upgrades to a national command and control system have also been held up.Webb warns that "resources are tight" in two other major projects, the Airwave digital radio communications system, and Visor, a register of violent and sex offenders.Airwave is important because it replaces forces' individual analogue radios with a single national digital system, capable of transmitting data (albeit at a slower rate than commercial GPRS) as well as voice calls. Its deployment has been dogged by controversy - first from officers worried about safety and reliability, now by public opposition to new radio masts.Webb says that "growing opposition to the siting of Airwave masts and the significant technical challenges presented" are an obstacle, especially in Scotland.With Visor, the main difficulty is transferring data from police forces' existing systems. The system is timetabled to be ready for service in March.Pito's plan says that several other areas of work await funding allocations. One is modernisation of the PNC, a rare example of a nationally used system that is technically obsolete. "Technically, the PNC is showing its age," says the plan. One enhancement the government would like to see is links between the PNC and courts.Pito says it has piloted such links between magistrates courts in Staffordshire, allowing clerks to put details of warrants directly into the computer, rather than passing them on to the police. The Staffordshire trial tracked down 680 offenders in seven months. Representatives of the various organisations are due to meet this month to discuss expanding the project, but no date has been set for its completion.Meanwhile, to cope with what it calls a "substantial and expanding programme of work", Pito says it will need more staff over the next two years. Whether that will be possible depends on a Home Office review of the organisation, expected to report in the new year. It will almost certainly recognise that police IT needs more resources - but also that it needs to be run by an organisation a bit more Dirty Harry than Dixon of Dock Green.Linkswww.police.ukwww.pito.org.ukwww.bichardinquiry.org.uk
