If only the railway network could operate as efficiently as National Rail (www.nationalrail.co.uk). Someone is diligently posting details of all the latest delays on its website. Weekend engineering works can be found by clicking on the Service Alterations link.&#183;Lots of fuss has been made about Lufthansa's Connexion by Boeing (www.connexionbyboeing.com) free on-board high-speed broadband, but so far it is only available on the Frankfurt-Washington DC route. And it's only free until April 15. Lufthansa intends to roll out the service to most of its long-haul Boeings in the summer, but BA is catching up fast: a three-month trial on a Heathrow-New York 747 begins on February 18.&#183;Worldroom.comhas some less obvious tips for conserving your laptop's battery life, such as unplugging peripherals and switching off the backlight. See www.worldroom.com/ pages/triptech/triptech20 .phtml.&#183;BA is introducing a new thrice-weekly Gatwick-Krakow route in the summer, as well as a weekly flight to Pristina in Kosovo. Daily flights to Bologna, Pisa and Vienna will leave from Manchester. The Manchester-Gothenburg service will be axed from April, leaving BMI with a monopoly on the route (www.flybmi.com). BMI is also launching a Norwich-Aberdeen service - an awkward journey badly and expensively served by rail. Fares from £73.50 each way.&#183;The British do a lot of business in Nuremberg, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Bremen Hannover and Düsseldorf, but English-language guides to many German cities are hard to find. Lufthansa has put together some suggestions for places to eat, drink, exercise and while away any dead time atwww.lufthansa.co.uk/gb/fly/en/pas. Scroll down and click on German Cities.&#183;If you need to find a hotel with meeting rooms or a conference centre in France, Maison de la France (www.meet-in-france.com/hotels_meetings.htm) has a comprehensive list.&#183;The Priority Pass (www.prioritypass.com) lets you into over 400 VIP airport lounges. The standard package costs $99 (£61), plus $24 (£15) for each visit; unlimited access for a year costs £247.
Britain and America are on the brink of war with Iraq. The Foreign Office is currently advising against all travel to Yemen; 2002 was a particularly bloody year in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict. You might reasonably assume that western travellers would be shunning the Middle East.You would, however, be wrong. The outlook may be desperately uncertain - and, of course, trade with Iraq is completely off-limits - but travel to the Gulf states is booming. The Jumerirah hotels in Dubai are full, Novotel is opening a new hotel there in May (Cairo and Beirut openings follow later this year), and Emirates will fly direct from Manchester to the United Arab Emirates from June. Profits jumped 140% last year, and 85% of UK passengers are travelling on business.Demand for information about Dubai is such that the Economist will add the city to its online cities guide (www.economist.com/cities) in the spring. The editor Sarah Dallas says she anticipated a great deal of interest, "as there are so few useful guides to the UAE". Absolutely. Helpful though Bradman's business travel guides (www.bradmans.com/scripts) are, with English-speaking business contacts and advice on airport and taxi protocol, they scarcely touch on the needs of a growing proportion of business travellers to the region.The Middle East, and the Gulf states in particular, are not always an easy place for women to do business. Indeed, women may still have trouble obtaining a visa to travel to Saudi Arabia on business. Many join a trade mission and use that as their sponsor. (Anyone with an Israeli stamp in their passport is likely to be refused entry altogether.)Thamesconsular.com, a London-based visa agency, is a useful quick reference for requirements and processing times.Fifties-style attitudes towards the needs of female business travellers are still endemic in some circles. The recent fashion for female-only floors disconcerts some women - after all, the Gulf states are already a highly segregated society - but it represents real progress after years of demanding smaller bathrobes and more powerful hairdryers.Hilton, which has hotels in Oman, Bahrain, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia as well as the UAE, is bullish about the safety of its female clientele. Almost 12% of their business customers are women, and a spokesman insisted that the Gulf region "particularly promotes the protection of women. It's one of the few areas where women can wander out in the evening alone and feel completely secure and at ease."The advice of the Economist's correspondent, a female journalist who has lived in the region for five years, is rather different. "Prostitution is a big problem in Dubai and may interfere with your trip unless you are on the alert," she warns. "Avoid Rolla Street and the Golden Sands area... women travellers walking unescorted in areas other than the Creek or on busy commercial thoroughfares may be harassed by kerb-crawlers or possibly stopped by the police."Modest clothing is, of course, vital: the DTI's Trade Partners website is pretty comprehensive on the differences between the various Middle Eastern states. (Go towww.tradepartners.gov.uk, choose the country from the markets pulldown menu, and then click on visiting). Journey woman (www.journeywoman.com/ccc/ccc-general.html) has first-person advice from female travellers. In Dubai temperatures can exceed 50C in the summer, so the Economist's correspondent recommends carrying a spare shirt between meetings.Trade Partners has also put together two CDs for businesses trading in the Middle East: Gulf Spotlight and Women in Business (which "sets out to debunk the myths and misconceptions surrounding the business environment for women in the Gulf.") Both are free and available viahttp://www.tradepartners.gov.uk/abu_dhabi/whatsnew/overview/travel.shtml#Introduction. You might also want to subscribe to receive email updates on the Foreign Office's travel advice for specific countries (www.fco.gov.uk/travel).
The Mac has long been the undisputed alpha male of the creative industry, much loved by PR agencies and ad companies. But what about real companies out there in the real world? Is it possible to actually run a "proper" company that has bought ledgers and payrolls as well as lovely graphics and expense accounts?Apple's latest "Switch to Mac" campaign, currently causing a flurry of interest in the idiosyncratic computer company, has prompted people to look seriously at the Mac, with its friendlier interface and cutting-edge design. But what puts many business users off is the seeming lack of choice when it comes to software.Certainly when you come to compare the business software available for Mac and PC, the Mac is the unloved, if rather pretty, stepchild. For while in almost every conceivable category of business function there will be at least one, and often a lot more, PC applications, the pickings for the Apple are at best patchy.But says Nick Volte, European sales director for Intego, a Paris-based software house that works closely with the Mac business community, what most SMEs need is not exotic business planning software but some fairly standard software that is easy to update, easy to use and, above all, reliable.The bulk of most SMEs' computing needs fall into two categories: basic office software (for example, spreadsheets, presentation software, email, web browsers and word processing) and accounting software.Microsoft has assiduously courted the Mac community by producing its own flavour of Office. Mac Office v.X is the latest release. As with the previous incarnations of Office, v.X talks seamlessly with the PC world. Compared with Office on a PC, however, the Mac is a very thin offering, containing just four applications: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and a Mac version of Outlook, known as Entourage.For those whose religious beliefs prohibit them from using Microsoft products, the world is a colder place. AppleWorks is shipped as standard with some Macs and has a good stab at emulating Office, but unless you live in a bubble, its lack of inter-operability is a fatal flaw. The other core software every company needs is accounting software. Fortunately for the Mac user, there are two rival companies, both of which have well-received products, slugging it out:MYOB and Hansa.So while it might be possible to run a business on a Mac, why would anyone chose to, given the PC's far greater choice in software? According to Jonathan Hulse, group marketing manager at Microsoft with responsibility for the Mac world, it is just a question of horses for courses: "Most Mac users are very passionate about being Mac users and what the Mac stands for. Design is very much at the forefront."But while Microsoft is keen to court the Mac business user, Hulse admits its offering is far from complete. "We used to do Project &#91;business planning software&#93; for the Mac, but the market was too small. And we don't offer Access &#91;a database program&#93; for the Mac, but there is a very good application called FileMaker Pro already in the market."One company that has gone the Mac way is Impact Development Training Group based in the Lake District. The company trains businesses in team building and development. The Mac's look and feel, and "otherness" were important factors in the choice of platform, says Caroline Airey, the company's finance manager.The £10m-turnover company is fitted with Macs throughout, from the training consultants to the finance department. There isn't a PC in the place. "The Mac fitted very well with the image we want to project - the image of the way we are," says Airey.But for Airey, it couldn't all be about style:it had to deliver substance. "What was important was that it was a seamless experience; we wanted to be able to communicate both internally and externally without any problems. That has certainly been what we have found," she says.  The company was founded on Macs, but as it grew and diversified, there came a point when running the company accounts on Excel (for Mac) was not sufficient. Airey admits they wobbled. "We considered buying a PC just for the accounts department, but in the end it wasn't necessary."The company invested in Hansa Financial, a business suite that also offers companies complete customer relationship management (CRM) and enterprise resource planning (ERP) facilities.Airey admits that part of the reason for sticking with the Mac is the cost of changing over, but she says it isn't misplaced loyalty. "The Mac seems to be more user-friendly than the PC. We get people in who have never used a Mac before, or the software. It takes about half an hour at the most to train them up."One recent Apple development has got the hardcore hi-tech companies buzzing. Apple has released a new version of its operating system, called Mac OS X. What has impressed software developers is that it is based on another very powerful system, Unix, but has been wrapped up in a very accessible, user-friendly way.For technology SMEs the Apple suddenly has become a very attractive option. Stephen Jay, managing director of Hansa, says Mac OS X is the most reliable operating system around, bar none. "It combines the strength of Unix with the friendliness of the Mac.""It is now the system of choice", says Scott Law, managing director of Metachange, a new online payment company due to launch early in 2003. The company, which has gone all Mac from the outset, was attracted by the powerful new operating system to develop its online billing system, which allows web users to pay in up to 11 different ways for small amounts of online content.They found enough other Mac applications to run the rest of the company. "Most of the mainstream applications are now cross-platform," says Law.Fortunately for Apple, the Mac has a strong base from which to venture into more mainstream business. So were you to decide to base your business around the Mac, unless you wanted to run, say, a chemical works, you will probably find what you are looking for.There is no "killer app" - the must-have program that is essential for business success. You can run your business on a Mac, but it is a brave and, it must be said, idiosyncratic choice. But then wasn't that why you chose the Mac in the first place?Help panel: jargon filterMac OS X:Apple's new operating system for the Mac, based on an existing and powerful system called Unix.PIM:Personal information manager. A program that allows you to keep contact details, diary dates,etc all in one place.CRM:Customer relationship management. Enterprise-wide software applications that allow companies to manage every aspect of their relationship with a customer, aiming to build lasting customer relationships.ERP:Enterprise resource planning. Any software system designed to support and automate business processes, eg manufacturing, distribution, personnel, payroll, financials.A is for Apple and applicationsAccounting and office applications are the cornerstone of every business. For the Apple user the quality software is at least as good as that for the PC.Office v.XMicrosoft,£449 inc VATDesigned from scratch (this is not the PC version wearing a Mac disguise), it looks like a Mac program, feels like a Mac program and behaves like one, for better or worse. Entourage, the personal information manager (PIM) program is an excellent tool, tracking appointments and contacts, and is a powerful email program. For even the busiest executive, Entourage will handle your needs. Now that Microsoft has released a tool to sync your Palm, Entourage has everything you could need. Be warned though - importing data is not always that simple.   The key improvement to Word has been the ability to select multiple blocks of text. This allows you to apply formatting commands en masse rather than one at a time - a surprisingly useful tool. On the downside, Word X turns in a rather sluggish performance (on a bog-  standard iMac) and is prone to crashes.PowerPoint on the Mac features support for Apple's QuickTime video format, which means your presentations can be even longer but at least something will happen in them. And Excel has been given a lick of paint. And customisable keyboard shortcuts. Oh goody.  Microsoft Office is like the poor - always with us. Like it or loathe it, the chances are every business is going to use it. In which case Office v.X fills the slot.Pros:Looks excellent. Communicates near seamlessly with PC versions. Excellent productivity enhancements.Cons:Expensive. Word is sluggish and crashes.MYOB Accounting Plus Version 11MYOB, £299 plus VATEvery business needs a solid accounting process at its heart. Few programs can match MYOB version 11 for value for money, coming as it does with stock control, payroll functions and, in the Accounting Plus version, multi-currency support.As every SME knows, there are no shortcuts when it comes to accounts, but MYOB does cut the drudgery. Setting up is relatively simple (although a strong familiarity with business accounting is needed) and the process of "following the money" has been well thought through. MYOB's ability to reconcile online bank statements is a blessing for sole traders wanting. The process is not flawless, and requires a certain amount of grind on the user's part.But MYOB's biggest, and for many, fatal, flaw is that, under Mac OS X at least, it won't run across a network. While that won't worry a sole trader, larger SMEs are going to find that an absolute must.Pros:Simple to use and set up, well thought out interface.Cons:For the Mac user, a rather too PC feel to it. No multi-user mode.Hansa Office/2Hansa, £350 plus VAT, extra user £200 plus VATThis is a lot of software for your money, although curiously it lacks a payroll support, which is a glaring weakness. That aside, and it is a big aside, it will handle every other aspect of tracking sales orders, stock, invoices, receipts, purchase orders and receipts. It supports multi-currency transactions and the package includes customer letters and to do lists among other functions.   Furthermore, the program hides its talents well, so that the user interface, while not exactly welcoming, is simple, clear and powerful.Designed to grow with your business, Office/2 is not aimed at sole traders but small companies, in particular ones that are growing and want a finance package that grows with them. Where the suite scores over MYOB is that it is fully network capable, has built-in support for multiple companies and scheduling, and collaboration tools. A powerful package.Pros:Flexible, powerful, multi-user.Cons:No payroll support.
Is your software open source? This is a question which directors of small and medium-sized businesses are likely to find themselves being asked a lot during 2003. For years, the open source software movement has been the preserve of a relatively small and committed bunch of developers. However, signs are emerging that open source is coming of age.The open source approach of enabling pieces of software and their source codes to be freely read, modified and distributed might be the stuff of nightmares for the likes of Microsoft executives, but support is beginning to build in business circles for the adoption of this controversial and innovative way of working.Take Killyby &amp; Gayford, for example. They are a medium-sized construction company based in London and a few years ago they took the strategic decision to implement an open source software solution. The company is now successfully running a Linux-based operating system.   Killyby &amp; Gayford decided to embark on an open source solution because they say they did not want to become too dependent on Microsoft products. "We stumbled on to open source, but since then we have really taken to it," says Jeremy Vickers, the company's financial director, who cites cost, security and reliability as the main factors for embracing this type of software. "The licensing costs are a lot less. Realistically we're saving about £100,000 a year in software and product costs."Killby &amp; Gayford spend most of their time refurbishing banks and they say that open source systems are also giving them greater productivity benefits. "We can handle four times the volume of branch refurbishments in a national roll-out. We can process information and planning applications quicker than we were able to before."The profile of Linux is rising fast within the SME sector and its corporate logo of a penguin has already become a popular standard bearer for the open source movement. The penguin and what it represents is already being billed in some sections of the media as a plucky knight-like figure which could rise one day to challenge the mighty Microsoft empire with its closely guarded and controlled software secrets. It's of course a crude cartoon-like caricature but there is some truth in it."We're confident about the prospects of open source software. We expect Linux to penetrate further into the SME market. People don't want to be too beholden to Microsoft," says Mark Blowers, a senior research analyst for the Butler Group. "There are lots of companies that are adopting open source. We are definitely past the early adopter stage and it's becoming mainstream."But what are the downsides of working with open source software once you have implemented it? "The key disadvantage is that it's much more complex. You can't buy a box off the shelf and plug it in. You have to ensure you have proper technical support. There are things you will get into with open source which you will not understand," explains Vickers.  Some IT consultants feel open source software will appeal to SMEs on the grounds of the security it offers their enterprises. As no one owns the intellectual property rights of open software, people can freely improve and adapt it in order to reduce the incidence of any bugs. "Open source code is available for peer review and if enough eyes view the code, the bugs become shallow," says Mark Taylor, a consultant for Sirius IT, who advised Killby &amp; Gayford on the implementation of its open source solution.Taylor argues that open source software puts IT staff back in charge of development as they are no longer being forced to implement costly upgrades in response to pressure from outside commercial bodies. "You can upgrade when you want to as opposed to when you are forced to. The IT department should be in control of how and when they upgrade their hardware because it needs to fit in with their company's plans and budgets," Taylor says.  Major players like IBM have embraced open source and there are few of their products which fail to support this type of software. As open source can provide SMEs with a new and cheap infrastructure, IBM is pinning its commercial hopes on generating business by supplying open source support services and developing its applications.IBM executives confidently expect open source software to make further inroads into the SME sector this year but consultants feel that it can still be the subject of much confusion. "Open source has come from an ethos that is almost anti-commercial," explains Derek Kay, an infrastructure consulting executive for IBM UK. "Open source is not anarchy. It's not a bunch of hackers sitting around cracking a code. There is a degree of discipline and rigour around it. If you think you can improve some code, you submit it through a formal process for it to be released as a new version. There are formal releases of open source software. The only difference is you don't tend to pay for them. But you're not a beta-tester when you take on open source software."Kay says that while SMEs could get some open source code for free off the web, he recommends paying for open source software from licensed distributors to ensure it is compatible with what a business requires. "There are lots of open source applications for SMEs that have become available. Depending on your area of activity, you can get significant parts of your infrastructure for a very low cost. You can buy an open source mail server, for example. You don't need to go out and buy a copy of Outlook."Proponents of open source frequently portray it as a refreshing and cheaper alternative to the all-pervasive influence of Microsoft. But some technology implementation companies argue that SMEs could be in a better position with the support that a large well-established company like Microsoft can offer."You're not being supported in the standardised way with open source software. The software itself is cheap or free. You pay little or no maintenance, but that tells you something," cautions Neil Malpas, operations director for Parity UK and Ireland. "Yes it is cheap to start up, but over a long period you do have to be very strategically minded. You are going down a bespoke route. You have to look for a strong company to support the systems if you want to get the benefits of open source."Malpas believes that open source will be most attractive to small and medium-sized companies that would traditionally do their own software development.The endorsement of open source software by such major players as IBM is likely to reassure the waverers. However, despite the cost savings, for many SMEs open source remains new and uncharted territory and it could be a while before the appeal of the penguin becomes completely irresistible.www.killbygayford.co.ukwww.siriusit.co.ukwww-1.ibm.com/linux/www.opensource.orgwww.parity.netwww.butlergroup.com
If you keep an eye on developments in the technology world, the chances are you've heard of third generation (or 3G) mobile phones.It's also likely you've heard the promises their backers are making for 3G impact on mobile communications, when the system is finally turned on. The benefits the technology could deliver to business people on the move - fast mobile access to email and company data, for instance - could be valuable.It is much less likely that you have heard of Wi-Fi, or wireless Lan. Yet this is a technology that creates "clouds" of wireless internet access, of around 200m radius, operating at broadband speeds.Your business can benefit from Wi-Fi in two ways: in your office, where a Wi-Fi network can eliminate cabling and provide fast network access to all your computers; and on the road, where you can use someone else's Wi-Fi network to get access to the internet.Some of the biggest players in telecommunications - including T-Mobile and BT - are investing heavily in Wi-Fi networks you can buy subscriptions to.Their first target customers are going to be businesses, and the companies are siting their hotspots in the kind of places they hope business users will be seeking out internet access on their laptops.BT is fitting out more than 100 locations, including hotel lobbies, Costa coffee shops, airport lounges and motorway service stations, with more to come. T-Mobile appears (in the UK) only in Starbucks coffee shops, but a broader network is expected to be announced next month.Other smaller operators, such as Wialess.comwww.wialess.com) are setting up hotspots in public places, and for some you don't even need a subscription. Some hotspots will be free to access if you, for instance, take a hotel room for the night, or even just spend more than £2 on a coffee and bun.No matter the business model being used to pay for the hotspots, all this activity is leading analysts to predict 2003 will be the year Wi-Fi makes its mark. The technology has a number of benefits, which makes them unusually confident about its prospects.&#183;It's here now: Unlike 3G, Wi-Fi is being rolled out today. Operators have networks in place, and are extending them rapidly both in the UK and abroad.&#183;Standards: a Wi-Fi network in the UK should work in the same way as one in Europe, or the US.&#183;Speed: the Wi-Fi standard can support up to 11Mb per second (a typical domestic broadband connection runs at 0.5Mbps). You're unlikely to get the full Wi-Fi speed at a hotspot, because they often use standard ADSL to connect to the internet. But this is still a much faster way to access the internet than GPRS mobile phones, or even 3G when it is launched.&#183;Ease of use: out and about, compared to hooking your laptop up to your mobile phone, using Wi-Fi is easy (see Online's Wi-Fi guide atwww.guardian.co.uk/online). You will need a Wi-Fi card in your laptop and, in most cases, a subscription to a Wi-Fi network (see panel). When you're in a hotspot, you call up your operating system's wireless network manager (Windows XP and Mac OS X both have this as standard) and your computer will automatically find the signal of the hotspot. You select the network you want to join, and the computer logs on. The whole process should take less than a minute.&#183;Cost: it is cheap to add to your laptop the ability to use public hotspots. You need only add a Wi-Fi card, which costs around £60. A Wi-Fi base station, which can connect to your broadband connection to create a hotspot in your office, can be bought for as little as £100. Set-up should be straightforward.There are some caveats, however. For all the benefits Wi-Fi can deliver to businesses, it is not a complete replacement for existing cellular (mobile phone) technology. For a start, Wi-Fi networks in Europe are still sparse. "Coverage is a big issue at the moment," warns Richard Dineen, an analyst with telecoms analyst Ovum. He points out that some situations might still require a wired, or cellular, connection - for instance, if you need to check figures from a client's offices."It's of low utility if I can only use my Wi-Fi laptop in a certain number of locations," says Dineen. "It's not that useful to me unless you knit together much more extensive coverage to make the service useful."In addition, security concerns remain, especially if you decide to replace a wired network in your office with a Wi-Fi hotspot. While it is fair to say some Wi-Fi concerns have been exaggerated - especially for small business users - those worries have led a number of leading companies in the field to toughen up security standards. A new standard called Wi-Fi protected access (WPA) is now going to be built in to new Wi-Fi hardware this year, offering greatly enhanced security. By the end of this year, WPA is likely to be a compulsory feature of certified Wi-Fi equipment.In the meantime, the basic security already built in to Wi-Fi, or Wired equivalent privacy (WEP), should be enough to deter the less determined snoopers, who are also less likely to be showing interest in small business networks in the first place.  What is likely is that Wi-Fi will become near-ubiquitous in new business laptop computers, with both Intel and AMD preparing to launch laptop chipsets that have Wi-Fi built in. Hand-held computers are also likely to start appearing with this technology available as an option.And with more and more people looking for Wi-Fi on the move, the cheap and cheerful standard looks set for rapid growth this year - further increasing its value to business users on the move.BT Openzonewww.bt.com/openzonePay as you go schemes:  One hour: £6  24-hour: £15 for unlimited use within one 24-hour periodSubscription schemes:  Openzone 300: £20 a month for 300 minutes a month; additional minutes charged at 15p each.  Openzone 900: £40 a month for 900 minutes a month; additional minutes charged at 10p a minute.  BT Unlimited: £85 a month, with no further chargesMegabeamwww.megabeam.com(Prices converted from euros, with advertised discounts applied) Two hours: £5.06  24 hours: £20.27  Seven days: £32.93  Monthly (31 days): £58.27  Annual pre-pay: £620.27 + one year free  Annual post-pay: £689.18   + one year freeT-Mobilewww.t-mobile.co.ukFree at the moment, although pricing is expected to be announced next month, along with a roll-out of more hotspots.
Our forum for small business managers with IT woes and queries this month includes on the panel:Roger Horam, UK online for business adviser based in the Edinburgh Chamber of Commerce;James Tennant, security consultant at Mason Group;   Jon Russell, technical director, Aspect Group;Simon Brown, director, Scalable Networks;Etienne Greeff, professional services director at MIS CDS,Dino Wilkinson, solicitor with Kimbells LLP;Phil Wilcock, CTO, 1E Consulting &amp; Software.Business Solutions welcomes queries from readers with IT difficulties and will endeavour to publish as many as possible, answered by a varied panel of experts.I want to trade internationally and and customers for goods. Is there anywhere on the web that can help?RH: Without knowing your market sector, it is difficult to give a precise answer. The imprecise answer is that the internet is a powerful tool that provides a low-cost "gateway" to global markets. The three areas I would select where the web can assist are:   Knowledge: sites such as theInstitute of Exportcan give advice on markets.   Sales leads: there are a number of online services providing sales leads specific to your industry.   Customer research: there are numerous directories and databases available. Two sites to check out arewww.trade partners.gov.ukandglobaledge.msu.edu.&#183;  I'm thinking of installing a wireless Lan and shared internet connection for my small office but I've heard people can "piggyback" these and use your network for their own purposes. Before I consider action to take, could you tell me what harm this actually does?JT: It's true that wireless Lans have several weaknesses which can provide a "way in" for unscrupulous individuals. Not securing your network could be as dangerous as leaving your office door unlocked. Hackers could access the shared connection to obtain free access to the internet or, in extreme cases, access confidential shared files from your network. It's also possible for malicious hackers to launch virus attacks causing undesirable results such as deleting essential data, depriving users of crucial files or even attacking websites. However, by understanding a WLan's vulnerabilities, it is possible to implement security measures to protect your business network and information.&#183;  I have a website but nobody is looking at it and I hear that the old tricks like meta tags don't work any more because of the way search engines work. What can I do?JR: Meta tags still count but only as part of your site optimisation program. You will also need to look at search engine registration to drive more visitors to your website. However, it is worth noting that both need regular updating to keep ahead of the search engines' changing ranking methods. Page title optimisation, along with good copywriting, also ensures higher scores in search engines' ranking. We also recommend paid-for submissions to at least the top 10 search engines and reciprocal linking where other companies link your site on theirs and vice versa.&#183; Am I liable for any losses incurred as a result of a virus/hacker attack?SB: If your firm has been the victim of a "cyber attack" that breaches the Data Protection Act, company directors are personally liable and can face a hefty law suit. The best way to protect against this is to ensure that your company has taken reasonable steps to be secure, for example carrying out regular open standards based security testing.In terms of monetary losses to your company following an attack, dedicated cyber insurance is available and is specifically designed to cover losses caused by network downtime etc. Very few standard policies cover such risks, so this dedicated cover is highly recommended.&#183; How can I best protect my company's network from future viruses like the Slammer?EG: Viruses have traditionally targeted workstations. Slammer wasn't a virus at all in that sense: it targeted a server, then compromised that server and used this as a base to find other vulnerable servers. To ward against application server attacks like the Slammer, the best thing to do is not to connect application servers directly to the internet without a security device. However, if there is no choice the servers should be patched as part of a regular preventative maintenance procedure. This can be complex, as patching often has an impact on the operation of servers, an issue we have seen with a number of our very large customers. In addition, companies should do a much better job of separating their critical infrastructure from the internet. This is very simple to do with firewalls and well set-up routers.
It's easy being an IT journalist. You call your contacts in the industry and tell them you'd like to look at the latest hand-held device and it turns up a few days later. You make it your business to understand the technology so that when something new comes out you know about it, advantages and disadvantages. For the smaller trader it's different; the methods of buying are many, and finding someone you can trust isn't always simple.Which is why, on a cold Tuesday afternoon in February, I was standing outside PC World in Purley about to go in and pretend to be a start-up business owner looking for information on computer equipment. The same raw details about the venture - a contract publishing company - were fed to two other sources, a manufacturer selling their products direct to the customer (Evesham Micro) and a small consultancy, EQ Consultants in Perthshire. EQ was the "control" if you like; my own regular supplier and the only one that knew I wasn't a genuine punter. As far as the others were concerned, they were being asked to supply the following for a bona fide new business:&#183;Ten users, two of whom need to see all of the financial details&#183;Internet connection for everyone - controllable&#183;Internal email&#183;Some sort of office suite with communications&#183;laptops for the executive directors - with wireless   email&#183;A chunky system for our designer&#183;Hand-held computers for note-taking on client sites   None of them were put under any time pressure - nobody wanted them to lose genuine customers over this.Mass market retailerOutlet:PC World, CroydonMeans of contact:Walked in off the streetPC World is making serious pushes into the business market and has a dedicated business team in most of its stores. There are signs outside telling you to walk in and talk to them NOW. I walked in. And waited. A number of staff looked through me until someone with a pulse asked whether I was being seen to - this after 20 minutes hovering around the desk marked "business". Once I had his attention, though, he couldn't have been more helpful. He fetched a small-business adviser immediately. "How soon do you need to know about this?" she asked, being tied up at the time. We agreed she'd call, fax or email the same day. She asked about the business and suggested I'd need something to help me track rights assignments, thus picking up brownie points for understanding the business.A call came through the next day to clarify the order and to set up an account, compulsorily. I explained I just wanted a quote to put to the bank for funding but this wasn't possible without an account. She asked how many laptops I would need and how many hand-helds. I suggested five, although I tried to sound as though I didn't know what we'd be doing with them. She agreed to put together a quote and get back within the hour. That was three hours ago...Best thing:Some awareness of and genuine attempt to understand the business I was about to enter.Worst thing:Waiting time - understandable when I walked in without an appointment, less so when I'd been promised a response in a given time.www.pcworld.co.ukDirect sellerOutlet:Evesham MicroMeans of contact:WebsiteEvesham Micro has been around for a long time and has links to a specialist business area on its website. I sent the spec to them through a link on this section and within 10 minutes, UK sales manager Stuart Little had emailed to request my postcode so he could assign the case to a local team. He responded just as quickly and courteously when I sent him the details.   We had a brief phone discussion and this time it was different. These laptops, I was asked, would they be as well as or instead of the desktop computers? Would it really be necessary to buy both? Did I have such a thing as a server? A network of 10 people would need a server, he suggested.And the hand-helds. What were they for? Client visits? Had I looked at the new tablet computers? Like laptops but with removeable lids and handwriting recognition - would the staff be as comfortable with those? If they'd be OK then one of those could do instead of separate desktop, laptop and hand-held systems. The office suite would be Microsoft Office XP because that's all Evesham sells in that line; we could talk about whether I want the Pro version or not. I would have to sort out the internet connection myself but they always recommend ADSL. They also talked about firewalling for security.   To be honest this was sounding pretty good, and he said he'd have a fax to me by the end of the day - which, frustratingly, he didn't.Best thing:Queried my actual needs. It was good to be told about the option to use laptops instead of rather than as well as desktops, and to have the chance to consider tablet PCs instead.Worst thing:Promised a faxed quote by the end of the day, but three days later nothing had materialised - although I apparently had an account manager. I learnt later that the delay was at least partially due to staff illness.www.evesham.comConsultancyEQ ConsultantsMeans of contact:Emailed proprietor Jim Bisset.So this 1,200-word response reaches my mailbox. Key points included the importance of a reliable brand rather than the cheap "home user" systems a lot of the retailers sell. "From your description, it would be unlikely that anything other than a peer-to-peer network would be required," he suggests. This means linking the computers together as equals without a server to manage the network. It's right as far as the initial 10-computers-only quote goes but may prove a little short-sighted as the company grows.On the PC side, he concedes that a cheap low-spec system would do all the jobs currently required, but "as software develops over the next few years, buying a more powerful PC now means that it will remain usable for longer, and the price differential is now small". He goes on to quote for Compaq Evo D310 MicroTower systems with Windows XP Pro for security. Monitors would be separate, he suggests.For the designer's system, he recommended the same PC with a chunkier graphics card and more memory with a larger display plus a high capacity hard drive. Like Evesham he went with Microsoft Office as the preferred option and quoted for an Ethernet switch for networking internally and an ADSL router for the wireless access point. He also recommended Compaq for hand-held and laptops, explaining the difference between infrared and Bluetooth for connections out of the office.Best thing:The thought that went into the pitch, plus realistic comments on when the various items would be available. He was the only supplier to get me any prices over a period of three days (he did it in two).Worst thing:Assumed the customer knew what he was talking about.info@eqc.co.uk
There has never been a better time to buy a PC for business use: they have never been so fast, so reliable, so small, or so cheap. But there's no need to rush, because there will be even better deals on offer next year. Prices may not fall much further, but PCs should become significantly more powerful as Intel starts to offer a new feature - hyperthreading - across its Pentium range.Certainly, speed is not a problem. Even entry level PCs are more than fast enough to run Microsoft Office and similar applications. Cheap business machines now start with 1.8GHz Intel Celeron chips for about £400, not including VAT. They will probably run faster than any PCs you already own, unless you have been stocking up during the past 12 months. However, unless you are on a tight budget, it might be better to go for a Pentium 4-based system with 256Mb of memory.Today, desktop systems running at 2.4GHz offer a good balance of price and performance, and should last several years.The operating system is not a problem, either. Microsoft Windows XP Professional is the business standard, even at the bottom end of the market, where it is supplied with PCs such as Compaq's Evo D310 Microtower. Windows XP Pro is stable, easy to use, and more compatible with old applications than its predecessor, Windows 2000. At the moment, it is an unbeatable combination.Users on a tight budget could be tempted to opt for the XP Home version instead. That would be a mistake. While slashing the retail price of its New Technology (NT-based) software for the home market, Microsoft has removed significant functions that are important to businesses, especially companies with Windows servers. The functions removed from XP Home include remote desktop access (one way to connect to your PC from outside the office), access controls (used to protect files and folders), roaming user profiles (which let you log on to "your" desktop from any PC), plus support for other systems management features.If you are buying the operating system bundled with a PC, the extra cost of XP Pro is far lower than the extra value. However, medium-sized and larger companies that were slow off the mark when it came to switching to Windows 2000 should probably continue to roll that out, rather than switch in midstream. W2K has most of the benefits of XP Pro, except for the "system health" feature that helps protect system files. This can be provided separately and better by installing Roxio's GoBack 3 software (Roxio is Microsoft's supplier). Imagine Lan's ConfigSafe is an alternative.Sound and graphics are no longer a problem with most business PCs. These aspects were neglected in the design of the original IBM PC, launched in 1981, and since then, slot-in expansion cards have been used to plug the gap. Today, expansion cards still have a place in home PCs and multimedia workstations. However, Intel Extreme (845G) graphics and SoundBlaster sound facilities integrated on the main board (the motherboard) are good enough for normal business purposes. Also, leaving out the separate sound and graphics cards reduces cost and complexity and could increase reliability.When buying a new PC, you should also make sure an Ethernet network port is integrated into the motherboard. This removes the need to install a separate expansion card for a local area network or broadband internet connection.  With the removal of the need for so many expansion cards, and today's highly integrated motherboards, business PCs can now be fitted into small boxes. If saving even more space is a consideration, there are several PCs that fit the bill. The leading examples include Dell's Optiplex GX260 and SX260, Hewlett-Packard's ePC range, and IBM's NetVista S42.The ePC system boxes are about the size of a phone book, and are designed to make it extremely easy to change the hard drive. Paysan's M Series machines, which measure only 157 x 146 x 45mm - not much bigger than a CD-Rom drive - could also be worth a look. However, miniaturisation tends to reduce flexibility and upgradeability, and also increases the price.During the past decade, flat LCD screens have also become an increasingly popular way of saving space. LCDs used to be very expensive, but they are now so cheap they are coming into widespread use. Prices of 15-inch LCD screens start at about £200, which is reasonably competitive with 17-inch monitors that offer about the same usable screen area. To my eye, a good Trinitron-style monitor still looks much better than an LCD, but cheap LCDs may well be better than the cheap monitors supplied as standard with many of the PCs sold at low prices.  The only fly in the ointment is the appearance of hyperthreading, which Intel has been using in high-priced Xeon processors aimed at the workstation and server markets. This has the effect of making one processor look like two to a multi-threading operating system such as Windows XP Home or Pro. Now that XP has reached the mass market, Intel is moving it to the Pentium line as well.Hyperthreading (HT) delivers a useful increase in performance in many, but not all, circumstances. The main advantages come when a PC is performing a demanding task in the background. It should become more useful as software houses adapt their applications to exploit it.Unfortunately, HT is only available in the 3.06GHz Pentium 4. As the top-of-the-range chip, this is too expensive for standard business desktop use. However, in another 18-24 months, 3GHz chips could be the bottom of the Pentium range, and HT will be available as standard. One option is to make sure the PC motherboard will support HT, even if an HT processor is not fitted. You can then upgrade the chip later. Perhaps even more important than what to buy is what not to buy. For business users, that means avoiding "hot boxes" and transitory special offers. Some PC suppliers put together fast PCs using whichever attractive parts happen to be available. However, it is better to buy business systems made from a small number of known parts that have been tested over a long period. They may be boring, but they should prove more reliable and easier to support in the long run.Companies such as Dell, Fujitsu-Siemens, Hewlett-Packard and IBM - in alphabetical order - buy parts on long-term contracts and assemble them using quality-tested procedures. (Hewlett-Packard also owns Compaq, while Fujitsu-Siemens includes what used to be ICL.) All these suppliers are giant multinationals. If you want to buy from a local supplier, look at Evesham, which has a good reputation for support.Most businesses either buy PCs direct or use established resellers such as Computacenter. Resellers usually offer machines in quantity at less than list prices. If your business is too small to deal with a reseller, it is still worth checking them out as a guide to the standard business offerings.I would not recommend buying a business PC on the high street. Consumers have different requirements. The only exception is the local dealer who specialises in small business computing and assembles machines to order. Some of these are superb and some are disasters waiting to happen. Caveat emptor.Help panelThings to ask your IT supplier&#183;Extended warranty: how easy is it to fix problems?&#183;Security: how will your network be secured against hackers or even user errors?&#183;Discounts: is there a discount for bulk purchases?&#183;Installation: will you be given a load of boxes and wished good luck or will someone help you set up? (Depending on costs you might want to opt for the no-frills approach)&#183;Delivery times: are the products in stock or will you have to wait?
Whoever came up with the slogan "Not in my name" was a genius. It is crisp and badge-friendly, while being flexible enough to accommodate the views of widely different anti-war groups.The slogan also captures an emerging 21st century view of democracy - that our representatives should not have a free hand to act on our behalf between elections. Political scientists talk of a move from representative to deliberative democracy. Even on questions of war and peace, people expect to be consulted.According to Stephen Coleman, the University of Oxford's first professor of e-democracy, this change in culture coincided with the growth of the internet. He plans to spend the next few years examining the relation  ship between the two phenomena.As the world's first professor in his discipline, Coleman has to put up with some academic sniffiness. "People tend to say: 'I suppose your job is to find out how many MPs have got web sites.' Actually, that's already been done."Another misconception is that e-democracy means voting over the internet. It doesn't, says Coleman, who is no evangelist for e-voting. (Perhaps to the disappointment of his institute's funder, the network equipment company Cisco.)  He chaired the Independent Commission on Alternative Voting Methods, which last year recommended that multiple methods, including paper ballots, "be maintained for the foreseeable future".Coleman's definition of e-democracy is: "Using new digital technology to enhance    the process of democratic relationship between government and governed, representative and represented."Obviously, elections are important, he says, but they are only part of the story. His institute's core project is a 10-year study to observe how 20 parliamentary constituencies adapt to internet democracy. There is a precedent for this revolution - the arrival of television."If between, say, 1955 and 1965, someone had done the same for TV, we'd have seen an enormous change over those years." In the 1960s, the US beat the rest of the world to producing telegenic politicians. But in the e-democracy revolution, the UK is taking the lead, Coleman says."Britain has a cabinet committee on e-democracy, a government commitment to e-enabled elections and the first trials of them. "But to be the first is highly risky. It's quite brave." This May, the government will sponsor the biggest trial of e-voting - part of a desperate attempt to encourage turnout in local elections. More than 1.5 million voters    will have the chance to vote on the internet, digital television and by text messaging. But on the broader definition of e-democracy, Britain's record is less good, says Coleman."We are lousy at consultation." He is scathing about the Downing Street web site and the abortive Citizen Space experiment on the e-government portal UKOnline. Even London mayor Ken Livingstone's popular touch failed when it came to consulting on the congestion charge. The real sign of e-democracy at work is the anti-charging site,www.sod-u-ken.com.Surprisingly, Parliament does better. Several committees have taken evidence over the internet. One was the House of Lords study on stem cell research. Conventional wisdom, based on US studies of internet bulletin-board behaviour, predicted that such debates would be polarised by strong enthusiasts and strong opponents. But in this case, the group that dominated discussions was chronic sufferers of disease."They tended to post messages in the middle of the night; I realised that people in pain    often wake up in the night."Perhaps parliamentary proceedings put internet trolls on their best behaviour, Coleman says. "The equivalent of putting on your best suit." If both e-voting and e-consultation can be made to work, would the inevitable conclusion be e-enabled direct democracy?To most   political observers, the prospect, with overtones of mob rule, is terrifying.  Coleman is relaxed. "First, I don't think people feel an urge towards direct democracy but towards direct communication. Second, I'm in favour of government by experts - but the public are experts."
Although some manufacturers are jumping the gun on 802.11g Wi-Fi wireless equipment, the truth is that the standard isn't finished and won't be agreed until June, asCNet Newsconfirms. And only when it is finished can interoperability be tested, which leaves the current g products based on draft specifications facing two hazards: they may not correctly implement the standard, and they may not interoperate properly. Buyers should at least make sure than any ROM software is in Flash ROM in case it needs to be upgraded. Also, as usual with Ethernet, the "54mbps" speed claimed for 802.11g will never be approached in real life. You would be very lucky to get half that, and 22-23 mbps seems more likely. Of course, this is still a useful improvement for a LAN. However, since 802.11b is already faster than your ADSL or cable Internet connection, the extra speed of 802.11g is probably not of great significance to most home users.
CNet has aninterview with Dave Winerof Scripting News fame, who has been engaged to blog-enable Harvard University.
Google is getting understandably touchy about the use of its trade name - a noun that is being widely verbed. Sashay over toSlashdotwhen you have hoovered the floor, xeroxed a few papers, etc.
More than 50 million text messages were sent every day in January, breaking yet another record for mobile phone usage.Last month saw 1.65 billion messages sent with the average number of messages sent each day rising from 53 million from 45 million during the same month last year.December 2002 saw an average of 52 million text messages sent each day.The figures from the the Mobile Data Association, which tracks SMS activity, confound expectations that the number of text messages sent would begin to level off as mobile phone ownership reaches saturation point.The MDA, which records usage data among Vodafone, mmO2, Orange and T-Mobile subscribers, said it  expected about 20 billion SMS texts to be sent in 2003,  up from 16.8 billion last year.The public's growing love affair with text messaging was illustrated by the huge number of messages sent on key dates.On New Year's Day this year 102 million text messages were sent , 59% more than in 2002.On Valentine's Day 78 million messages were sent compared with 57.5 million on the same day last year.
"Microsoft hopes to ship Greenwich, its realtime communications technology, to beta this week, reportsCRN. Greenwich lets you add secure instant messaging to your Windows 2003 Server, which is handy if you want to offer a service like Three Degrees (below).
The price of Pentium 4 chips is coming down again, reportsIDG.
CNetreckons "the latest trend in the increasingly popular Web log -- a personal or professional online diary -- is audioblogging, the posting of audio clips instead of or alongside text entries".
Following myrantyesterday, I promised I'd report back when Apple gave me some reaction to the news iMovie 3 is bug-ridden and causing lots of their customers untold grief. As yet, nothing. But I will post the moment my phone rings...
Micropayments are back. Despite at least half a dozen failed attempts to persuade internet users to pay for low value information and services one penny at a time, a new firm is ready to make a fresh attempt, this time using statistics.First, here is some history. In 1994, a Dutch firm called Digicash, run by mad professor crypto-genius David Chaum, reached an early solution to the problem of making small payments online.It boasted the geeky merit of being mathematically provable: a powerful equation embodied in a simple software product.Chaum's system was extraordinarily elegant. It featured persuasive benefits, such as anonymity for users, bullet-proof security for merchants, and no lower limit on transaction value. It could be used to make payments of only a few pence, or entrusted with a multi-million pound deal.To make this possible, Digicash relied on its own, newly minted digital currency: cyberbucks. I joined the product's trial, and was sent 100 cyberbucks from the 1m originally made available. It was exciting, and I seem to remember buying a shirt using the cyberbucks.Plenty of people, particularly libertarians and encryption fanatics (known as cypherpunks), were impressed by Digicash's apparent potential to short-circuit the global financial system by replacing big, centrally-issued currencies with untraceable private ones.Sadly, they were the only people who got excited about Digicash. Cyberbucks never caught on, and the company ultimately went bust, despite having a core business in smart cards for governments and banks.The problem was that merchants hated the anonymity part, governments hated the alternative currency part, banks hated the competition, and internet users could not be persuaded that they even needed micropayments at all.Meanwhile, giants such as Visa and Mastercard began to pay attention, launching their own products and services for the web. The rest is history.However, cyberbucks enjoyed an interesting afterlife amongst the cypherpunks. Using the trial cyberbucks still in circulation, they started a market, just like real foreign exchange traders.Its trading floor was the simplest thing imaginable: an email mailing list. Bids were submitted to the list, and anyone with cyberbucks could agree to meet a bid. As in any market, the artificial scarcity of the currency (no-one would ever mint any more) pushed prices above face value.I can recall sending $20 (£14) to a Hungarian programmer in exchange for 10 cyberbucks, which were transmitted magically to my electronic wallet a few days later.Of course, it was only a game: pretty soon, everyone lost interest. Digicash failed because it was designed and executed in a vacuum. It was eminently clever, perfectly put together, and utterly redundant.I was reminded of Chaum and Digicash when I read about a new micropayments scheme by another encryption guru, Ron Rivest.Rivest is the R in the ubiquitous RSA encryption algorithm (you may never have heard of it, but you're certain to have used it).His plan is called Peppercoin and, at first glance, it like just another boring micropayments system. On closer inspection, however, there is an elegant algorithm humming away under the bonnet.Peppercoin aims to tap the supposedly awesome potential for very small online transactions by finally making them economical for merchants. The main problem with such transactions is that fees imposed by banks and credit card companies will eat up the whole profit if the deal is too small.The scheme gets around this by simply failing to pay out on most transactions. As a merchant, payment from Peppercoin might actually be received for only one in 100 completed transactions.However, here is the clever bit: Peppercoin uses a statistical method to choose when to pay a merchant, and how much to pay. If 100 customers have each spent 10 pence at your website, it will discard 99 of those transactions, but then pay out a larger sum in one go.Therefore, the money paid by those customers will always arrive even if, day to day, you may find yourself down (or even up) on the sum owed. Everything is in the statistics.The idea is finely-tuned, but so misjudged that it makes me want to weep. Yet again, a group of brilliant techies have got together and found the perfect supply solution to a demand problem that does not exist.Again, a clever idea has been allowed into a hostile and crowded marketplace with only its intellectual credentials to protect it. Techies, and the companies they build, often cannot believe that intellect is not enough, and that a stylish product can fail because nobody wants it.Unfortunately, like those preceding it, Peppercoin has utterly ignored the fact that, in terms of demand, no-one is really listening.
'What do you reckon about Jude Law?" I say, over the phone. "Difficult one," my mate says. "I think he's peaked. I'd sell the lot now. I've made a quarter of a mill on him the last 10 days. You don't want to be greedy, do you?" "No," I say pensively. "But the dividend's going to be massive - what with him not having an affair with Nicole Kidman and all." "The market doesn't believe it," my adviser says. "You can tell. He's stopped dead at &#163;8.12 a share. They don't think there's anything in it. The fact of the matter is..." "You can't buck the market," I chant. "Exactly," he says.In the past month or two, a new internet game has gripped the shallow ranks of those who toil in the metropolitan media - the mediacracy, you might say. There is a certain sort of person who five years ago used to read Hello! and now reads Heat; who logs on topopbitch.comevery day to read the latest scurrilous stories about a C-list TV presenter snorting cocaine off the breasts of a D-list weathergirl; who somehow always knows the real story behind, say, J-Lo and Ben Affleck without ever actually buying a tabloid newspaper. They work in PR, in publishing, or in a dressing gown in a corner of the sitting room, and despite all appearances, they are surprisingly well educated.The BBC's Celebdaq is the new game invented for this sort of person. Like the best ideas, it is incredibly simple, utterly ruthless in its operation and endlessly gripping. Simply put, it is a virtual stock exchange for celebrity. You log on atwww.bbc.co.uk/celebdaqand, in the first instance, are given &#163;10,000 of virtual money. The site offers a long list of celebrities and you initially spend your money on shares, in any quantity to the limit of your budget, in any number of celebrities.The price of the shares, exactly as in the case of real stock exchanges, is initially set by the administrators, who can and often do get it wrong - over-excitedly, they priced Zoe Ball at &#163;42.85 on her issue in the wake of her marital difficulties, and at that level the market wouldn't touch it. Subsequently, the value of shares is simply decided by the punters; who is on the up, whose career is on the skids. In the absence of company profits, dividends are paid once a week based on the extent of media coverage in the previous seven days.It has been turned into a television show, on BBC Three and therefore largely unwatched; it could only work if the joke was sustained, and the show presented by men in suits in the style of The Money Programme. The website version is the real thing. The great appeal of the game is that it is entirely amoral, and judges people without pity or sympathy. Just as in the financial market individual operators can make a great deal of money out of war and catastrophe, the punters on Celebdaq leap eagerly on anyone going through painful but newsworthy personal trauma.I had some early information about the state of Sadie Frost's marriage to Jude Law - fortunately there is, as yet, no regulator inquiring into insider trading on this one - and plunged heavily on Sadie at &#163;1.88. After two weeks of furious newspaper speculation about her post-natal depression, I unfeelingly sold at &#163;30.23 and found myself in possession of a virtual yacht. Sad, eh?Celebrities are judged quite ruthlessly with no real reference to their achievements, their status, or their significance; they rise if the market thinks the market will buy and sink if there is no interest, and no suspicion of anyone else's interest. At present, the Queen, who might be thought of as a gilt-edged investment, is priced at four pence below Nadine Coyle, a woman I have never heard of in my life (she turns out to have won a television talent show). In a rare departure from the general ruthlessness, the Pope, who used to be quoted on the market, was delisted a week or two back; I suppose it was just too naughty to expect him to vie for investment with Alan Titchmarsh.The general savagery extends to the market information, which makes as heartless reading as the Financial Times. Here they are, starting to advise on the merits of investing in Rik Waller, the fat singer: "Wobbly-waisted warbler Rik first came to the nation's attention when he crooned his way through to the finals of Pop Idol. He sparked a massive debate in the nation's living rooms with everyone arguing over whether, given his girth, he could ever be considered a genuine pop idol."The fantasy here, I think, is less about judging famous people, buying into and selling out of their reputations and more about the idea that our own lives, like companies, might be judged by a structure like a market. Everyone has had these periods in their lives when things seem to be going well in the eyes of the outside world and patches when nobody seems to be buying at all; and the stock market offers a suggestive sort of metaphor.The metaphor isn't a new one. WH Auden, in his Letter to Lord Byron, playfully sketches out some literary reputations in terms of the stock market: "Joyces are firm and there's nothing new/Eliots have hardened just a point or two./ Hopkins are brisk, thanks to some recent boosts/There's been some further weakening in Prousts."If you could be listed in this way, you would have a very specific idea of whether your life was part of a bear market or a bull market, and what people thought of you in the most brutal, frightening, but rather exhilaratingly honest way. That's the temptation of Celebdaq; it is the nearest thing on earth to the final judgment. Whether you are Fat Rik, plodding along at &#163;1 a share, or Sadie Frost peaking at a massively over-subscribed &#163;30.20, you are going to find out what people really think of you, and take part unwillingly in a mass fantasy, of judging and being judged.
Three months after launching an operation in France, online bank Egg yesterday disclosed that it wanted to crack the United States.The bank has installed a team of 10 people in San Francisco and expects to spend &#163;5m over the next few months on researching Egg as a brand in the US and looking at the gaps not being satisfied by US financial services companies.Paul Gratton, Egg's chief executive, said initial research had uncovered surprisingly high levels of dissatisfaction among affluent consumers about the service they receive from many providers.He added it was too early to say what products Egg might launch in the US. The team has been given "a blank sheet of paper".News of its American foray came as the bank, which is 79% owned by insurer Prudential, revealed that its loss for the year to December 31 narrowed to &#163;16.6m from &#163;87.8m in 2001.But the bank added that in Britain it anticipated "challenging market conditions" this year, and the shares closed down 8.4% at 104p.The UK business notched up a pre-tax profit of &#163;34.8m and signed up 610,000 customers during the year, lifting the total to almost 2.6m. More than 1.9m of these hold its credit card.But the French business, which was officually launched in November, made higher-than-expected losses of &#163;46.7m. This included &#163;14m spent on marketing and brand building - including a controversial advertising campaign which had a theme of challenging urban myths.Of the 69,000 people who applied for the French version of the Egg card, La Carte Egg, during the venture's first two months, 44,000 were accepted, but only 27,000 are expected to end up as customers.This is partly due to the fact that taking out a credit card in France is a lengthy process involving "significant amounts of verification data to comply with French money-laundering rules," said Egg.However, those who have gone the distance are turning to its plastic more frequently than Egg expected and using their card an average of 15 times a month.Mr Gratton said it would be launching a loan product in France in the spring and added that the bank aimed to sign up a total of 250,000 to 300,000 customers there by the end of the year.Egg's total UK unsecured lending balances rose to &#163;3.3bn. Banking analysts at Fox-Pitt Kelton claimed the bank "remains very much at risk to any credit deterioration," but Mr Gratton said credit quality "remains strong".He added: "If anything, customers seem to be behaving more prudently rather than less."
"Is it time to set up Ofsearch, a regulator of search engines, asks technology consultant Bill Thompson" on theBBC Newssite. Reader responses include one from Danny Sullivan, founder of theSearchEngineWatchsite."God what a stupid article. What a profoundly stupid article," replies the entirely independentTom Coates. "Bill Thompson has flipped," reckonsSteve Bowbrick. MeanwhileSimon Waldmanpoints to an uncredited source onGoogle Watch, which reckons "Google deserves your nomination for Big Brother of the Year".So, former Guardian "new media" employee (BT) slags off Google, and is slapped back by a Guardian Online Online columnist (SB) and a Guardian Unlimited employee (SW); then the resulting war of words gets mentioned on the Guardian Online blog. How incestuous can things get? Perhaps I should have stuck to the view I held over the weekend: "Don't point, dear. You know it only encourages them...."
The US federal Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency has promised $1 million -- tax free -- to the group that, in 13 months, could build and race an unmanned ground vehicle from Los Angeles to Las Vegas, reports theLA Times[free reg req'd].
Egg, Britain's biggest internet bank, today reported a sharp reduction in losses last year and said that it was considering a move into the US.Egg, 79%-owned by insurer Prudential, lost £16.6m in 2002, down from £87.8m the year before. But Egg shares were punished as losses came in slightly higher than anticipated.The company's UK business beat market forecasts with profits of £34.8m pounds. But costs associated with the launch of an international Visa card in France, its first move overseas, pushed the group into the red."Egg has had another highly successful year," said the chief executive, Paul Gratton. "In the UK, customer acquisition remained strong with 610,000 net new customers joining Egg and an impressive UK profit of £35m."But shares in Egg were down 7.4% at 105p in lunchtime trading. Numis Securities cut its rating on the company to "hold" from "buy" as results came in below the brokerage's forecasts, and on the expectation of difficult times ahead."The stock has fallen by 24% in the last three months and we expect that the going will get tougher for what is a mainstream lender," analyst Justin Bates wrote in a research note.Egg's US ambitions also unsettled analysts. The company, which successfully launched an operation in France last year, said it would spend around £5m this year to research the US, the world's largest consumer market, although it added that these plans were at a very early stage."Early results confirm that there is clearly a high level of dissatisfaction among US consumers about US financial services providers," Mr Gratton told reporters.He said that it was too early for Egg to form a view on the state of the US economy and that the company would decide whether or not to move into the US later this year.The US economy is experiencing a "jobless recovery" as growth has been too weak to absorb the growing labour force. As in the UK, the  Federal Reserve has cut interest rates to their lowest levels for decades to boost confidence and consumer spending."Egg might be trying to run before it can walk. I would prefer it if they kept their focus on France," Teather &amp; Greenwood analyst Sarah Horder told Reuters.
It is not often I get second thoughts about first impressions. Today is   different.Let me explain. A couple of weeks back, I wrote in positive terms about the   latest incarnation of Apple's consumer video editing package, iMovie 3 (Live the iLife, Online, February 2 2003).I had used it for a few days since its release, and put together some   reasonable short bits of footage, complete with music and a nice shiny theme   thanks to its sister package, iDVD. It was not a proper attempt to review the   product - best to leave that to those who have sampled every bit of video   editing software since the stone age. But, based on my own use, I had   certainly had no qualms about it.Wasn't it fantastic, I mused, that we could cut together video on a desktop   computer system, when previously we needed expert help and thousands of   pounds worth of kit?This should have been safe ground. But within hours of the story appearing   here, there was a steady drip of complaints into my inbox, from the   grumbling to the outraged. Some suggested I was simply very patient to put   up with all iMovie's quirks (I am not). Others suggested I had not even   bothered to use the software (I had).One, more helpfully, pointed to a set of technical discussion boards on   Apple's website, where a long litany of complaints about iMovie was being   compiled. And, I was amazed to discover, some of the grumbles were very   serious. To someone who had not used iMovie 3, it would look like the   bug-reporting list of a beta (test) piece of software.The program was crashing frequently. It was inserting blank frames every   time the user wanted a special effect. The audio was losing synch with the   video. It was failing to import movies, eating entire scenes, moving scenes   around. And those were just the problems I fully understood: overall, the   impression was this software was a disaster zone.And yet I had not experienced one, single fault in hours of use. This, I   felt, was a little odd.Even stranger, looking around the net at the proper reviews of the iLife   suite, the specialist press was hearty in its praise.ZDNet (in a review also used on CNET) said "The free iMovie 3.0 is head and   shoulders better than last year's $49 &#91;£31&#93; version." MacUser UK was equally bold:   "iMovie 3 is free, fun to use, and without a doubt one of the best home-user   programs on the Mac. Every DV camera owner should get a copy."The most restrained magazine review I saw was in the US edition of Macworld,  which gave iMovie 3 three and a half out of five - and even it did not mention   any of the show-stopping bugs. I called round, even spoke to some of the   staff on the Mac magazines, and they had heard nothing of iMovie's supposed   flaws.So what was going on?It was time to go back to my iMac, and see if I could recreate the problems.   Previously, I had only edited together brief films to test the package's new   capabilities. This time, I put together a longer effort, trying some of the   new special effects and functions, exporting it all to iDVD and burning a   disk to test the results on a DVD player.And, lo, after a long evening of work, the hidden iMovie showed its ugly   face. Without warning, after I burnt the DVD, I found the entire soundtrack   had, apparently randomly, rearranged itself over the course of the 30-minute   movie.It had worked perfectly for pop video-length productions. But now this   latest ballyhooed version was of no use at all to anyone who wanted to   create something of more than (roughly) half an hour. There were other less   serious faults - a mysterious gap in the video, a crackle in the audio -   which appeared even more randomly. And I - like all those other users - had   now wasted a substantial amount of time, not to mention the material cost of   a burned DVD disk.Some of the complaints raised by aggrieved users (and I really was beginning   to understand their deep, chuck-it-out-the-window frustration now) could not   be replicated on my reasonably up-to-date machine. But, having discovered   the hidden horrors of iMovie 3, I was much more willing to believe those   complaints were genuine too.Even if they are not, it still means this: today Apple is shipping, in all   its new machines and in shrink-wrapped boxes across the world, a piece of   software that is in an unfinished state. It is pre-beta: if they were   charging money for it, they would be facing demands for refunds (and, in fact,   it is sold as part of the broader iLife package). Worse still (for them) they appeared to have replaced a perfectly sound, much-loved piece of software in iMovie 2 with this horror show.Late last week I approached Apple's public relations people in the UK about   the problems: they are now investigating. If they respond, I'll be sure to   post their comments on ourweblog.In the meantime, beware: iMovie 3 appears to be filled with bugs of the worst kind. They are critical, "show-stopping" problems that manifest themselves only after the   user has invested a great deal of effort in producing a long or complex   movie. These are the kinds of faults that most reviews are unable to pick up, because to find them you would need to invest the kind of heavy use - and   time - only real hobbyists tend to put in.iMovie is seen as being great for home users, schools and colleges because   it is free, and teaches people the basics of video editing. And I still   maintain it would be, if it worked. But, for now, before many an end-of-term   project is ruined, spread the word that, in its current state, this piece of software simply is not   worth the CD-Rom it has been burnt on.
The humble wireless has  not changed much over  the past century. We  turn it on and twiddle a  dial to choose between  a selection of national  and local stations offered in our  region. Technology is about to  change this status quo forever,  though. The latest radio tuners can  be plugged into a telephone line to  pick up thousands of extra channels  from all over the world. It 's internet  radio, but without the need for a PC.Over the past couple of years,  thousands of radio stations across the  globe have started broadcasting, or  "streaming", their signal over the web,  which has allowed them to reach new  listeners for virtually no cost. It has  been a quiet revolution, mainly tuned  in to by young, tech-savvy web users  prepared to sit in front of their PC  screen to listen to programmes from  the other side of the globe through a  computer's speakers.  The hassle and know-how factors  have combined to mean that, according to figures from web analysts  Forrester Research, only one in 10  connected Britons can be bothered to  boot up the PC rather than turn on their radio. But with radio sets being  launched that can go online without  owners needing to lift a finger,  accessing thousands of extra radio  stations in the front room is as easy as  working a traditional radio set.To make the vast range of additional broadcasters as easy as possible  to sort through, the new internet  radio sets feature a screen with a list  of genres - such as "news", "pop " or  "rock". After a type of broadcaster is  selected, the names of individual  stations appear on the screen and the  user can use up and down buttons to  go through the list and then select one  with the click of a button. It could be  a chance to tune in to a long-missed  radio station you grew up with in a  different area or country, or perhaps  to listen to news from across the globe  to see how current affairs are being  debated abroad.  Just as likely, though, it will be to  tune in to one of thousands of niche  stations set up to broadcast one style  of music or talk about a specialist  interest 24 hours a day. Many internet radio stations have been set up  for ethnic and other minority groups  who feel excluded from mainstream  radio broadcasting.Radio experts are agreed these  new  "internet-ready" radio tuners  will alter the way we listen to the  radio. "Since it first started, radio has  only ever moved to stereo and FM  which tweaks quality, but this is  going to fundamentally change the  industry," claims IT and media consultant Gary McCloskey from Mason  Communications.  "You are going to get thousands  and thousands who wouldn't have  bothered to listen to internet radio  stations on their computer tuning in  to thousands and thousands of niche  broadcasters - one I came across the  other day, for example, plays Broadway musicals all day, it's fantastic."These small stations are so cheap  to set up and run that they are going  to proliferate and reach out to people  with similar tastes. It is going to  fundamentally challenge the way that mainstream broadcasters fit us  all in to five or six different genres."Radio listeners are already being  offered a few extra channels through  digital radio tuners. Take-up has  been unimpressive, though, because  tuners are expensive, coverage can be  patchy and only a few extra stations  have bought digital licences from the  government.  Internet radio stations aren't  restricted by licensing because they  broadcast over the web, often from  outside the UK, which makes them  incredibly cheap to set up and run,  hence the huge number on offer  through the latest type of radio tuner.  Apart from offering listeners a  wider choice of stations, these new  radios are also going to change the  way broadcasters sell airtime. How  many Birmingham-based businesses  are going to pay extra to reach  50,000 additional internet listeners,  many of whom may not live in the  area? Virgin Radio claims to have  been the first station in the UK to  take up the challenge, so it is prepared to beam internet radio listeners national adverts that do not relate  to a specific region.James Cridland, the station's managing editor of new media, admits that  this need to send out different adverts  on-air and online is a headache every  commercial station is going to have to  face up to now that internet radio is  becoming more mainstream. "We're  unique in that we already separate our  internet adverts from our terrestrial  broadcasts, so we can already sell separately," he reveals. "It's something you  have to do because, for example, our  net listeners are split down the middle  between those in the UK and abroad - information an advertiser's going to  be keen to know."While Cridland admits that  broadcasters are aware that many  experts are predicting that niche  online radio stations will chip away  at previously loyal audiences, he  claims that most station managers  are still sleeping at night. "We've  been looking closely at the US market, which is ahead of us due to wider  availability of broadband connections," he says. "We think these small  net-only stations that broadcast, say,  Beatles songs all day are a novelty.  They might appear as if they could  take small bites at our audience share  but we think after a day or two, people get fed up with them."
South Korea will stake a claim to be the most advanced online democracy on the planet tomorrow with the inauguration of a president who styles himself as the first leader fully in tune with the internet.From calls for a softer stance towards North Korea to demands for a revision of the security alliance with the US, websites are already shaping the position of Roh Moo-hyun's new administration."The development of internet technology has changed the whole political dynamic in South Korea to an extent that the outside world has not yet grasped," said Yoon Yong-kwan, the head of foreign policy formulation in Mr Roh's transitional team. "It will affect foreign policy."The rise of webocracy has already made South Korea a place of exhilarating but   unpredictable change. In recent months online campaigns have swung the presidential election, stirred tens of thousands into anti-US protests and nudged government policy on the nuclear standoff.New Korea's hi-tech credentials have been a focus of national pride. Its biggest claim to international fame is the development of internet services, which are far ahead of most countries. Almost 70% of homes have a broadband connection, compared with about 5% in Britain.Because of the high connection speeds, much faster than most British broadband, people use the web more for shopping, trading and chatting. Koreans are said to spend 1,340 minutes online per month, and 10% of economic activity is related to IT - one of the highest levels in the world."The internet is so important here," a western diplomat in Seoul said. "This is the most online country in the world. The younger generation get all their information from the web. Some don't even bother with TVs. They just download the programmes."The voice of this New Korea is OhmyNews, arguably the world's most domestically powerful news site, which has built up almost as big a readership and as fearsome a reputation for moving public opinion as the Sun."OhmyNews is as influential as any newspaper," a South Korean diplomat in Tokyo said. "No policymaker can afford to ignore it. South Korea is changing in ways that we cannot believe ourselves."Polls showed that the victory in December of Mr Roh - who claims to be the world's first president to understand HTML website coding - came from a huge surge of support from twenty- and thirty-somethings. In South Korea, where elections are usually decided by regional rather than generational loyalties, this was a dramatic development.It was not the last. An OhmyNews report on an accident in which two girls were crushed to death by a US army tractor prompted one surfer to call for demonstrations. Within a week, South Korea was witnessing the biggest anti-US protests in its history."We are becoming very powerful," said Bae Eul-sun, one of the Ohmynews editorial team. "The pay is lousy, but it is very satisfying to work here because I really feel like I can change the world little by little."When the new administration takes power, its external priorities will mark a continuation of the "sunshine policy" of outgoing president Kim Dae-jung, who focused on maintaining a strong alliance with the United States while engaging with North Korea.But Mr Yoon said policy towards North Korea would be developed to reflect public opinion better. This is likely to give more influence to domestic media and less to the US."We will maintain strong ties with the US, but our young people have tasted democracy and they speak out about what they feel. They believe bilateral relations are important but unlike the older generation they don't think it is taboo to make demands of the US."The change is already apparent. In comparison with the efforts it made during the last North Korean nuclear crisis in 1993-94, Seoul has taken a far more active role in trying to head off a confrontation - even at the expense of infuriating its ally.
When he takes office tomorrow, 56-year-old Roh Moo-hyun will become the youngest president in South Korea's history, the first never to have graduated from university and probably the only national leader to have won power through the internet.That someone with his background is about to take the reins in Seoul shows how far South Korea's young democracy has come.Mr Roh was born to a peasant family and rose only to corporal during his stint in the army. But he taught himself law and became known as a defender of pro-democracy activists who were jailed and tortured by the security forces. In 1987, he was arrested during protests against the military dictatorship.A year ago he was an outsider for president, but his clean image and relative youth have struck a chord with the generation of under-40s who account for 70% of the electorate.To reach them, he eschewed donations from big business and ran an internet-based campaign focused on continuing the popular policies of President Kim Dae-jung on the economy and North-South relations, while promising to reform the political system.Formerly a critic of US bases in South Korea, he has changed his tone since winning power to say he supports the maintenance of the alliance between the two nations. But his past record, sympathy towards the North and inexperience of foreign affairs have generated concern in the US.And in a sign of the possible shifts ahead, the American defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, told the Senate last week that the US would reposition and possibly reduce its 37,000 troops in South Korea.The incoming president knows it was internet support groups that put him in power. Now he has to satisfy this new constituency."My political life was revived through the power of the internet," Mr Roh says on his homepage. "The internet will be one of the most powerful tools in the much-needed political reform in Korea today."
The news that Google has bought Pyra, the company which enabled the phenomenal growth of 'blogging' (the publishing of online diaries or weblogs) has had the mainstream media in a spin all week. One can see news editors all over the world summoning reporters shouting 'What the **** is going on? What is this blogging stuff anyway?'One can see why they are baffled, if not actually alarmed. Google, after all, is one of the wonders of the age. In little over two years it has built itself into a global brand which now surpasses even Coca Cola in consumer awareness tests. Unlike 99 per cent of dot-com start-ups it has been profitable almost from the beginning: last year it had estimated sales of around $300 million and made a profit of $100 million. It is accepted by hundreds of millions of Internet users as the search engine of choice. So (reasons the average news editor), it must know what it's doing. And if Google moves into the blogging arena (hitherto derided by the established media) then, by the same token, it must know something that the established order does not.Correct. But first a word or two of background. The keeping of online diaries is almost as old as the Web itself - in that it has always been possible for geeks to publish their thoughts on the Net. But doing this in the early days required a good deal of technical expertise - simple for geeks, but rocket science to ordinary human beings.Enter Evan Williams, a geek who had the idea of creating a tool to make it easy to write for, and publish on, the Web. He conceivedBlogger.com, a site which made it possible for non-techies to create and publish their own online diaries. His basic ambition was to create a system such that, if you could use a browser and do joined up writing, you could publish an online diary.Blogger.com launched in 1999 and was almost immediately overwhelmed by the demand.  Indeed, it's been overwhelmed ever since because Williams had no real revenue stream, even though he had lots of users - currently about 1.1 million of them, of whom about 200,000 are actively running weblogs. Blogger was thus a classic 'success disaster' - i.e. a service which proves so popular that it threatens to destroy its inventor.Blogger.com is not the only provider of weblogging software, but all the other companies in this area have experienced comparable growth. There has been an explosion of blogging in the last two years, to the point where there are now somewhere between 750,000 and a million serious weblogs out there in which 'ordinary' people publish their thoughts, links to articles they have read - and increasingly their photographs and even audio clips - on the Web.The response of the 'professional' media to this explosion has been interesting. First there was patronising incredulity that people would write without being paid for it. Then there was disdain. 'Where', asked the hacks, 'was the quality control?' Surely the whole thing was just an epidemic of vanity publishing? Then there was unease, fuelled by the realisation that (a) large numbers of bloggers were talking to one another behind the media's back, as it were, and (b) some of them knew more about many subjects than most journalists. Badly researched or ideologically skewed reporting was being instantly skewered by bloggers - as we saw recently when half-baked journalistic theories about the NASA shuttle disaster were effortlessly demolished by folks with serious aerospace expertise. Journalistic unease has been further reinforced by the way the blogging community refuses to accept the news 'agenda' as determined by mainstream media. This has been increasingly evident since 9/11 as the established US media have dumbed down their discussion of the issues surrounding security, civil liberties and the Bush policy towards Iraq.  It would not be much of an exaggeration to say that (with a few honourable exceptions) most of the serious discussion of these issues in the US at the moment is happening in weblogs and not in the 'official' mass media.So something really serious is afoot: the Net has once again demonstrated its capacity to unleash disruptive innovation on a complacent establishment. The question then becomes: where does Google fit into this picture?  My guess is that it's a re-run of Google's inspired acquisition of Deja News's Usenet archive in February 2001. That archive contained the only record of the global conversation which had been conducted through Internet discussion groups in the 1970s and 1980s - in other words, the most significant content available prior to the explosion of the Web in 1993. Since then, Google has made it accessible to everyone - turning it from a reserve into a resource in the terminology of the energy industries.What's happening now is that Google has realised that the conversations being conducted by members of the weblogging community has become an important body of content. Acquiring Blogger moves the search engine into pole position for organising and exploiting this amazing resource. It's so simple that only geniuses could think of it. But that's Google for you.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Wired News, presumably desperately trying to catch up with a story they (and many others) left unreported fortwo daysafter it broke on the blogosphere, leads this weekend on Google's purchase of Blogger.Seeing the headline, it was hard to imagine Wired had anything new to add to the debate. But reporter Leander Kahney (taking a break from writing those infuriating "Mac users: aren't they a scream" stories) manages to give us something fresh: a (presumably, rather pissed off) search engine developer who was working on a Blogger search facility until January, when discussions were broken off.They were working on "real-time" search of weblog postings - no surprise given Evan William's musings in aninterviewlast year, or even in his mostrecent postingson his own weblog (before he stopped updating)."[Chris] Cleveland said Google's acquisition of Pyra would, quite simply, help Google create a more accurate search engine by adding rich new sources of data gleaned from weblogs," reports Kahney, coming to the conclusion dozens of webloggers had arrived at around six days ago. Still, at least it's confirmation of what was going on at Pyra (although, with no talk of broken contracts or money being exchanged, it seems negotiations must have been at a very early stage).Maybe I'm being unfair. But it's been an interesting story to cover, this - one so fast developing it has left evennewmedia trailing in its wake, even though it was first broken by a print journalistwriting on his website(for which Dan Gillmor deserves enormous credit). But once the cat was out the bag, only theway, way newmedia (weblog media, in the main) has been able to keep up - along with the Guardian'sleaderon Tuesday, of course :-).It's certainly the first time I've worked on a story in this order:weblog postfirst,web analysissecond,newspaper storythird. That's interesting in a whole bunch of ways, even though we've got to be cautious about what we draw from the experience. This was - after all - a story about weblogs, and the internet.
Forbesreports on a new idea from NewBay Software, Dublin. "Users create an e-mail address associated with their Blogger account that no one else knows, which allows posting from any e-mail address. That means it's possible to write a blog entry from an e-mail-capable mobile phone, wireless PDA or pager." NewBay demonstrated it at the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes. Blogger has been beta testing a Post via Email feature since November with its paid-for Blogger Pro service.
"Japanese gamers were this week treated to the world premier of the eagerly awaited Game Boy Advance SP from Nintendo, with the handheld selling out unconfirmed numbers of 300,000 within the first day of launch," saysIndiemagazine. The SP is due in the UK on March 28.
infoSynchas the first serious hands-on review of the long-awaited tri-band P800. This is the first Symbian OS7 machine, and the first palm-sized Symbian-powered device with the power and features to match high-end PocketPC and Palm systems.
A report to Parliament by Sir John Bourn, head of the UK's National Audit Office, points out that so far, older people have been low users of e-services, and "government departments and agencies need to be more proactive to tackle the dangers of a 'digital divide'." One point (quoted from the press release) is particularly shameful: "many government websites still do not incorporate design features that would make it easier for older people to use them. An examination of 65 websites likely to be of interest to many older people revealed that none complied with all the criteria, and only 25 per cent passed tests involving software to check adherence with worldwide standards." You can download a PDF of the reporthere.
Here's another paradox: every year, the computer industry offers more and  more power, and more and more capabilities, but does it with fewer and fewer parts. The ultimate goal could be for a whole PC to reside on a  single chip - and for everything to be done by a single program.The magic that makes this happen is integration, and it is the real driver  in the IT industry. Integration lets you take the computer power that used  to fill a large hall, when it was implemented in vacuum tubes (valves) or  transistors, and reduce it to a credit card-sized pocket calculator, so that yesterday's30-tonne monsteris today'ssingle chip.This process is fundamental to the whole IT industry, from the smallest chip to the most complex piece of software. Indeed, the microchip is the prime example. It's called an "integrated circuit" precisely because it integrates a huge raft of separate components - transistors, capacitors, resistors, wiring etc - onto one sliver of silicon. Silicon is actually a  poor material for making, say, capacitors, but that does not matter. The  benefits of the integrated circuit are more important than any such  drawbacks. The whole is more than the sum of its parts.If you had to hand-wire a hundred million tiny components to make a  Pentium 4, it would be impossible to make one that worked. You could not  knock out millions at a few bucks apiece.Integration happens at the chip level, too. When Intel launched the first Pentium-type processor, the 80386, it wanted PC makers to use its 385 cache controller and 387 maths co-processor chips as well. But as the  manufacturing process improved, all three were integrated onto one chip.This was bad news for Weitek and other companies that were competing to make maths co-processors. It was great news for users, who got processors that did a lot more and cost less.Almost everything in today's computer business used to be available separately. At one point, for example, if you wanted to assemble a mainframe disk farm, you could buy frames, platters, spindles and controllers separately. (The spindle included the motor, drive shaft, and read/write heads.) Today, you buy an IDE hard drive - IDE stands for Integrated Drive Electronics. The whole thing comes in one small, sealed package, and provides vastly more storage for an unbelievably low price.The same process of integration has driven the development of software. Operating systems used to be primitive, if they existed at all. Over the years, they have integrated more and more features to support all the different things users want to do.The first electronic computer, ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator Analyser and Computer) didn't have any software: it was programmed by plugging in cables, like an old telephone switchboard. And it only calculated numbers: specifically, it calculated shell trajectory tables for the US army.Over the next 50 years, computers learned to handle more sophisticated types of information, such as the letters of the alphabet, rows of pixels (graphics), sounds, photographic images, and moving video. All became integrated in software. Typefaces, for example, went from being non-existent to being an optional extra to being built in as standard. The same thing happened to networking, graphical user interfaces, email, web browsing, and so on.The Apple Macintosh is a case in point. When it was launched, it barely had an operating system at all. But Apple added more and more functions over the years, including the ability to handle Ethernet networking, CD-rom drives, and movies (with QuickTime). More recently it has added extra software to handle photographs and music, to edit movies, to burn CDs and DVDs, and do many other things.Some people think this is unfair: it is hard for third party software houses to compete with the utilities that a manufacturer bundles for free.But it isn't fundamentally different from the problem that faced the manufacturers of vacuum tubes and capacitors, or drive platters and spindles, or maths co-processors, or typefaces.Every mainstream operating system has grown in much the same way as Mac OS, from the cheapest GNU/Linux bundle to the most expensive IBM mainframe OS. The only real difference is the ignorance of the public.People are more aware of software integration because it happens in front of their eyes, while they remain blissfully ignorant of the continuous integration of chips, hard drives and other components.You could turn the clock back 20 years, ship personal computers with just enough software to run a disk drive and put a dot on a screen. Users could spend weeks finding a couple of dozen drivers, selecting their favourite graphical user interface, installing utilities and picking their favourite 57 typefaces from the thousands on offer. It would be logical.It would superficially increase "competition". It would also be insane. In fact, attempts to stop the natural process of integration are not just hugely expensive and harmful to consumers, they reduce the potential for useful innovation.Let's take the browser issue, since it has been widely discussed. At one time, I think I had five browsers on my PC. I had the latest Netscape Navigator and Internet Explorer, because I downloaded them. I also had online access software for CompuServe and AOL, both of which sported their own browser. Finally, I had a separate version of Netscape, which came as part of the Encyclopaedia Britannia on CD-rom.The problem was that software houses and online services could not assume I had a browser installed, so they supplied one. This obliged them to go to the expense of writing or buying a browser, and making it work with their application. It put me to the trouble of installing extra browsers I neither wanted nor needed. The extra cost and development time increased prices and also discouraged software and service providers from adding online elements to their applications. This hampered innovation.Bundling a browser with the operating system - as Apple, Microsoft, BeOS, IBM and others did - meant application providers and online services could take a browser for granted, and therefore they could exploit it.Even if they didn't use the browser, they could use its HTML "engine" in other applications: for example, to display web pages in Microsoft Word.Again, there's nothing unusual about this process of integration. At one time, for example, many MS-DOS applications came with dozens of typefaces and dozens of printer drivers because no software house could assume you had either. Every application programmer had to come with his or her own user interface (and yes, they were all different). It cost a fortune. Once these facilities were incorporated into the operating system, ready on call, programmers could devote their efforts to creating better applications instead.In computing, what's "given" - what you can assume almost all users have - is called "the stack". That's the foundation on which everyone can build. It is a lot easier and more productive to innovate on top of the stack than to start with bare circuit boards, or bare wires, and build everything from scratch - though you can do that, if you want. But contributing to the stack is how you reach the biggest possible audience at the lowest possible cost."The stack" has some interesting but overlooked effects. One is that computing isn't really driven by invention, it is driven by consolidation.There's no shortage of good ideas: they're 10 a penny. Progress is driven by integrating those ideas - and the hardware and software that embodies them - into the stack and thus delivering them at an affordable price to millions of people. This is what Apple, Intel, Microsoft and others do. It's what GNU/Linux programmers are doing, too.It's a pretty egalitarian form of progress. Personal computers are not like cars or houses or hot dinners where there are enormous differences between the rich and the poor. The rich get palaces and the poor get hovels.But in the PC market, there is no significant difference between the PCs used by burger flippers and pump jockeys and the PCs used by George Bush, Britney Spears, and Bill Gates. In fact, the burger flipper with a cheap PC hot-rodded for playing Quake 3 Arena probably has a better system than most of the world's billionaires. And the pump jockey who really knows how to search Google could well be better informed.It's not nirvana, but it's not something to be ashamed of either.
'Write what you know," they said, and they said it constantly, after bookstore readings or under the fluorescents in creative writing seminars. Each time a published author, an embittered professor, even a lifestyle reporter from the local newspaper had something to say about writing, it was the same, terse "Write what you know". I duly recorded the phrase in the small notebook I had begun carrying around. At 19, I knew about birds, specifically the parrots, toucans and cockatiels that sat on the perches of the lusciously named Emerald Forest Bird Garden, the tourist attraction where I worked. So I started to write about the small failures and acute embarrassments, the pockmarked T-shirts and frequent snappings that came with dealing with emotional parrots. The first dispatch, entered into the notebook while I sat in my car one lunch hour, concerned a blue, green and gold macaw that had been deserted by his French Canadian owner and caught pneumonia. By the time C&#233;sare made it to the Bird Garden, the most he could do was stand shuddering on his perch while letting out a thin, tremulous "B-b-b-bonjour" each time he opened his beak.This was a start, and sneaking away in lunch hours to write gave me a sense of purpose that helped while away the hours with Peaches, Zsa Zsa and the others. The next step would be finding a way to get the writing out into the world, so readers could recognise the plight of the amateur parrot wrangler, just as they did that of Dickens' workhouse children. There were books on how to become a writer, full of addresses of literary magazines and newspapers. The rules stated that submissions had to be double-spaced, printed legibly, and should come with a stamped addressed envelope. But there were other, unwritten, rules blocking my way. Submissions shouldn't be too provincial, or contain lists of what the author might deem "humorous observations on rural life". Submissions shouldn't be printed in an ugly font, or on coloured paper. They shouldn't come with photographs or offend in any way the sensibility of the young editor reading through the slush pile.There seemed to be no way in - but catalysts occur in the most unusual places. In the Bird Garden toilets - which I cleaned every Thursday afternoon - were stacks of parrot magazines that I used to read as the disinfectant dried. Bird Talk made me resolve that my writing future had to include real ideas, actual stories - and nothing whatsoever on plumage care.This was the mid-1990s, what might be called the pre-blogging era. Now, anyone who works at a bird world or chip shop or an accounting firm - anyone with a modem, a screen and a need to write - can put together what is known as a blog, a website that allows its owner to post chronological entries and various links to other sites. There's no need to know how website design works. Blogging, short for web logging, has not only made self-publishing easier than cooking pasta, but since 1999 has gained a momentum that shows no sign of slowing.The popularity can be measured on blogger.com, one of the sites that provides the free software needed to build a blog. On the left of the homepage is a column that lists the most recently updated sites. It never, ever stops. One night at 10.51 there was the latest from a blog called Carpeted Walls And Marbled Ceiling ("Saw a cute girl in the library late in the night, think she's a year 1 . . . Played basketball and sat around as the guys talked about porn . . . sat there quiet . . . I thought it was quite gross"); at 10.53, A Catholic Point Of View ("The Mysteries of the Holy Rosary series continues today with the First Luminous Mystery - the Baptism of Christ in the Jordan"); and at 10.56 it was Las Pegadoras ("Apareci filhota!!! olha eu aqui pra sua imensa alegria!!!").There's no definitive list, but conservative estimates suggest that there are around 500,000 blogs in existence. At last glance, a site called nycbloggers.com listed 1,875 blogs in the Big Apple and even revealed where each one was located in a system organised by subway stop. On Gun Hill Road, in the Bronx, is the blog Deep Shit - A View Into The World Of Derek, told exclusively by Derek.Pre-millennium, the act of designing and maintaining a website still had a mysterious glint to it, and while I thought the idea was good, the parrot stories found their first home on paper. Back then, it was record stores that provided the best alternative to the web: stacked in the back corners were fanzines, litzines and glossy feminist responses to pop culture. It was a trove of media that was nothing like Media, full of bad stapling and punk rock reviews.This was a more enchanting world than that of the local newspaper. I bought Dishwasher, a zine by a man named Dishwasher Pete, who told of his adventures travelling around the US washing dishes in every state. Lola chronicled the underground art scene. Ninjalicious was the only given name of the guy who produced Infiltration, a zine about "going places you're not supposed to go", which usually meant sneaking into subway tunnels and hotels. In the act of photocopying, stapling and producing my own zine, Anonymous Juice, I entered into this world.Blogging has become, since 1999, a revolution, for two reasons: it's free, and the dispatches are distributed everywhere simultaneously. It may sound naive, but in this era of internet sobriety, it's easy to forget the thrill those two attributes initially afforded. In the zine world, once every few weeks I might receive a Manila envelope from a town that looked to be as small as my own, containing a few coins wrapped in paper and a request for a copy of AJ. Otherwise, the only time people could read the zine was at zine fairs, events held during the musty daylight hours at punk clubs. Beside me at my first fair was a small, bespectacled woman with a vintage bowling shirt, a black fringe cut high on her forehead and a shyness that almost glazed the air around her. I looked over at her zine, which was fanned out on the table."It's called Fist Fucked," she said, in a voice that came out harder than I expected. "And I don't do trades. It's cash only."Cash became important. For $500, I produced 300 copies of Anonymous Juice, which I stapled in my flat and folded down the centre using the edge of the kitchen table. I could usually get rid of 200, mostly to the same closed circle of zine buyers. But the costs started to add up, and soon the thought of spending another $500 made the web look extremely attractive: here was a place where pages were free and distribution was a question not of envelopes but of wires.So Anonymous Juice became anonymousjuice.com, joining a list of blogs by armchair pundits, disgruntled rightwingers fighting against the liberal media, women in Antarctica tagging penguins, and a homeless man named Kevin Barbieux, who sits regularly at the Nashville public library updating a site called, fittingly, thehomelessguy. There was even parrotchronicles.com, a blog that featured entries such as "Petting Nelson".My site wasn't officially a blog - I didn't use the patented software - but it did share common traits, including a list of chronological reviews of things I had encountered. Once initiated into web-publishing, I began seeking out other sites, but a search through the lists of links made it clear that every decent blog was surrounded by 30 dull, pore-exposing close-ups of a life that should have been left offline. Blogs introduced a wealth of new voices, but also brought about a level of self-indulgence never before witnessed on the web. "A poo-cano" is how a friend described it - endless eruptions of personal detail."The 95%-of-everything-is-crap rule applies as much online as it does in so-called traditional media," says Dean Allen, who runs one of the exceptions to the rule, a sharp, beautifully designed blog called textism.com. "There are oceans of banal diary entries and me-too punditry to be crossed before the gems are found. Luckily, everyone is looking for something good to read, and people tend to share what they've found."For me, the challenge was no longer writing enough to fill the pages of a stapled zine; it was   refusing to let the promise of endless space act as an excuse to write about the size of my fingernail, or the other me-me-me topics. "A computer monitor is not the ideal venue for lengthy, contemplative reading," says Allen. "We'll always have books for that. The web is a medium to be gorged upon rather than consumed. Open a browser and, chances are, you'll have sampled the current output of a dozen writers inside a few minutes."This immediacy, and the instantaneous nature of the web, has a way of sharpening your thinking. Unlike a private journal, there is expectation attached. Journals can be flabby and incomplete. So can websites, but readers will soon drift elsewhere. Writing on the web forces completion - sentences have to be seen through to the end; ideas followed to their conclusion. There is a tingly personal pressure that comes with the fact that, if you can't explain your situation to a handful of unknown readers, then perhaps it doesn't deserve to be online. The web provides an instant and rigorous form for working out the big questions - "Why am I so scared of Donald Rumsfeld?", "What is faith?", "Why am I drawn to crap jobs involving birds?" - and other, more personal quandaries.Such as this: on a brisk February night last year, I punched my younger brother in the face for the first time. None of the physical violence we had inflicted on each other over the years could match this transgression. It had been a long, cold, boozy evening in a town where neither of us lived, and it culminated in a showdown at an after-hours country bar. After it happened, I felt slack-shouldered and awful for days. Eventually, I tried to write about what I remembered of the evening, and what first went up on the web was true-ish, but certainly nowhere close to a full account. It stayed for a day, then was revised and revised again. And so the process went on. After the first day, a few dozen emails came in from those who had read it - some with decent advice, others with similar stories. It is these kinds of revisions for which the web is perfect - a scratching away at the truth. My brother had been standing on the dancefloor as the house band played Neil Young. He was determined to leave the club. I was equally determined to stay, to carry on valiantly until morning. Over Heart Of Gold, he asked me for the address of the place we were staying."I can't just give you the address," I told him."I'm going.""You can't just go. You don't know where you are.""I'm going.""Where are you, then? Do you know what street you're on?""I'm going."And that was when I hit him. "I don't know what perfect form the punch took in my mind," read the entry that finally stuck on the site, "but by the time the impulse had pushed its way through me, my flat hand had bent inwards like an old person's claw or a doll's hand - curved around but without a bottle to clutch."Soon after, I received an email from a person who called himself Spinner. It had the precise subject line Punching Your Brother and began: "You're a pussy." Spinner continued: "My brother and I fought for 20 years. I've broken a bottle over his head. What's a punch in all of that? But I know what you're getting at when you talk about regret. Our brothers are our brothers. When you don't have one to fight with any longer, it's worse than a punch of any kind and I know that to be true." (Afterwards, when my own brother read the posting, his only comment was, "Why didn't you mention the part where you were crying in the cab on the way home?", proving again that there is always room for further scratches towards truth on the web.)Owning a website also provided a chance to reverse the flow of information. It wasn't long after the punching incident that I got interested in finding out about people such as Spinner who had, one way or another, found their way to my address. In the summer I started a project about memory. How did people think about specific moments in their lives, especially moments where something went terribly wrong and, specifically, moments where something went terribly wrong thanks to the amount of alcohol they had just ingested? On the site I launched the Alcohol Regret Index, which was made up of three parts. Those who participated were asked to list exactly what they had drunk, down to the millilitre if possible, then the specific date, down to the minute, and finally, a straightforward account of what had happened.The results made it clear that I should never underestimate the eloquence of a reader who is asked a question. There were the awful, stupid, slight and too-clever responses. There were obvious lies and boring truths. A "George from Texas" drank two mickeys of vodka (700ml) and "ran for governor". But among the outlandish responses were stories too strange or detailed to be false. The most compelling sometimes appeared to be the most alcohol-free (two Coronas; 250ml), the ones that took place on nothing evenings (March 21, 11:21) when nothing really wrong happened (one man fed one of his cats Friskies Fancy Feast and the other leftover salmon, and the next morning woke to find the first cat nudging the corpse of the second around the kitchen). The Index soon became a long list of dumb mistakes, regret, and the weird specificity that comes with knowing you've done something very wrong. A woman who started an affair with a married friend knew (or recalculated) that it was exactly 1,500ml of Santa Rita Cabernet Sauvignon that led up to the first kiss around 1:12am - right in the final, crucial minutes of Miss Congeniality starring Sandra Bullock. I took the Alcohol Regret Index off the site for a few months, because it got hard to read the incoming answers every time they appeared.On another section of Anonymous Juice, entitled One Million Tiny Plays About London, I had begun writing small scenes based on conversations overheard outside pubs and on night buses. The American independent magazine McSweeney's took notice and excerpted a week of the plays on its own website, which gets around 20,000 visitors each day. The five short plays had been published less than a week before the independent film-makers made their presence known. Jon from Minneapolis told me that he'd like to lose the slang, drop the references to Hampstead Heath and kaftans, change Blair to Bush and film one of the plays for the enjoyment of those attending the Minnesota digital film festival. Paul from New Jersey sent me a link to a version of one of the plays that had already been shot, edited and stuck on the web. In this version, two of the characters spoke as Americans normally do, while the third took on an accent based on Dick Van Dyke's work in Mary Poppins.And it keeps going. In the time it's taken to read this story, around 10 new blogs will have been added to the grand total. They won't make money - both Sunday Times columnist Andrew Sullivan and the Homeless Guy use an electronic tip jar called PayPal on their sites. The blogs will, however, serve a purpose for those who can't hold back the urge to write about what unfolds around them. "As long as ink on paper enjoys advantages over the screen," wrote a web author called Clay Shirky, "and as long as the economics make it possible to get readers to pay, the webloggers will be a de facto farm team for the publishers of books and magazines."It may not be bad. In the strategies of getting your voice heard, blogging is far more satisfying than sending off forests of double-spaced, legibly typed manuscripts. It's hard to guess what may happen to your writing when it goes on the web. There is no way to know just where this stuff is going to end up. In late 2001, portions of my description of a seemingly innocent scene at Highbury &amp; Islington tube station emerged on a porn site called Sensible Erection. Some evenings the emails come in from Denver. Some mornings I get detailed responses from a schoolteacher in Phoenix, Arizona, and seeing them in the inbox never stops being a thrill. (The aforementioned Dean Allen, proprietor of textism and originally from Vancouver, now lives in the south of France with a woman who fell in love with his writing on the site.)In fairness, there is also a downside. You can hold a good zine in your hand and slip it through a mail slot - it's an object in space. A website will give you sore eyes. It will sometimes leave you with a nagging guilt that you're wasting your life in front of a screen, and occasionally, in my case, a strong kind of headache of the sort that used to come only after hours of listening to squawking parrotsIn June 1993, the National Centre for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois began producing a page of web links called, succinctly, The What's New Page. For anyone outside computing, this wasn't riveting - a sample posting directed users to 'DEC product information, Ultrix and OSF/1 FAQs, and more'. On April Fools' Day 1997, a programmer called Dave Winer launched Scripting News, a list of links with a more friendly tone: 'Check this out. Amazing!'The term 'weblog' was first used by Jorn Barger, creator of the site Robot Wisdom, in December 1997. 'Weblogs don't replace the function of publishing articles,' he wrote, 'but they do replace the function of publishing tables of contents.' Barger's links ranged from a 'short OK bio of Pink Floyd's Syd Barrett' to a 'mellow modern Italian pastoral' at poems.com.In the summer of 1999, a software company, Pitas, launched the first free build-your-own-weblog tool. A month later, a San Francisco-based competitor, Pyra, released Blogger, which was soon ubiquitous - all you needed was a title, a user name and a password. 'If weblogs are the crack cocaine of the world wide web,' wrote a fan named Alan, 'then Blogger is a pipe made from the most finely blown glass.'SIX OF THE BESTrobotwisdom.comA blog in the purest sense of the word.swishcottage.comThe name is reason enough; also provides a link to that photo of Tobey Maguire with his kimono open.sullywatch.blogspot.comPassionate rebuttal to Andrew Sullivan's frequent rants.waytoblue.orgAusterely elegant photo blog from Washington DC.sluggerotoole.comEverything you need to know about Northern Ireland.gillianhadley.blogspot.comOne woman's account of tagging Antarctic penguins.
Thanks toNickdenton.org:These Weapons of Mass Destruction cannot be displayed.
An acrimonious dispute over dropping the AOL name from AOL Time Warner is threatening the credibility of the company's newly appointed chairman and chief executive, Richard Parsons.Mr Parsons, who took on the top job last month, brought together senior managers from across the company for a two-day "retreat" at New York's Ritz Carlton, in a bid to create a sense of unity and purpose within the sprawling media giant.But according to reports in the US press, what was intended to be a bonding session for AOL Time Warner executives ended up in a heated argument over whether the AOL name should be axed."According to people who attended the event, Parsons, ever the conciliator, first tried to keep the peace by remaining neutral in the fight."By that evening's dinner the AOL and Time Warner camps had segregated themselves on opposite sides of a tense room," said a report in the Los Angeles Times today.The incident could tarnish Mr Parson's tenure as chairman before it has really begun, with shareholders and senior management calling for stronger leadership and decisiveness.Many executives from the Time Warner side of the business are adamant AOL is now nothing more than a loss-making operating division that no longer deserves such lofty recognition.Porter Bibb, a media analyst at minor AOL Time Warner shareholder Technology Partners, was quoted as saying Mr Parsons was "in over his head and has been since day one"."They are begging for leadership," he added.Another senior executive told the LA Times: "The beginning of realism at this company will be when we get rid of AOL. It has no strategic value. This is a cable, publishing and entertainment company that has no use for AOL."Mr Parson took the reins after the former chairman, Steve Case, quit in January.The company has since seen the departure of its deputy chairman, Ted Turner, who is also the founder of CNN.Mr Turner, who as the company's largest single shareholder retains substantial influence over its direction, has described the merger of AOL and Time Warner as a "complete disaster".The company announced a £60bn loss for 2002 - the largest in US corporate history - due largely to the performance of AOL.Much of the resentment of AOL within the company is thought to be the result of managers making personal losses as a result of its performanceAccording to US reports some observers are now giving Mr Parsons months rather than years to deliver a workable future strategy for the company.
Microsoft's purchase of Connectix's Virtual PC and allied technologies (below) has resulted in the usual speculative twaddle being written, so well doneeWeekfor getting the facts from Connectix's boss, Roy McDonald, and Jim Hebert, the general manager of Microsoft's Windows Server Product Management Group.
The Register's feeble report onthe ISPAs(Internet Service Provider Awards), held last night, neglects to mention that the event was a triumph for Tim and Sue Snape'sWest Dorset Internet, which carried off two awards. One WDI acceptance speech (loud cheers) included something like the following (loud cheers): "I'd also like to thank BT" (loud boos) "for spending so much money advertising broadband Internet in places where it can't supply it" (even louder cheers).
The insatiable appetite for celebrity gossip is fuelling colossal demand for BBC3 show Celebdaq, which allows viewers buy and sell shares in TV, film and music stars.Such is its success that the website has already crashed and extra computer memory has had to be brought in to cope with the demand from players - and all without a hint of publicity.The BBC has signed up just over 130,000 users to its web-based celebrity trading game less than a week after the launch of the show.The success of the website and accompanying programme on recently launched digital channel BBC3 has been hailed by the BBC as the first example of a TV programme supporting a website rather than the other way around, and is likely to be a template for future programme launches."This is an absolute phenomenon. It has just taken off, even though we haven't marketed it. It is also the first TV show that has been launched by a website months before," said one executive.In the Celebdaq game, players are given a fictional £10,000 to spend on shares in celebrity stocks, which go up and down depending on the laws of supply and demand.Every week, players are paid a dividend depending on the number of column inches their chosen stars receive.So while Michael Jackson is worth £19.71 as a result of the coverage he received following Martin Bashir's ITV documentary, former Tory MP Neil Hamilton is worth just £1.01.The TV version is modelled on a business show with real-time price information scrolling across the screen while the presenter, Patrick O'Connell, a former BBC Wall Street correspondent, interviews pundits from firms of stockbrokers, financial journals and the tabloids.The runaway success of Celebdaq has taken BBC bosses by surprise, causing the site to grind to a halt this earlier this week because of the number of people playing.More than 25,000 people registered to play the game last weekend alone, putting the total number at more than 130,000.On Monday, BBC technicians had to install extra servers and the site is on course to get more than 5 million hits this week, putting it in the top 10 of all the BBC's sites.In a further sign that popular culture is slowly eating itself, several celebrities have themselves signed up to play the game, including Ant and Dec (worth £4.53 and £3.39 respectively), Anthea Turner (£2.53) and Richard Bacon (£1.42).Chris Wilson, the executive producer of the show, said the popularity of the format had surpassed all expectations."It's potentially a very good model for the future. Big Brother had a very popular website, but the programme could easily have existed without the site. Celebdaq is the first TV show to rely entirely on a website for its content."The site launched last July and the show only launched last week so we've had plenty of time to build up data and attract a loyal base of players," he added.Mr Wilson also claimed that the show went beyond mere celebrity obsession and tapped into a growing awareness of the way the media covers people in the public eye, as well as teaching people how the stock market operates.But there has already been criticism of the morality behind the game. In a column for trade magazine Broadcast last week, the Guardian Unlimited editor-in-chief, Emily Bell, questioned whether "gambling on Sadie Frost's post-natal depression and marital breakdown has a place in a publicly funded organisation".The format of the show was devised by reality TV guru Conrad Green, who was one of the key TV executives behind the launch of Big Brother and has since left the corporation to join Simon Fuller's 19TV, the company behind Pop Idol.The site itself has been developed by the team behind Popex - a popular music share trading game that has been running for the last two years - who were poached by the BBC to build the Celebdaq site.
Phoenix, which makes BIOS chips used to boot up PCs, has produced an extended version that can grab and protect space on the hard drive before the operating system boots. This Core Managed Environment (cME) can also run applications such as a virus checker, a web browser, a digital rights management system, or some other secure control program ... beyond the reach of the operating system.EE Timesexplains the basic technology, whileAPprovides the corporate background. Is this a useful "safety net" or just another way to introduce spyware?Slashdotis hosting a mild debate....Comment: I wonder if some of the reports on cME would have been a bit less excitable if the writers had read (for example) theCexx page on PhoenixNet. The Phoenix.Net BIOS chip could run applications before the operating system loaded -- sound familiar?Q. What are the benefits of becoming a PhoenixNet Partner? A. PhoenixNet Partners with a Partner ID can participate in upcoming incentive and co-marketing programs and can receive e-mail bulletins on the latest end-user tools as they are added.In other words, once PhoenixNet had done its work, you could be deluged with advertising spam and pop-ups, or worse."These services are delivered to the user as hotlinks on the desktop and in the web browser or, as applications that PhoenixNet automatically packages, downloads and installs."
"The tiny, postage-stamp-size TV sitting in the corner of a miniature living room works like a real TV, complete with volume and channel controls, video recording capability and liquid crystal display technology,"APreports from Tokyo.
The spectre of Napster continues to haunt the music industry. A group of music publishers, including the writers of Jailhouse Rock, yesterday filed a $17bn (&#163;10bn) lawsuit against Bertelsmann, the German media group, for its attempt to keep the rogue online music swapping service alive.The complaint alleges that Bertelsmann contributed to the infringement of their copyrighted work by funding the service with the ultimate aim of turning it into a legitimate business.Bertelsmann, which now has a markedly different attitude to the internet, ploughed an estimated $85m into the online operation in little more than 18 months. The claim accuses Bertelsmann of subsidising Napster's "unprecedented piracy".Among the plaintiffs are songwriting duo Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, known for their hits including Jailhouse Rock, Hound Dog and Stand By Me. Two publishing companies, Frank Music and Peer International, are also involved. They are hoping to widen the status of the suit to a class action and are seeking actual damages of at least $17bn.Thomas Middelhoff, the former Bertelsmann chief executive who had attempted to overhaul the culture of the stodgy, privately owned group, had championed Napster. He was ousted last year.A Bertelsmann spokesman declined to comment.Napster filed for bankruptcy in June last year. Three months later an attempt by Bertelsmann to buy the business outright was blocked by the courts.The judge ruled that the $9m deal was hatched between Napster and Bertelsmann and was not in the best interests of creditors. The intellectual property assets, including the brand name, were eventually sold to Silicon Valley software firm Roxio for $5m. It was an ignominious end for a service that once had 80m users.Napster was forced offline in 2001 after a judge found in favour of the major record labels which were seeking to close the operation down.The latest 18-page complaint, filed in New York, alleges that by extending the life of Napster, Bertelsmann allowed greater numbers of copyrighted works to be shared illegally.It accuses Bertelsmann of "wilful participation" in the "widespread infringement" of music by Napster. It said the company "made a deliberate and calculated business decision to continue the infringing service in order to preserve Napster's valuable user base for Bertelsmann's own benefit."
Reed Elsevier, the publishing group best known for trade magazines Farmer's Weekly and Caterer &amp; Hotelkeeper, yesterday claimed the unlikely title of the world's third largest internet company by revenue.The Anglo-Dutch group said it generated online sales in excess of &#163;1bn last year, third only to AOL Time Warner and Amazon.com in terms of revenue and ahead of internet auctioneer EBay.Chief executive Crispin Davis predicted the figure "could potentially double" over the next three years because customers were still discovering that buying an online subscription to specialist scientific, legal and healthcare publications was more convenient than using a magazine."Demand for information and research in these areas is not going to go away," he said, in an attempt to calm fears that growth would be hit by economic uncertainty.The boom in online sales has come as a result of the strategic shake-up initiated by Mr Davis when he joined the company three years ago from advertising firm Aegis. Investors have warmed to his policy of focusing on the relatively recession-resilient areas of legal, scientific and health publishing and the company has become a darling of the sector.Reed was riven by internal politics and perceived as an also-ran prior to his arrival but is now the world's fourth biggest media company by stock market value.It is larger than Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and only fractionally smaller than Disney.Analysts say that while consumer publishers such as Emap have struggled to build big online businesses, Reed has prospered because customers are prepared to pay for information deemed essential for work.Internet subscriptions are also more profitable because they do not carry the costs associated with printing and distributing journals.The internet revenue figure was revealed alongside a solid set of full year results which included an 11% increase in core earnings.Mr Davis pleased investors by reiterating his expectation that earnings will grow by at least another 10% next year. Many had feared uncertainty over a war with Iraq and the wider economy would force him to abandon the target.Shares rose 12.5p to 431p."We have delivered double-digit growth in 2001 and 2002. We're committed to delivering that again in 2003 and I believe we will," Mr Davis said."I don't think it's unreasonable to expect that we should be able to maintain that level of growth going forward &#91;after 2003&#93;," he added.Full year pre-tax profits of &#163;927m and a 10% increase in revenues to &#163;5bn were bolstered by a combination of cost cutting and 2001's $4.5bn takeover of Harcourt General, the American science and education publisher.Mr Davis said that future profit growth for the company was more likely to come from improving the performance of existing businesses, rather than more multibillion-pound acquisitions. "We'll keep going down a road we know very well," he said.Reed Elsevier now generates about 86% of its revenue from subscriptions and just 14% from advertising.The importance of reducing its dependency on the volatile advertising sector was underlined by the performance of the company's business magazine division.A sharp drop in advertising sales saw the division absorb the majority of the 1,500 job cuts Reed made over the last year. Mr Davis said that any further cuts would be small.
I didn't expect this. When I started my weblogInstaPundit.Comin August 2001, the world was a very different place, and InstaPundit was a very different kind of weblog. I wrote about the greed of the music industry, the importance of allowing stem-cell research, and the ineptitude of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. (OK, not  everything has changed.) The term "blog" hadn't really caught on - we were still calling them "me-zines" for the most part - and the notion of a "warblog" would have seemed quite nonsensical, when a major topic of web conversation was who had the best abs at the Video Music Awards. (I voted for Alicia Keys).That all changed on September 11 2001. It's hard for non-Americans to understand what a dramatic impact that had on Americans whose ancestors came here to escape the problems of the Old Country. ("What about the Native Americans?" you may ask. I can't know, of course, but I imagine that my Cherokee forebears' remote ancestors probably left behind some nasty goings-on in Siberia.) At any rate, the country went on a war footing, and quite a few people were unhappy with the way the "mainstream" media were covering the story.It's been forgotten now, but in October 2001, the media was full of dark predictions about a "quagmire" in Afghanistan, and claims that there wasn't enough "proof" that Osama bin Laden was behind the attacks. Noam Chomsky was claiming that the US was planning a "silent genocide" in which millions of Afghans would starve to death as a result of war, and humanitarian groups were more or less echoing his predictions. Meanwhile we were told that the Afghans, natural warriors, would pick off American troops by the thousand, and Muslims across the world would rise as one, plunging the planet into conflict.It was all twaddle, of course, and quite a few of us found ourselves pointing that out. Someone (I think it was Matt Welch) coined the term "warblog," and it stuck. What's more, people were eager to read our critiques. My traffic, which amounted to 1,600 pageviews on September 10, was soon 10 times that, and is still growing (it was over 120,000 pageviews on Valentine's Day). Other weblogs experienced dramatic growth in traffic, too.Phrases coined in the "blogosphere" - as it is called these days - now percolate out into the real world with amazing rapidity. Scott Ott, who runs a humour weblog calledScrappleFace.com, coined the term "Axis of Weasels" in reference to the Chirac/Schr&#246;der alliance. Within a day it was the headline for the New York Post, and it was repeated on CNN, Fox, and, most gratifyingly, in French and German media. And, as the Daily Telegraph reported, officials at the state department and the White House were chortling over a Chirac caption contest that appeared on another weblog.This is disconcerting, in a way. Many of my posts are written on a laptop while my daughter plays with Barbie (broadband internet and a wireless home network are vital to blogging success, at least for those of us with kids). The notion that they might be read by people at the White House is odd. On the other hand, the often poor quality of commentary in traditional media provides some reassurance: Nicholas von Hoffman was still predicting a "quagmire" even as the Taliban surrendered. He later admitted that he knew nothing about Afghanistan, or military matters. I suspect that many of those predicting disaster should war come with Iraq are similarly ill-informed.Many webloggers know a lot about such subjects, of course, and because of the interconnection of the weblogging world, their views inform the general debate. Ideas circulate around the blogosphere at lightning speed, with mistakes - for example, a bogus photo purporting to show cracks in the space shuttle Columbia's wing, published in the Toronto Globe and Mail - often shown up within hours. (It was in fact a photo of the cargo bay, and the "cracks" were shadows.) Traditional media generally aren't fast enough to match this. To use a military term, weblogs are "inside the decision curve" of Big Media. Traditional media are trying to meet this challenge by creating weblogs of their own (the Guardian pioneered this) but for it to really work, someone has to read a lot of email and other weblogs.James Lileks said it best: "A column is a lecture. A weblog is a conversation." The weblog world is a remarkably open and interesting one - pseudonymous Iraqi blogger "Salam Pax" has met a warm reception from the warbloggers, and he's getting his information on how to prepare for war from Israeli weblogs!The challenge for webloggers will be to keep it that way and avoid getting too full of themselves; the challenge for traditional journalism will be to emulate the weblog world's speed, openness, and lack of pretension. In time of war, which this, regardless of what happens in Iraq, already is, such characteristics are particularly valuable.&#183;Glenn Reynolds is a professor of Law at the University of Tennessee.Linkshttp://glennreynolds.com/#030128Instapundit.comhttp://instapundit.comMatt Welchwww.mattwelch.com/warblog.htmlSalam Paxhttp://dear_raed.blogspot.com
That's been two hours you've been unable to get on-line now. So much for always-on, you think, as you go to fill the kettle. You turn the tap and - nothing, there's no water. And that's when the lights go out. Now the phone line is down, too. There's always the mobile - but why is it dialling 999 all by itself?This is the kind of scenario that government and private computer experts will be studying as they look into the growing possibility of a "cyber-terrorist" attack on what is known as our "critical information infrastructure" - the electronic systems vital for government, armed forces, business, finance, telecommunications, utilities, or emergency services.There have been warnings from parts of the IT community that terrorists could attempt something like this for at least 10 years, but now governments are taking it much more seriously. Last week the FBI issued an alert warning that the threat of war with Iraq, and increased tension with North Korea, could lead to increased numbers of attacks on US infrastructure. Meanwhile Erkki Liikanen, European Commissioner for the Information Society, announced the formation of the European Network and Information Security Agency, a new body to improve cross-border cooperation and offer advice on computer security."Network security has become a key concern, especially in the aftermath of the September 11 events," he says. "The malfunctioning of networks and information systems concerns everybody: citizens, businesses and public administrations."The Cabinet Office, too, has announced a new unit, the Central Sponsor for Information Assurance, to be headed by its e-envoy, Andrew Pinder. This unit "brings together IT security expertise from across government," says the department, and "it will be working with the public and private sectors to ensure that risks to the national information infrastructure are appropriately managed."The language is reserved, the discussions kept within a close circle of specialists, but security experts say the government is taking the threat   seriously. In the United States, repeated warnings of an "electronic Pearl Harbor" from terrorism and technology experts have given the subject more public prominence. The White House is due to release a national strategy to secure cyberspace within the next few weeks. The UK's parallel effort, the "national information assurance plan", was revealed last May but is "still in its early stages", a spokesman for the e-envoy's office admitted.This scenario is not just a dim vision of the future. The National Security Agency simulated a cyber-terrorist attack with 35 hackers in 1997. They managed to hack into department of defense networks, "turn-off" sections of the power grid, "shut down" parts of the 911 emergency service and even managed to "hack" into a Navy cruiser's systems.But it's the events of September 11 2001 that have turned cyber-terrorism from a theoretical threat into a very real one. The warning signs are there for all of us to see in al-Qaida's public statements, says Richard Clarke, chairman of the president's critical infrastructure board. He was America's first counter-terrorism coordinator and has now advised three presidents on cyber-security. His argument is quite simple: before September 11, al-Qaida tended to talk about taking human lives - killing as many people as possible. But afterwards its rhetoric shifted towards threats against the economic infrastructure of the west. This is too dispersed and diverse to bring down with bombs, he argues, but it could do a lot of damage in cyberspace.Clarke is not alone. There will be a major attack this year, says research firm IDC after polling its 700 analysts to make predictions for 2003. Network Associates vice president Terry Benzel told the House of Representatives science committee: "People will die, the nation's economy will be crippled and protec tive services systems will be weakened."Al-Qaida is just one group interested in waging cyber-terrorism. A CIA report for the Senate Intelligence Committee adds Sunni extremists, Hezbollah and Aleph (formerly Aum Shinrikyo, responsible for the Tokyo underground poison gas attack) to the list. Clarke says Iraq, Iran, North Korea, China and Russia are already training people in cyber-warfare. "There are a lot of different people who can conduct cyber-warfare," says Clarke. "There are countries that are creating cyber-warfare units. There are criminal groups engaging in cyber-crime. There are also some terrorist groups we know are looking at using cyber-attack tools."A Home Office spokesman said assessments by its national infrastructure security coordination centre, which works with intelligence services such as GCHQ to gather information, conclude there is "no imminent threat" of a cyber-terrorist attack, "but that issue is kept under onstant review."The motive for most hackers and virus writers has always been one of ego or intellectual challenge rather than financial gain or political belief. But now ideologically motivated hacking is rising fast, says UK computer security consultancy Mi2g. Its study of major hacker groups active in 2002 notes: "Attacks on the west show a spurt of growth mainly coming from radical groups and individuals based in predominantly Islamic countries." It reports that there were 5,589 attacks on the UK last year, with ideologically motivated attacks coming from Egypt, Pakistan, Morocco and Turkey. Mi2g says there were surges of attacks before both the Bali bomb in October and the arrests of suspected terrorists in Italy last month. "The true extent of the shared agenda between hacktivisim and terrorism is only now becoming visible," says the report. "There is a requirement for government-funded network monitoring to go deeper into ideological hacking and to establish the common connections between digital attacks and physical terrorism."But Clarke argues that we should be worrying about how to protect our critical systems, rather than where the next attack will come from. Every new technology is a potential target for cyber-terrorists. Viruses in Spain and Japan have tricked mobile phones into dialling the local emergency numbers. "Now, if you're a terrorist, the first thing you might want to do before an attack is take down the 911 system," says Clarke.There are also concerns over the latest hot technology known as wireless local area networking (WLAN, or Wi-Fi in the US). This is now appearing in notebooks, laptops and PDAs for business people to get online access in "hot spots" such as cafes, airports or even on the street outside companies that have it installed. The Worldwide Wireless Wardrive, whose members drive around to find these "hot spots", found that most access points don't even have the most basic wireless security software turned on.More households are signing up for broadband internet services because they offer faster access and an "always on" connection. "This, of course, increases the vulnerability of systems and multiplies the probability of some sort of cyber-attack," says Erkki Liikanen.The legend of the internet is that it was designed to survive a nuclear blast - it will always survive one part going down because it will just find another path through other servers. Yet research at Arizona State University published last week found that it is not as bomb-proof as we assume. Only a few thousand computers transmit most of the data over the internet, they found, and it is in fact vulnerable to a "virtual cascade" of overload failures that could make the whole system crash. "Our work suggests that attack on this small fraction of highly loaded computers may make the entire network collapse," says mathematics researcher Adilson Motter."Policies not designed for the 21st century are failing," says Mi2g chairman DK Matai. "Wireless networks, private mobile phones, instant messaging and remote access email accounts are helping to bypass elaborate security procedures every day. Executives need to rethink their strategy."Mike Barwise, consultant at Computer Security Awareness, says hackers are persistent, pay attention to detail and share information. "If the defence had those attributes then it would be a level playing field," he says.But he adds: "There's a risk of fulfilling the terrorist purpose ourselves. If we spread the terror ourselves they can sit back and relax."Indeed, the computer security industry is sharply divided over the seriousness of the cyber-terrorism threat, and there are dissenting voices. Just as with nuclear, biological or chemical weapons, critics ask for the evidence that terrorists have the digital weapons to launch a cyber-attack."Before we make assertions we must justify them with evidence," says Barwise, and he reckons we don't yet have a lot of evidence that terrorists either do or don't have the skills. Most attacks are by "grafitti writers" on websites, he says, and then come the less common hacks into systems for financial fraud or other personal gain. Rarest of all are what he calls the "uber-hackers": the one or two per hundreds of thousands of hackers who are good enough to hack into government sys tems and yet cover their tracks. "That isn't prevalent," he says, "and it's difficult to see how serious damage could be caused by someone not equipped with insider knowledge - they've got to now about the technical aspects of the system they're trying to damage."This is why Peter Sommer, of the London School of Economics Computer Security Research Centre, dismisses the idea of an impending "electronic Pearl Harbor". The number of people in government who know the sort of sensitive security information that terrorists would need is very few, he says.Matai says data attacks are more of a nuisance than a terror but "command and control" attacks on water, power, transport, telecommunications or aviation hubs could be fatal. Once inside the control systems, hackers may choose to turn off power or water supplies, open dams or empty sewage into rivers. And that's just the possibilities that counter-terrorism officials have been able to imagine.These kind of attacks require much more sophistication but hackers are growing in numbers and capabilities, says Matai, and "will be there over the coming two to three years." Command and control hacks   require insider knowledge, he adds. "Hacking is a remote crime but it does require local presence for serious damage to be caused."Al-Qaida's style is to patiently plan coordinated attacks and it's not too hard to imagine that it is at least training or preparing hackers and virus writers around the world for a large scale, coordinated assault that piles attack upon attack until systems fall over. It would be cheap and involve little risk of those involved ever being caught.The US may retaliate with a counter cyber-attack. The rules of cyber-warfare are in a legal black hole because the Geneva convention forbids attacks on non-combatants.Last week the Washington Post reported that President Bush had signed a secret directive for government to develop guidance on when, and how, the US would launch cyber-attacks against enemy networks. Mi2g says it is inevitable that governments develop cyber-warfare weapons because in cyberspace as in the real world, attack is a strong form of defence. And there are always counter attacks in response to cyber-attacks, says Matai: "During the Nato-Serbia war in 1999, the blended &#91;virtual and physical&#93; attacks on Serbia's telephone and power   utilities were followed by counter-attacks on Nato Command and the US DoD's email and internet servers."In the case of the looming attack on Iraq," says Matai, "the concern in blending cyber warfare techniques would be the likely impact felt by the US, UK, Canada and Australia in particular from counter-cyber-attack."The trigger for the world's first cyber-war could be a real war in Iraq. One prolific virus writer in Malaysia, with links to al-Qaida, says he has prepared a "megavirus" that he will release if and when Iraq is attacked. His portfolio of work includes a virus called Nedal - "Laden" spelt backwards.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:Saddam Hussein now seems likely to be faced with a new UN resolution. Is Britain merely buying time in order to shift public opinion in favour of war, or is there a chance the conflict can be avoided? What do you think?nameless:its ridiculous. this war should have started alreadyPashmina:im antie warcapitalistpiglet:yes I was there, were u?LadeezMan:im pro war I thinkHost_Chris2:of course. Did you go to the march, Pashmina?Pashmina:wot marchHost_Chris2:the march in London.LadeezMan:Sadaam is evilnameless:exactlyPashmina:i didnt know about itcapitalistpiglet:how could you not know about it?Bronco:&amp; now the tabilans are coming over ere to have a claim upHost_Chris2:more than a million people were therePashmina:i live in chester why do I care abt congestion chargescapitalistpiglet:it was an ANTI WAR march. The biggest demo ever!Bronco:ms dynamite was therePashmina:ur lyinLadeezMan:she wasPashmina:well I DO think we shoud have peacenameless:not in my namePashmina:u aint got a name ur namelessLadeezMan:is the taliban really signin on thenmullah'omar:i doPashmina:omar! Lurking again!!mullah'omar:and I work as wellBronco:careful mate I got caught doing thatnameless:I don't find that at all funnyHost_Chris2:Iraq and asylum are really separate topicsPashmina:if u hate Britain u shoudnt take our money!mullah'omar:why not, all british steal from their govtBronco:good pointPashmina:NO WE DONTLadeezMan:but we were born here so its okHost_Chris2:I'm not sure we're heading in the right direction herePashmina:I work full time and never claim nothing but me child benefit!!!Bronco:we need to have a war on the taliban in our own countrynameless:here heremullah'omar:we are readycapitalistpiglet:I didn't know you had kids, pashPashmina:dont be daftconnection to server has been terminated...
Lord Chesterfield, on showing his son around his library, said to him, "Never lend any books, my son. Only fools lend books. Once all these books belonged to fools." If that's the case, then there are over 90,000 registered fools atBookcrossing.com, and I've just joined their ranks.Bookcrossing was developed by a 36-year-old, Kansas-based software developer, Ron Hornbaker. Ron's idea is to "turn the whole world into a library." How it works is that you decide on a book you'd like to share with other people, you go to the website and register the book, then you print off a Bookcrossing label (which has a unique tracking number and the website address on it), and finally, you "set your book free."You might leave the book in a cafe or on a bus. Hopefully someone comes along, finds your book, reads it, and registers it online to let you know that they've found it. That person then leaves the book in a public place, and so it continues its journey from person to person. You can track your book online to see who's read it, who's enjoyed it, and what interesting places it's been to. At present, there   are 250,000 registered books criss-crossing the globe.A couple of weeks ago, I released my first book into the wilds... well, Carnaby Street actually. It was a copy of How to Lose Friends and Alienate People, by Toby Young. I've checked the Bookcrossing website nearly every day since then, but so far no one's registered it. My concern was that people in London are likely to avoid books left in public places, convinced that they harbour anthrax spores. We live in a very twitchy city at the moment. But then I read that only 20% of all books released are caught, so I shouldn't be too impatient. That figure is bound to improve as the trend catches on.Ninety eight percent of Bookcrossers joined in the past seven months, and most books have only changed hands a couple of times. But give it time. Once people get used to seeing the Bookcrossing logo, they'll know that there's no need to call the Anti-Terrorist Police. The Italians appear to be the least suspicious when it comes to Bookcrossing. The top two most travelled books are Italian. The snappily titled  A ogni pi&#232; so-spinto..., diario intimo di un vero briccone , by Michele Pernozzoli, has changed hands 27 times.The great thing about Bookcrossing is that it's free, and Ron aims to keep it that way. There are no pop-up ads and your personal details aren't sold to marketing companies. Ron's aim is purely philanthropic. "I'd like to think we're increasing the world's tendency to read, share, and connect with others," he says.But what do publishers make of Bookcrossing? "I was   concerned about what publishers and authors would think when we launched Bookcrossing, for fear of being known as the 'Napster of books'," says Hornbaker. "Surprisingly, however, both publishers and authors have been very friendly and cooperative - turns out Bookcrossing increases books sales by creating buzz about titles and renewing interest in reading."Not all authors are as mag  nanimous. I asked Toby Young what he thought about his book being left on a pub table in Carnaby Street. "As an author, I can't say I'm in favour of free copies of my books being passed around. Why should books be free? You don't expect, say, miners to work for free. Would it be a good idea to leave free coal on people's doorsteps accompanied by a little note that said, 'If you enjoyed this free coal,   email me at this address. Better do it quickly, though, because I'M STARVING TO DEATH.'"People are emancipating books from Kansas to Qatar.And on the first Tuesday of every month, people meet up around the world to share their Bookcrossing experience.The venues are organised by the participants through thewww.meetup.comwebsite. Again, the Italians take the lead, with the largest gatherings held in Rome.I attended my first Bookcrossing meeting on February 11 at Waterstones in Piccadilly. About a dozen people turned up to share their experience and exchange books. I asked Joanne, if she'd had much success. "I haven't got a particularly high success rate with regard to other readers journaling online, but I tend to think of that as an extra. What matters is that you've shared something, it's not important for everyone else to know."I've got shelves full of books, most of which I'll never read a second time. I feel rather selfish now watching them gather dust on the shelf. Other people should be enjoying these books. Tomorrow I'm going to start setting them free. I've definitely caught the Bookcrossing bug.
A festive flourish has appeared on the normally businesslike website of Tameside council, Greater Manchester. A
    trio of balloons decorates the announcement "All services available online".Tameside says it is the first local
    authority in the country to meet the government's 2005 e-services target. 
    For a vision of the future, visitwww.tameside.gov.uk.Residents can pay their council tax, report potholes and
    gain access to all of the metropolitan borough's 100-odd functions, all online.Once, a claim for free school meals would have taken days to work through the bureaucracy. Now, according to
    Paul Dowthwaite, strategic director of corporate services, a parent can notify the council by phone or web-form
    in the morning and their child will get a free lunch that day. It was one of the last services to go online.Now one council has cracked the 2005 e-government target, can the UK's other 467 local authorities get there
    simply by cloning its website? Sadly, not. Tameside.gov.uk is no Potemkin facade over a decaying municipal
    structure but an integral part of 10 years modernisation.The aim, says Dowthwaite, was always to structure services around people's needs rather than council
    departments. The process happened in parallel with e-Tameside, a borough-wide effort to plug schools, libraries
    and businesses into a broadband network.An important part of this process was to route commu nications with the council through a front office,
    equipped with a system for monitoring complaints.A lot of the time people contact their local authority is to complain about something: in Tameside's case, it was
    often about housing benefit not arriving.Like Japanese car companies in the 1960s, the council enthusiastically adopted the "continuous improvement"
    philosophy of management guru W Edwards Deming. It led to several changes in practice."We realised it was
    better to send men around filling in potholes rather than painting rings round them," says Dowthwaite. Tameside
    is now a national "Beacon" council.This philosophy gave Tameside a head start in providing electronic services, which were designed as an integral
    part of the council- wide customer services system. For example, the council handles inquiries with the same
    software (developed in-house) whether they come in by telephone, over the internet or in a face-to-face
    meeting.Tameside was the first authority to accept council tax payments over the web. It is one of the few to share
    changes of residents' address between departments (others are waiting for a change in the law that says
    departments cannot share this data even when residents give their permission)."We weren't looking for
    barriers," Dowthwaite says. "The people who dwell on problems are often those that oppose change."As an early mover, Tameside had several advantages. "We had time to experiment," Dowthwaite says. It was also
    able to snap up central government funding for pilot projects, including £1m from the Pathfinder scheme.Overall, Dowthwaite estimates that the council has probably spent at least another £1m of its own money.
    "We're probably talking at least £2m overall. But it's produced five, six, seven times that in savings."Although Tameside was probably the first, it will not be unique in beating the e-government target. A handful of
    other local authorities will achieve 100% over the next year; surveys suggest that most of the rest will get
    most of the way by the prime minister's deadline.Attention is now shifting to those at the other end of the league. According to the Office of the Deputy Prime
    Minister, 23 local authorities failed to submit satisfactory "Implementing Electronic Government" statements at
    the end of last year. John Thornton, head of e-government at the local government organisation IDeA, estimates
    that "about 30" may be in serious trouble.Most are small authorities that started too late to qualify for
    Pathfinder grants. 
    Such support should not just go to the winners, Thornton says. His agency has applied for £4m out of the local
    e-government budget to support those having difficulty with the target.The snag is that the idea directly
    counters the government's philosophy of rewarding success. 
    But Thornton argues that it's in everyone's interest to help out the stragglers. "Their failure will be seen not as
    a local authority's failure, but as local government's failure."
SOS: The Final EscapePlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99 Big BenInteractive/Irem	 ****SOS: The Final Escape has cult classic written all over it. A gripping premise - escape from earthquake-ridden city - is combined with brain-  over-brawn gameplay and flawed graphics.Although not in Ico's class, SOS does have a similar feel of player isolation, with the environment the main obstacle to success. Although SOS has many elements of the survival horror genre - puzzle solving, inventory management, dodgy controls, laughable cut-scenes - this is no Resident Evil clone. Here, falling masonry and crumbling bridges have replaced zombies and spooky mansions. The entire city feels alive, with    each aftershock dynamically affecting the surroundings. Unfortunately, the linearity of proceedings can be stifling with only one way to solve the   puzzles. This can dissipate the atmosphere. You want to avoid the crumbling ruins ahead. The game won't let you until you've rummaged endlessly through your rucksack.Both the controls and visuals feel raw, lacking in the polish of bigger budget releases. A horrendous camera and overcomplicated inventory system don't help. But look past the unpolished graphics and you've got a gaming slow burner that will grip those who give it a chance. (GH)Dark AngelXbox, PlayStation 2 	&#163;44.99 Vivendi Universal 	***The games industry's relationship with the world of television is nowhere near as cosy as its relationship with the movies: popular TV series usually have to prove themselves before being turned into games. But Dark Angel suggests that, just possibly, a cosier relationship may develop between the two.Originally a Fox TV series conceived by Titanic director James Cameron, Dark Angel was canned after two seasons. The suddeness of its demise would suggest that the TV original was, to put it charitably, unimpressive, but the game is decent enough. It is a third-person adventure that would have been pitched as: "Buffy meets Metal Gear Solid". In a post-apocalyptic   Seattle, you play genetically engineered female super-soldier Max, who embarks on a variety of missions involving avoiding the sinister powers that be and hooking up with her peers.The gameplay involves a combination of stealth and hand-to-hand combat, plus moderately imaginative use of found objects. The game's graphics are very impressive, as are Max's moves and abilities. You can, for example, set about groups of assailants by grabbing one and throwing him at his colleagues.Dark Angel cannot be said to break any new ground, but it is pretty satisfying to play, and should please fans of the TV series which, judging by the number of its fan-sites on the web, has something of a cult following. Like most games, its script and voice-acting has an air of naffness, yet the action makes up for that. Maybe that was what killed the TV programme, though. Could this be the first game to outshine the small-screen original that spawned it? (SB)Unreal 2PC 	&#163;34.99 Legend/Atari 	*****Given the first person shoot-em-up (FPS) was the PC's first native genre, which started in 1992 with ID's Wolfenstein 3D, it has stood relatively still for the past year. In fact, the FPS has been waiting for a killer ap since   Medal of Honor - and now it finally seems to have one.Unreal 2 is a grand-scale game that combines dramatic set-pieces with the kind of instinctive gameplay for which the franchise is already well known online. It also regularly surprises you: one minute you're all alone waiting for the next swarm of terrifying beasties to attack, the   next, you are given intelligent colleagues or mechs for defence and have to choose how quickly you sacrifice them to save your own skin.Weapons come in a baffling variety of forms, most with a dual firing mode and all incredibly instinctive to use. Enemies are drawn and animated with great skill, with Boss characters making   a welcome return to the fold and providing a tense challenge to overcome.On the negative side, this is a resolutely solo experience, with no opportunities for hooking up with mates to test out some of the great weaponry. However, given the Unreal Tournament 2003 has been on sale for a few months, this redresses the balance.So is it a classic? Certainly, it's the finest FPS on the shelves right now. Stunningly beautiful and always imaginative, it manages to surpass most of what went before without necessarily making an indelible mark on the future. Doom 3 is out later in the year and could well stick in the mind more firmly, despite being a very different experience. Until then, though, Unreal 2 is the man - and, on a nostalgic note, it's nice to see a quality game bearing the once-mighty Atari label. (MA)
