Ford Ka&pound;10,145Miles per gallon:67.3CO2 per km:112 GramsGood for:Tame driversBad for:Name droppersWhen Ford first unveiled the Ka - its curiously curved and delightfully playful city car - 12 years ago, the only part of the package that didn't add up was the name. Ka, which we were told to pronounce as in "car", caused as much debate as the controversial design of the vehicle itself. There was talk of hard and soft "A"s, long and short syllables, rhotic and non-rhotic accent groups. To this day, even the good people in Ford's own press office can't decide whether to say "Kaaah", "Cah" or even "Kay Aay". But the Ka's quirkiness and its thrilling go-kart handling, not to mention the tear-drop dash and bubble-shaped panels, soon gave the little Ford iconic status. It went on to sell 1.4m around the world and even at the end of its reign it was still the market leader in its class.It is therefore a matter of bafflement that when Ford redesigned its cheeky chappy they changed everything about the Ka - except for its name, the one thing that didn't really work.The new Ka (for pronunciation, see above) is still small. It's not as curvaceous though. It looks like a shrunken Fiesta (which, by the way, is an excellent car). It has four good-sized seats and a boot that's not to be sniffed at. Great in a car of this size, but its personality has had a bypass. And when you share the stage with look-at-me show-offs such as BMW's Mini, Alfa Romeo's MiTo and Citro&euml;n's C1 - all punching above their weight to get the attention they crave - it's very easy to become an also-ran.Ford's Ka has been developed in conjunction with Fiat, whose new Panda and 500 both share a fair amount of the Ka's underpinnings. Before you panic, sharing a platform with Fiat is no longer a cause for concern. Those trifling and tedious issues - reliability, build quality, rampaging rust, safety - which seemed to floor the Italians for so long have all been ironed out and these are now little cars with big futures ahead of them. But, of the three, the Ka seems to lack some of the vim and verve of its sassy sisters. I tested the Ka with an economical 1.3-litre Fiat diesel engine - it was certainly frugal but it felt lacklustre - like a bottle of pop that's gone flat. The same engine seemed so much more engaging when combined with the Panda. Marriages between unlikely motor manufacturers are becoming more and more popular, and clearly there are sound financial reasons for these giants to get into bed together, but there's no guarantee that their offspring will be the bouncing delight both the parents hoped for.So, a little disappointing and then - you know how it is when you go off something - all kinds of minor flaws suddenly become major irritants and the car became more annoying as the week rolled on. The interior felt cramped. Forward visibility was poor. The stereo was awkward to turn on. The boot wouldn't open. The seatbelt was mounted too far back. I kept fluffing up my parking... And I think the Ka was on to me as each time I touched the door it gave me a static shock. Let's just hope the only thing they decide to keep when they next redesign the Ka is the name.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Inspired bicyclesOne for all the jaded YouTube junkies who've forgotten what it is to be impressed: dizzying bike stunts from trial biker Danny  MacAskill with nary a "fail" in sight.Schweppes trailerThis perplexing ad mixes soft drinks with Nicole Kidman, sexual suggestiveness and an Indian hunk. It also features a smiley cameo by the little girl from Slumdog Millionaire.TracksLightning Seeds - Ghosts,iTunes, 79pTerrace chants may be absent but Ian Broudie has clearly lost none of his melodic nous in the 10 years since his last Seeds release.Everything Everything - Photoshop Handsomemyspace.com/everythingeverythinguk, free streamTinny rave synths twine with snaking melodies on this infectious and itchily inventive new single from the rising indie stars.VideoThe Streets - He's Behind You, He's Got Swine Flutinyurl.com/c9ncmhMike Skinner is quick off the mark with this flu-themed ditty, incorporating the illness into a spoof horror flick featuring a full-on zombie attack. The track itself features comedic sarcasm and catchy syncopated rap.
The Wario Ware series is special in two ways: it's the only place mini games are anything other than achingly banal, and everything about it from its art style to the content of its nibble-sized chunks of entertainment is refreshingly unhinged. Produced by the same team, the same level of highly polished weirdery is at work in Rhythm Paradise, which, unlike other games found in the genre, gets you to undertake all sorts of tasks to the rhythm of a beat. Among the peculiar activities, you may find yourself helping a monkey backing singer complete his routine or refuelling various sized dancing robots. Each of its worlds ends with a remix level, where the oddball skills you've just rehearsed are brought together in one surreal finale and rewarded with medals depending on your beat-matching prowess. Inventive, silly and good, this is another Nintendo game that's likely to appeal to pretty much anyone with a Nintendo DS or fancy new DSi.
Yarn BombingThe guerilla knitting movement takes to the street (and the lamp-post) with everyday objects accessorised in wool.Question MarcMonkeying around Nottingham, including placing highly believable "Public Urination Permitted After 7.30pm" notices.Wooster CollectiveFine blog celebrating ephemeral street art and bezzy mates with Banksy.Space InvadersThe invasion of 8-bit alien technology continues in the underpasses of the world.Urban PranksterCreating dead pixels for Google Earth, plus the UK designer who transforms skips into urban swimming pools.UnurthCartoon bras and briefs dangling on the telephone wires of LA, and Phil Lumbang's polite bears.
We all share the waking world together, but half our lives are spent asleep, alone with our dreams. With this thought in mind, an alcoholic beverage company has commissioned 42 film-makers to make 42-second films about their dreams with free creative licence. The results veer between the beautiful and mystical to - in the case of Arden Wohl, who used her 42 seconds to display a gruesome exorcism - the plain creepy. Every one is almost subliminal in its brevity; if a movie is a meal, then these mini-films are a handful of popcorn. That they're so short means they load quickly, which adds to the compelling nature of the project. Films from some impressive names are still to come, including David Lynch, Mike Figgis and Chan "Cat Power" Marshall.
Playing games after drinking heavily is a shortcut to being called a "noob fag" on Xbox Live before waking up on the sofa at 4am holding a joypad. Not so for frequently drunk PlayStation owners, for whom SingStar's mixture of karaoke and gentle competition supplies the perfect companion to lowered inhibitions. While iterations have arrived thick and fast since the series launched only five years ago, the most significant difference between instalments is usually the track list, which in this case meanders around the last couple of decades of pop from Bon Jovi to Kings Of Leon via Robbie Williams, Klaxons and Chris De Burgh. Check out the new wireless microphones, which are so instantly right it's hard to imagine life with all those trailing wires. The other novelty is voice control, which surprises most by working absolutely perfectly. There are times when more of the same isn't all bad.• SCEE, game only &pound;24.99, microphones &pound;34.99
A bit like bird tagging meets bookcrossing, the idea is to attach a label to your treasured soft toy and then release him - or her - in the hope that they will meet someone who will take them somewhere interesting, photograph them and then set them off on the next leg of their adventure. Perhaps it's the future of travel - living vicariously off our once-loved possessions. Stuffed pandas, dolls, snowmen and monsters have been snapped in various exotic locales around the world. The journey of a Mr Greedy doll is typical: beginning in Kent, he's travelled the key tourist spots of the globe from Vienna to Australia.
There is a point in the cosmos at which ubiquity merges with invisibility. No doubt the exact coordinates of this conjunction could be located through a series of complex mathematical equations involving the zeta function. But there is no need to get bogged down in brain-aching distribution theories when all that is required to prove the hypothesis is a Vauxhall Astra.In a recent study of the material composition of the United Kingdom it was discovered that 34.7% of the landmass was made up of Astras. They are literally everywhere. There's one outside your window right now, and yet, could you describe an Astra? Could you even recognise one? Would you know what one looked like if it drove into you, very slowly, several times?That's the beauty of the Astra: it's everywhere but nowhere; it is and yet it isn't. I walked past the new Astra 1.7 ecoFlex parked outside my house three times before I spotted it. And it was the only car in the street.The same low-profile principle applies when driving, too. There are various radical manoeuvres - such as eight-point turns in narrow streets and queue-jumping - that you can execute in an Astra without drawing adverse attention to yourself.We've all heard, and quite possibly have said, expressions like "that prick in the Prius" or "the berk in the Bimmer", but "arsehole in the Astra"? It's unthinkable. Apart from anything else, it brings no descriptive power to the insult. It just sounds like weird and meaningless pedantry.The driving experience itself is also strangely nonspecific, or generically unmemorable. It does the stuff cars should do - start, speed up, stop - and it does it without fuss or excess. It's handy in the city and comfortable on the motorway. The interior is blamelessly grey and platonically inoffensive, with each detail apparently designed to offer the lowest possible chance of distraction.And the new ecoFlex combines these undemanding virtues with lower-slung suspension, gentler idling, excellent fuel efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. What's not to like? Equally, it could be asked, what is to like? What compels potential buyers toward the showroom?But perhaps that's the wrong question. The Astra is not a statement car. To put it another way, if you want to express something about yourself in vehicular form, then you wouldn't choose an Astra, unless what you wanted to say is that you have nothing to say. And there's something to be said for that.Driving an Astra is an ego-less, head-clearing experience. Do it for long enough and one might even work out what a zeta function is.Vauxhall Astra 1.7 EcoflexPrice£18,255Top speed117mphAcceleration0-62 in 12 secondsAverage consumption62.8mphCO2 emissions119g/kmEco rating9/10At the wheelRalph EllisonBound forNowhere in particularIn a wordInconspicuous
The Playerhas the best opening scene of all timeHow to survivea plague according to the movies25 Microchipsthat shook the worldWhat it's likebeing a Star Trek extraWe missedWorld Naked Gardening DayWhat we missedat the Michael Jackson auctionYou're basicallyno one if you're not on TwitterThe top secretingredients of Krusty Krab's Krabby PattySome betternames for 2009's summer blockbusters
Faith fighterIn a game created with controversy-generation in mind, Faith Fighter pitted several leading deities against each other in a series of sacrilegious beat downs. Taking place against a tiny cartoon city backdrop that got more mutilated as giant Jesus, Buddha, Ganesha and friends laid about each other in bouts, it seemed mainly concerned with offending those with strong religious beliefs. The action - a crude pastiche of Street Fighter II - stood up about as well as the justification that it was intended to help "gamers to reflect on how religions ... are often used to justify conflicts between nations", which is a bit like suggesting 50 Cent's recent shooter, Blood On The Sand, is a work of political analysis encouraging meditation about the situation in the Middle East. The game has now been removed and replaced with Faith Fighter 2, where the new goal is "to give love and respect to all the religious entities on the screen".molleindustria.org/faith-fighter
Did you see the pictures of Barack Obama that were released the other week, showing him putting on the White House lawn (hasn't Michelle dug it up for a vegetable patch yet?) and in various states of repose as he moved into the presidency? No matter if you didn't; they're there for all to see on the Flickr website, as part ofthe White House's collection.What's even better about those photos, more than the fact that they're still there for view on the Flickr website, is that you can use them yourself, for free, and you can do anything you like with them - use them to create a book, perhaps, that you might sell for money; create artistic collages which you then sell to someone to put on their wall; make them part of a teaching course about how to take great photographs; include them in your paid-for weekend course about modern American history.And all you have to do, according to thelicence the photos are released under, is say where they came from. Nothing more. You're free "to copy, distribute, display, and perform the work" and "to make derivative works" from them.It's a truly wonderful freedom, which comes because the US government takes the attitude that because its works are paid for by taxpayers, those taxpayers should be able to benefit from those works without further payment - and "benefit" includes "make and sell things from them". You could print out those Obama pictures and sell them on a street corner perfectly legitimately. That largesse is even applied to the rest of the world, which one has to say is generous. That's why you see so many Hubble Space Telescope pictures: Nasa is a US government agency, so Hubble pictures are copyright-free. I know of many science publishers who bless the fact that those HST pictures cost them nothing in coffee-table books that would otherwise cost them thousands in picture fees. It's expensive sending photographers to space. Even robot ones.Cross back across the Atlantic, though, and minds start to close. Look at the European Space Agency's website, andits rules on using photos:I want to use ESA photos/material. How should I proceed with the copyright issue?You may freely use the images you find on our site, as long as it is not for commercial use. You may not modify the images. If you intend to use any of the images on a website, please acknowledge that it originates from ESA. For more information, see our Terms and conditions of use.What's the problem with commercial use? Isn't ESA funded by taxpayers? Apparentlythere's a minuscule bit that isn't- see the pie chart - that I make to be about half a percent of its total budget. Wonder if that's the reason?Or is it just that European governments are rubbish at making their data free? That's certainly the feeling that one gets, on looking at thelatest proposals for the Ordnance Survey's reorganisation, where the idea of "commercial" reuse of its data for free is anathema, and where the idea that you could produce something new based on it andown it yourself- so-called "derived data" - simply brings on an attack of the vapours. No, says the new strategy for the OS, no, you can't allow people to build on others' content to make their own, new stuff. It must belong to the OS even if someone else has put work in to create something new.Thus we have Goal 2 of the new strategy, which is to "increase use of OS data". Read that. And then read the comments (which, confusingly, start with the most recent comments, and force you to page back to get to where the comment thread begins). What is driving people mad about OS is its insistence that it must own "derived" data - that is, any new work that starts from OS work.This is commercially sane under the OS's existing framework - where it must support itself on revenues from selling its data, and so cannot allow the free resale even of derivations of its works, because that denies it a sale - but it's wider economic madness.As Robert Stapletoncomments,If OS seriously wants to increase use of its data, promote innovation and stop singlehandedly strangling the GI industry in the UK all it has to do is apply a looser interpretation of what consitutes "derived data". I see no mention of the issue in this document at all. #Fail.Derived data is the sticking point that means crime maps are so unbelievably useless:police forces weren't allowed to put their crime details onto Google Maps(where they would have been really useful) because they'd created them on OS maps; they'd be derived data if pushed onto Google. What a mess.Of course, people do think that the UK government owns OS (true) and that therefore it's all taxpayers' money, so it should be the same as those Obama or Nasa pictures. That's not quite true: OS is a "trading fund" which pays its way entirely from the fees it charges to government and the private sectors. About half of its income comes from government, both councils and government departments and other bodies. So that means that OS is in effect semi-publicly supported.The argument that the Free Our Data campaign has been making for the past three years is that by taking off the "derived data" and similar handcuffs - by opening up the OS maps, and Met Office weather details, and Land Registry and Companies House and Environment Agency and other non-personal data up for free use, while funding the running of those trading funds directly from the Treasury - thewhole of the UK economy would benefit, to a tune of £164m, against a cost to the Treasury of £15.6m. That's the conclusion of a study by a team at Cambridge University. It's just been difficult to persuade Iain Wright, the minister in charge of Ordnance Survey, to make the leap.Even so, there are signs of tectonic shifts within government. Just this week it announced that Crown Copyright was going to be made slightly easier to use. Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister who is also minister for digital engagement,announced"plans for an overhaul of Crown Copyright rules that will make it easier for citizens to re-use Government information, and new standards that will improve the quality of official websites."How? The Office of Public Sector Informationhas looked again at the restrictions of Crown Copyright, and now a licence will automatically be granted to anyone wanting to use the information rather than having to apply beforehand. This will makes things easier for the kind of innovative individuals who entered Show Us a Better Way to access the data they need to create brilliant new applications.Umm. It's not quite the revolution that some of us were hoping for. It doesn't even yet seem to legitimise the re-use and repurposing by sites such as theyworkforyou.com of the contents of Hansard - which is Crown copyright.That's the trouble with tectonic shifts, though. Nothing seems to happen for a very long time, and then sometimes it happens all at once. We're still waiting for the earthquake to happen. In the meantime, we're going to have to just enjoy those Obama pictures and those Nasa-based coffee table books, and think: wouldn't it be great if we had a photo-stream of Gordon Brown at work, or coffee-table books whose contents were using photos created by the ESA. Or even a map that takes the OS's excellent work (because it really is good) and lets others create new, interesting, useful products - without having to cede ownership to OS as if we still lived in a feudal society. Free our data, indeed: and make us free by doing so.
Windows 7 has so far led something of a charmed life, and been widely showered with praise, but with software, you never know what sort of bear pits are hidden in the undergrowth. Now, according to Windows expert Ed Bott,Windows 7 RC gets its first bug, and it's a doozy. He writes:Yesterday, Microsoft publishedKnowledge Base article 970789, which provides details of a problem that affects the 32-bit (x86) English-language version of Windows 7 build 7100. The problem, in short, is that the installer incorrectly sets access control lists (ACLs) on the root of the system drive.It's a pretty serious bug, says Bott, who is "surprised that it slipped through into the release candidate."Well, this is why software companies have beta tests, and "Release Candidate" isn't the same as "Release To Manufacturing". It's certainly better than finding bugs in the shipping code.If you are running 32-bit Windows 7 with Automatic Updates turned on, the code may have been downloaded or patched overnight. One of Bott's systems was, but he points out that "it does not repair applications that are already installed". If you're running the 64-bit version, that seems not to be affected.
The BBC's iPlayer has been a huge success, and nothing illustrates that better than the amount of data it ships. iPlayer boss Anthony Rose has revealed some of the numbers inan interview with CNet UK's Crave, and he says:"I think that at the moment, just for streaming, iPlayer uses about 60Gbps of bandwidth (that's about 7.5GB downloaded every second) in an evening peak. I think about 15Gbps for downloads, and about 1.5Gbps for iPhone. So overall on a particular peak day we may hit 100Gbps (about 12.5 gigabytes per second) although typically it'll be somewhat less than that. That turns out to be up to 7 petabytes of data transfer a month."Rose says the BBC no longer uses peer-to-peer distribution, which got a negative reaction from some people (eg me). He wants us all to be "happy, unequivocally, using iPlayer".Rose says the BBC uses about 60 servers to encode tapes in numerous different formats:"We create about 14 different formats, ranging from about 160Kbps for some mobile, over-the-air streaming, through to 1,500Kbps for our highest iPlayer SD quality stream, in H.264 played out as Flash. We also create 3Mbps [for standard definition] on Virgin Media, and now for our HD content we create 3.2Mbps HD. So it's about 14 or 15 flavours."We typically make a 3GP format, which is really H.264. We make VP6, H.264, MPEG-2 and we make Windows Media Video. And then we deliver those in various ways."The BBC provides the RealPlayer format for mobile devices, while the WMV is a "DRM format, typically where you can download or side-load to portable media players or Windows Media Center or Windows Media Extender devices."Rose is also asked about the choice of Adobe Air for the iPlayer client software platform. He says:"We had to be on Mac, PC and Linux, so we spent a lot of time analysing solutions that we could use, including what I call 'speed dating' companies that offer solutions in this area. But ultimately we chose Adobe Air for two key reasons: number one, it had a system that allowed our seven-day or 30-day playback to be enabled and controlled on PC, Mac and Linux. That's a requirement of a DRM, not that we want to use DRM, but we're forced to because we make content available for download. It's part of our rights framework."Rose also notes that iPlayer usage peaks a bit later than TV usage, "but interestingly, iPlayer on the iPhone peaks at about midnight. So people are clearly going to bed with their iPhone and watching in bed."
Carphone Warehouse has bought Tiscali, the debt-burdened ISP, for £236m in cash. CPW claims that this will make it the largest consumer broadband provider "with over 4.25m customers covering over 25% of all UK households."The use of the word "consumer" is interesting, since that's something of a poisoned, or at least not-very-recently-washed, chalice: the consumer ISP business isclose to a zero-sum game, as we've pointed out in the past.In Tiscali's case, it wasn't positive enough to fight off its debts.What CPW wants is obvious enough: to convert as many of those Tiscali customers as possible over to its "triple play" offering - mobile, broadband and (unbundled) phone line. It seems to have gotten past itsabsolutely dire customer service problemsthat greeted it when it started the offering in 2006, but it seems to have overcome those. (Tiscali was the one which more recently seemed to rouse readers' ire.)There's also the ongoing question ofquite what "unlimited" means when it comes to broadband: does it mean you can download more and more without limit, or does it mean that as you approach some (predetermined) limit, the rate at which you can download slows down asymptotically, so you never quite hit your limit?We'll be very interested to see how this develops - and whether CPW, with 4.25m compared to BT's 4.7m odd - except the BT figure includes business users too.An interesting contrast: BT has got its broadband customers essentially through inertia, since as the monopoly telephone line provider it has an advantage in persuading people to buy its broaband. CPW has done it through acquisition (AOL and now Tiscali) and through its revolutionary "free" broadband offer.But which is better? There's only one way to find out, as Harry Hill would say...
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Probably the iPod. There is still something magical about having all of my music, or most of it, along with hundreds of hours of books, old radio and some TV shows there for me when I want them.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last week in a hotel in New York City, I fell asleep to a 1942 Jack Benny radio show, and woke up to an Amanda Palmer song as the alarm.What additional features would you add if you could?I just want it to have a big enough drive for me to put everything on it. And I do mean everything.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 yearsI doubt it. IPods get bigger and better, and everything wants to be a phone, but they stick around. My house is filled with elderly iPods, and they are always being used – kitchen iPods, and the like. Some now live in cars. I may have Flash drives with bigger memories, but still, even the 5GB one isn't obsolete – just a museum piece.What always frustrates you about technology in general?It's a distraction. It makes it harder to work, and not easier. And I miss things that worked that get replaced by things that don't actually function as well. I miss (for example) nice clunky northgate style keyboards that were a delight for those of us who type all day. Keyboards are smaller and much prettier and nowhere near as comfortable.If you had one tip to give about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Get your son to play with it first and report back.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A nerdy luddite. Or luddy nerdite. I am writing this to you on a plane on an Android G1 with cupcake, and I write my novels in fountain pen.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?In real terms – ie, percentage of my income – it would be my first computer, a Tandon PC with a whopping 20MB hard drive. ("I feel bad selling it to you," said the salesman. "You'll never fill it.")Mac or PC, and why?All the house computers are now Macs, except for the basement Linux box. My notebook is a Panasonic W7, because Apple don't make anything that light or sturdy with a DVD drive. So I'm amphibian or bisexual or something.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Mostly I buy physical media, because I lose things; and it's good to have something to reload from when iTunes takes it into its head to reorganise my music in such a way that all my Thea Gilmore or the Indelicates vanishes completely.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Only when they can shimmer in, like Jeeves. And persuade me to stop learning the banjo or shave off unlikely facial hair by rescuing Gussie Fink-Nottle from predatory lady novelists and the like, as real butlers do, will robot butlers be permitted to butle in my world.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Something that updates my Twitter feed onto the front of a T-shirt, I think. Do they make that yet?•Neil Gaimanis the author of Coraline – the3D movie versionof which is now showing across the UK – as well as the novels Neverwhere, Stardust, American Gods, Anansi Boys and the graphic novel series Sandman. Gaiman won the 2009 Newbery Award for his children's fantasy novelThe Graveyard Book. You canfollow him on Twitter
The Guitar Hero franchise – which has sold more than 25m units around the world in just four years, and breathed new life into some bands' repertoires that had seemed dead – is to be expanded with two new titles, DJ Hero and Band Hero, which its maker hopes will build on the popularity of its predecessor.Guitar Hero has proved spectacularly popular, allowing players to "play" songs on realistic-looking plastic guitars and drum kits in time to music tracks from real bands including Queen, AC/DC, Aerosmith and the Sex Pistols; any band whose songs are featured in a game sees a rise in sales of its songs immediately after. Aerosmith has claimed to have made more money from licensing its music to Guitar Hero than from any of the group's previous recorded albums. Available on all the principal gaming platforms – the Wii, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC and Macintosh – it has proved to be a family- and party-friendly game, ensuring its wider success.In DJ Hero, players will take control of an imitation turntable in order to mix and scratch their way to victory in a virtual nightclub. Family-focused Band Hero, meanwhile, expands on the Guitar Hero's recent World Tour edition by allowing players to choose between guitar, drums and a microphone to perform their own pop renditions.The Guitar Hero franchise, owned by Activision Blizzard, has been one of the most successful games of recent years, spawning dozens of imitators. But it has not persuaded every musician to become part of its bandwagon; Led Zeppelin, the iconic British rock group that set the standard for heavy metal in the 1970s, has refused to allow its songs to be used.And The Beatles have signed with Rock Band, a similar but incompatible game from Harmonix, the original developers who split with Activision to make their own multi-instrument game. Harmonix hopes to reach out to new audiences by releasing a special edition later this year – featuring custom replicas of the band's famous instruments.The news of a new Hero series came as Activision Blizzard, the megapublisher formed out of the merger of California-based Activision and the games unit of French conglomerate Vivendi, announced more than $189m (£125m) in profit for the past three months.Bobby Kotick, Activision's chief executive, was bullish about the industry's prospects during the downturn, saying that gaming was in "the best position of any industry that is in media or leisure".The recession has had a mixed impact on the games industry so far.Japanese video games giant Nintendo announced record profits this week, but Activision's chief rival, Electronic Arts, said sales had declined 24% over the past year.Meanwhile 3D Realms, the company behind the popular Duke Nukem games,announced it was closing down. The company said it had run out of money after spending 12 years trying to develop a sequel to its enormously popular game Duke Nukem – without ever producing a finished product.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Like your Xbox? Love football? Bored of the AAA competition? How about taking it old skool? Games industry veteran Jonathan 'Fritz' Ackerley (akaTriple B Games) has released his new game - Fitba - on XNA Community Games Store and for a mere pittance, you can see whether this Dundee-based indie developer has what it takes to challenge the big boys. Read on for his story, and why he left the big time for an indie future.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.Fitba is a football game you play on your Xbox 360, you get to run the players about, do slide tackles, headers, overhead kicks and try to score some goals. Fitba's all about being fun to play, it's not going to take you hours to learn how to perform all the moves. You can play Fitba against the computer, but it's much more fun if you play against your friends. You can make your own teams up, design their kits and put whoever you want playing in them. You don't buy the game in the shops, you download it straight onto your Xbox 360 and it only costs 400 Microsoft Points (c.£3.50).How do players control the game?Fitba uses a unique and simple control system – left stick controls the players movement, right stick controls pass and shot direction, this twin stick approach enables you to be bombing down the wing and to whip in a cross without having to turn and face into the box, it means that there is real skill to shooting, it's not just a case of pressing a button, you have to aim your shots for the top corner. Slide tackles, headers, and overhead kicks are all done by pulling the right trigger. This means that you can be up and playing the game in minutes, you don't have to spend ages learning what button does what and what the game winning combos are.What is your background?I've been in the games industry for 14 years, I've worked on games for big publishers like EA, Vivendi, Capcom and Acclaim but now I've gone independent with Triple B Games, free to make the games that I want to make.Name your competitors.Fifa and Pro Evo are the two dinosaurs that dominate the football game market, each series pumping out huge selling annual updates that are barely distinguishable from the previous years offering. They aim to offer you the experience of watching the Champions League on your big screen TV. Fitba's trying to offer you the experience of sitting in the stands watching your heroes triumph over their local rivals.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We've currently got Scottish Second Division attendance levels, in 12 months time we'd like to be at SPL levels.What's your biggest challenge?The biggest challenge is getting people to find and try the game. You have to root about a bit in the dashboard on your Xbox 360 to get to the game. From your dash you need to select Game Marketplace, then Community Games and then you'll find Fitba to download from the Sports &amp; Recreation tab.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?One of the weirder things I had to do was when I was working at Gremlin on Actua Soccer 2, the marketing department had done a deal to provide footage of the game for the Super Furry Animals video "Play it Cool". I had to completely change the player rendering code as they insisted that Gruff had to be wearing his orange kagoul, so you get a team with 10 players in football kit and one bloke running about with his orange coat on.What's your distribution/publishing plan?Distribution and publishing for Community Games all goes through the 360 dash and since the game is digitally distributed, there's no physical product to shift, which makes life a lot easier for independent developers. Microsoft handle all the payments, via Microsoft points, they take a cut (30%) and then the rest goes directly to the developer.Are indie games the latest killer app?Without the innovation and experimentation that comes from indie games, mainstream games will become more and more staid. Publishers won't take risks with the huge budgets that so-called "AAA" games cost nowadays, so you'll end up with yet more licensed 3rd person adventure games, more WW2 first person shooters, and more annual iterations of the same old sports games. Indie games on smaller budgets have the freedom to take risks, to try things that haven't been done before, quality levels are admittedly more varied, but generally you're looking at spending less than a fiver rather than £40, and you can normally try out a demo before even committing to that.Are you the next big thing?Microsoft's opening up of the Community Games channel on Xbox 360 offers unprecedented access to console hardware and distribution for independent developers. If properly supported it can become one of the best sources for innovative, independent games. There are issues that need to be addressed in terms of the interface to allow players to find the quality content that is there without having to wade through the "My First Pong" clones to find it. I'm delighted to have got Fitba out on the 360 Community Games channel and hope that Microsoft go on and give the channel the support it needs, it has the potential to be a unique and hugely successful source for indie games, and I'm glad that Fitba and Triple B Games is a part of it.
There have been a few interesting snippets from last night's Q1 Activision Blizzard call. Perhaps most interesting is confirmation that the Starcraft 2 beta will start "this summer". I never played the original and avoid RTS games if at possible but the incessant hype for Starcraft 2 has *almost* got me quite excited. Maybe I should dig out the original first?Elsewhere Activision announced that Call of Duty: Modern Warfare had sold 13 million units. Impressive figures then and proof that, in these days of million seller Wii party titles, that "hardcore" games can still shift big numbers.Other interesting snippets included the return of the Tony Hawks game series (does anyone still care?) and some pre-release hype around new racing game Blur. Blur? Sadly this isn't the Britpop-inspired racer you may have wished for – you know Oasis, Pulp, Menswear and Sleeper racing around on Union Jack karts – but rather a "unique opportunity in the racing genre".  Still, the fact that the game is developed by Project Gotham veteransBizarre Creationsmeans hopes are high.More Activision Blizzard updatesover here.
&bull; Despite cutting thousands of jobs -including some in the UK- Microsoft has splashed out onpurchasing boutique Vancouver games studio BigPark, reports VentureBeat. The 50 employees will become a part of Microsoft's Xbox division, but terms of the deal aren't public.&bull; Despite concerns that Oracle might get rid of Sun's pesky hardware division, Larry Ellison has put those rumours to rest. "We are definitely not going to exit the hardware business," hetold Reuters- adding that he actually planned to boost investment in SPARC chips.&bull; I'll admit I was pretty sceptical about Intel'snew "rock star" advertising campaignbut since Jack pointed me toone of the ads featuring USB god Ajay Bhattand it made me smile, I thought I'd pass it on. Except it'snot actually Ajay Bhatt, but an actor. Now I'm sceptical again.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Despite reports that the interlocking directorships betweenGoogleandAppleare under scrutiny, Eric Schmidt says he hasn't considered resigning from his part-time role advising Steve Jobs and co.Talking to reporters today, Schmidt said leaving Apple's board wasn't on the cards (indeed, that the possibility hadn't even crossed his mind) - but that he realised Google had to be "more careful about when and how we do things that will raise concerns of any party,"reports Barrons.Apparently because Google and Apple aren't primary competitors, Schmidt doesn't see a problem. That's not whatthe law says, but hey.Talking of the law, Schmidt should at least be getting some informed advice on the subject: yesterday Digital Daily dug up ajuicy little staff training sessionon the specific laws being investigated by the FTC, conducted by Google's lawyers, WSGR.It's fun, but not quite the smoking gun.Reuters, meanwhile, devotes some space to anoverview of the anti-competitive investigations around Google, including this quote from Bert Foer, the head of the American Antitrust Institute, that I think should be spread far and wide."It's not that it's bad or poorly intentioned," said Foer. "It's playing such a large role in the flow of information and has so much free cash to play with and so many creative and aggressive ideas that it presents potential problems regarding... privacy and competition."This is a prevailing view among the antitrust experts I've spoken to, who also point out that there are two ways of looking at monopolies. One, the American view, is that monopolies are only dangerous if they abuse their power directly to squash competitors. The European approach, meanwhile, usually tends to believe that it's dangerous foranycompany to become too big (controversial, but perhaps vindicated by recent bailouts and government interventions).It's easy for political critics - or Google fans - to say the Obama administration is tending towards a European model whenever it looks at the internet giant. But Google has many tendrils. It's influential. Investigations don't necessarily mean anything. And, let's not forget, the Bush government was so ridiculously lax about competition law that any concern about seems positively socialist by comparison.
I know game trailers are everywhere online, but sometimes it's nice to gather together a few interesting ones, so we can critique them together. Here are two that dropped into my in-tray over the last couple of days: a first look at Rockstar's cowboy shooter, Red Dead Redemption, and a little gameplay footage from Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising. Grab some popcorn and let's move through to the screening room...Red Dead Redemption (Rockstar, PS3, Xbox 360, autumn 2009)Looks to contain all the necessary elements of a western adventure - gruff voice-over, steam train, cacti, shoot-out beside a saloon, another steam train. All that's missing is a man hanging from the town's welcome sign. Promising stuff from Rockstar's San Diego team. The official website ishere.Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising (Codemasters, PC, PS3, Xbox 360, autumn 2009)This video showcases the tactical shooter's Skira Island location: "its rich geological terrain will provide a challenging tactical environment that includes valleys, mountains, coastlines, beaches, villages, industrial complexes and a huge extinct volcano," says the press release. Apparently the island will provide a flashpoint in the battle between the US and China - it's a totally open terrain, populated by unscripted AI military forces. There are too many jump cuts and speeded up monochrome sequences to get a handle on the gamepay, but the tanks look nice, and there are some intricately detailed buildings.Here's the website.So, either of those pique your interest?
Microsoft has enhanced its Photosynth application, which is now integrated withVirtual Earth, and runs on PCs and Macs via Silverlight browser technology. (The Silverlight viewer has been available in beta.) There's aYouTube videoof the announcement.Photosynthis an online software application that takes any number of still photographs and stitches them into a 3D panorama. Since the original pictures in the panoramic view can include close-ups, viewers can zoom in on details. The system works well with tourist hotspots where thousands of visitors can contribute snaps.NASA has been trying the system, and has released a Photosynth that provides a "virtual tour" of theInternational Space Stationin conjunction with Microsoft's launch (PDF).New features include privacy controls, one-click highlighting, and commercial licensing. Microsoft hopes the technology will find practical applications in areas such as tourism, real estate, retailing, the public sector and the entertainment industries. Even if these don't make Microsoft much (if any) money, they will help get Silverlight installed more widely.Example uses include Venice, VisitBrighton, and theSri Andal Templein Srivilliputtur, Tamil Nadu.Photosynth is still a very young technology, developed by Microsoft's Live Labs and the local University of Washington. It has a lot of promise, but a long way to go.
While the data from US missile programmes may make the biggest headlines, the practice of discarding data on hard drives is widespread.Just how widespread is shown in this year's survey – which could cover your progress from the moment you get up to the moment you get home, with information from personal PCs, a carpet fitting company and interior design giant making it in alongside data from other drives from car companies, councils, schools, health trusts, an embassy universities and a mobile phone company.Among the 1,000 drives obtained from eBay and other online auction sites, car boot fairs and discarded machines, were drives containing recent information from Ford Motor Company, the clothes firm Laura Ashley, the German Embassy in Paris, Nokia, the Edinburgh lawyers Henderson Boyd Jackson (HBJ), Swindon Council, Lanarkshire NHS Trust, Amec Rail and a number of schools and drives from individuals.Three drives containing paedophile information, including graphic violence, were referred to the police and one drive from a machine belonging to an Asian man that showed him posing with a pistol in Pakistan was referred to Special Branch.According to Glamorgan University, the drive from Ford appeared to contain information on the company's new Ka model, and the drive had been obtained before its launch earlier this year.Also on the drive was information marked "confidential – Ford Motor Company – this is unpublished work which is a trade secret … FMC own all rights to this work to preserve its trade secret status.""This could have been very bad for Ford," said Glamorgan's Professor Andrew Blyth. "Loss of intellectual property can have a severe impact on an organisation."A Ford spokesman said: "Ford is investigating this issue with the university to identify the computer from which the hard disk originated so that we can determine its history. The hard disk is also being passed on to Ford so that the data it contains can be analysed." It was possible that the hard drive came from a company associated with Ford which had "different disposal policies", a spokesman said."While this investigation is under way the return of Ford PCs and laptops to suppliers has been suspended and a review is taking place of all the processes involved in removing data from computers and returning equipment."The data on the Laura Ashley drives contained information on internal email, company financial data and customer names and addresses.A spokeswoman from Laura Ashley said: "We are surprised to see the results due to our rigorous and clear equipment disposal policy. We are pleased that this issue has been highlighted to us." The company says it disposes of around 100 PCs every year using "reputable service providers".The Nokia drive which also had files marked as company confidential held images of cell-phone circuitry, minutes of meetings, names and personnel evaluation forms.The HBJ drive contained detailed information on the company's website and client correspondence.A spokesman for Henderson Boyd Jackson said: "It's the first and only time we've had such a breach and we're taking the issue extremely seriously. We're already working with the University to establish precisely how this information got through our extensive security proceedures and to ensure there can be no repeat."The Amec Rail drive was found to contain CVs among other company data. Former studies have turned up information on multi-nationals ranging from, Man Trucks, Skandia, Scottish and Newcastle, Monsanto, Vodafone to individuals that have ranged from Sir Paul McCartney, to heads of charities and Tyneside publicans."This year there was more data than ever," said Professor Andrew Jones, Head of Security Research for BT. "This is the fourth year we have done this and I think the only thing that can be said is 'when are people going to wake up, it's not a new problem'. Organisations do lose discs. But some of these losses are inexcusable."• This article was amended on 12 May 2009, to restore two references to Amec Rail among companies whose discarded drives were found to contain personal and company data. These two references had been temporarily removed on 7 May 2009 while we resolved the question of whether the drives originated with Amec Rail or one of its former owners, Amec.
Apple's MagSafe power connector has come in for a lot of criticism since it was launched in 2006, and now it's the subject of a class action lawsuit filed in San Jose. California, by Naotaka Kitagawa, Timothy Broad, and Jesse Reisman.The Register reportsthat:The complaint, filed in the US District Court in San José - a stone's throw from Apple's Cupertino campus - alleges that both the 85 watt (for the MacBook Pro) and 60 watt (for the MacBook) MagSafe Adapters have been negligently designed and manufactured. The cable to the power supply's connector, according to the suit, "dangerously frays, sparks, and prematurely fails to work."Some cables get so hot they melt, as shown in several photos atAppleDefects.comApple is well aware of problems with some MagSafe connectors, having replaced some and revised the design. In August last year,TUAWreported: Apple replacing frayed MagSafe power cables. (You could get your $79 connector replaced free if there was no evidence of "abuse".)In October 2007,AppleInsiderreported that Apple was getting ready to introduce new 85-watt MagSafe adapters for MacBook Pros "following a litany of complaints about fraying cables on the adapters" in (CNet's) words.PowerPage.orgsaid:Several sources close to the [AppleInsider] story have stated that Apple began pulling its 85-Watt MagSafe power adapters from its retail locations a few weeks ago. The sources have stated that Apple has also discontinued shipments of the MagSafe adapters to third party retailers ahead of "redesigned" models that are expected to ship in late October or early November.Power problems have plagued the portable PC industry, with numerous firms recalling things that might be potential fire hazards, and Sony taking a $3.2 billion write-off for batteries supplied to various manufacturers. Also, as the Register story notes, "Back in 2001, Apple recalled and replaced 570,000 power adapters for the PowerBook G3," and Apple settled a previous class action lawsuit. In the US, Apple also recalled "millions of iPhone 3G power adapters".As El Reg says: "We're not mechanical nor electrical engineers, but is it that hard for the wizards of Cupertino to design and manufacture a laptop power adapter that doesn't come back and bite them in the legal bum?"
Highly sensitive details of a key US missile defence system have been found on the hard drive of a computer that was disposed of in California.The information about defence contractor Lockheed Martin included a document detailing test launch procedures, blueprints of facilities and photos and personal daat about employees – including their social security numbers.Access to such data could allow identity theft or industrial espionage against Lockheed Martin, which is working on the Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) system – a project begun under president Ronald Reagan's "Star Wars" Strategic Defence Initiative in the 1980s.The computer, which has been turned over to the FBI, was bought online as part of a global research project conducted by three universities – Longwood University in the US, Glamorgan University in the UK and Edith Cowan University in Australia – along with BT and Sims Recycling Solutions.The annual hard drive survey, now in its fourth year, is designed to bring to public attention the risk to personal data posed by carelessly discarded computer equipment which often contains huge amounts of personal and commercial data. The universities involved in the study use techniques and tools that are readily available from the internet and can be used by someone with a basic knowledge of technology to recover the data left on the drives, often this is not necessary as many are not even wiped.One of the men who analysed the drive – Glenn Dardick, assistant professor of information systems at Longwood University in Virginia – described it as "manna from heaven to hackers". He said: "If this is out there, then it does beg the question: what else is out there?"Capable of destroying an incoming missile at around 93 miles above the Earth, THAAD is a "hit to kill" system without a warhead that homes in on its target and collides with it "like a bullet hitting a bullet". At that height,according to experts on the website missilethreat.com, the subsequent impact will safely diffuse "any nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons, thus minimising the risk of missile debris raining down on civilian or military populations".When the Guardian told Lockheed Martin's press office of the discovery, a spokeswoman commented "it never pours but it rains" as she replaced the phone. Later, a spokesman for the company said: "Lockheed Martin is not aware of any compromise of data related to the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense program. In addition, no governmental or law enforcement agency has notified us of any such data loss."Lockheed Martin had not responded to repeated requests for clarification about the drive by the time of publication.News of the drive's loss has provoked concern among experts. "From the point of view of espionage, knowing who is working on a project is tremendously useful," said Peter Zimmerman, emeritus professor of science and security at the Department of War Studies at London's King's College."This is a horrible violation of privacy. If it fell into the wrong hands, then it opens up the possibility of a range of blackmail options. You could use this to glean a lot of intelligence. I would not be happy if this fell into anyone's hands."The current view among computer security professionals is that the odds on someone buying a drive who has the contacts to be able to dispose of it to someone who is willing to buy it are so great that the data on discarded drives does not constitute a threat.However in Nigeria it has recently emerged that discarded phones now sell for 50% more if they have data left on them.According to Jon Godfrey, a director for Sims, which runs the largest electrical recycling plant in Europe, 90% of the PCs sent to it for recycling had had their hard drives removed first – but possibly not by the original owners."We are fairly certain that the drives are not being removed by those disposing of the PCs because the drives being rejected are the smaller and older ones, which would have less value as spares and less recent data on them."Over a third of devices discarded contain data which has its highest value in the wrong hands."•Careless disposal of confidential data is on the rise, says study
AsGreg reported earlier today,Duke Nukem Forever, the first person shooter famous for being fronted by a titular, loud-mouthed, brash American muscle man and for being stuck in development hell for over a decade, has finally ceased to exist.Shacknewsreports that the game has officially gone down with its ship, 3D Realms, which shut its doors this week.Perhaps it's for the best Duke has been laid to rest. First, for the sake of the developers, it must have been incredibly demoralising to have worked on a game that was never actually going to see the shop shelves. Everyone knew it, despite the best efforts of the company to smokescreen the reality. Meanwhile, as the now-unemployed staff were toiling away on their albatross, other developers released title after title, boosting their portfolios. 3D Realms veterans now have nothing to show for their toil that will help them get back on the saddle.Second, for the sake of the brand, it's best if we remember the Duke games as they were: superbly balanced, hilarious romps that, if released in today's post-Call of Duty, realism-saturated marketplace, would flail and disappear without a trace. RememberDaikatana? Like that huge disappointment, the games industry'sWaterworld, Duke Nukem Forever would likely have been way out of date, chasing the gaming trends of five years ago, rather than five years hence. No one wants to be an interactiveIshtar, but that's where the Dukester was headed.Third, for the sake of the game hero, let's preserve Duke as he was: a character of his era. A contemporary of the bustier version of Lara Croft, he encapsulated the zeitgeist of that particular late-90s age of videogaming: the transition between hobbyist pastime and mainstream activity, when comic books were the visual source of reference for leading men and ladies and game heroes didn't have to have 'issues'. You could get away with gross caricature and pithy, repeated dialogue back then. If Duke were around today, we'd be laughing at his gold chains and buzz cut, his Rambo wardrobe, his politically incorrect one-liners.We expect different things in our gaming than we did 12 years ago. We've lost our sense of whimsy, but we now demand the heights of complex pleasures in our gaming entertainment. Duke was a simple guy. May he rest in peace.
My story earlier this week about thehidden dangers of the internet's vast appetite for electricityis starting to have some impact.In case you missed it (howcouldyou? I'm hurt), here's the core paragraph of the article, which was headlined "Web providers must limit internet's carbon footprint, say experts":With more than 1.5 billion people online around the world, scientists estimate that the energy footprint of the net is growing by more than 10% each year. This leaves many internet companies caught in a bind: energy costs are escalating because of their increasing popularity, while at the same time their advertising revenues come under pressure from the recession.On Wednesday I received a call fromGoogledisputing some of the figures the amount of power a data centre uses - although, conveniently, they wouldn't tell me what they thought the appropriate numbers should be. And then, lo and behold, Google'sofficial blogposted a note about the company's commitment toreducing its carbon footprint:In June 2007 Google made a voluntary commitment to become carbon neutral. To honor this commitment, we calculated our global carbon footprint, purchased high-quality carbon offsets, and worked with a third party to certify our calculations and validate our offset portfolio. Through this process, we've neutralized all of Google's 2007 emissions, as well as part of our 2008 emissions. We'll continue to invest in offset projects until we reach carbon neutrality.The company rightly points out that it's one of the industry's most efficient users of electricity (that, in part, is why it's so successful). And on Twitter, Google engineerKevin Markspointed out thatcomputers are a big drain on electricityand that thenet impact of the internet may be negative.Those are all valid arguments, but they're moving off the point a little.Headlines aside, at the heart the story was not so much the problem of carbon footprints as theenergyfootprint. Even with offsetting programmes and efficiency increases, the power bills at big internet companies are rising rapidly because we are using their products so much.That's not just an environmental problem, it's a business one. Running a data centre is expensive, and there are plenty of bits of the internet that require much more money to operate than they make back. Google might have enough in the bank to pay for the rising costs of its business (although it'sclearly concerned about YouTube's burn rate) but what about companies that transfer vast amounts but have no profit - like Facebook, for example?That's a problem that even a defensively-minded Google doesn't dispute.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
After 12 years in development Duke Nukem Forever looks even further away from release as its developer 3D realmsshut down over night. The developer – best known for theDuke Nukemshooter titles – has, perhaps unsurprisingly given Forever's tortuous development, simply run out of funds.  Publisher Take-Two confirmed it wasn't involved with development. VP of communications Alan Lewis said:We can confirm that our relationship with 3D Realms for Duke Nukem Forever was a publishing arrangement, which did not include ongoing funds for development of the title.Putting aside the obviously terrible news for the employees concerned does this story tell us anything about ageing gaming brands? How relevant is Duke Nukem in 2009 anyway? To me he sits there with Crash Bandicoot and Banjo Kazooie, forever stuck in the late 90s. Yes, it would be a fun to finally see Duke Nukem Forever but does anyone really care anymore? Do you?
&bull; Forget Amazon'slatest Kindle; the gadget that's generating the most pre-release words at the moment is thePalm Pre. Apparently employees at US phone network Sprinthave been firedfor revealing details on the handset, while CNet runs through the spotswhere Pre could shine. Yesterday the company announced that it will beavailable in Canada, but there's still no word on whether it will see the light of day in Britain.&bull; It's Thursday, so there's a whole pile ofTechnology Guardiangoodies to get hold of. Tim Anderson looks atwhether Windows 7 is worth it, we examine whether games arefinally ditching sex as a sales technique, and look at research into theuse of emotion in social networking. Just 90p will get your local news wizard to pipe it directly into your cerebral cortex.&bull; Finally, for some light relief, how about thisincredible aerial tour of New York? It's brilliantly done, utterly entrancing... and reminiscent ofJack Schulze's Here &amp; There map.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I've read that if you use a limited account for day-to-day surfing, etc, you'll be safe from viruses. I'm running Windows XP SP2.Michael WoodsMany operating systems have a top-level administrator account, from which you can do anything, and user accounts, for everyday use. Examples include Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows NT, 2000, XP, Vista and Windows 7. ­Ideally, you should log on to a limited user ­account (in XP) or a standard account (in Vista) even if you are the administrator. When a PC is shared, everyone should have their own user account.Any malware that is running in your account should only have the same amount of power as you do. This may not make you completely immune to attack, but it limits the amount of damage malware can do.Unfortunately, most Windows users run with admin accounts, partly because some badly written programs only work properly if you have admin rights.With Vista, Microsoft added User Account Control (UAC). This means you run with reduced rights even if you are an administrator. When admin rights are needed – for example, when making changes to the operating system – UAC pops up a warning for you to click. (Mac OS X asks you to type in your admin password as well.) This can be annoying, but the number of UAC popups has been reduced dramatically in Vista, and even further in Windows 7.
RegCure – free, but it's a come-on for the chargeable version – claims to find 771 errors on my Vista Home Basic PC, which the free version declines to fix.John RoycroftI've not used RegCure but I wouldn't touch it with a proverbial barge pole. It seems unlikely that registry cleaners will do much to improve a Windows Vista or XP SP2/3 PC and there's a risk that they will damage it. I have usedCCleaner, which takes a soft ­approach to registry cleaning, but current thinking is that the registry is best backed up with the Emergency Recovery Utility NT,Eruntand then left alone. For more thinking on registry cleaning, read Bill Castner's comments inShould I Use a Registry Cleaner?
I have a Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo L1300 that doesn't work because the battery is dead and the AC adapter socket is broken. I have no way of powering it. I was going to replace it anyway, but was wondering if there was any way I could get the content from the hard drive.Peter FaulknerLaptops fail or get lost or stolen so it's important to have backups of your data. This easy to do with an external hard drive and Microsoft's freeSyncToy. In this case, the hard drive is still fine. Remove the drive, find out what size and type it is (for ­example, it might be a 2.5in IDE drive), then buy the right kind of external enclosure case or caddy for it. AGoogle searchwill give you a good idea of what you need. Screw the laptop drive into the enclosure, connect it to another PC via the USB port, and you should be able to retrieve your data – Vista's Windows Easy Transfer program may help with this. You can sell the Amilo L1300 on eBay for "spares or repair".
I have recently come across LinkScanner Lite, a free program. This seems a very useful protection against infected web pages. Would you recommend it?Rob BurnsNo. AVG liked LinkScanner so much it bought the company, and you can now get the full version free from ­linkscanner.avg.com. It does not mean that you also have to use AVG's anti-virus software. However, discussions on the AVG forums suggest a few teething problems are still being unearthed by increased adoption.
Because of a poorly set up automatic backup system, the pictures from my phone are contained in about 300 ­subfolders on my Windows XP laptop – one per day. How can I get them all into one folder?Dr John LuffrumRun Windows Explorer and go to the top folder in the backup tree. Press F3 to start a search, and search for *.jpg (assuming they are JPEG photos). Click the Folders icon to get back to your hard drive, and scroll the window until you can see a folder where you want to put the photos. Press Ctrl-A to select all the photos in the right-hand pane, hold down the left mouse button, and drag all the photos to your chosen directory.
Clusters of yellow and orange markers hover over a satellite image of the Earth, each representing a reported outbreak of disease. This is the screen that greets visitors toHealthMap, a near real-time web-crawling system that gathers and organises data from news sources, official alerts, online databases and blogs, overlaying it on to a Google map.The site is one of a number of initiatives aimed at identifying health, ecological and conflict crises earlier than official monitoring systems. Web crawlers – automated software programs that scour the web for information – are used to find patterns that may signify an emerging threat.A new alert marker on HealthMap is often the first indication of an outbreak of disease for both health organisations and the general public. Its colour – yellow, orange, or red – denotes the threat level.Infectious ideaJohn Brownstein and Clark Freifeld, a physician and software developer at the Children's Hospital Informatics Program in Boston, launched the site in 2006. "It started as a side project," says Brownstein.The site quickly gained the attention of Google.org, the philanthropic arm of the search giant. Its Predict and Prevent initiative supports efforts to respond to outbreaks of disease before they become global crises. An initial $450,000 (£300,000) grant helped combine HealthMap's detection efforts with those of ProMED-mail's global network of health specialists.The web crawler combs 20,000 websites every hour, tracking about 75 infectious diseases, including malaria, cholera, Ebola, and now swine flu. An average of 300 reports are collected each day, about 90% of which come from news media sources. Frequent users of the site include the World Health Organisation, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the UK's Health Protection Agency.TheGlobal Public Health Intelligence Network, a Canadian system, used similar web-crawling software to detect the first signs of the Sars outbreak in 2002, several months before it was officially announced.HealthMap received its earliest report of the swine flu outbreak on 1 April. Brownstein claims the outbreak had been building for months, but containment is difficult, even with advanced warning. "In reality, what happens in Mexico doesn't stay in Mexico," he says.It is unclear precisely how far in advance of the traditional monitoring systems HealthMap is with its predictions. "Sometimes we're six months ahead; sometimes we spot something on the same day," says Brownstein. "It depends on the disease, the country, the political situation – all factors contribute to how information flows."HealthMap monitors news in five different languages – vital for the early detection of an outbreak of disease. "The first reports from a particular region tend to be in the local language," says Freifeld. "For example, with the swine flu outbreak one of our earliest reports of an unidentified respiratory illness in Veracruz, Mexico, came from a local Spanish news site."Text-processing algorithms are used to determine the relevance of the information, separating articles on actual outbreaks from those covering government vaccination programmes, for instance. The information is then sorted by disease and location, with duplicate articles filtered out before the data is applied to the map.Researchers from Stockholm Resilience Centre and the University of East Anglia are hoping to apply the pioneering techniques to the field of ecological monitoring. Catastrophic environmental shifts could be missed by official systems due to insufficient data and geographical gaps."You may have ecological monitoring tools in place, but not economic or social monitoring, which can give you a much earlier signal that something is happening," says Victor Galaz, lead author of a paper published by the researchers last month inFrontiers in Ecology and the Environment. "For example, if prices for a certain species of fish increase, or you receive news of heavy investment in high-tech fishing fleets in a particular region, that can give you an early warning that change is occurring."Conflict resolutionSifting through the huge amount of information on the web and determining the "signal" from the "noise" is still difficult, even with advanced monitoring tools. Whether web-crawler systems are truly able to extract reliable data on emerging crises from internet chatter, or whether they merely spot patterns in hindsight, is still open to debate.Gaps also exist in the coverage of developing countries, where news sources are fewer. Although, according to Mark Smolinski, director of Predict and Prevent, the next logical step for HealthMap will be "engaging directly with citizens to report illness, something now entirely possible as mobile technologies permeate the globe".Predictive monitoring tools may also provide early warning of conflicts – outbreaks of rioting could foreshadow a larger crisis. Veratect Corporation already operates a service called Shadowstream, which identifies emerging civil unrest around the world for corporate clients. "We focused on infectious diseases because of their widespread nature and real-time development," says Freifeld. "But we're looking at where else the technology can be applied, such as conflicts or environmental disasters."Web crawlers could even predict the next financial crisis. The 2021 credit crunch? You can't say you weren't warned.
Your own accountI've read that if you use a limited account for day-to-day surfing, etc, you'll be safe from viruses. I'm running Windows XP SP2.Michael WoodsJS:Many operating systems have a top-level administrator account, from which you can do anything, and user accounts, for everyday use. Examples include Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows NT, 2000, XP, Vista and Windows 7. ­Ideally, you should log on to a limited user ­account (in XP) or a standard account (in Vista) even if you are the administrator. When a PC is shared, everyone should have their own user account. Any malware that is running in your account should only have the same amount of power as you do.This may not make you completely immune to attack, but it limits the amount of damage malware can do. Unfortunately, most Windows users run with admin accounts, partly because some badly written programs only work properly if you have admin rights. With Vista, Microsoft added User Account Control (UAC). This means you run with reduced rights even if you are an administrator. When admin rights are needed – for example, when making changes to the operating system – UAC pops up a warning for you to click. (Mac OS X asks you to type in your admin password as well.) This can be annoying, but the number of UAC popups has been reduced dramatically in Vista, and even further in Windows 7.Registry cleaningRegCure – free, but it's a come-on for the chargeable version – claims to find 771 errors on my Vista Home Basic PC, which the free version declines to fix.John RoycroftJS:I've not used RegCure but I wouldn't touch it with a proverbial barge pole. It seems unlikely that registry cleaners will do much to improve a Windows Vista or XP SP2/3 PC and there's a risk that they will damage it. I have used CCleaner, which takes a soft ­approach to registry cleaning, but current thinking is that the registry is best backed up withthe Emergency Recovery Utility NT, Eruntand then left alone. For more thinking on registry cleaning, read Bill Castner's comments inShould I Use a Registry Cleaner?Data rescueI have a Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo L1300 thatdoesn't workbecause the battery is dead and the ACadapter socket is broken. I have no way of powering it. I wasgoing to replace it anyway, but was wondering if there was any way I could get the content from the hard drive.Peter FaulknerJS:Laptops fail or get lost or stolen so it's important to have backups of your data. This easy to do with an external hard drive andMicrosoft's free SyncToy. In this case, the hard drive is still fine. Remove the drive, find out what size and type it is (for ­example, it might be a 2.5in IDE drive), then buy the right kind of external enclosure case or caddy for it. AGoogle search will give you a good idea of what you need. Screw the laptop drive into the enclosure, connect it to another PC via the USB port, and you should be able to retrieve your data – Vista's Windows Easy Transfer program may help with this. You can sell the Amilo L1300 on eBay for "spares or repair".Link scanningI have recently come across LinkScanner Lite, a free program. This seems a very useful protection against infected web pages. Would you recommend it?Rob BurnsJS:No. AVG liked LinkScanner so much it bought the company, and you can now get the full version free from ­linkscanner.avg.com/. It does not mean that you also have to use AVG's anti-virus software. However, discussions on the AVG forums suggest a few teething problems are still being unearthed by increased adoption.Scattered picturesBecause of a poorly set up automatic backup system, the pictures from my phone are contained in about 300 ­subfolders on my Windows XP laptop – one per day. How can I get them all into&nbsp;one folder?Dr John LuffrumJS:Run Windows Explorer and go to the top folder in the backup tree. Press F3 to start a search, and search for *.jpg (assuming they are Jpeg photos). Click the Folders icon to get back to your hard drive, and scroll the window until you can see a folder where you want to put the photos. Press Ctrl-A to select all the photos in the right-hand pane, hold down the left mouse button, and drag all the photos to your chosen directory.Backchat• Ted Hughes asked about larger xD memory cards for the FinePix F610. Dominic Hoy says: "I have used a 1GB Type M card successfully in a FinePix F610 since the cards came out. The only problems are a slightly slower processing time when the camera is saving the photos and a flicker on the movie mode in higher quality mode." The question is whether the benefits of greater storage (compared with approved and tested 128MB or 256MB cards) outweigh the unforeseen risks, which could include losing photos.
Let me start by confessing I do have aTwitter account. But I won't be fooled again. That is, I refuse to once more play the attention-seeking game, where everyone enriches the contest runner and surrounding marketers for the privilege of aspiring to be one of the very few big winners.Twitter is a "real-time short messaging service". Users can subscribe to quickly updated text messages from an entity, though the messages are limited to a maximum of 140 characters. Think blogs, but faster and constrained to extremely short postings.If someone subscribes to you, they're called a "follower", while subscribing to someone is called "following". The language is already revealing of the structure.When I first heard of Twitter, I made the mistake of thinking it was like Internet Relay Chat (IRC), an old system that allows a group to exchange text messages among themselves. So I wondered why there was such a fuss over a variant of that ancient idea.After I saw Twitter in use, I realised the difference was that, while IRC had all participants equal, Twitter implements a distilled version of many problematic aspects of blogging. Namely, a one-to-many broadcasting system that serves the needs of high-attention individuals, combined with an appeal to low-attention individuals that the details of one's life matter to an audience.The "A-list" phenomenon, where a few sources with a large readership dominate the information flow on a topic, was particularly stark. Since the numbers of "following" and "followers" are visible, the usual steep ranking curve was immediately evident. A highly ranked person is free to attack anyone lower down the ranks, as there's no way for the wronged party to effectively reply to the same readers.Getting a significant followership and thus being socially prominent is also important. Hence, there are major incentives to churn out quick punditry that is pleasing to partisans.And Twitter evangelism has gone down a path similar to blog evangelism. There is the same two-step of arguing: roughly, it can be both diary/chat and journalism, thus a promoter can switch back and forth between those two concepts whenever convenient. The word "conversation" is contorted in a now familiar way, to mean mutual pontification among a tiny elite. The dream of potential stardom of a quasi-intellectual sort is dangled in front of the masses, though the only beneficiaries would be the data-mining companies profiting off the result.When the entrepreneur Jason Calacanisoffered $250,000to have his product's account be a "suggested user" for two years, saying, "Twitter has the ability to unleash a direct marketing business the likes of which the world hasneverseen", that was a blunt illustration of the real dynamics at work. Though Twitter didn't accept his offer, monetisation must eventually happen somehow. People aren't being connected, they're being bundled up and sold.Recently, venture capitalistsinvested $35m (£23m) in Twitter(adding to an earlier $20m in funding). Such a sizable investment can buy a corresponding amount of hype. I suspect money is partially responsible for some (though by no means all) of the breathless media coverage Twitter has garnered.Note the potential survivor's bias effect. You may far more often hear from the rare person who has benefited from the service, than one who reports trying it and finding it a total waste of time. Some sceptical analysis by Nielsen Wire has pointed out thatuser retention is relatively low: "But despite the hockey-stick growth chart, Twitter faces an uphill battle in making sure these flocks of new users are enticed to return to the nest."Twitter is low-level celebrity for the chattering class. And the pathologies of celebrity are all on display, including the exploitative industries that prey on the human desire to be heard and noticed. My answer to Twitter's slogan of "What are you doing?" is: "Not playing a sucker's game."•sethf.com/infothought/blog
The new Windows is edging closer to release. This week, Microsoft has made therelease candidate(RC) available to anyone who wants to try it; and although the company has not announced the final release date, Acer's UK managing director, Bobby Watkins, recently told the press that machines with Windows 7 installed will be on sale from 23 October.Despite its name, there is no chance that the release candidate version will be the final one. Rather, it is the last round of testing before completing the software and issuing it to PC vendors. Acer's date looks plausible, allowing two or three months for Microsoft to finalise the software, and the same again for vendors to prepare and distribute Windows 7 PCs.Feeling positiveEarly adopters are mainly positive. "Much better than Vista and just as stable as XP," writes a user on the unofficialWindows 7 forums, and that view appears typical. The sense is that Microsoft has done a better job than with Vista, partly because the core operating system is little changed, freeing resources to work on refining performance and usability."With Vista they were trying to do lots of major plumbing changes, but that created lots of issues. Windows 7 is more [about] enhancing the user experience," explains Annette Jump, a research director at Gartner.Although Windows 7 has much in common with Vista, there is still a long list of new features. The most obvious is the enhanced taskbar. In Vista, this shows icons for programs that are running, but in Windows 7 you can also launch applications, making it a single place both for starting programs and for switching between them. There are both thumbnail and full-screen previews as you hover the mouse over taskbar icons, making switching easier than before. In the RC this also works for keyboard-switching with the alt and tab keys.Another area of focus is home networking. Windows 7 HomeGroup – which only works among Windows 7 machines – is a shared group of machines controlled by a computer-generated password, and enables sharing of documents, printers, music and videos. A new feature in the latest release is remote streaming, which lets HomeGroup members access media across the internet, though it depends on correct firewall settings and a link with a Windows Live online account.Love of LibrariesMicrosoft has also realised many business users take laptops home, and allows a PC to join a HomeGroup as well as  a business network. Business documents are protected from inadvertent sharing, though some administrators may still forbid this."My absolute favourite feature would have to be the Libraries function," says Peter Dzomlija on the Windows 7 forums. "I no longer have to manage four different videos folders." Libraries lets you create a virtual view of several real folders, so that they appear as one. The snag is that users may struggle to distinguish the links from the real thing.Even Microsoft is concerned about this. In the beta of Windows 7, you could link a folder to a library by drag-and-drop. But what if a user thought a copy of the folder had been made, and deleted the original? Since the library only contains a link, they would lose work. Microsoft has therefore removed the drag-and-drop method of linking in the RC – though links still have the potential to confuse.Windows 7 has a mountain to climb in persuading people to upgrade, though. According to figures fromNet Applications, some 70% of Windows installations are still XP, with just 27.5% on Vista, even though that has been out for more than two years. There are several reasons why: in the consumer market, the growing popularity and sales of netbooks extended the life of XP because Vista was too resource-hungry to fit on them. Microsoft claims to have fixed this with Windows 7, tuning performance for low-end as well as high-end devices.Second, larger businesses never upgrade in a hurry. "Enterprises usually take 12 to 18 months from the beginning of a new OS to the time when they are ready to deploy it," explains Jump. The reason is not only caution, but also to give time for custom business applications to be tested and upgraded. Third, many users were simply not persuaded of Vista's merits. Many early adopters had a poor experience, and although the latest Vista machines are likely to work much better, its reputation remains tarnished. "A growing number of companies are looking at skipping Vista altogether," says Jump.But a key, and just-announced, feature in Windows 7 to persuade XP owners reluctant to let go of their carefully managed installation is "XP Mode". This uses an instance of Windows XP running on a virtual PC for near-perfect compatibility. The main limitation is that the virtual PC does not have direct access to hardware such as accelerated graphics or add-on cards, though it does support USB devices. Performance is also compromised compared with running XP directly.Pizza the actionXP Mode will not be part of retail Windows 7, but may be pre-installed by PC vendors or downloaded as a free add-on for Professional or higher. It requires hardware virtualisation support, built into some (but not all) recent CPUs; Microsoft also recommends 2GB or more of Ram. Aimed at small businesses that need to run old software, XP Mode lets you run XP applications seamlessly from the Windows 7 desktop: only the application window appears, and documents load and save from Windows 7 by default, not from the virtual hard drive – though this integration can be confusing.When Windows 7 does appear, there will be six editions, beginning with a cut-down version called Windows 7 Starter – which will be hobbled so a maximum of three applications can run at once – going up to Ultimate via Home Basic, Home Premium, Professional and Enterprise. Microsoft is trying to compete with free Linux in the netbook and budget market, while maintaining prices elsewhere.Brad Brooks, the corporate vice-­president for Windows consumer product marketing, says customers will be able to upgrade to Premium or Ultimate for"less than a night out for four at a pizza restaurant". It still contrasts with Apple's OS X, however, where there is only one edition for all end-user installations.What's new in Windows 7?• Redesigned taskbar for launching and switching between programs• Jump lists let you invoke selected program features from the taskbar• Aero Peek offers full-size previews of running applications to help you navigate between them• More user control over notifications or alert balloons, to make Windows less annoying• Libraries link multiple folders so they appear as one, letting you see all your pictures or documents together• Multitouch interface lets you control Windows with your fingers, on machines with touch-sensitive screens• Windows 7 XP Mode (high end ­editions only) lets you run programs on a virtual instance of Windows XP, seamlessly integrated into the ­Windows 7 desktop• Refined User Account Control is more secure than Windows XP, but less intrusive than Windows Vista• Simplified home networking for sharing files, printers, music and video• Updated Windows Media Player supports new audio and video formats (MP4, H.264,DivX) as well as remote streaming over the internet• Device Stage brings up a dialogue box specific to your exact device, when you attach supported devices such as cameras and printers
"UR DA COOLEST AUNTY EVER...!!!! XOXOXOX LUV TONIX." Can you feel the love in that comment? If Richard Curtis had wanted the prime minister character from his film Love Actually to feel that love was all around, he could have visited MySpace rather than think of Heathrow Airport's arrivals lounge.To be more accurate, emotion is all around in MySpace. The majority of comments throb with emotion, and that cool aunty comment has a positive emotional strength factor of five. Which is as strong as it gets.That is, according to Professor Mike Thelwall, who is analysing hundreds of thousands of MySpace comments to understand how people use emotion when they communicate with friends in social networks, and whether there are good strategies for applying it.Thelwall heads theStatistical Cybermetrics research groupat the University of Wolverhampton, the only team publishing academic research on the large-scale quantitative analysis of MySpace comments.He's surprised by this. "Compared to other ways of studying communication with people, in some ways it's a  million times better. In the past you might have recorded friends talking, and had a sample of 100 conversations. We can get 100,000."Thelwall's research into sentiment analysis of MySpaceinvolves categorising sentiments into two categories: positive and negative; then into a five-point scale representing very good, good, satisfactory, bad, very bad. Difficulties in programming the machine-learning of this analysis involve the creative grammar, punctuation and spelling of commenters; the ubiquity of phrases ("I love you", possibly the strongest emotion you can express, only scores a positive three, because it's so common); and effects such as sarcasm. Not."We have to get the automatic emotion detection working pretty well, to analyse on a large scale, and to get the patterns," he says.Thelwall feels this high emotional plane, which cements and develops friendships, is a unique space. "I'm not sure you'd find this in any other form of communication," he says. "It plays an important role. It's not just about discussing weighty matters. If you have a friend and you're saying something nice to them, or you 'luv' their page, you're saying 'hi'. Though it doesn't really say anything, it does something."Thelwall's research is at an early stage, identifying broad trends. He thinks it will take a year until he can identify patterns of emotion that are successful or not.Perhaps unsurprisingly, Thelwall believes women are better users of MySpace. Women send and receive more emotional comments than men. They have more friends, and it's certainly down to they way they use emotion. He points out that in MySpace, if you're male, the majority of your friends will be female. Even in your top friends, the majority will be female, whether you're male or female.This year, as well as his sentiment paper, Thelwall has published research onhomophily in MySpace– the tendency for friendships to occur between similar people (based on ethnicity, religion, age and sexual orientation). He found that homophily is thriving in MySpace, but not necessarily based on gender. Yet in every offline context, the majority of friends of men and boys over the age of five would be male. "It's a really odd switch," says Thelwall.His work on commentsrevealed 97% of them contained at least one non-standard language feature in spelling, punctuation, grammar or capitalisation, such as typographic slang or abbreviations (omg, lol, hugz); and interjections (haha, muahh, huh).Bad meaning goodThelwall is planning to talk to schoolteachers over the next few weeks about social networking. He intends to stress to them the importance of their students using "bad" language. Not just swearing, though that's pretty key (and covered in his paper,Fk yea I swear, but their embracing of the whole creative power of this form of communication."Social networking sites are so important for younger people – you could literally ruin your life by not being able to maintain friendships in them," he says. "One clear mistake to make is writing in standard English in comments to your friends – it's too boring, you're obviously an outsider. [You should] vary the way you express things."He cites this example of a creative comment, that echoes natural speech: "Yea i kno dis guy..dis is mu bro...lmfao...n im jus wunderin if u are really nigel!!!! wut grade r u n??." According to Thelwall, it's pure poetry.Thelwall knows MySpace is no longer top dog in social networking. It's second to Facebook, and he admits he'd prefer to study the No 1. But the privacy of Facebook messages means it's not as revealing as MySpace's "let it all hang out" culture."What we've learned will help in understanding other social networking sites," he says. He's not unduly worried about Twitter either, which he does credit as being a social networking site, but one heavily weighted towards messaging. "I feel it's a bit faddy – I can't see it lasting that long. But then I remember seeing Windows for the first time, and thinking this will never last, this is rubbish."Thelwall is hoping his research will result in the building of useful tools with emotion detection, "so maybe we can identify people who aren't using emotion effectively, not necessarily just in social networking sites, but in other online environments, where they're using it in a manner that causes offence to others".A chatroom monitor is one application he anticipates being built from the research, where messages may be blocked or held back, allowing the sender to consider their comment. "It'll only work if it's got commercial value," he says, "but I'd like it to have social value."
Go on, Go on, Go onOh no! Go pros losing to computers (Go, going, gone, 30 April). I'm dusting off the board games!twitter.com/connieincalgary• Computer (finally) beats pro-Go player, but still needs handicap and insane amount of processing.twitter.com/einarthorsen• Here they come... Just in time for the new Terminator movie...twitter.com/johnnynobodyRunning joke?Wii jOG, more fitness masked under the umbrella of a computer game (Game reviews, 30 April).twitter.com/nomoregymCloudy days ahead?The piece is right about ­OpenOffice: the Sun acquisition does raise questions about its future (The Sun ain't gonna shine on OpenOffice any more, 30 April). But Andrew may be wrong in thinking that "release into the community" will be fatal. Take KDE. That is as large and complex a project as OpenOffice. It even has its own somewhat lighter weight Office package as a subset. It is running fine "in the community". I suspect the same will happen with OpenOffice if it is dropped by Oracle.The other two points in the piece one should comment on, while writing, are (1) the use of OO (or any word processor) to write books, and (2) the notion that Ubuntu is the height of professionalism in Linux distributions.Ubuntu works very differently from the Debian it derives from. Every six months they take a snapshot of Debian Experimental, and produce a distribution from it. This is not a recipe for stability. This is why Warren Woodford took Mepis away from Ubuntu and back to Debian. You want stability, go with Debian Stable. It has been tested as an integrated unit for at least a year before release. Debian Stable is what to use if OS stability and predictability is your main requirement. If you really want the latest version of Open Office, get it and install it manually.Writing books in word processors has always seemed to me a perverse use of tools. A word processor is great for tasks where layout is part of the issue, but you do not need professional type setting. So for instance inter-office memos, term papers, flyers, stuff like that.For writing a book, use a proper outliner that does not confuse page layout and composition of content. The one I like is Lyx, which will generate LaTex, properly laid out professional looking pages, if you want that sort of output. Or text if you do not. If you are handing over text to a publisher for page layout, a fully featured text editor with tabs like Kate or Geany, and multiple page views into documents, would be much preferable to a word processor. The most valuable ingredient to use with these is the largest monitor you can afford. 22 inches is not too large.It's hard to get people away from the assumption that, for some reason they cannot explain, they "ought" to be writing their books in a word processor. But once you do, they are eternally grateful to you for having freed them from the burden of page formatting during the composition process. Its a bit like spreadsheets. People for some reason have the feeling that they should always be doing things in spreadsheets, when these will be very unfit for the programming they are in fact doing, but do not realize they are doing. Once you liberate them from the constraints of spreadsheets by introducing them to a real rapid development programming language or end user database package, they are amazed at how much easier it can be.Andrew may reply that he has written books and knows what he likes. Yes. That does not mean he is doing it in the best way though.Peter AlcibiadesLondon• The beginning of the end for OpenOffice?twitter.com/paultrotterWi-Fi willingIt's a mystery to me why Starbucks and others operating Wi-Fi hotspots need to charge at all (Will Wi-Fi prices fall now that BT has the Starbucks franchise? 23 April). McDonalds and National Express Trains, among others, offer a free service and the benefit to customers must surely outweigh the tiny cost of providing the service. A connected laptop is hardly ever to be seen in one local branch of Starbucks, though in another branch, next door to a McDonald's, there are usually a number of customers online at any one time. A clear expression of customer preferences if ever there was one!Romney TansleyCroydonLess inPhormed"If you've got more information about uninphormed, or can figure out for sure where thestopphoulplay.comwebsite is located, let us know in the comments..."Well no. Not as long as you guys are using Omniture.... That means, browse the site with cookies and scripting off, and do without the features.Some of us read, think, and care.Peter AlcibiadesLondon• According to Phorm I am one of a band of  "privacy pirates".I suppose that "privacy pirate" is one of the more polite nicknames I've received over the years but like Devon Malcolm's bowling at its most erratic it's a little wide of the mark.  I suppose the difference between Devon Malcolm is that a) people like him and b) Devon is remembered for something special [taking 9 wickets for 57 runs in 1994] instead of something unpopular.blog.planetjamie.co.uk• Is Phorm's new website really going to stop foul play? I doubt it!twitter.com/KMiDigitalImmobile broadbandWhat Jack Schofield's otherwise excellent article neglects to mention is that the rush for mobile broadband is prompting an increasingly insensitive and aggressive approach to mast siting by the mobile providers (We feel the need – the need for speed, 30 April). For example, Vodafone has applied to put a 3G mast just 8m from my three-year-old daughter's bedroom. This application is currently being considered by the local planning authority. I remain unconvinced by assurances about the health risks, especially where children are concerned.Alan BrownPoole• Enjoyed Jack Schofield's article today on mobile broadband. He ended with his experiences of 3G dongles at home: "Vodafone won't connect to the 3G service inside my house – the walls are too thick." New technology will be launched in the UK over the next 12 months that will change that experience. They are femtocells – tiny 3G access points built into your broadband router at home.They will change the mobile broadband experience and the economics. Because of the short distance between the phone and the femtocell, data speeds are always many times faster than the best experience outside; because the cost of providing ultra-local 3G is very low compared with the outside mobile network, operators can offer very attractive home calling plans and free data. The world leader in femtocells just happens to be a small British ­company (us).Keith DayUbiquisys, LondonRealDVD on trialSo what's it gonna be (Real DVD is a burning issue with Hollywood, 30 April)? Who knows? One thing we know is that the judge is the same one who presided over the Napster case, and that she ruled in favor of the music industry.hollywood-blog.net• Banking by mobile thought-provoking post on economy &amp;and developing nations and disintermediation.http://twitter.com/timekordNo votingWendy Grossman had an excellent article in the Guardian (Why machines are bad at counting votes, 30 April). Grossman does a great job pulling together some of the recent problems with electronic voting. New York has been the last holdout. Let's not let it happen here.lever-voting-machines.blogspot.com• Brilliant marketing. Automatic Voting System vendor got their old version decertified so everyone had to buy their new ones.twitter.com/gordyiiThe no IT crowd[Michael] Cross challenges that seductive concept of just "one last heave" that lies in the wordsmith's kitbag of those with a mega IT vision to sell (Is it really a good time to be asking for more IT money?, 30 April). The potential sellers in this case are both the IT vendors looking to sustain the bottom line in difficult times and those politicians/technocrats who believe large-scale centralised technological initiatives are solutions and not problems. "One last heave" is like "jam tomorrow". Where's my copy of Groundhog Day, again?auricle.org• Google as the UK Government IT backbone (Michael Cross column)? Scarytwitter.com/cjwarnockOur data: not freeBudget misses free chances - incompetence is all over the place in UK government.twitter.com/kurren• Feel strongly that government data should be available free to taxpayers for re-use.twitter.com/nicoleschuNot chargedIn the last podcast there was an item on electric cars. At the end, the interviewee asserted that most electric cars would be charged overnight in owners' garages or their off street parking.  Most cars are parked in the street and will therefore not be able to be charged overnight.  Surely, the prospect of millions of extension leads snaking across pavements on dark rainy nights is untenable.Alan Nevillvia emailTesting UbuntuI enjoyedKevin Anderson's accurate and concise article on Ubuntu 9.04in today's Guardian. At the end of the article Kevin states "AMD hasn't made drivers for their ATI cards to work with the OS" this is not entirely accurate. Much to my, and many other users frustration, the correct ATI video drivers are not in the repository, but they are available. You can get them from the same place that Windows and Macintosh users get their ATI Catalyst drivers from, namelyhttp://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspxThe Catalyst 9.4 drivers here work very well and installing them is a good excuse to test out the fabulous desktop effects in Kubuntu 9.04.Andrew Pottervia email• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
Possibly, once it gets the next upgrade of the iPhone's operating system, version 3.0, rolled out. The problem with the present iPhone OS is that it doesn't have any parental controls, which means that everything - but everything - that it approves through the iPhone App Store has to be the application equivalent of a U-certificate.If it doesn't, then the developer gets a polite email saying: "Applications must not contain any obscene, pornographic, offensive or defamatory content or materials of any kind (text, graphics, images, photographs, etc), or other content or materials that in Apple's reasonable judgment may be found objectionable by iPhone or iPod Touch users."However, when said developer is Trent Reznor - better known as the frontman for the band Nine Inch Nails (NIN) - then expect a backlash. Reznor received just such an email over nin:access, an application that contains news, photos, streaming video and music, and fan messaging. Why? Because a song contained in a linked podcast, The Downward Spiral, broke the rules. Presumably, by being rude.This infuriated Reznor, who in aNIN forum postused a fair bit of fruity language to condemn the policy, but also pointed out the obvious contradictions: why does the App Store have such rules, when you can get obscene content via Safari or your email? He likened it to the supermarket chain Wal-Mart's rules, which insisted that any CDs on the shelves should have obscenities removed - but then allowed the sale of films such as Scarface.But once Apple rolls out iPhone OS 3 next month, parents can enable parental controls on their offspring's iPhone or iPod Touch, which should mean that the App Store will be sectioned into age-related areas.However, that won't be the end of the story, because the App Store approval process remains a major bugbear for developers. Intelligent iPublishing, a London-based company that specialises in custom ebook reader applications, has tried - but so far failed four times - to get an ebook of productivity tips for the iPhone approved. "Each time, the information [about the rejection] we get from Apple is obtuse and it's very hard to figure out what the issues are," Jonathan Bonnick, of Intelligent iPublishing, told the Guardian. "We're told 'some tips are potentially inaccurate' without any details on which ones."But he thinks the 3.0 update won't necessarily improve matters. "The 'adult filter' is only one of a variety of reasons Apple has given for app rejection. Approval is clearly inconsistent. New policies applied in the same inconsistent way will probably make matters worse." He adds: "If they don't fix this opaque approval process, companies will not be prepared to invest long term and will instead migrate to other devices."Over to Apple, then.
Intel's Classmate PC design helped start the netbook market, and it will be interesting to see if the Classmate 2 can have a similar impact. It looks much the same, but it has a touch-sensitive screen that folds over the keyboard to turn it into a tablet computer.It also has Blue Dolphin software that puts a user-friendly interface over the top of Microsoft Windows XP or Linux. This makes it easy to run programs using a finger or the large stylus supplied, rather than the Windows Start menu. When you hit Blue Dolphin icons, they beep and spin around.In most respects, the Classmate 2 is a typical netbook. It has a 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 processor, a gigabyte of memory shared with the Intel 950 integrated graphics, a 60GB hard drive and a good-quality mouse pad. The 8.9-inch screen has a resolution of 1024 x 600 pixels, and also includes speakers and a 1.3 megapixel webcam that turns through 180 degrees. Unfortunately, the keyboard doesn't feel any bigger. It might be fine for kids, but I found it unpleasant for touch-typing.Like the original Classmate, it also has a prominent carrying handle. This means there are no ports on the back of the system, only on the left- and right-hand sides. You get two USB ports, an external monitor port, an RJ45 ethernet port and an SD card slot, plus sockets for headphones and a microphone. As befits a PC intended for school use or travelling, it is robustly made, and Intel says it has been drop-tested to 50cm. It's not rugged like an OLPC XO-1, but tougher than the average consumer netbook.The Classmate 2 software may include the Evernote note taker, FBReader for ebooks, Foxit Reader, ArtRage paint program, and SmartSynch. These appear along with Microsoft programs such as Internet Explorer in the Blue Dolphin system. However, they don't all work the same way, which is confusing.Worse, the ultracheap Windows XP Home is a poor option for a touchscreen machine: XP Tablet Edition, Windows Vista and Windows 7 all offer better support. Apparently, Classmate 2 PCs can be upgraded using education authority deals, but that's not how they're shipped.Finally, if you do fancy a Classmate 2, you can't have one. What you should be able to get is an equivalent machine from a local PC manufacturer, although these may vary. In the UK, the &pound;349Fizzbook Spinlooks like the real thing.Pros:Touchscreen convertible at reasonable price; robustCons:Tiny keyboard; small hard drive; inconsistent softwareintel.co.uk
A small company in London's Shoreditch, Ustwo, knocked up an application called MouthOff for Apple's iPhone in a couple of weeks for a few thousand pounds. It mimics your mouth movements on a mobile when you talk. In its first month it sold 21,000 at 59p each, of which the company keeps 70%. It is one of more than 35,000 apps for the Apple store that has spawned an exciting new industry in the middle of recession. The question is, why is Apple the midwife for this new industry, and not Nokia, the Finnish giant that sells nearly 40% of the world's mobiles? The latter already has Forum Nokia as an incubator for ideas. It attracted 4 million developers, though most people would be hard pressed to name a single app that came from it.But Nokia has often missed out on trends only to come roaring back. Can it do it again? We will know soon because Nokia is launching its one-stop Ovi store this month to take on Apple. I visited Nokia's summit for developers in Monte Carlo. A hackathon went on throughout, with teams of developers working through the night to produce apps based on ideas submitted by the public. The three that made the shortlist were based on the phone knowing where the user was, tailor-made for Nokia's upcoming N97. Among other things, the phone claims to pinpoint your location within three seconds based on data from satellites, cellphones and Wi-Fi hotspots. It worked two levels below ground at the venue and may solve the critical problem of locational devices not working when most needed: in city centres.The hackathon prize went to an app using photos of friends on the screen so you can know where they are and what they are doing, and send gifts to them such as virtual flowers. Cute, but not much different from other locational apps. Maybe the obvious ideas have already been devised. However, Nokia doesn't need originality to succeed. It has geography and reach on its side. At launch, Nokia's Ovi store will be on 50m phones, far more than the Apple store. Nokia is weak in Apple's backyard, the US, but much stronger elsewhere, including China and India.For most of Nokia's global users the apps common on the iPhone will be a new experience. A brief play with a pre-production N97 revealed strong features such as dynamic icons on the front screen (such as Flickr and Twitter) that change in real time. It didn't feel as intuitive as the iPhone but it is getting there, including easy payments for music tracks. The mapping is aimed at pedestrians, with prominent buildings in 3D so they can find their bearings quickly. Since data is mainly preloaded, you don't need to wait for the web to refresh it. You can leave the phone in a pocket and it will vibrate when you need to turn a corner. Michael Halbherr, the Nokia location-based services vice-president, said: "Everything is moving towards people and places," but added that Nokia would never give such data to governments. Increasingly, location data will be crowdsourced, so you know the places used by people like you.Can Nokia exploit second-mover advantage? On first use the N97 is more versatile than the iPhone, not least because it has a decent videocamera, but it is not nearly as sexy, and it remains to be seen whether its dinky pull-out keyboard is better than the iPhone's sub-optimal touchscreen. The next iPhone will probably have video and Apple is bound to produce cheaper versions as it has done with its iPod range. But Nokia not only has more than twice as many smartphone users as Apple but also a massive user base running into many hundreds of millions who may trade up to a smartphone or, more likely, the smartphone will trade down to them.With other app stores already in the pipeline from the likes of Google's Android, BlackBerry and Microsoft, this is going to be a hyper-competitive space. Let battle commence.victorkeegan.com
It could cut your hair if you likeRobot sheep shearing has never quite replaced the human-powered version. Watching this system, you realise why: a human can do this five-minute job in 36 seconds - and the sheep's happier, too.Children, spell 'complete flop'Do you remember the 2XL educational "robot", which ran on 8-track tapes and was all the rage for about two minutes in the late 1970s? No, we don't either. Still, it knew an important fact about giraffes.Wait, I think I've found NemoSwine flu: the slightly confusing video, showing mutating viruses in a pig's lungs - which look like the Great Barrier Reef.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
The government's decision to consult the public on its reorganisation of Ordnance Survey - announced with the budget last month - is proving popular with would-be users. The proposed reorganisation, however, is not.Comments on the web page, where the consultation is open forfeedbackare running overwhelmingly in favour of more freedom for OS data.Among the suggestions is one from Julian Todd, who runs the Public Whip site - a parliamentary informatics project. He suggests that OS should release the "full stack" of digital data for a small area of the country into the public domain. "This gives users and applications writers a complete understanding of the quality and nature of the data in a way that they can safely integrate into experimental products," Todd suggests.He sees other benefits, too: "For OS, the financial risk can at most be the revenue gained from the mapping in that area - which can be accurately measured. The possible gains include the development of new products that can use the rest of the OS data that would not have existed without this free area to work with."A constant refrain is the demand that OS should make data about boundaries - between counties, parishes and parliamentary constituencies - available for unrestricted use. "Why should I have to buy OS products to find where these boundaries are?" asks Chris Hill, in one of the first comments made on the site.Many of the comments suggest that the Free Our Data campaign's aims are shared by those who care about OS's future direction: many commenters call for the release of all OS's data as a public good.What is unpopular with commenters is OS's insistence that it retains the intellectual property ownership of any products created while using its products - so-called "derived data". "These derived data rules are a huge barrier to sharing geospatial data for UK locations between organisations," says Anthony Cartmell of the web developer Fonant.Peter Miller of Ito makes a note about the proposal that changes will have "minimal impact on existing commercial users": "The best way to minimise something is to stop it, and I assume the lawyers acting for the OS will try to do just that," he says.Ministers are understood to be watching the comments very closely, with a view to tailoring the OS's final strategy around them. Those who want to see the free data cause succeed are urged to take part - before time runs out.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
There is, of course, a swine flu game. Last Monday, web entrepreneurs Jude Gomila and Immad Akhund created Swinefighter (swinefighter.com) as a marketing tool for their game-embedding technology. The browser-based timewaster requires you to zap flying pigs with a huge hypodermic needle as they zoom about a world map.Ironically, the developers employed viral distribution, via Facebook and Twitter, and by last Wednesday 150,000 people had played the game. By Thursday it was up to 750,000. "Our biggest country is Mexico," claimed Akhund. "A lot of people feel helpless right now; Swinefighter gives them something to do while they are stuck indoors, and a sense of hope."The satirical browser game has become a common reaction to major world events over the last five years, with the rise of social networking sites allowing for superfast global distribution. Kids used to make up tasteless jokes in the playground, now they hack together Flash games.But games may have more important things to say about contagion than this. Nine years ago, when The Sims was still in its infancy, the developer, Maxis, made a range of downloadable extras available, including a pet guinea pig. Unbeknown to users, the rodent was designed by creator Will Wright to be a sort of embodiment of the computer virus. If the virtual humans in the game failed to look after the animal correctly it would bite and scratch, infecting its owners with a flu-like sickness that could be communicated to other sims in the same household. Victims would recover if rested, but if not, they died. Maxis was flooded with complaints.In 2005, a boss character was introduced into the online RPG World of Warcraft, who could infect players with "Corrupted Blood", eventually killing them. The virus was supposed to be contained in one area of the game, but players found a way of spreading it, and it infected thousands of avatars on several servers. Two researchers used the incident to study infectious disease epidemiology in social groups, ie, how people react when threatened by a deadly outbreak. Some players tried to set up quarantines, some deliberately spread the disease, others stayed in infected areas to heal the sick. It was the perfect model of human behaviour in the face of panic.Again, the wave of complaints that followed taught us that the unpredictability of illness runs counter to the strict, rule-based structure of most game worlds. Conversely, it says something about why games like Swinefighter will crop up in situations like these. It is all about control. In games it should be constant. In life it almost never is.
