"Luxpro, a Taiwanese electronics company that won a lawsuit filed against it by Apple over an imitation of the iPod shuffle, intends to countersue Apple for $100m in damages," reportsThe Financial Times.Luxproshowed an iPod Shuffle lookalike called Super Shuffle, then launched it as the Super Tangent with a Luxpro logo. Apple sued and got an injunction to stop Luxpro from manufacturing or selling its product. That injunction has now been overturned."Luxpro estimates that it has lost revenues of about $100m because of the temporary ban," says the story, and it now wants restitution from Apple.....Update: DPAreview.net hasside-by-side photosof the products from CeBIT. Make hasa review of the Super Tangentwhich says: " It can play MP3, WMA (and DRM'ed WMA), it has an FM tuner and it does high quality audio recording" -- it has a much higher spec than the Apple version. TheTop Tangentmodel adds features such as an OLED screen and synchronised lyrics.
We get far more letters and blog pickups than we can include in print. So here's those from which we chose for this week's printed letters and blog extracts. Remember, it really helps us if you can include a full name and post town; we don't print email addresses.THIS YEAR'S CONSOLE WARI've just read your article title "How the low-tech Wii won this year's console war", and I what really interested me was the part near the end where you say: "Sony will recover from its annus horribilis because it has an amazing machine and unparalleled brand recognition. But I'm not sure Microsoft has the breadth of vision to flourish away from home. I expect 2007 will be a two-horse race, and I doubt we'll see Bill Gates in either saddle." I think here you may not have considered two factors as much as perhaps you should have: 1. Sony's PlayStation brand is really losing respect on the Internet. I know the internet doesn't have the majority of gamers, but lately, the opinion of Sony's latest has been very much reversed. Certainly, they still have support, but it's inevitable that some of the bad publicity will wash over into the real world. Also, with a price of £425, they are very unlikely to attract massive amounts of sales from the people who just buy PlayStation because it's cool to. 2. Microsoft has been gaining support in the console war. Contrary to what your article may infer to some, Gears of War is becoming extremely popular in the real world amongst gamers. It's not much, but with the promise of Halo 3 (a marketing juggernaut of a game) many people are saying how strong MS is right around now. Plus, its Xbox Live service is winning over many gamers. I also find that saying Sony has an amazing machine more opinion than fact (no offence, of course :) , because technically, it's very similar to the Xbox 360 in terms of power. It's main (and possibly only) advantage, is Blu-ray support for games. This is a tricky issue. Some people say it's a definite boost, others say it's not needed this generation and Sony shouldn't try to force their format down the throats of people who don't want it. So the PS3 may be superior, but if it is, it won't be by much at all. Then take into account the fact developers usually develop for the weaker console and then port up, upgrading the details a little bit, and then consider how small the power gap is this generation between PS3 and 360, and you might start to wonder if developers will even bother making use of the extra grams of power the PS3 has. Finally, the comments about the Wii are spot on! :) My only problems with the console is that the general public might scoff at the name Wii, and pass on it. Apart from that, it's in the green. Anyway, good article. I may not agree in places, but it's still a thought provoker. The proverbial hat comes off to you! :) Ryan McGowan (no post town given)I just read your article and overall agreed with your position on the Wii, but I have to say your knowledge beyond that is questionable. Discarding the 360 is not as easy as saying it hasn't achieved much in it's one year advantage over the other competitors. Selling over 8 million console is kinda a big deal. And the target for a game like Gears of War is not teens but rather aspirational 20's (meaning anywhere in the range 38 down to 17 years old) That's a pretty large group. And selling over 2 million copies of Gears of War speaks to the success of that one game and the console itself. Add on to that the community established with Xbox Live (something that is very innovative and not done by the other 2 consoles) and Media downloads (Movies), the Xbox team has done a real good job of bringing gaming a true next-gen console. It sounds good to end an article with "expect 2007 will be a two-horse race, and I doubt we'll see Bill Gates in either saddle." but it's an incorrect assessment. Daniel Saunders (no post town given)I smell a PS3 fan-boy :) While most other news organizations are releasing articles discussing how Sony has already lost the battle for next-gen (showing Microsoft's success with Live and Wii's success at being awesome), you guys run an article disguised as a pro-Wii article with the ending being that Sony will more than likely come back because of their "unparalleled brand recognition". I tend to agree with the rest of the news agencies which have been hinting that Sony's brand has gone down the tubes over the last year. God forbid that you base your story on numbers instead of opinions. I hated Gears of War after the initial "this looks neat" wore off. I tend to think that the PS3 will end with the same fate. 3DO Version 2.0? I am just giving you kids a hard time. I clicked one of your ads to show my support. Mark Hagan, ExtremeOverclocking.com&gt;&gt; I think that this coming year will be the year that the consoles become king (with Wii on top) as computing comes to the living room and used for media management and personal communication.http://www.boora.ca/blog/?p=835&gt;&gt; I am not a gamer, but I find this article about how Nintendo is beating up Sony and Microsoft with older technology fascinating, because it shows that a majority of people in the technology industry don't know how to sell technology. Clearly, Nintendo gets it. Microsoft and Sony have both produced systems that have amazing feature lists and they are selling them at a loss, in hopes of gaining profits from users purchasing new games for their new systems. If you follow their marketing, it is all about chips, frame-rates, networking capabilities, etc. Nintendo, on the other hand, has figured out how to change the way people interact with their games, and they built it on their existing technology, technology that is now cheap and profitable. Being in the tech industry, I clearly understand that advances in technology make new and exciting things possible. However, I also realize that advances are not exciting in and of themselves.http://herodot.us/2006/12/21/feature/HOW BIG IS SECOND LIFE?&gt;&gt; I was always skeptical of the population they claimed to have and how quickly the numbers grew between that short time frame. I had a hunch it was a lot of PR, Advertising, Marketing and Journalists like me coming to check out the buzz. And I'm guessing the majority realized like myself that even though SL was pretty cool, it wasn't a great communication vehicle at this time b/c of its slow interface and multiple glitches.http://blogs.hillandknowlton.com/blogs/heathermcconnell/archive/2006/12/22/6618.aspx&gt;&gt; My suspicion is that with all frontiers it will attract more and more creative people. Adam from Reuters has noticed that many corporate parts of the virtual real estate are empty however they are covering themselves for the future. If real estate and the exchange rate remains cheap it is a miniscule expense. If – as I suspect it will over a decade – Second Life takes off for millions of users on a regular basis then the big corporations have already got their claims staked!http://blogs.warwick.ac.uk/michaelwalford/entry/new_media_second_1_2/&gt;&gt; I spoke with a few people in the gaming industry lately, and there seems to be one dirty little secret these days: everybody talks about second life, but in reality it is very irrelevant and over hyped. Second Life is the virtual world the media have chosen to make a point about how we-the-geeky-yet-friendly-little-people of the internet are turning to 3D to have a life. The problem is that Second Life is an ugly, hard to use and unfriendly game. It is the hotmail of online 3D games. People try it, companies open virtual offices to get some real life press coverage, but at the end of the day this thing is pretty much irrelevant. Some say all this hype comes from the Try me virus. That's exactly my story. I downloaded the game, suffered through the discovery process, tried to customise my avatar via one of the most painful and buggy interface ever. Then I ended up in the much-touted virtual press agency. And I was the only player there.http://www.ballpark.ch/blog/index.php?id=773COMPUTERS IN FILMS&gt;&gt; On the other hand, the most ludicrous computer plot device in history, Independence Day, did very well at the box office. I mean, who in their right mind could believe that we could device a computer virus that could infect an alien computer system? From a Mac? Try opening Mac or Linux files with your Windows OS and see your PC explode! Hey, maybe the aliens were using Macs. That would explain a lot...http://technollama.blogspot.com/2006/12/computers-in-movies.htmlSOFTWARE PRICINGIs software pricing a rip-off? Yes, but not because of the transatlantic price differences. The real rip-off is the price of software licences, and they're unnecessary. The last software I paid for was a copy of Crossover Office; and I've never used an unlawful copy of anything. The 95 in Windows 95 wasn't just the year of release: it was the proportion of Microsoft's total investment in the product that was spent on marketing, promotion and other non-development overheads. I don't know if Microsoft's figures have improved since then, but with packaged and branded software you are paying an awful lot for the corporate padding, the shrinkwrap lawyers and the marketing people. Developers are at the bottom of the heap. Edward Barrow (no post town given)I've been meaning to suggest that you look into the $-£ thing for a while. Nice to see that Jack beat me to it. There is a second story that he might like to write as a follow up. In these carbon-phobic broadband-centric days, shouldn't we all download software when we buy it? No need to get into all that packaging and moving stuff about. I have often bought and retrieved software from many web sites in the USA. They charge me in dollars. My credit card company takes it rake off, and everyone is happy. Some even have the ability to collect the UK government's rake off and bill me for VAT. Guess what, the people who feature in Jack's list of villains, especially Adobe, do not allow me to save the planet in this way. Adobe Acrobat, for example, is available for $159. Visit the UK site and, guess what, it magically becomes £158.62p (£135 ex VAT). That's the upgrade for the "Professional" version. The full version comes in at a whopping £464.12 (£395 ex VAT) in the UK but a mere $449 in the USA. They must use very expensive electrons to transfer all those bits and bytes around the planet. The Adobe person Jack spoke may think that I will be confused by seeing prices yo-yo. I am much more confused by their extortionate pricing regime for internet sales. Anyone contemplating the purchase of Microsoft's new software might like to throw in a couple of Adobe packages, get on a plane, when the fog has cleared, and go buy the stuff in the USA. They might not even have to leave the airport at the other end. Fire up the wifi in the airport lounge. Log on. Buy the stuff, download it, burn a few CDs, get back on the plane and come home. How's that for green thinking? Michael Kenward, StaplefieldI just read your article about prices in the UK. Prices in the UK can be x 6 those in the US. Here are some samples: 1. robot, cost in the US $89, in the UK £299 (= $600). 2. MacBook Pro Apple: in the US, after discount $1720; almost the same in pounds, ie double. 3. Sony PSP: US $199; here £199 (= double). Battery costs £90 in the UK, less than $50 in the US. Basically every product i bought in the US is double or triple in the UK. I've got endless examples — same with books: they cost 50% more in the UK than the US. Sam Kleinman (no post town given)It's not just software, but hardware. The Canon MP530 printer/copier/fax that Chris Gulker bought (http://www.gulker.com/wp/2006/12/19/one-hundred-forty-nine-bucks/) cost $149, while Froogle [UK] lists the very same device with prices ranging between £150 and £250! Which is 2 to 3 times as expensive ... I was looking at this printer, put having to pay twice as much as someone is California has put me off. Tim Harrison, LondonI read with interest the article regarding the difference in price of software products between the UK/ European branches of companies and the US. I accept the idea that there are certain costs that may be higher with respect to local support/ staffing/ marketing/ language issues... however I do not believe that this alone can justify the super hiked prices of not only those examples but many many others I could mention... Dreamweaver, Camtasia Studio, Creative Suite etc... all with price tags at £100 or more than the equivalent US charge. What really bugs me is that I am blocked from buying said software from a US outlet and using it on my British computer.... It is disabled and therefore not a possibility. I feel that this wasn't covered in your article and that it would have put a very different spin on things.... clearly those companies mentioned are manipulating the market to protect their gross profits. Brian Cotsen, LondonTo the question posed by the articles title, the answer is clearly yes, but it is not just the British who are being ripped off. Everyone is as the last paragraph points out - there is little to no correlation between cost and price. I would therefore suggest for most people they would be better off trying free (as in libre as well as gratis) such as a flavour of Linux like Ubuntu or Debian. How about a decent article about one of these? The idea of non-commercial, Nelson Mandela approved software must appeal to the Guardian surely? Michael Truscott, Briisbane, Queensland&gt;&gt; With a nearly 2 to 1 conversion for dollars to British pounds, there appears to be a premium that is paid for American-produced software products like Microsoft Windows, Office, Adobe Photoshop, etc. The claim is somewhat absurd, while its motivation is not. First, markets dictate prices, not exchange rates. If the exchange rate went .5 to 1 (dollars to pounds), would you expect the price of these software products to quadruple?http://blog.ryanmickle.com/index.php/2006/12/20/consumer-advocates-gone-wild/WIND TURBINESDonnacadh McCarthy ('Renewable energy runs into turbulence on the home front', 21 December) says his wind turbine has 'created a total of 1.6 kilowatts'. That's like saying his car has gone a total of 70 mph. I suspect he means his turbine has only produced 1.6 kilowatt hours, which is the energy produced by a 1.6 kilowatt generator operating for one hour, or a 0.8 kilowatt generator for 2 hours, and so on. Allan Jones, Yardley GobionIn his article "Renewable energy runs into turbulence on the home front" Adam Vaughn give three more examples of a confusion between energy (how much work has been done) and power (the rate at which energy is produced) that seems to permeates articles on electricity generation. My corrections in brackets: "It's created a total of 1.6 kilowatts (1.6 kiloWatt hours or 1.6kWh), which isn't even 20p worth of electricity" "The scheme could generate 1,000 megawatts - about 1% of the UK's energy (electricity power) requirements ." "A report from the Department of Trade and Industry last year suggested that offshore wind power could potentially provide 3,213 terawatt hours of power (energy), more than eight times the electricity the UK uses now" Martyn Wells, EdinburghYour article, 'Renewable energy runs into turbulence on the home front', was misleading. It compared the actual output of a domestic wind turbine with the 'booming' large-scale installations, whose theoretical maximum output would be 540 megawatts. The theoretical output of the domestic wind turbine referred to is over a kilowatt – far more than it is actually producing. Furthermore, an independent study recently released shows that many onshore wind farms are producing less than their predicted output, which is itself about 30 percent of the 'installed power' that you quote. Wind farms may be great, but they are not that great. An alternative to the current crop of domestic turbines are vertical axis turbines. These take wind from any direction, as well as causing less lateral strain on the supporting structure. An alternative to the current trend for large-scale wind renewables would be tidal lagoons. These would generate energy more reliably, predictably, and with a cost predicted to be comparable to coal now, not ten years down the line. We should build wind farms if we have to. But we don't. Will McNeill, OxfordYour interesting piece on home wind power, seems a tad unbalanced. You quote the reality of power generated from a "home" turbine and highlight the wide divergence from the manufacturers claims. Then you quote the "installed capacity" for large scale wind farms. You compound the imbalance between comparisons by using the all too frequent marketing-speak of how many homes these wind farms will power. Dig a bit below the surface and find out how much these wind farms will really generate. What percentage of installed capacity will really be produced. How many homes will be powered tonight (with a socking great high pressure area over the whole country)? Having done this and redressed the balance with a follow up piece, address the conclusion that most people who know anything about large scale wind power have already reached, namely that large scale wind power needs large scale storage technology, that sadly doesn't exist at the moment. Digging a bit deeper might enlighten us as to when and which such technologies will appear..... Christian Stewart, (no post town given)The gusty winds increase the vibration and that fatigues blades and wears bearings. In a few years there could be nasty injuries as blades fly off, bearings fail and the vibration loosens mountings and brickwork in urban areas. Bruce Skivington, EdinburghWhose crazy idea is this? Not since Mao floated the notion of neighbourhood steel mills have I heard of anything more likely to fail. Doesn't anyone understand that wind turbine require regular maintenance? Has anyone explained that good wind sites are almost NEVER found in a city? Good wind turbines require excellent engineering, advanced construction techniques, and professional operators. This is NOT a hippy-dippy enterprise. But hey, if anyone would give us primitive turbines on city street corners, it must certainly be the tribe that also gave us EF Schumacher and William Morris. What is it with you Brits and your love of the primitive and the partly-developed anyhow? Jonathan Larson, MinneapolisJust sitting in my office with the heating full on. Of the nine turbines I can see from my window not one is turning - thank goodness for conventional power stations. Ian D. Thomas, AberystwythI read today that "Urban and other use" land, by comparison, comprises 3.3m hectares of the UK." I think you want this to be read as "3.3 million hectares" but anyone used to SI units will first read m as milli. While the meaning is clear (I think), it did make me read it twice. It's a pity there is no generally agreed English abbreviation for million (unlike billion, where bn is commonly used and unambiguous) but the fact is, that there isn't one. The SI prefix M doesn't help that much, as Mha would mystify most readers. So could you perhaps manage to find the space for the word million in full? It's not a SUN headline after all. If you must abbreviate, using M for million has at least the benefit that it does not conflict with SI. Tony Woolf, London (We use 'm' for million, as it's more easily understood by the average reader - Tech.Ed)Just a note to say that land based wind farms may cover a very small percentage of UK land surface, but they are likely to be sited in remote hilly area to get the wind speeds. They would cover a much greater proportion of these hilly areas and be visible from an even larger proportion of the land. Which I believe is the point of most of the objectors. Bob Jones (no post town given)Whoops - don't know who does your arithmetic there but your 13 gigawatts of windfarms taking up 2340 hectares of land is a bit off the mark to put it mildly. If we take the industry standard of 1MW installation to 25 hectares and the usual capacity of 30 %, 13 gigawatts works out at (13000/.3x25) = 1,083,333 hectares or 4.5% of UK land mass not .0001% !!! Margaret Lyons (no post town given)I was very interested to read this article and hope that many who read it and are thinking about investing in micro power generation may be able to avoid disappointment. The performance of home-based wind turbines is unlikely to be satisfactory since there is simply not enough consistent wind. Likewise, photovoltaics are useful only in full sun, and still way too expensive to offer a realistic paypack period, even with a grant. The only home energy producing hardware which makes any sense at all right now are solar panels used to provide heat directly, e.g. for water. The article makes no mention of the area of technology vital to any micro generation scheme, that of energy storage. If electrical energy storage is used to even out the peaks in both household demand and generating capacity, this makes micro-power a more realistic proposition. What is not realistic is the idea that many people are sold, of selling energy back to the grid at a (low) rate of their choosing. People will simply not produce enough electricity to make even a small dent in their investment. What is needed therefore, is not only better turbines, but better and cheaper batteries. If each home had sufficient storage to last for say one week, then producing our own electricity would start to look far more attractive. I'd certainly consider it ! There are a couple of errors in the text which some may find confusing. Watts, kW and Gw are units of power. kilowatt hours are units of energy. Understanding the difference is vital to understanding these issues, especially for the kids !! Tim Collyer (no post town given)As I'm a bit of an engineer, I did a wind speed experiment in Poole in Dorset when I was living there. I put up a wind speed meter (as used by ocean-going seasport geeks and crazed kitesurfing loons), attached under 4 large helium balloons and measured the wind at the top of the bluff above Poole harbour. I had to put the wind speed meter up 30 metres before I got a reasonably consistent flow at 4.5 mps. Way too much turbulence for a normal 3 blade turbine. Gave up and did a solar hot water project - but the system was rubbish. oh well. bring on the large wind farms. Jo Abbess, LondonWe were surprised that Adam Vaughan did not mention (Technology Guardian 21 December) the helical vertical wind turbine that is designed to be unaffected by turbulent winds near buildings. As you say, the propellor type wind turbines have to turn to face the wind but you do not mention the vertical type that do not. Seewww.quietrevolution.co.uk. Incidentally we too get paid (61% of our usage over three years) for generating electricity from our p.v. panels and we have been getting hot water from the solar hot water panel for 12 years. Richard and Elizabeth Darlington, OldhamAdam Vaughan says that you can get 13 gigawatts of electricity out of windfarms covering 2340 hectares of land. That would be if the windmills were built up against each other and was an SDC lie. Windmills need 800 metres all round them to work effectively. Do the maths and you get 13 gigawatts needing 1 1/2 million hectares which is a bit more than 2340 you will agree. Guardian readers are poor souls that believe anything they read so you should be more careful. Morag Robertson (no post town given)STOPPING BLACKBERRIESApparently, if you go to log into your O2 mail account online, you should be able to change this signature within the preferences page. Howard Blanchard, LondonIn his article Michael wrote 1500 odd words - money for very old rope. commission him next week to write about how his printer does not print when the toner has run out. The feature he is after is "auto Signature"http://kb.iu.edu/data/alnu.html- tells him how. I changed my signature to have my name and mobile number and now after abusing several colleagues for leaving the blackberry message in their messages I find that I've had to take the abuse back. As the great Canadian Marshall McLuhan said, the "medium is the message" and so a mail from a Blackberry is a different entity from one I send at a desk with a full-size keyboard and screen. Email itself is changing, some wise person said email is now a billboard medium and emails get as much attention as a poster that you drive past. Blackberry mail just accelerates this trend and sadly the auto signature is the best way of communicating the way the mail was generated. I now find that I'm compelled to send out some directions to colleagues in snatched moments with combinations of the suretype and keyboard without enough keys - it's tiresome to do a perfectly punctuated piece of text. So I've changed my message to say "Sent from my handheld wireless email device" Note the brand is now removed and you now have a clue why the message is very terse and pared down. If stuck for copy - I would be happy to write 1500 words on 3 pin plugs next week for £200 - mail the request to my address. I'l start the draft now :) on the Blackberry of course Kevin Lynch, CheshamThe email signature for you Blackberry is set on the server. The Blackberry device has a policy that is configured on the Blackberry Enterprise Server. You need to speak to whoever hosts the Blackberry server and ask them to change the policy (it is easily done). I'm not sure if the "Sent via Blackberry" message is actually meant to be a marketing device for RIM. I think it is more of a warning or an explanation to reader for why you may have written a short message (poor keyboard) or for the bad spelling (no spell-checker). Simeon Lewis. LondonFREE DATA Your campaigners will like this video of Hans Rosling: "This global health visionary has discovered a powerful new way to communicate complex data about the world. He cofounded Gapminder, whose remarkable interactive graphs help deliver profound insights about global trends and dispel myths about the "developing world". With the drama and urgency of a sportscaster, he debunks a few of those myths in this presentation delivered at the 2006 Technology, Entertainment, Design (TED) Conference."http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8pizaZo6nUcDavid O'Brien, GlasgowSPAM If the growth in spam is primarily in image based spam that is difficult to filter, is it not time to take email back to its plain text roots and implement the simplest filter of all - a GIF blocker as a minimum or perhaps full HTML message body blocking ? I have implemented this as an experiment (GIF attachment blocking) and so far ~50% of the filtered spam is detected by this method with no false positives. The creators of fancy formatted emails may object, but I think their days are numbered if this deluge of crap continues. Phil Thompson, PeterboroughGOVERNMENT IT&gt;&gt; The (British) deputy prime minister, John Prescott, told Parliament last week that his new departmental site "has recorded 2,771 separate visits and 6,836 page views since it went online in late August," the Guardian wrote. I decided to do a check of the stats for the blog to see how we compare with the deputy prime minister's site and was very pleased to see that we are clearly more popular than John Prescott.http://ankarafootball.blogspot.com/2006/12/more-popular-than-prescott.htmlBROADCASTING AROUND THE WORLD FM transmitters on ebay for about 7 pounds which work perfectly well and you can get tons of radio stations around the world on a free-to-air satellite system which cost less then 80 quid. That's simplicity and cheap! "holkhamsweet" (no post town given)MAGNETIC FRIDGES (CONT'D) A more serious objection to magnetic fridges (A cool new idea, 14th December) is their sheer complexity: switching circuits, pumps and fluids - probably toxic or environmentally unfriendly. Surely it would be simpler to invest the research into the Peltier effect? Simple DC technology, easily controlled, with no moving parts. At present, it's not all that efficient, but research into better materials ought to be able to improve that. Tim Gossling, Cambridge
Many years ago, I did a story about a shopping system based on bar codes. The idea was that you used a handheld scanner to log things you put into, and took out of, your larder or fridge. The system could then compile your shopping list or order things online or warn you if things were going out of date, and so on. It could probably suggest recipies based on what you had available. I think Tesco ran a trial.Unfortunately, human beings are not really suitable for this kind of approach. They forget to scan things in or out, making the system unreliable. Then the novelty wears off, and they stop using it.RFID (radio frequency identification) chips could solve the human problem by doing all this stuff automatically, if only grocery items had RFID tages instead of bar codes. And when -- or if -- that happens, Samsung will be there with an RFID fridge.What's for Dinner? Ask the Fridge, in The Korea Times, quotes Samsung spokesman Chae Hee-kook as saying: "Eventually the RFID refrigerator, when programmed, will be able to take charge of replenishment and re-order after checking for depleted groceries."The story says people will be able to check what's in the fridge via their mobile phones -- which is an advance on the bar code story -- and order groceries remotely. But when?"Some foretell 2008 or 2009 as the debut year of our RFID fridges. But we can't say for sure because nobody knows when RFID tags will become widespread," Chae said.That sounds optimistic even for a technologically advanced society like South Korea, so I reckon it will be some time before your spouse stops saying: "Darling, could you check the fridge for depleted groceries?"
Jonathan Ive was on stage, lovingly dismantling an iBook laptop in front of an audience of enraptured designers. For more than an hour, he handled the object, describing the journey of its creation, revealing the elegant necessity of every curve, hinge and surface. The laptop uncovered, he pointed to a tiny, bespoke toolset built into the rear casing, a delight for any service engineer. Meticulous attention to detail has become a hallmark of Ive's work, but contemporaries describe his talent as more profound than that.As senior vice-president of industrial design at Apple Computer in Cupertino, California, the 39-year-old former Essex boy is widely regarded as the most important British designer of our time.StudioFrom a studio at the company's headquarters, Ive and his small team of trusted designers have defined the look of a generation, first with the iBook and iMac, and latterly the ubiquitous iPod range, whose owners include the Queen, Tony Blair and George Bush. (Gordon Brown was offered a slick black one as a gift, but decided to buy it when officials realised it exceeded the ministerial limit.) This week, Ive joined 2003 Turner prize winner Grayson Perry and singer/songwriter Leonard Cohen in the 2007 edition of Who's Who.Beyond Ive's talent, he is famous for his privacy. He gives interviews rarely. Apple says it does not have his precise date of birth. His Who's Who entry states only that he was born in 1967, and fails to mention he is the father of twins. What has emerged is that he is thoughtful, brutally honest, passionate and self-deprecating. He lives modestly in a two-bedroom house in Twin Peaks, a district outside San Francisco, with his wife, Heather, a historian. He counts Paul Smith and DJ John Digweed among his friends. His one concession to luxury appears to be an Aston Martin, bought more for its looks than its symbolism.Born in Chingford to a teacher turned school inspector, Ive went to Newcastle Polytechnic (now Northumbria University) to study industrial design. He immediately displayed an enormous talent. He would seek out unusual influences for his designs, but had an instinctive ability to combine them into products that captured the zeitgeist. For his final-year project, Ive developed an alternative monetary system, a pebble-like object which could be charged up and used instead of cash or credit cards. It was a groundbreaking idea. "It is a unique capacity that he has. You see his kind of talent probably once in a lifetime of teaching students," said Bob Young, who taught Ive during his degree course at Newcastle. In 1989, Ive graduated with first class honours, his mark far, far beyond the 70% needed to make the grade. A year later, he joined the London design company Tangerine and worked on projects from toilets to video cassette recorders. Before pitching designs for a new bathroom suite to the Hull-based company Ideal Standard, he bought marine biology books and scoured them for influences from nature."He's particularly good on a broad basis, in that he can work on anything," said Martin Darbyshire, chief executive of Tangerine. "If you look at the work he did here, it still looks contemporary. He has a gift of not putting too much in, which is a danger for many designers. His passion to keep going and his attention to detail set him way, way apart from anything the majority of his contemporaries could produce."Ive joined Apple in 1992, when the company was in disarray, and at first found the work frustrating. His rise to public prominence coincided with the return to Apple of ebullient chief executive Steve Jobs, who reinvigorated the company he helped found. He later joined the board, where his ability and track record have earned him unprecedented trust. Ive's first major success, the colourful all-in-one iMac computer, was inspired by the glistening transparency of gumdrops, and came as a reaction against the blandness of the beige desktop computers that dominated offices worldwide. But contemporaries claim his greatest design success as the iPod, the MP3 player which has sold millions of units and become a classic.SimpleThe iPod, a clean, easy-to-use white box, arrived on the market just as the digital music revolution took hold and helped cement Apple's leadership. Its white headphones and innocent look are likely to have influence for years to come, as emblematic of fashion in the 2000s as Sony Walkmans were in the 1980s.Ive's Who's Who entry joins a long list of plaudits. In 2003 he won the Design Museum's inaugural designer of the year competition, being named the most influential designer for the iMac and iPod. Last year he was awarded a CBE. "Jonathan Ive defines the look of the generation," said David Kester, chief executive of the Design Council. "He is the quintessential industrial designer. And he knows more than anyone what we're going to be holding in our hands five years from now."The CVBornFebruary 1967, in London; raised in Chingford, EssexFamilyLives in California with wife Heather, a historian, and twin sonsEducationArt and design, Newcastle PolytechnicCareerCo-founded design consultancy Tangerine in 1989; joined Apple Computer in 1992; made vice-president of industrial design in 1998; appointed senior vice-president of design in 2005; designed iMac, iBook, PowerBook G4, iMac G5 and iPodAwardsTwo RSA student design awards; Design Museum designer of the year 2003; appointed member of Royal Designers for Industry 2003; RSA Benjamin Franklin Medal 2004; British Design &amp; Art Direction (D&amp;AD) president's award 2005; CBE 2006
Apple only makes a small range of machines so if you need an ultraportable or a tablet, tough. However, it seems theAxiotron ModBookis coming from OWC (Other World Computing) to tackle the tablet problem. According to the blurb:Engineered in the U.S. by a renowned team of German and American designers, the ModBook's condensed form factor and integrated pen-based user experience makes it the ultimate solution for applications and situations where a keyboard only gets in the way.Ideal for: Mobile Users, Business Professionals, Artists, Students, and Technology Leaders!As the name implies, it's a modified MacBook, so it will be interesting to see just how well it has been done. Someone atThe Unofficial Apple Weblogwho has "close ties to OWC" is sincerely excited about it.Plenty of users have come up with interesting and amusing mods -- a great example isBen Heckendorn's Xbox 360 laptop. Doing it on a commerical basis is a different ball game.Will Apple sue, do you think? And on what grounds?
I've just touched down in Las Vegas ahead of this year's Consumer Electronics Show, which promises to be big, bad and dangerous to know. OK, maybe not - but as one of the world's premiere technology showcases, there's bound to be plenty to ogle at.I'm here most of next week and plan to blog and publish video diaries of what I see around the show. And as CES runs concurrently with Macworld this year (they usually happen in consecutive weeks) I'll even be making a whistlestop trip to San Francisco to take in the Stevenote and discover whetherthe predictions we printed this weekare accurate.There are plenty of questions I've already got for this 40th anniversary CES. Is Bill Gates going to see anything interesting? Will we see a slew of ultramobile PCs? Has LG really got adual Blu-Ray/HD-DVD playerup its sleeve?But you must have some of your own. Anything you want me to check out?
Something funny has been happening to the CCTV cameras in our neighbourhood. They have started growing ears. Not real ones - at least not yet - but audio functions enabling them to "hear" what is happening around them as well as see. At the moment the experiment is confined to six cameras operating in the Soho area of Westminster, London, which has a high concentration of clubs and bars. An advanced wireless network which the council is building relays the information to a monitoring centre. If it is successful, it will be expanded to other selected areas. Police in the UK are also thinking about installing new CCTV cameras sensitive enough to record conversations up to 100 yards away to thwart hooliganism but, wisely, are keen to have a national debate about it first.Westminster council claims that the devices don't eavesdrop since they monitor ambient noise, not actual voices. For instance, if the decibels emanating from clubs rise above acceptable levels late at night then the authorities are automatically informed so, instead of sending out noise monitoring officers they can ring the club's owners to warn them or, if it is serious enough, take the appropriate action.The council argues that this experiment arose from what it believes is its unique approach to the roll-out of wireless over eight square miles of the city. Unusual for a Conservative council, it is being driven by public services. The high bandwidth needed to support a CCTV wireless network offers spare capacity for delivering other services where only the imagination is the limit. Possible applications include monitoring old people's safety in their own homes and automatic detection of faulty street lights.There is no reason to doubt Westminster's policy not to monitor voices, but other organisations, not subject to democratic scrutiny, need not feel so constrained. It is not difficult to find companies selling audio-visual surveillance equipment on the internet. It is even possible that actual voice surveillance operating in troublespots in UK town centres might prove as uncontroversial as the omnipresence of CCTV cameras, an activity at which Britain leads the world.We have forestalled the onset of a governmental Big Brother by meekly accepting surveillance and even doing much of it ourselves. The video camera age has turned mutual surveillance into a hobby and even a job. Last month, BBC footage of sniffer dogs during the Ipswich murder inquiry came from a passerby taking a photo in a sealed-off area, while this week a clip on websites of Saddam Hussein's execution apparently came from a cameraphone.We had better get used to all this: it is the way reporting is going. A US media start-up, NowPublic. com claims to have 52,000 mojos (untrained mobile journalists) around the world ready to send back photos and text from riots and troublespots that it would take trained journalists days to reach. It knows where each of its mojos is through cell-triangulation or satellite tracking. When Heathrow was closed to the media during a security alert last year, NowPublic claimed it had seven people inside the terminal taking snaps or videos.Pretty soon we won't need to rely on external recording devices as we will be able to have tiny audio-visual cameras attached to ourselves chronicling our entire lives. Professor Nigel Shadbolt, president of the British Computer Society, told a Memories for Life conference at the British Library recently that "in the not too distant future a device the size of a sugar cube will exist able to record an entire lifetime of human memories". The question is whether governments should be allowed to build a sugar mountain out of these cubes, or whether they belong to us. Despite the fears of the government's own information commissioner, Richard Thomas, that the UK is in the throes of a "sleepwalk into a surveillance society", few people have got worked up about it.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nintendo hits the spotThe article about how Nintendo is beating up Sony and Microsoft with older technology (Gamesblog, December 21) shows that a majority of people in the technology industry don't know how to sell technology. Nintendo gets it. Microsoft and Sony have produced amazing systems which they are selling at a loss. Nintendo has changed the way people interact with games, with its cheap and profitable existing technology. Advances in technology make new and exciting things possible, but are not exciting in and of themselves.herodot.usLonely Second LifeSecond Life is an ugly, hard to use and unfriendly game (Newly asked questions, December 21). I downloaded the game, suffered through the discovery process, tried to customise my avatar via one of the most painful and buggy interfaces ever. Then I ended up in the much-touted virtual press agency. And I was the only player there.ballpark.ch/blogAttack of the alien virusThe most ludicrous computer plot, Independence Day, did very well at the box office (Newly asked questions, December 21). Who would believe that we could devise a virus that could infect an alien computer? From a Mac? Hey, maybe the aliens were using Macs. That would explain a lot.technollama.blogspot.comThe real cost of softwareAre we being ripped off over software (December 21)? Yes, but not because of the transatlantic price differences. With packaged and branded software you are paying for the corporate padding, the shrinkwrap and the marketing people.Edward BarrowLondonWind power is just hot airWind farms are not that great (Renewable energy runs into turbulence, December 21). An alternative would be tidal lagoons, which generate energy more reliably and with a cost predicted to be comparable to coal now, not 10 years down the line. We should build wind farms if we have to. But we don't.Will McNeillOxford&middot;Has anyone explained that good wind sites are almost never found in a city? Good wind turbines require excellent engineering and professional operators. This is not a hippy-dippy enterprise. What is it with you Brits and your love of the primitive and the partly developed?Jonathan LarsonMinneapolis&middot;Sitting in my office with the heating full on, and of the nine turbines I can see, not one is turning - thank goodness for conventional power stations.Ian D ThomasAberystwythThe real reasonI'm not sure if the "Sent via Blackberry" message is a marketing device (Technobile, December 21). I think it is an explanation for why you have written a short message (poor keyboard) or for bad spelling (no spell-checker).Simeon LewisLondonAnother way to stop spamI have implemented GIF attachment blocking and about 50% of the spam is detected with no false postives (Letters and blogs, passim). The creators of fancy formatted emails may object, but their days are numbered.Phil ThompsonPeterboroughBusier than PrezzaJohn Prescott's departmental site "has recorded 2,771 separate visits and 6,836 page views since it went online in late August" (When good ideas go bad, December 21). I checked the blog stats and was pleased to see that we are more popular than John Prescott.ankarafootball.blogspot.com
Oh, look, the system has generated a message on my screen at work. "Your password will expire in 14 days. Do you want to change it now?"No."Your password will expire in 13 days. Do you want to change it now?"No."Your password will expire in 12 days. Do you want to change it now?"No. Really. NO! I want to change it in two weeks' time. I can use the same password for four weeks. After four weeks you make me do it anyway. Stop, for the love of all that's holy, stop pestering me to do it from halfway into my run. Stop. Stop, before I punch my way through the monitor, grab the cabling, pull it through and leave it writhing on the desk like a disembowelled witch.I'm a good boy. My password isn't "password" or "qwertyuiop". It's "NsLd438W". It's safe. It's impossible to memorise. Really. It's taken me two weeks to be able to throw away the note stuck behind the desk. It's finally committed to memory and you're pestering me to change it!When I'm really slack, I get three reminders to pay my phone bill. I get two reminders to renew my domain registration. I get one reminder to insure the car. I have never received a reminder to make a will or feed my kids.But seemingly I require 14 daily reminders to change a password; a password that will expire in a fortnight and oblige me to change it then anyway, at no cost to me but the inconvenience of dreaming up a random alphanumeric, and the 10 seconds to type it in. This is no drama. If it were great fun changing a password I would be glad of the prompt. "Woo hoo! Yeah! I'll change the password! Pass that mouse ..." If it were frankly aversive, I would be ill-inclined to bring the agony forward."Your wisdom teeth will be extracted in 14 days. Do you want them extracted now?" Er ...But password changing is not an "event". It is 50% grey. It is "mild" weather. It is a beige filing cabinet. It is Belgium. It is dull. "In 14 days you will walk past a cat. It will be brown. It will not look at you. Do you want to walk past it now?" WHY NOT?!Perhaps that is why the password reminder feels the need to promote itself so heavily. It's not a pair of trainers; it's membership of an elite cult.Please. Give me an option to disable this. At least give me a checkbox: "Don't ask me again." This self-obsessed password business requires changing."IT Department. In 14 days I will come over there and beat you all unconscious with my keyboard. Do you want to change it now?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You've got the power!Some friends have asked me about the best way to connect an Xbox to the home broadband connection. From personal experience, HomePlug 14Mbps powerline network adaptors (eg Devolo or eConnect) are the most reliable and cost-effective way of doing this, but the likes of PC World say they have never even heard of this technology! Do the big companies have a vested interest in flogging Wi-Fi, or are they just technologically ignorant?Mike WhittakerJack Schofield replies:The idea of connecting devices via mains electricity cables goes back to the 1970s - for an example, clickhere- but it has never really taken off. The HomePlug Powerline Alliance was intended to solve this problem by providing an agreed trade standard on the lines of the Wi-Fi Alliance. However, so far the response from retailers, including Amazon, has been disappointing, and there are not enough users for the "word of mouth" effect to have had an impact. Like you, I think a couple of HomePlugs would be a good way to connect an Xbox, but I've not seen it done, and don't know anyone who has done it. Reader comments would be welcome.As well as Devolo (devolo.co.uk) and eConnect (econnecthomeplug.co.uk), Solwise is also worth a look, and sells HomePlugs from its website (solwise.co.uk). Many cheap HomePlug devices have no problems interconnecting and often use the same Intellon chips and software. (Intellon developed the HomePlug standard.) Faster devices are available up to 200Mbps, but 14Mbps is fast enough for broadband, and will probably run faster than Wi-Fi.Stuttering YouTubeA number of clips I watch on YouTube keep pausing for a few seconds.Clive GorstJS:YouTube and other streaming videos should play smoothly if your internet connection downloads the video data faster than it is displayed. If the replay stutters, hit the pause button for a few seconds until more of the video has been downloaded - on YouTube, until the red download line is ahead of the black circle that shows where you are. Alternatively, you can let the whole video download before you watch it, or download it separately via a site such as KeepVid (keepvid.com). However, some broadband routers have known problems with buffering, and if this is the case, you'll need a firmware update.Trend Micro not callingI've tried several times in the past couple of years to use Housecall, Trend Micro's online virus scan, but it never works. It gives an error message to do with the kernel and just goes nowhere. How do I get it to work?Chris HernonJS:Housecall has worked hundreds of millions of times, and if it doesn't work, I suspect that is most often because a PC has a virus or Trojan. Housecall 6.5 now has two options - a browser-based ActiveX control and a Java applet - so try both (housecall.trendmicro.com). It may help if you turn off other anti- malware programs during the scan. If it still doesn't work, try Panda's ActiveScan (pandasoftware.com) or the Symantec Security Check (security.symantec.com). Also try running your anti-virus checker in Safe Mode or during a reboot, so that the scan starts before any malware is loaded into memory. If that doesn't find anything, try running a program you have not used before, such as Ewido (AVG Anti-Spyware) or Windows Defender or Kaspersky. All anti-malware programs have limitations, so you should always run more than one.Backchat&middot;A reader writing "not for publication" doesn't like my choice of Ubuntu as a home Linux system. The problem is that there are more than 100 Linux distros available, and most people don't care about technical or philosophical issues: they want a system that is widely used and supported. Ubuntu is nowhere near that level, yet, but at the moment it seems to be the bandwagon most likely to get there. On the Ask Jack blog, Alcib made the excellent suggestion: "Before you commit yourself, get a live CD version of Linux. This will let you try it out by booting from the CD and leaving your current installation unaltered." Options include Ubuntu, Mandriva and Mepis.
Our article suggesting100 new websites where you could carry on your online lifedrew a lot of attention, for which we're grateful. Some asked why we didn't include any of our Guardian Unlimited sites in the list. Well, it was not because we don't think they're excellent (we do, and they are) but so we could squeeze another 100 in. With news, images, podcasts and video, there are tons to choose from.But we expected that we might have missed a few of the better sites (nobody's perfect), and asked for your suggestions. And you responded ...ActivismYour list is definitely missingJustgiving(justgiving.com)'nabokov', via emailApplicationsShortText.com- This site is like a precursor to blogging. Just put in your information and it will generate a site/url for you.Amy DawsonFor free online file conversion for hundreds of formats, go tozamzar.com.Chris WhyleyBlogsPostman Patel(postmanpatel.blogspot.com) is a blog that I visit daily. This often gives me information which is missed out by the mainstream.Vinod Moonesinghe, Sri LankaCommunityCraig's List(craigslist.org). How do you manage without it? My son and daughter-in-law found their house on Craig's List! Another son and daughter-in-law found a piano, for free, there.Bill Scott, New YorkYou should includeAsk Metafilter(ask.metafilter.com), a fantastic community weblog where you can post questions and get an answer from fellow readers.Marco Martini, LondonYourep.comis a photo sharing community with a lot of great features and you can earn money while doing it.Janick CoxEmailYour list of the best web mail services failed to includefastmail.fm- easily better than both Gmail and bluebottle.'paraguay'FitnessI can't believe you didn't have a health related section?RunFatBoy(runfatboy.net) is probably the easiest to use workout site in the Web 2.0 category.Jim Jones, Lincoln, NebraskaTraineo.comis a great Web 2.0 app that helps people lose weight. It will be great for after the booze and food frenzy.Callum Rimmer, LiverpoolMapsMap24(map24.com) has a Java-powered site that's a regular winner of web user accolades and has by far the best set of online mapping software tools, outperforming even omnipresent Google Maps. Map24 uses mapping supplied by Tele Atlas And Navteq, so is not reliant on Ordnance Survey for its data.Graham SutherlandGoogle maps(maps.google.com) can be a bit patchy. The excellentFlashEarth(flashearth.com) doesn't have all of Google's bells and whistles, but it lets you switch from Google maps to the competing Yahoo! and Microsoft Virtual Earth, and others, seamlessly.Peter FlintSecurityMcAfee'ssiteadvisor.comis a free facility that provides access to McAfee's massive database and offers automatic alerts to sites that use or have links to spyware, adware, spam and other nasties. The remote credit card transaction verification offered by Mastercard's "secure code" (www.mastercard.comand Visa's "verified by Visa" (www.visaeurope.com) pre-empt internet fraud and theft by means of a password issued to card holders of affiliated card issuers.Peter Curtis, FarehamZeitgeistMovieSay(moviesay.com) counts the amount of discussion that movies create online (in the English speaking world).Vili MaunulaI wonder how you could forget aboutpopurls.com, the mother of all buzz aggregators.Drew
What could be more futuristic than 2007? But life in the early 21st century tells us otherwise: no flying cars, no dinners in a pill, and certainly no cool rocketing off to space cities in the required outfit of the future (shaved heads and Bacofoil jumpsuits).We seem to have failed the expectations of the most wild-eyed seers from the past - futurologists who were for the most part in love with a supercharged, technologically sexy future where science would free us from the daily grind for holidays on the moon or underseas. But here we remain, plodding along somewhere between Orwell and Huxley in a familiar world that is neither utopia nor dystopia.In our conservative, cost- and safety-conscious, paranoid, post-cold war world, the big ideas, the truly revolutionary concepts - space tourism, android domestic help, etc - simply haven't materialised.What the futurologists did get right, however, were some of the more prosaic details that define us proto-21st-century-types, such as mobile phones and digital technologies.Japan was particularly attuned to where technological development was heading 47 years ago. About 40% of the 135 advanced technologies predicted in 1960 to become reality by 2010 by Japan's Science and Technology Agency, set up by the government to help decide where R&amp;D should go, have actually done so. And they're not all self-fulfilling prophecies either; most are non-Japanese inventions.Accurate predictionsMobile phones, microwave ovens, artificial insemination, permanent preservation of sperm, desalination and a voice-activated typewriter able to turn speech into text are just some of the things on the agency's list, which included 54 correct predictions.Heavy investment in areas highlighted by the agency certainly helped their future realisation, and goes some way to explain why cities like Tokyo are seen as futuristic while ours - hello, Victorian sewerage and transport systems - seem backward."Britain could have led the world in developing the internet and computer games if the government had listened to the advice of a former editor of New Scientist [Nigel Calder] three decades ago," wrote Mick Hamer in New Scientist in 1994.Hamer was revisiting predictions made by New Scientist's special issue on the future in 1964, many of which came true but were ignored by Whitehall.More forward-thinking than the British, Americans too can tally up some major hits in past predictions; but anyone reading the New York Times in 1950 might have been seriously misdirected. In "Miracles You'll See In The Next Fifty Years", its science editor stuck his neck out to predict such things as "sawdust and wood pulp converted into sugary foods". Lucky children would be treated to "discarded paper table 'linen' and rayon underwear bought by chemical factories to be converted into candy."Past blundersThe New York Times's mistakes, like many wild claims of the same period, stemmed from extrapolating hot areas of research at the time. When the US got it right it was during earlier, less developed times. The prize for the best informed predictions must go to the extraordinary seer-like minds of the writers for a 1900 issue of Ladies Home Journal, who wrote: "Persons and things of all kinds will be brought within focus of cameras connected electronically with screens at the opposite ends of circuits, thousands of miles at a span" and "photographs will be telegraphed from any distance". The internet? They also predicted the rise of the car, fridges, air-conditioning, zoned traffic and x-rays used in medicine.There's no doubt technological divination is a tricky business, says Ian Pearson, head of BT's Foresight and Futurology Unit, a BT Group think tank. He has correctly forecast the rise of SMS, the search engine and interactive digital TV. There have been some misses, too, including virtual reality, whose allure he vastly overestimated."We predicted video-conferencing decades ago but we didn't think it would be through PCs, but dreamt up huge mahogany affairs instead. We did think of PCs, but not printers; thinking instead that you'd put a Polaroid against the screen to take a snap."Tricky indeed. Below, we've outlined some key areas or modern life where past fortune-tellers were sure we would or wouldn't make technological strides. Enjoy reading with perfect 20/20 hindsight; unfortunately the 3D version isn't available.Past predictions too often make hilarious reading rather than accurate forecastsTransport: come fly with meIn 1940, Henry Ford said: "Mark my word: a combination airplane and motorcar is coming. You may smile, but it will come." We are still smiling, Henry. The flying car stalled long ago, along with a wish list that included the commercial production of personal jets, helicopters, hovercrafts and jet cars. There are "skycars" and jet cars still knocking around laboratories but no commercial carplanes as yet. Pragmatists point to the air traffic control nightmare if should they start to fill the skies. One recent development that may take us closer to a personal flying saucer is from SPR Ltd, a small Havant-based company, which has successfully tested an experimental engine using patented microwave technology to convert solar energy directly into thrust - that is, an engine that could behave like an antigravity machine. The government has just given a grant to the company to build a prototype, according to New Scientist. Back in the same magazine in 1964 Professor Ian Fells saw things very nearly accurately when he talked of fuel cells driving electric motors. He now admits progress has been slower than he had hoped.Communications: missed callAlexander Graham Bell was overmodest when he predicted: "One day there would be a telephone in every American city". Some Japanese writers were way ahead of him. A 1901 edition of the Hochi Newspaper predicted, among other prescient ideas, the invention of wireless telephony (mobile phones), a technology where Japan still leads the world. The US lags in this sphere, so maybe it's not surprising to read in Laura Lee's book Bad Predictions that in 1984, US giant AT&amp;T rejected a free opportunity to enter the mobile phone market because its forecasts "indicated only 900,000 units would be sold by 1995".Computers: slow countingAlthough widely foreseen as becoming useful tools, few came to predict what we might really use PCs for, while very few foresaw the rise of the PC. As IBM famously said in 1952: "The total market for computers would amount to around 52 units", only to raise its figures to the (in hindsight) still ludicrously low figure of 200,000 in the early 1980s. That is about the number shifted each week. Writing in New Scientist in 1964, Dr Maurice Wilkes predicted an "international network of computers" and the use of computers to crack the secrets of the genome, although like many he was a few years premature with his dates. 1984, he thought, would see this breakthrough.Space: not the placeHow retro-futuristic those Apollo moonshots seem to us now, and how soon their foregone evolution - crewed flights into deepest space - petered out, along with NASA funding for them. Around the time of the moon launches in the late 1960s, the US's Hudson Institute tried to guess what life would be like at the end of the century, and typically suggested space colonies and interstellar travel. Dr Richard van der Riet Woolley, Astronomer Royal and space adviser to the British government, said in 1956: "Space travel is utter bilge." The next year Sputnik orbited the Earth.As it was, the moonshots went beyond anyone's expectations. Space colonisation hasn't taken off mostly because, as Sir Patrick Moore puts it, "space is a very dangerous place for ordinary people".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Judging by figures that came out of the US this week, the going for Sony's console could be tougher than it had expected.This Christmas was the first time that anyone could see the three next-generation console contenders - PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Wii - taking each other on head to head. And in America, at least, Sony was left struggling.According to statistics put together by US retail analyst NPD, it was Microsoft's Xbox 360 that emerged the overall winner during the festive sales rush. The Xbox 360 - already on the market for a year and boosted by the best-selling title Gears of War - shifted 2m units across the US in November and December, narrowly ahead of the Nintendo Wii.The Wii, revelling in a huge splash of media coverage, managed 1.8m in the same two-month period - despite not launching until the third week of November.In comparison with these two, however, the PlayStation 3 fared notably less well. Dogged by a lack of stock and higher price, the PS3 sold an estimated 750,000 units following its launch on November 17 - the same week that the Wii hit America's streets.Even the scalpers, usually one of the internet's best early indicators, found the going tough with PS3. Videogame touts - who usually make a killing by scooping several machines on launch day and then flogging them off for enormous profit - found it a struggle to auction off their machines when the expected high street sell-out failed to materialise. According to figures put together by Michael Fahey, an editor at the Kotaku games blog, the average price of a PlayStation 3 on eBay plummeted from more than $2,000 (&pound;1,018) before launch to just $724 (&pound;367) in the days before Christmas."In the days leading up to the PlayStation 3 launch, people all over the country lined up with dollar signs in their eyes, hoping to cash in on what was sure to be the most sought-after gift this holiday season," wrote Fahey. "A week later those hopes and dreams were crushed as reports of plummeting eBay prices poured in."All this could mean very little of course, for European gamers who must wait until the spring for the arrival of PlayStation 3. But while analysts and market watchers admit that it is difficult to extrapolate these sorts of figures across the Atlantic and to the European market, there are warning signs elsewhere.In Japan, where Microsoft has almost no market share, the new PlayStation is still in a distant second place to the Wii, with Nintendo reported to be outselling its Sony rival by more than three to one in the middle of December.But there is at least one ray of light for Sony, however. PlayStation 2, the old-guard machine, continues to be the best-selling console in the market, regardless of its flashier competition.As a result of low costs and the huge catalogue of games, Sony is on target to have shipped 11m PS2s this year.Whether Sony finds any festive cheer at all in the numbers, executives could be looking at 2007 in hope rather than expectation.The Christmas season is hugely important to the console industry, with around half of all sales arriving in the few short weeks running up to December 25.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple's internal investigation might have expressed "complete confidence" in him and the management team, but there's still the little matter of the separate inquiry into options backdating at Pixar, where he was chief executive until Disney bought it last May. At worst, he could be barred from acting as a director of any public company.Options are the chance to buy shares in a company at the price they were on a specific date, and sell them - if you want - some time in the future on the open market. If the stock price rises enough between the two dates, the holder can make easy profits. Setting a favourable start date makes them even more profitable. Backdating isn't illegal, but not accounting properly for it is.Some think that Jobs's work at Pixar - where he was part of the compensation committee - could prove an achilles heel. There, high-flying staff such as John Lasseter, the creative genius behind films such as Toy Story and A Bug's Life, have seen question-marks raised over backdated options he was granted in February 1997 - just before Pixar signed a distribution deal with Disney which boosted the stock price by 50% - and in 2000, just as the stock price was at its lowest for the whole year. Disney (where Jobs is now a director) has begun an independent review of the grants. Between 1997 and 2004, options were handled by Pixar's board, which included Jobs. If the accounting wasn't done right, Jobs might be snared by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) - which might then have to mull "whether he knowingly participated in creating option irregularities (at either Apple or Pixar) which could lead the SEC to take legal action against him, including potentially barring his ability to serve as a director, officer, or financial reporting executive of any public company, including Apple," says Richard Farmer, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.And if the worst came to the worst, and Jobs were barred from serving on the board of Apple and Disney? We're sure he'd find something to do. Why, those companies would need an independent consultant who could advise them. And he would have plenty of time on his hands ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The web has been a fantastic success in enabling people to find and use information. It has been much less successful as a way of delivering applications, but that's changing fast. This could be the year that rich internet applications (RIAs) really start to take off.So far, progress has mostly been down to one application - Gmail. Google's web-based email service proved that you could deliver a nicer user interface via a web browser than Hotmail and similar services suggested. Gmail didn't reach a wide audience, but it certainly prompted lots of geeks to wonder how they could use the same approach to create web-based organisers, calendars, photo albums, word processors, spreadsheets and other applications. We're seeing the fruits of that now.Before Gmail, there was a big gap between the capabilities of desktop applications, running on a PC, and web- based applications, running on the server but using a browser as the user interface. Web-based applications were slower, because users had to wait while new pages were fetched from the server. They were also less flexible, generally being unable to use mouse-oriented features such as drag-and-drop.Gmail helped bridge the gap between desktop and web applications by using an approach usually called Ajaxing, where Ajax is short for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML. This involves downloading JavaScript code so that users are, in effect, running a small, responsive local application. The Ajax engine communicates with the back-end server only when required; it doesn't have to go back for a refresh every time something is clicked.Ajaxing wasn't the first attempt to bridge the gap between desktop and web-based applications. Sun's Java, launched in 1995, was heavily hyped as one solution, and people have been using DHTML (D for dynamic) and remote scripting for a decade. It also won't be the last attempt.At the moment, Adobe Flash is the leading challenger. Although Flash is closely identified with showing YouTube videos and annoyingly obtrusive online advertisements, it now has its own powerful scripting language, ActionScript, and its own RIA development system, Flex. There's also an open alternative to proprietary Flash - OpenLaszlo (openlaszlo.org), which has been used by Yahoo! and, for example, the Pandora online music service.Not surprisingly, Microsoft has been working on something similar. Windows Vista is based on a new graphics system called Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), developed under the codename Avalon. This makes developing the user interface for a web-based application identical to developing the interface for a desktop application: both use XAML (Extensible Application Markup Language). The difference is that one appears in a Windows frame and the other appears in a browser frame.In theory, at least, this has lots of benefits. Developers no longer need to learn new skills, while users can have RIAs that can finally exploit the full power of their Windows machines. The obvious drawback is that not everybody has Vista, or even Windows. Microsoft is tackling this is two ways. First, there will be a downloadable version of WPF for Windows XP users. This will make Vista less attractive as an upgrade, of course, but Microsoft must think encouraging WPF deployment is more important than selling Vista.Second, there is Windows Presentation Foundation/Everywhere (WPF/E) browser plug-in, which was announced is 2005 and is now available in apreview version. Microsoft says this will provide "a subset of WPF capabilities on a range of client platforms, including the Macintosh, smaller devices and others, and on diverse Web browsers". Linux, Java, and Symbian-based mobile phones are key targets for WPF/E, with code written in cross-platform JavaScript - as with Ajaxing - rather than Microsoft's C# or whatever.Existing Flash developers will probably not want to switch to WPF/E: they don't need it. However, many more thousands of developers who are not using Flash may no longer feel they ought perhaps to learn it. WPF/E also uses Microsoft's Windows Media Video (wmv) format, and could provide a simple way for millions of non-Windows users to play wmv movies. Either way, I do expect WPF/E to become widely used if Microsoft follows through.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
By all educated predictions, the populations of the western world will be assimilated into the Borg by 2008. But between then and now, what's in store for interactivity? Allow me to wallow in some far-fetched predictions.Multiverses matureIn 2006, Linden Lab's 3D social virtual world Second Life became the darling of the media, attracting international big business like moths to a flame. But many critics believe it ran before it could walk, promising an immersive virtuality which would instantly bring new dimensions to branding, marketing and social networking. In truth, the application requires dedication, technical know-how and - crucially - active participation.However, new world hopes will emerge from this digital experiment. The countless corporations which got involved now know that extending into such an environment demands more than setting up a billboard in the hope that virtual citizens will flock. If brands move into 3D webspace, they must provide a compelling service as well.Game independenceThe dominance of the major games publishers has been increasingly challenged by UFOs from the indie orbit as more portals are created for development and distribution across the digital media space. By the end of 2007, smart mainstream games consoles will offer home-brew "channels" for bedroom coders' opuses.ARG (Alternate Reality Game) advertisingMicrosoft's I Love Bees campaign, which promoted their Halo 2 software, was the predecessor of the US ABC network's Lost Experience ARG which ran between series of their flagship drama, Lost. Fans could discover parallel storylines even when the show was off-air. By delivering clues across media, advertisers got active eyeballs across a whole range of product lines.This embraces the increasing importance of the community in brand ownership and offers a paradigm shift in communicating messages to target audiences. By December this year, at least one clever organisation will put the consumers at the fore by adapting game mechanics to create compelling materials around their products.Mainstream MachinimaPossibly the most exciting game-related event of 2006 was South Park's Cartman, Stan, Kyle and Kenny entering Blizzard's World of Warcraft using the online game's software engine. That full-length episode demonstrated a cheap alternative to expensive animating techniques and showed how entertaining the mechanism could be when championed by clever writers.So strap on your helmets. If "you" were Time magazine's person of the year in 2006, this year it will be "us".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Amazon.com's Christmas crackersAmazon.com has published a list of its"hot holiday sellers"including the Nintendo DS Lite, Apple iPods (various), Canon Powershot Digital Elph Cameras and the Nine West Women's Ealene Boot ... but not Microsoft's Zune.Skypers unitedSkySpace is a MySpace-style social networking service for Skype users which allows people "to tell stories by sharing their photos, video, audio, and documents via their skySpace homepage" (Windows only, so far).skyspace.bizMySpace for parentsPrentice Hall is publishing MySpace - A Parent's Guide, by Larry Magid &amp; Anne Collier (&pound;9.99), to advise "worried and uninformed parents". In the US, this book was published as MySpace Unravelled, and it may now be confused with A Parent's Guide to MySpace, by Laney Dale.More kids stuffQuintura is beta-testing a neural network-based search engine for kids. The grown-up version (quintura.com) is known for its clustering "tag cloud" feature.kids.quintura.comMoab monthForget Utah, this is the Month of Apple Bugs (Moab), where a couple of security researchers are publishing an undocumented security hole per day.projects.info-pull.com/moabGerman scammers jailedFour Germans have been jailed for surreptitiously installing auto-diallers on around 100,000 Windows PCs, which brought in &euro;12m (&pound;8.07m) for calls to high-priced phone services.
So says an interviewee inthis trailerfor a forthcoming documentary on videogame violence entitled Moral Kombat. According to Dean Takahashi inhis blog for the Mercury News, the programme has been put together by Spencer Halpin, brother of Hal Halpin, founder of the Entertainment Consumers Association. Spencer has drawn together interviews with the usual doom-mongering suspects - Jack Townsend and Senator Joe Lieberman - as well as games journalists and developers. The director explains:"The film takes an unprecedentedly-candid look at the hot-topic debate that pits artists' rights and our culture's thirst for violence and sensationalism, against our social obligation to protect the youth generation as it takes shape and, inevitably, shapes our future."The trailer is rather elegiac, placing the words of interviewees over slow-mo images of game violence with wilting Hollywood music in the background - it sort of feels like The Inconvenient Truth. But Halpin seems keen to point out that his film is not anti-games. It is, apparently, an objective analysis of a misunderstood yet increasingly powerful cultural force. I was slightly put off by the almost obligatory 9/11 reference - I understand the shattering effect this catastrophe had on the American psyche, but a sequence that alludes to the hijackers' use of flight sims to teach them how to pilot jet planes seems incongruous.Sadly, there's no info on where or when this documentary will be shown, but you can read more about ithere.I've also embedded the YouTube trailer below, so you can take a look yourself without leaving Gamesblog...>
The utterly pointless battle between Sony's Blu-ray and Toshiba's HD DVD high definition movie formats will become even more utterly pointless -- and even more expensive! -- with developments anticipated for the forthcoming Consumer Electronics Show (CES). According toGizmodo, LG Electronics has "announced that it will launch the world's first dual-format high-definition disc player, capable of playing both Blu-ray Disc and HD DVD content." And according toThe New York Times, Warner Brothers "plans to announce next week a single videodisc that can play films and television programs in both Blu-ray and HD-DVD, the rival DVD technologies."Fantastic! Soon we might be able to pay more for dual-format players, insert our more expensive dual-format Total HD disc, and then decide whether we want to watch the Blu-ray or HD DVD versions which, by the way, have been encoded with exactly the same video and sound codecs.Problem solved! Finally, two bunches of manufacturers too greedy, too arrogant or simply too stupid to agree a common format will be able to trouser the extra cash without, perhaps, suffering the consequences they deserve....Or maybe not. Does anyone think these kludges are going to destroy the popularity of BitTorrent?
Loads of games related stuff in today'sTechnology supplement. The PS3's US sales performanceis appraised, with potentially worrying results for Sony. Elsewhere Aleks hasa peek into her gaming crystal ballwhilethe reviewscover Lumines II (great), Neverwinter Nights 2 (good) and Flushed Away (not so good).
It's remarkable what the promise of a few million dollars in executive bonuses can do for an ethical debate. Last year, American telecoms companies - specifically, AT&amp;T and Southern Bell Communications (SBC), which were seeking a merger - dropped dark hints that high-bandwidth sites such as YouTube ought to pay them for the extra data load they imposed on their networks.In March Ed Whitacre, chief executive of AT&amp;T, said that bandwidth- intensive applications had forced continual upgrades to its network to accommodate demand. In 2005 alone, he said, AT&amp;T spent $11.5bn (&pound;5.8bn) on capital expenditures for its wireline network. So it only made sense to charge those creating the demand, such as CNN, Google, Yahoo and so on - didn't it?Yet Whitacre abruptly agreed at the weekend to some clauses guaranteeing "net neutrality" - that is, no charges. Why? To enable the much-delayed $87bn merger of the two companies, which will make it the biggest single US telco with a 30% market share.But while some advocates of net neutrality were dancing for joy, others think that AT&amp;T/SBC's promises are nearly worthless - and that only a Democrat-driven bill obliging phone companies not to discriminate between sources of data will keep information flowing freely.The net neutrality debate reached fever pitch in the summer (Is it the end for net neutrality?, June 15 2006) when the then-Republican controlled House of Representatives dumped a bill that would have obliged telcos to carry data at the same speeds, regardless of its source.But AT&amp;T and SBC, having wanted to merge for a year, finally agreed to some demands by the newly Democrat House. AT&amp;T agreed to offer "naked" broadband (that is, not tied to having an AT&amp;T phone service), to fix prices for low-speed broadband and not to discriminate between data suppliers for two years.Campaigners for neutrality whooped. "AT&amp;T capitulated to supporters of an open and neutral internet," said Ben Scott, policy director of Free Press, which coordinates the SavetheInternet.com coalition. "The agreement once and for all puts to rest the bogus argument that no one can define net neutrality. The FCC just did it, and the sky hasn't fallen."Tim Wu, a professor at Columbia University Law School, said: "This means AT&amp;T can't sell Yahoo! or CNN priority access to its customers over its broadband networks, or favour those content sources over unaffiliated blogs or search engines."Except that there are some notableloopholes in the concessions. They don't apply to AT&amp;T/SBC's planned high-speed IPTV service, which could run at 30Mb/s; so if Google or Yahoo launches online TV, it will have to go over the existing lower-speed net, which AT&amp;T/SBC pegs (in the concessions) at 764Kb/s - which even today feels sluggish, when most Britons can get at least 512Kb/s. What's the use of a guarantee not to create a two-tier internet if the company can build new tiers that are exempt from the guarantee?The provisions don't apply either to AT&amp;T/SBC's corporate customers which buy and resell its data capacity, so there are no guarantees there. And if Congress passes other laws affecting net neutrality, the concessions expire at once. Expect more lobbying this year for a Democrat-backed bill enforcing neutrality.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Flushed AwayPS2, &pound;29.99, cert 3+Monkey Bar/D3, 2/5Serving up Christmas leftovers rarely does the chef credit, and Aardman must already regret being associated with this shoddy conversion of its movie. Cramming vaguely recognisable characters into a platform game is bad enough without most of the action taking place against generic backgrounds viewed through an infuriatingly roving camera. With darkness, blurry graphics and occasional glitches to contend with, unavoidable deaths are commonplace as you and some other mouse negotiate 13 levels of sewer-based "fun". The absence of effort involved in getting voiceovers from the film or even decent character likenesses smacks of a last-minute plunder on your Christmas pennies. With a bit of luck it got the "bah humbug" it deserved!MANeverwinter Nights 2PC, &pound;29.99, cert 12+Obsidian/Atari, 3/5Familiar with 20-sided dice? Then you'll certainly appreciate Neverwinter Nights 2, probably the greatest computer game adaptation of Dungeons and Dragons. This is a classic role-playing game that sees you create a character - and eventually a party - before heading out into a fantasy world to loot, cast spells and drink ale. Considering the solid but rarely spectacular graphics, the PC system requirements are excessive. Even on a powerful Alienware m9700 laptop, it was necessary to turn down some of the settings. The main single-player campaign throws up a surprisingly good yarn, but the real longevity is in the multiplayer. The original Neverwinter game garnered a huge community of fans who created their own quests for other players. Be warned though: the software supplied to do this isn't for the fainthearted. But perhaps that's the point. In these days of casual web games and Wii sports, Neverwinter Nights 2 is an old-fashioned hardcore game for hardcore players.GHLumines IIPSP, &pound;19.99, cert 12+Q Entertainment/Buena Vista Games, 4/5You would be hard pressed to conceive a simpler game than Lumines II. Essentially a variation on Tetris, it drops 2x2 coloured blocks from the top of the screen, from which you must assemble same-coloured squares or rectangles, which then disappear, causing chain reactions if you're clever. But you could not ask for a better means of showing that simplicity can breed infernally addictive gameplay. And the man behind Lumines II is the revered Tetsuya Mizuguchi, creator of the fabled Rez, so not only does it look incredibly snazzy (with visual themes that change during sustained periods of gameplay), but it also has a great musical accompaniment, with tracks from the likes of Fatboy Slim, New Order and Gwen Stefani. Version II lets you go head-to-head with others via Wi-Fi and sports a puzzle mode which often prompts serious head-scratching. If today's games seem to complex for you, Lumines II will restore your faith; an essential purchase if you own a PSP.SB
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Some friends have asked me about the best way to connect an Xbox to the home broadband connection. From personal experience, HomePlug 14Mbps powerline network adaptors (eg Devolo or eConnect) are the most reliable and cost-effective way of doing this, but the likes of PC World say they have never even heard of this technology! Do the big companies have a vested interest in flogging Wi-Fi, or are they just technologically ignorant? Mike WhittakerThe idea of connecting devices via mains electricity cables goes back to the 1970s -- for an example, clickhere-- but it has never really taken off. The HomePlug Powerline Alliance was intended to solve this problem by providing an agreed trade standard on the lines of the Wi-Fi Alliance. However, so far the response from retailers, including Amazon, has been disappointing, and there are not enough users for the "word of mouth" effect to have had an impact.Like you, I think a couple of HomePlugs would be a good way to connect an Xbox, but I've not seen it done, and don't know anyone who has done it. Reader comments would be welcome.As well as Devolo (devolo.co.uk) and eConnect (econnecthomeplug.co.uk), Solwise is also worth a look, and sells HomePlugs from its website (solwise.co.uk). Many cheap HomePlug devices have no problems interconnecting and often use the same Intellon chips and software. (Intellon developed the HomePlug standard.) Faster devices are available up to 200Mbps, but 14Mbps is fast enough for broadband, and will probably run faster than Wi-Fi.Backchat: Thanks to all the readers who have written in support of HomePlugs, including Chris Wheater, John Martin Johnson, Roger Haydon, Arthur Chance, Martin Jones and Huw Price. Louise Barrett, from Solwise, a HomePlug supplier, says that 14Mbps devices typically work at between 5Mbps and 8Mbps and something faster would be needed for streaming video to an Xbox 360. However, she warns that the 200Mbps HomePlug -- ideal for streaming HDTV -- is not compatible with the slower devices: "They will co-exist on the same mains but will not 'talk' to them."
A number of clips I watch on YouTube keep pausing for a few seconds. Clive GorstYouTube and other streaming videos should play smoothly if your internet connection downloads the video data faster than it is displayed. If the replay stutters, hit the pause button for a few seconds until more of the video has been downloaded -- on YouTube, until the red download line is ahead of the black circle that shows where you are. Alternatively, you can let the whole video download before you watch it, or download it separately via a site such as KeepVid (keepvid.com). However, some (a very few) broadband routers have known problems with buffering, and if this is the case, you'll need a firmware update.
I've tried several times in the past couple of years to use Housecall, Trend Micro's online virus scan, but it never works. It gives an error message to do with the kernel and just goes nowhere. How do I get it to work? Chris HernonHousecall has worked hundreds of millions of times, and if it doesn't work, I suspect that is most often because a PC has a virus or Trojan. Housecall 6.5 now has two options - a browser-based ActiveX control and a Java applet - so try both (housecall.trendmicro.com). It may help if you turn off other anti- malware programs during the scan.If it still doesn't work, try Panda's ActiveScan (pandasoftware.com) or the Symantec Security Check (security.symantec.com).Also try running your anti-virus checker in Safe Mode or during a reboot, so that the scan starts before any malware is loaded into memory.If that doesn't find anything, try running a program you have not used before, such as Ewido (AVG Anti-Spyware) or Windows Defender or Kaspersky. All anti-malware programs have limitations, so you should always run more than one -- though not at the same time!
Viva PanataChris and Tim Stamper, who were two of Rare's three co-founders in 1982, have left the company to do other things, according to1Up.UK-based Rare is best known for Donkey Kong Country, GoldenEye 007, and Banjo-Kazooie. However, in its early days as Ultimate Play The Game, it produced such Spectrum classics as as Jetpac, Atic Atac, Sabre Wulf and Knight Lore.As 1Up says: "The Stampers' exodus comes just four years after Microsoft acquired Rare from Nintendo for $375M. Since that acquisition, Rare has published five games for Microsoft Game Studios. In addition to [Viva] Pinata, Rare released Kameo and Perfect Dark Zero at the Xbox 360's launch and shipped Conker: Live &amp; Reloaded and Grabbed By the Ghoulies on the original Xbox."Rare was famously secretive so it's hard to tell whether the Stamper brothers' departure will make any real difference, and it's impossible to know what they will do next. Any readers in the Twyford area are welcome to leak the inside story here.
Next week, Steve Jobs will stand on stage in San Francisco to make his keynote speech at the Macworld show, to unveil new - much-rumoured - products. Here's something I discovered in my 22 years at Apple: some of the toughest competition for the best seats, or the first of those new products, comes from former Windows-centric executives who Steve has personally sucked into his "reality distortion zone" in face-to-face executive briefings.You want to go to one? You want to meet Steve Jobs to persuade him that Apple should build a tablet computer, or an iPhone? Then besides having a big purchasing budget and persuasive reasons, you'd better bring a big ego.In the spring of 2002, I had been at Apple for nearly 20 years and had risen through the ranks to become its national federal sales manager. I joined a delegation from the prestigious National Institutes of Health, the pre-eminent US federal agency for medical research, for an "executive briefing" at Apple's Cupertino headquarters with Steve Jobs. Most people haven't heard of NIH; but its 2007 budget will be around $28.6bn (&pound;14.6bn). NIH also happens to be one of Apple's premier scientific customers.Nine key NIH people attended the meeting, including its two highest-ranking technology officers. Setting up an executive briefing at Apple is a bizarre process that takes a couple of months; if you also want Steve to grace the briefing, add another six weeks to run a formal request up the chain of command, including just about every detail but the DNA of the people who want to meet him.With luck, and if Steve happens to be in town, you will get the commitment that unless something else turns up, he will drop by and stay as long as he feels necessary.Horror storiesOnce you have your ironclad guarantee that Steve might come by, the management chain starts telling horror stories about how the best thing is for Steve not to come. That if he does come, he'll talk about whatever he has immersed himself in recently, whether it is iTunes or Garageband. That whatever Steve has to say might or might not have anything to do with what the customer wants to hear. For a salesman, that's disconcerting; your customers normally only come to these executive briefings to understand where Apple executives stand on key issues. And they're customers, aren't they? They're the ones who pay for it all, the ones who are always right?Yet it's an amazing experience to take part in a briefing with Steve. Stories about him reprimanding customers are true. Once, when renegotiating a Pixar distribution deal with Disney, he humiliated Disney's chief information officer in front of his staff. Steve pointed to a couple of recent Disney flops, and told the attendees that they could expect more of the same as long as the CIO was stupid enough to keep Macs out of the creative process.An executive briefing always looks, on paper, like a clash of titanic egos. From what I saw, most wilt quickly in Steve's presence. And customers' reverence for him usually overwhelms any hostility.In fact, it doesn't really matter who is presenting or what is being discussed. When Steve enters a room, everything stops and attention turns to him. When he walks in you get the feeling that he has sucked all the other thoughts out of the room. As for quoting him precisely - you don't take notes if you want to live. (At Apple's most recent sales briefing, nobody was allowed to have a notebook, phone or computer out while Steve spoke.)I've checked these recollections with an NIH attendee. Steve did show up wearing shorts, sandals and a few days' stubble. Everyone else was in east coast business casual - sports coats and khaki pants. He also brought his brilliance but not, that day, the arrogance you often hear about.The NIH delegation wanted to know whether Apple would build a tablet computer that would work in their clinical situation. Actually, more than that: they wanted to convince Steve to make a tablet. After all, Bill Gates had launched one the year before at CES in January, boldly saying "within five years, I predict that it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America". Tablets were the future - weren't they? Not like those music players that Apple had launched the previous October. Pod-somethings?But as Apple's then vice-president of hardware, Jon Rubenstein, once told me: "Customers do not know what they want to buy. We have to tell them." Steve had not been forewarned about the tablet question, but it became obvious he had given the topic serious consideration. He listed a number of reasons why Apple was not interested. And they provide some of the best insights into why Apple does or does not do a product.The tablet situationFirst, he said, tablet computers were not a big enough market for Apple to spend its limited resources chasing. And even if the market grew, it would not reach a size to be of interest. The form factor was all wrong. Apple was more interested in defining markets than trying to catch other companies that were busy trying to create a market for questionable products. Still, some of the NIH scientists pressed the issue. Steve's follow-up answer was the most impressive I had heard him give.First, he said, the wireless bandwidth for huge images, plus the security needed to successfully do what NIH wanted, was just not on the horizon. (Apple staff had been notably fuzzy earlier in the briefing about wireless standards after 802.11b.) Plus, tablets' screen resolution was nowhere near that required for NIH's high-quality medical images. Finally, any product designed to work in the medical field would attract significant liability. The hint was that Apple wasn't interested in anything with that kind of potential liability. That pretty well shut down the issue.So, no tablet. But NIH at the time had more than 2,000 BlackBerry users. The NIH CIO wanted Apple to push RIM for better compatibility. Tough: Steve basically said it was another niche product, and that while there would be convergence of computing and phones, the BlackBerry was not that product. He did not see that compatibility as an area where Apple should spend any effort. So what will the converged product - what is being called the "iPhone" (even though that's a Cisco trademark) - look like? He said the really converged, ubiquitous devices would have to fit in your shirt pocket, and be better than either a phone or a computer by itself.That was 2002. But let's examine the rumours that Apple will next week unveil a tablet computer or iPhone in light of Steve's comments that day.The market for a converged computer and phone should be very attractive: Gartner forecast last year that 986m mobiles would be sold in 2006. And there's an "Apple gap": mobile phone users often find their interfaces confusing, even within the same brands. Apple's unique ability to simplify while innovating looks like a good fit there. Plus Apple's deal with Samsung means it is well placed for anything that needs lots of flash memory. It has played around with unique relationships with phone manufacturers: Jobs used a Sony Ericsson phone to demonstrate Bluetooth capability in July 2002, and showed off the Motorola ROKR, the first to play iTunes, in 2005. This fits Apple's pattern of learning what it needs to know through partnership before jumping into a market. Significantly, the first Powerbooks, in 1991, involved Sony. Now the companies' laptops compete, although Sony still makes the batteries. Logically, Apple will make its own phone if it is holding true to pattern.But a tablet computer? Most analysts would agree the market is growing only slowly, mostly in the healthcare and other specialised industries, and that these models will make at most 5% of the laptop market by 2009 (they account for 1% now). Even Dell doesn't make its own tablet. Furthermore, the tablet was championed by Bill Gates. I don't see Steve stepping up to the plate to help Bill's reputation as a forecaster of computer trends.I believe there are other reasons why Apple won't make a tablet computer. Even before the iPod gained momentum, Apple executives had a theory that the route to success will not be through selling thousands of relatively expensive things, but millions of very inexpensive things like iPods; and not necessarily computers. Tablet computers remain expensive. Yet the mobile phone market is almost perfect for Apple strategy. There is no real market leader, and it's ripe for simplification. Plus it's worldwide, and engineers from the network operators would be available to do localisation.Apple might even be able to do a Java-based phone platform which could integrate into current systems. With a focus on simple mail and contact integration with its online .Mac (mac.com) service, Apple could provide advantages for early adopters while making its .Mac service better value (because it isn't right now). Few non-technical people consider doing anything other than transferring numbers to their new mobiles by typing. On anything other than a Mac, the process is just too complex. Apple already knows how to make this easy. It just needs to convince people to buy an Apple phone and a Mac.Also anti-tablet is Apple's sales force, which often spends so much of its time forecasting what it's going to sell in a given quarter there's precious little time left to actually sell anything. Right now they sell everything from iPods to Xserve RAIDs. However, an Apple phone wouldn't need a new sales force. The network operators' sales force could handle it - probably cutting Apple sales people out of any new commission revenue for phones, much as they have done for the iPod.Even if Apple partners only with a single national carrier it will get an immediate, huge retail presence.What about a more targeted tablet - perhaps to control all the devices in your home entertainment stable? Traditionally, Apple stays away from markets where it cannot define all of the standards, so I really don't think Steve will devote resources to make non-Apple stuff work together. Even the vertical markets like healthcare suffer from this problem: too many pieces in a very complex puzzle.So next week, I'm sure we won't see any kind of tablet computer from Apple. I am 99% confident we will see an Apple phone, with enhanced music capabilities and maybe a few computing features such as email and contacts synchronisation with Macs or through .Mac.Steve's ability to know where consumers and technology will intersect often creates a road paved in gold. That's why he'll focus his energy on mobiles. The potential there that only Steve can see could well turn into another must-have product for the legions who don't even know they are part of Steve's army. They haven't met him across a table. But they've met the products of his thinking.&#183;David Sobotta was formerly the federal sales manager at Apple. His blog is atviewfromthemountain.typepad.com/applepeels/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..What Jobs told me on the iPhoneWill Apple's chief executive unveil a tablet Mac or an 'iPhone' at Macworld next week? Apple's former federal sales boss David Sobotta describes a meeting which explained key thinking.Copyright fight sinks virtual planningFree Our Data: Stunning new applications could engage Londoners in the future of their city - but there's a catch, caused by Crown copyright.AT&amp;T climbdown is a victory for net neutrality - or is it?AT&amp;T's decision not to charge high-bandwidth sites extra is good news, but lacks guarantees.The future is here, and it's fully interactiveAleks Krotoski: By all educated predictions, the populations of the western world will be assimilated into the Borg by 2008. But between then and now, what's in store for interactivity? Allow me to wallow in some far-fetched predictions.GamesFlushed Away | Neverwinter Nights 2 | Lumines IINewly Asked Questions:Is Steve Jobs off the hook after his stock options probe?Apple's internal investigation might have expressed "complete confidence" in him and the management team, but there's still the little matter of the separate inquiry into options backdating at Pixar, where he was chief executive until Disney bought it last May.How will the PS3 fare when it finally reaches Europe?Judging by figures that came out of the US this week, the going for Sony's console could be tougher than it had expected.Big Brother sugars the surveillance pillVictor Keegan: Something funny has been happening to the CCTV cameras in our neighbourhood. They have started growing ears. Not real ones - at least not yet - but audio functions enabling them to "hear" what is happening around them as well as see.TechnobileJim Cromwell: Grrrr! One more reminder to change my password and I'll start stalking the IT folks and gutting my computer.Whatever happened to the future?Past seers gawped into the glitzy future to envisage a hi-tech world. But how many of them were right?Time for a little bit more siteseeingReaders responded with gusto to our request for really useful websites.Get ready to see more applications onlineJack Schofield: The web has been a fantastic success in enabling people to find and use information. It has been much less successful as a way of delivering applications, but that's changing fast. This could be the year that rich internet applications (RIAs) really start to take off.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesAmazon.com's Christmas crackers | Skypers united | MySpace for parents | More kids stuff | Moab month | German scammers jailedLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Last year's X06 event, where Microsoft showed off a host of upcoming Xbox titles, was conclusive proof that 2007 will be a great year to be a 360 owner. Alan Wake, Bioshock and Mass Effect were the highlights of a mightily impressive release schedule. And this was without any showing of Halo 3, easily the most anticipated 360 game (though I'm still far more excited by Alan Wake meself). Far less exciting, however, wasCrackdown. A free-roaming action/driving thing - or comicbook GTA to you and me - Crackdown stood out by being blindingly average, despite the ability to throw cars around.Any post event doubts - is 30 minutes of gin-fuelled playtime at the evening party enough to form an early opinion? - were quashed by the news that Microsoft are allowing Crackdown purchasers free entry to the Halo 3 multiplayer beta. Yes, one of the only ways you'll be able to get on the Halo 3 multiplayer beta this spring will be to buy Crackdown when it comes out in February. I'm sure Konami did a similar boost-a-mediocre game ploy in the past, by bundling a Metal Gear Solid 2 demo with some long forgotten release. But there hasn't been anything this cynical for a long time. Let's be thankful there are only a very few games that command the brand loyalty and excitement needed to make these marketing plots work.
This is just a gratuitous Sega story so feel free to move on. Consumer electronics giant LG is using Virtua Fighter 5 and Sonic the Hedgehog to show off the technology behind its new 1080p HD TV displays at the forthcoming CES show.This is a glowing example of how these industries need each other - TV manufacturers are hoping that HD games drive sales of HD TVs while games console manufacturers are hoping that increased sales of HD TVs will tempt people into buying HD games consoles which have built in HD movie players. Now that you can get a basic HD TV for the price of a radio and some crisps the tech industry is now hoping to tempt early adopter types to upgrade to 1080p - videogames are the best bet. Especially games like VF5, which I have seen and which looks quite staggering. This is an image of new character, Eileen.ViaAkihabaranews.com
I've talked about market research and analysis companies before, often imaging them to be populated by young men throwing ten-sided dice and constructing complex statistical reports around the random outcomes - sort of Dungeons and Dragons meets Nostradamus in a capitalist economic context. Anyway, a company named Research and Markets has just released a report entitled'The Transforming Global Video Games Market: The Emergence of Next Generation Gaming'whichguessespredicts that PS3 will win the console war. From the company's website:"The Sony PlayStation 3 is expected to win the console war in the long term with an install base of around 75 million globally by 2010. The console is not expected to dominate as much as its predecessor, the PS2, due to late launch issues in the PAL region and the early lead of Microsofts (sic) Xbox 360."To find out more about this piece of technological rune-casting you'll need at least 2000 euros to download the full report. I think that's money well spent.
The indie gaming siteTIGSourcehas uncovered another fascinating home coding project. The Design is an abstract shoot-'em-up set on... a design document. Players must shoot at squares while negotiating between lines of code - the blocks can only be shot while they're white, once they turn red, they repel your bullets back at your avatar. It's simple stuff, but just look at that screenshot, a work of minimalist brilliance.PC owners can download ithere. Give it a go if Gears of War has made your eyes hurt over Christmas.Actually, if you need more of this sort of thing you should also check outGravitron- a space shooter from Castle Software that harks back to inertia classics like Thrust and Oids. It's 2007, but let's just pretend it's 1987 for a few minutes.
On December 7,AP reported from Hanoi, Vietnam, that "Seymour Papert, an MIT professor emeritus and internationally known expert in technology and learning, was severely injured in a traffic accident and remains in a coma".On December 17, Papert, aged 78, was flown back to Boston, "along with family members, a nurse and a neurologist," according to theTaipei Times. He is still in intensive care.Papert was a co-founder of MIT's Artificial Intelligence Lab, developed the Logo language (which can drive "turtles"), and is an adviser on the One Laptop Per Child project.The Boston Heraldhas a good story, which says:Like bees, Hanoi motorbikes move in swarms, unrestrained by laws, lanes, or traffic signals. Somehow, the swarm self-organizes to keep people moving and, mostly, not crashing into one another. Papert was fascinated, and spent his first days in Hanoi talking with his former student, Northwestern computer scientist Uri Wilensky, about how to use NetLogo (Wilensky's modification of Logo) to model the city's traffic flow. As the two were crossing a six-lane road separating their hotel from the university, Papert was hit.That Papert was struck by Hanoi's traffic while thinking about how to model it is ironic, in the proper sense of the word. It's as if he had been hit by one of his own turtles.
Back to work yet? Best get chatting then.
This authentic photo of Steve Jobs at Macworld is from a caption competition at the world's best blog:The Secret Diary of Steve Jobs.Macworld Expoopens next week so the Mac world will now have an orgy of speculation about what El Supreme Jobso is going to announce in his keynote speech on Tuesday, January 9, 2007 at 9:00am at Moscone West. At ZDNet,Jason O'Grady's Apple bloghas a round-up of the main contenders, and the odds.Curiously, he doesn't mention Blu-ray, as far as I can see.MacRumourshas a similar round-up.Well, it's always nice to have new toys, but do you think Apple will announce anything you really need?Update: See alsoWhat Jobs told me on the iPhonein this week's Technology section, andFor my next trick ... devotees wait to see what Steve Jobs has up his sleeve, in Satuday's paper.
Most of us have noticed that Amazon's book prices change over time, but how many prices change and by how much? And why? An LA Times reporter accidentally left some books in an outbasket and found the prices had gone up when he returned. So he tried the same thing again at Amazon and Amazon.co.uk.Amazon mystery: pricing of bookstells the story. Unfortunately, it doesn't have any answers....If your name isJeff Bezos, please let us know.
Michael Arrington of TechCrunch has produced a list ofWeb 2.0 Companies [He] Couldn't Live Without, including Bloglines, Delicious, FeedBurner, Measuremap, Omnidrive, Technorati... Whoops, sorry, that was last year's list.This yearthe list includes Amie Street, Ask City, BlueDot, Digg, Gmail, Skype and YouTube. Seven of last year's 11 sites have survived, including Flickr, Netvibes, Pandora, and WordPress.It's always interesting to see which sites people think are important, and that's especially the case with Arrington, because TechCrunch is fantastic at covering trendy new sites before they've become trendy. Of course, it's also rather social and very American... though I'm not sure either is quite enough of an excuse to include Digg.There are some predictable cries, in the comments, for sites such as Reddit (Digg with reduced stupidity) and Last.fm (as an alternative to Pandora).StumbleUponalso gets some votes, though I didn't notice anyone calling for Slashdot.The fact that these are, apparently, Web 2.0 sites makes it hard to spot omissions. Is Wikipedia not a Web 2.0 site, or not one Arrington uses, or just too obvious to mention? How about eBay and Amazon? I'd have to include all three in my own list of "most used" sites, though I'm sure I'd manage to survive without them. I also likeTailrank, ditto.How about you? Which site couldn't you live without?
Looking for some vital end-of-year console sales figures?Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, market research group, NPD, has named Xbox 360 as the bestselling console in the US over Christmas with two million units shifted from November to December 25. Wii came in next with 180,000 sales while PS3, still suffering those supply issues, managed 750,000. These are, however, preliminary estimates with the research firm promising to post complete figures later in the month.It'll be interesting to see if 360 can hold its own as the production of Wii and PS3 machines cranks up during the next quarter.
The Science Museum has announced a series of Special evening events to coincide with itsGame Onexhibition of videogame history. The four 'Level Two' sessions begin with 'Why We Play Games' presented by Edge editor, Margaret Robertson. The following week sees Dr Chris Doran of physics specialist,Geomericstake a look at new texturing and lighting effects, while the final night has Jonathan Smith ofTT Gamesdiscussing the development of the Lego Star Wars series - I've seen him speak at Nottingham GameCity and the Bradford Animation festival and he was excellent at both.Each presentation begins at 7pm and costs seven quid - might be worth a look if you want to get an idea of where game development and game culture stand in 2007.
Madden NFL 07 for the Sony PlayStation 2 was the best-selling US game last year, shifting more than 1.8 million copies -- but it also sold an impressive 826,000+ on the Xbox 360, according to a Top 10 table published byUSA Today.New Super Mario Bros for the Nintendo DS also extremely sold well, taking second place with 1.5 million+ units. Two DS games made the top 10, but no PlayStation Portable games.However, the USA Today article concentrates on Gears of War, which was only released on Xbox 360 in November and shifted more than a million units -- even outselling Final Fantasy XII for the PS2. And as the side-bar explains, it was thought up while Epic Games lead designer Cliff Bleszinski was looking over the city of London from the top of St Paul's Cathedral.
"Market analysts NPD have suggested that the Xbox 360 was the best-selling console in the US over Christmas -- with the Nintendo Wii trailing by just 200,000 units," reportsGamesIndustry.biz.The preliminary estimates are that around 2 million Xbox 360s were sold in North America in the month up to Christmas, 1.8 million Nintendo Wiis and 750,000 Sony PlayStation 3s. Of course, the Wii and PS3 would have sold more if they hadn't been in such short supply, but the "moral victory" probably goes to the Wii.
Stories fly around the web with such alacrity that reeling them in again is a daunting task.That seems to be at least part of what's gone on with a tale floating around that Wikipedia had banned the entire country of Qatar from making edits to the site. It's been picked up byTechcrunchandSlashdotamong others, leading to this from Mike Arrington:Apparently Qatar has a single ISP, Qtel, with a single IP address shared by the entire country. Wikipedia has blocked that IP address for anonymous edits, but is allowing users of that IP address with actual Wikipedia accounts to continue to edit articles. There's one problem, though. You can't create an account if you enter Wikipedia from that IP address.Jimmy Wales has already posted acommenton the wiki talk page itself saying that the story (which he has called "bullshit") wasn't correct:"This IP number was temporarily blocked for less than 12 hours, and a block of an entire nation would go absolutely against Wikipedia policy"So what happened? Well, the situation seems to have provoked anger among some users - particularly because the Arab media station Al-Jazeera is based in the country. Jimmy has argued that this is actually a very common procedural part of Wikipedia - and it's certainly particularly problematic because Qatar's censorious regime strangles the internet for its 165,000 users. So perhaps this is more interesting because it highlights how a net bottleneck can destroy freedom of information for people.I think it also suggests another good reason that Wikipedia might consider the end of anonymous editing. But I'm only a very irregular Wikipedian... do any regulars have a different opinion?Update:Jimmy Wales got in touch to tell me that it was essentially an administrative error. "The admin who did the block did not realize that the IP number was one of the special ones that we try to keep open even when there is a repeated series of vandalisms. Other admins pointed it out, and the IP was quickly unblocked."
Vodafone will next Monday become the latest mobile phone company to offer broadband internet access in an attempt to attract new customers and cling on to existing users amid fierce competition in the UK's saturated mobile market.It has teamed up with BT - which will provide the infrastructure - to roll out Vodafone At Home nationwide. Rivals, such as Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk and Sky Broadband, have limited availability while they are building their own networks. TalkTalk's "free" broadband offer, for instance, is available to 70% of UK home, while Sky covers only 35%.For &pound;25 a month Vodafone's contract customers will get 8MB broadband access with round-the-clock technical support. Unlike some competing offers - such as Sky - the service includes unlimited free calls to any UK landline and the monthly cost of the phone line is included.The service, which customers must take for 18 months, also comes with a free modem, although anyone wanting a wireless modem will have to pay an extra &pound;25.The Vodafone service is priced at the top end of what is on offer. TalkTalk's is cheaper at &pound;19.99 a month, including line rental for 8MB and free landline calls, but it has run into considerable problems with customer service due to unprecedented levels of demand. In fact, across the broadband industry, customer satisfaction is on the wane. In November, utility price comparison site uSwitch said that among broadband users it had slumped 9%. At the same time, the number of happy home phone users had also fallen by 4%.In this environment, Vodafone is looking to position itself at the so-called "quality" end of the market, exactly the same as BT and is looking to add TV to its suite of products later in the year.It has the rights to sell BT Vision which combines digital terrestrial channels from Freeview, with on-demand content delivered over the phone line including seven-day catch-up of certain channels and shows. For those already enjoying digital TV via satellite, and who spend at least &pound;15 a month, may find Sky's basic service more attractive as it is free after a &pound;40 installation fee, although customers still have to pay line rental.Orange's combined mobile and broadband offer is free to contract customers spending at least &pound;30 a month on their mobile and signing up for 18 months. But the speed is four times slower than Vodafone; there is an &pound;11 line rental, and no landline calls are included.Last year, Virgin Mobile offered its pay monthly customers free broadband, but that deal has since ended. Now part of NTL, it is offering TV, internet, fixed and mobile calls for &pound;40 a month and is likely to come up with some new packages when it rebrands as Virgin Media, a move likely to happen on February 14. T-Mobile and 3 still appear committed to delivering broadband access over their wireless networks, rather than using a customer's home phone line, while O2 is expected to announce its proposition later this year.O2 bought Be Broadband in order to use its network but, privately, executives are content to sit back and see whether customers are really buying into "bundled" products. Orange has, so far, signed up only 200,000 to its combined service.
Happy New Year and all that. So how did your holiday gaming go? For me it was dominated by the Wii and Viva Piñata on the 360. The latter was a very pleasant surprise - a cute, yet demanding, "garden 'em up" that brought a welcome splash of colour to the 360.But the real Christmas success story was the Wii. When your mother in law (61) wants to have her first ever go on a games console you know things have changed. Similarly my wife's friends were, after initial reticence formed by years of disinterest/fear of getting it "wrong", keen to play. Yes, there are still plenty of question marks over the Wii - Call of Duty 3, for example, is a shocker and makes you worry about future attempts to shoehorn traditional gaming franchises onto the Wii - but in my experience at least the Wii has certainly broken down many of those barriers that have historically surrounded console gaming. Anyone else's relatives lose their console virginity to the Wii over Christmas?
What's the toy that has been driving parents mad this past week? Nintendogs, one of the sleeper video game hits of the past couple of years. While the TV ads have concentrated on assorted shoot-em-ups and movie spin-offs, this modest little number - which enables you to pretend to own a dog - had racked up 6m sales worldwide even before the Christmas rush.Think of Nintendogs as Tamagotchis for those with too much disposable income. Or as real dogs for those for whom the real world is a little too, well, real. It enables players to experience all the thrills of owning a real dog - walking, feeding, training, entering dog shows - without the one conceivable benefit of pet ownership: having something to cuddle.But like your actual slobbering canine, a Nintendog is for life, not just Christmas, as the parents of those who have bought them for their offspring are discovering. The big problem is that the virtual dogs aren't very good at remembering their names. Nintendogs has voice-recognition technology, which means, in theory, that you can shout at the screen and the dog will obey. But the reality is somewhat different.As a user of the Mumsnet parenting website put it: "I nearly did away with a young girl who had one of these ... 'Lucky ... LUUUUCKY ... LUCKY ... Lucky ... Lucky ... Lucky ... LUUUUCKY ... LUCKY ... Lucky' ... This went on for a full hour ... I swear I was this close to doing something unforgivable."That parent is discovering something that a lot of games nerds knew already: that Nintendogs can drive you mad. A Google search using the words "Nintendogs" "hate" and "I" brings up 242,000 results, with two clear camps: those who hate the game, and those who hate those who hate the game. There is no Nintendogs middle ground. One blogger writes of "How Nintendogs will ruin the world," another calls it "a cancerous ball of fluffy death".Is there an answer? Well, if plagued by virtual labradors, there's always a traditional remedy, one rightly frowned on when practised with real dogs nowadays: put your child's Nintendogs disc into a sack, and chuck it in the nearest river.
Everybody's doing it, but still, Time magazine is doing more than most with25 Top 10 lists for 2006, including movies (not Borat), games (not Gears of War), TV shows (not The Office), Podcasts (not Ze Frank), Web videos (not Diet Coke/Mentos) and so on. Of course, disagreeing with the results is the majority of the fun....
Once upon a time, Google was a small start-up run by a couple of bright graduate students and everybody loved it. Now it's a hugely-profitable multinational corporation run by three multi-billionaires, it has a monopoly market share of the search market, and almost life-or-death power over thousands of small companies -- a power it exercises in secret, with no accountability, in what some would regard as an arrogant and autocratic way. Google may still be loved, but it is also feared. Really really feared.So the honeymoon is over, and atTechCrunch, Michael Arrington wonders if Google has reached a tipping point in attitude that "could signal a tidal wave of negativity down the road".At theInside Google Blog, Nathan Weinberg has a round up of some of the problems that created "a negative feeling going into the new year." These include deleting a small number of users' Gmail, the unreliability of Orkut, a brief "panic in the sexblogosphere," "the continuing dismissal of Google's 2006 Zeitgeist as made-up bunk, and a little bit of anger over how Google has been putting 'tips' of its services atop search results. EvenBlake Ross of Firefox famecame out against Google."Over atSearch Engine Land, Danny Sullivan responded to Blake Ross's criticism of Google "tips" by turning the tables on Firefox:Really the thing I most disagree with is the idea the products are failures because Google may promote them. I assume Firefox is a big stinking failure, then? I assume this because of this:http://www.spreadfirefox.com/?q=affiliates/homepageReally, if Firefox is so great, then word of mouth ought to drive adoption alone. Instead, you've partnered with Google to give people I believe up to $1 per download if they get people going with it. Doesn't that make you lose faith in your own product, that you have to promote it this way with hard cash?You can read the comments to that post for a debate between Danny and Blake, but the essence of Danny's case is that Google should be held to the same sort of standards as other companies. I'd usually agree with that. The problem is that Google has asked us to regard it as being morally superior.In fact, Google is now caught between its idealistic founding story (Don't be evil) and the realities of running a ruthless capitalist corporation (for example, operating with Chinese censorship is less evil and not operating in China would be more evil).Well, Google, how evil do you want to be today?Michael Arrington concludes:Google needs to change. They can't kill the motto, so they need to live up to it, permanently. They need to stop treating the outside world with disdain, and replace it with transparency and honesty. Users must always come first. Always. And they need to do it soon. Once the shift in public opinion becomes obvious, it will be way too late.
Social networking sites such as MySpace may be ordered to play adverts for the emergency services - including the number 999 - on their pages under plans being considered by the Home Office.The tactic is one of a number of recommendations being considered by ministers in a document seen by the Guardian. According to the document, officials believe that websites should be doing more to safeguard children on the internet.Draft guidelines for good practice among internet companies suggest that they should be working harder to prevent images of nudity being placed online.The Home Office believes that advertising the 999 emergency number will encourage young surfers to report suspicious encounters directly to the police.Other options include more stringent checks on age and identity, which would help to deter older users from masquerading as children. Online groomers often pretend to be a child to befriend potential victims. Most social networks only require an email address for membership.The paper also suggests ways of providing better protection for young internet users. Age restrictions could be used to prevent them being contacted by older users, or to prevent them from accessing material deemed unsuitable for children."Young people on the whole use the internet positively, but sometimes in ways that may place them at risk of harm," says the document, drawn up by a working group of representatives from the government, internet companies and child protection organisations. "Service providers should, where possible, request and validate personal information from users ... to minimise the risk of impersonation."The perceived danger of this has grown over the past year as social websites have grown rapidly. MySpace - the huge networking site owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation - last month overtook Yahoo to become the biggest site on the internet. But such sites have also come under fire for what some have claimed is a lax approach to safety. In America MySpace was accused of inaction after it mistakenly allowed a number of registered paedophiles to use its services to contact children. The site now has a filtering system to exclude sex offenders.It is not just MySpace which is targeted in the government consultation, however. The Home Office document also points towards popular sites including Facebook, Xanga, Piczo and Faceparty. Law enforcement officials believe the inability to prove people's identity online is a barrier to protecting younger users."The problem is that identity as we understand it is changing," said Jim Gamble, chief executive of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, which tracks down abusers and focuses much of its effort on the internet. "It used to be that we took people's names, date of birth, and their address. Now people identify themselves in a different way - their internet address, username, email." This has forced investigators to come up with hi-tech information tracking techniques to track down offenders who use the net.Alex Hewitt, the founder of NetIDme, which sells online age verification services, said traceable identities would help to prevent attacks.
Popular social networking websites such as MySpace and Friends Reunited were last night given an alarming wake-up call when Britain's leading site for gay and lesbian people moved to slash 30,000 people from its membership list amid fears some were 'cyber-stalkers'.Outeverywhere.com, Britain's largest networking site for the gay community, which has signed up more than 200,000 people, is believed to be the first of its kind to start axing members amid growing concerns that such sites are being exploited by criminals trawling for personal information.The site organises more than 5,000 events a year in the UK. Its online discussion forums attract 1.2 million postings a year. Such activity means the site contains a vast amount of data on members' personal characteristics.Over the past two years the popularity of sites such as MySpace has rocketed. The stratospheric valuations of many of them has been largely predicated on the numbers of members they boast, but the dash to build up membership may mean some are becoming easy targets for scam artists, experts believe.Outeverywhere.com has identified 30,000 individuals who do not participate in any of its social networking events and therefore remain anonymous, and will email them to warn them they are about to be removed.
