A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSteve Jobs' reality distortion takes its toll on truth &gt;&gt; Fortune TechSeth Weintraub: "I have a lot of respect for Steve Jobs and Apple's products. It's just a shame that all the truth-bending destroys the keynotes."Wordpress.com Suffers Largest DDoS Attack In Its History &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWordpress founder Matt Mullenweg: "This is the largest and most sustained attack we've seen in our 6 year history. We suspect it may have been politically motivated against one of our non-English blogs but we're still investigating and have no definitive evidence yet."Who is Winning the U.S. Smartphone Battle? | Nielsen Wire"When it comes to consumer marketshare by operating system, Android (29%) appears to be pulling ahead of RIM Blackberry (27%) and Apple iOS (27%)." Android also more popular with young whippersnappers too, according to Nielsen.Where's the Next Bus in New York? I'll Tell You &gt;&gt; Design AgitatorAwesome, not least for the fact that it wasn't built by a super-specialist. Where's one for the UK, or at least London?Beware Top 10 Profile stalkers on Facebook and Twitter &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityWe're reminded of a Simpsons episode in which the newsreader pauses and then says "And now, a list of the celebrities for whom arrest warrants were issued today." These Facebook scams are now rivalling Windows viruses for regularity.Cole of Duty: Training Ground WarfareWe're laughing too much to shoot straight. Not that that makes any difference..Microsoft and Google jointly sue GeoTag Inc. in order to invalidate a patent asserted against more than 300 entities &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsFlorian Mueller: "The asserted patent has changed hands several times. Some of the previous owners were based in tax havens like Liechtenstein, the West Indies, and the British Virgin Islands. Approximately two years ago, one entity paid another "an aggregate consideration of nearly $119M for the '474 Patent and some other intellectual property", and it seems that it set up a subsidiary to which it assigned the patent. That subsidiary assumed the name of GeoTag, Inc. last summer."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
When the Berlin Wall fell, the western response was swift and obvious: send in the free-market economists. Soviet Communism was a system structured for failure that had left a group of governments and citizens in need of political and cultural tools, as well as knowledge of markets and the institutions they require to function.Professor Jeff Sachs, the economist, was dispatched to Polandand across the former Soviet Union (FSU). Funding streams were brought online and bright students from the eastern bloc attended Harvard Business School and learned about how markets work. There were also parallel democracy building programs established. Partnerships and exchanges proliferated and the Soviet-era systems were transformed to engage and contribute to the global market economy.As the Mubarak regime steps out of the way, Gaddafi's collapses, and as Tunisia continues to re-establish its democratic roots, similar questions are raised with less obvious answers: what can be done to alleviate the extreme unemployment and income gaps that plague these countries? Certainly, the removal of the authoritarian regimes that oversaw these systems is a tremendous first step, but what what else must happen to ensure that the conditions that spurred these uprisings improve?The answer is, in part, right in front of us if we look closely at the banners that were waved by brave protesters in Cairo's Tahrir Square featuring three well-known organisations:Facebook,Twitterandal-Jazeera. This new, more democratic configuration of media gave voice to new players.While the revolutions taking place are fuelled by the blood, sweat and tears of the brave protesters that fought for change, one central component that underlay and helped spark, mobilise and globalise these events is the rise of the information society. Satellite communication technologies, mobile smart phones and landline telephones turned into wifi networks were the nervous system that facilitated, maintained and publicised the protest movements.Wael Ghonim, the Egyptian born Google Marketing executive who tirelessly worked with new communication technologies and used his marketing smarts to help orchestrate the end of Mubarak's reign, is a new kind of information age hero.Of course, the corollary to the rise of the information society is the rise of the knowledge economy. The future of global growth will be found in the knowledge based corporations, and these industries are just now starting to emerge in the Middle East. Central to their success are ambitious, well-educated and innovative young minds thinking about how to use, adapt and innovate modern technologies to improve their societies.So what should the US do?Substantial improvement in telecommunication infrastructure, investment, laws and literacy is needed. Mobile phones may be prevalent, but internet penetration in Egypt is approximately 21%, and 34% in Tunisia, which are good figures for the region, but not compared to the rest of the world. More importantly, these internet connections are mostly at dial-up speeds, with content and service providers regulated by autocratic regulations focused on slowing and controlling rather than energising the flow of information.Just as Americans have recognised the need for faster and more flexible access to global information networks in order for the US to compete in the 21st-century global economy, Egyptians and Tunisians are grasping this, too. Transforming infrastructure established to allow for the unidirectional distribution of information from the state to its people into networks of collaboration and innovation requires radical reworking of the legal, technical and economic structures governing communications and telecommunications systems.The American private sector is poised to help. Silicon Valley is unmatched in the talent and capital required to radically transform the communications infrastructure which the Middle East so badly needs. Let's facilitate the exchanges between Cairo and Cupertino, Alexandria and Mountain View, as soon as possible.And let's share ideas that better sustain local communications networks and eliminate the possibility that a future Mubarak will even be able to technically switch off the internet. We know that Egypt can't immediately transform into a democratic union, but without a democratic information infrastructure, there is little likelihood that the gains made by protesters will be sustained. Equitably shared and unlicensed use of airwaves and community-controlled communications infrastructure are a good place to start.But this story isn't only about new technologies. Although new technologies have often allowed room for new voices, the fax machine didn't cause the Berlin Wall to crumble, neither did the smart phone bring down Mubarak. The skills required to develop and deploy solutions to locally generated demands are likely to come not from business schools, but from information-schools and computer science programmes. The newly democratic societies of tomorrow won't need people steeped narrowly in the monetarist economics ofFriedman and Schwartz, but in ideas fused from computer science, sociology, communication and human-computer interaction studies.If the United States is going to continue to be the beacon of democracy, it must realise that the beacon beats with a digital heart these days – and it must engage accordingly. But we'll need to be humble and not repeat the errors of eastern Europe, thinking we have all the right answers. The prescriptions of the economists were far from perfect, and partnerships, not diktats are what is needed now. It's about government understanding the new levels of citizen participation and becoming more accessible. In fact, learning could work in both directions – for the US, too, has much to learn about governing in the age of information.
One of the more intriguing buzz-phrases from last night's launch of the iPad 2 was "post PC', initially used by chief executive Steve Jobs as a catch-all category for Apple's iPod, iPhone and iPad products. However, he came back to the idea right at the end of his presentation, specifically relating it to tablets."Our competitors are looking at this like it's the next PC market," he said. "That is not the right approach to this. These are post-PC devices that need to be easier to use than a PC, more intuitive. The hardware and software need to intertwine more than they do on a PC. We think we're on the right path with this."This rhetoric was quickly picked up on by Forrester analyst Sarah Rotman Epps, who published a blog post hailing the iPad 2, and running with the post-PC rhetoric."In a post-PC world, consumers have a more intimate relationship with their devices. They use them on the couch and in bed and not just at their desk. They show their devices to other people (40% of iPad owners in Forrester's surveys report regularly sharing their iPad with other people)."You could just as easily call this "a couch potato world" if you were being flippant. Loafing about on the sofa emailing, surfing and social networking is one of the key uses for the new generation of tablets, even if Apple's TV ads have yet to feature a man in his pants tweeting abuse about The X Factor's Wagner. Give it time.What's interesting is how apps can tap into these behavioural patterns. The trends can seem contradictory. Many games developers see tablets as a chance to make richer, more immersive games, because people are playing for longer sessions on the sofa, rather than in five- or 10-minute bursts on the go.On the other hand, apps are emerging that are designed around the way the user's attention may be flitting to other forms of entertainment in their living room, such as music or TV.Social app GetGlue, which enables people to check in Foursquare-style to TV shows, albums and other media, is one well-established example. In the US, broadcaster ABC has released a pair of iPad apps for use while watching specific shows – My Generation and Grey's Anatomy – using a combination of the iPad mic and audio watermarks to synchronise the app's content with the show.As more research emerges about tablet usage patterns, developers will have more to go on when coming up with innovative app ideas for these devices – although this second-screen behaviour is just as applicable to smartphones and netbooks.Developing apps for the post-PC era? It's a bombastically naff corporate motto for the taking. You might prefer the earthier version though: making apps for couch potatoes. Steve Jobs might raise an eyebrow at the lingo, but he'd surely approve of the sentiment.
You just have to love this: every version of Windows, from 1.0 through to 7, installed one after the other onto a virtual machine (kudos to VMWare, chosen because of its "excellent screenshot and video capability").The question is: how robust is it? Can youreallydo all that updating? You have to start with MS-DOS 5.0, of course, because early versions of Windows needed that.It's a bit hairy and config.sys-y in the early versions up to 3.1.But what's really impressive is that Doom 2 and Monkey Island - installed right at the beginning - work all the way through, right up to Windows 7. Well, apart from in Windows2000, where it hung at the start (lack of DOS support).Well done Andrew Tait, alias Rasteri, theYouTube/Reddituser who had the enormous patience to do all this. Especially for sounding like Sean Connery all the way through. "It is indeed possible to upgrade through every version of Windows.. and have some settings remain. This is nearly 20 years of application compatibility and Microsoft should be applauded."That's why you chose "Chain of Fools" for the music, right, Andrew?OK, now watch:So now we want to see someone try this with Mac OS - can it be done all the way from System 1 to, well, where can you get to? Bit of a problem with Snow Leopard, which won't install except on Intel machines, compared with the earliest versions, which are of course are PowerPC-only.
The overall growth in PC sales will be cut dramatically over the next two years as people in the US and Europe choose tablets such as Apple's iPad 2 rather than buying laptops, says research company Gartner.The slowdown marks a new trend in which "PCs' limitations are being exposed", the company said, because they do not offer the portability or battery life that smartphones – which have already begun outselling PCs – and now tablets offer.Hot on the heels of the iPad 2 launch in San Francisco on Wednesday evening, Gartner's research director Ranjit Atwal lowered the company's forecast for the number of PCs – excluding tablets – that will be sold this year to 387.8m, a 10.5% increase on 2010, rather than the 406.6m (representing 15.9% growth) it had suggested at the end of December.Last October itforecastthat there will be 54.8m tablets sold in 2011 – up from its estimate of 19.5m in 2010 – with around half of those going to North America. Rival analyst company IDC calculates that 17m tablets were sold, of which 85% were Apple's iPad.The company had already cut its forecast for PC growth last November, revising it downward from an expectation of 17.9% growth, as it saw people opting for tablets and smartphones. That means the company has almost halved its growth expectation in just four months – and in previous years it has continually revised its forecast downward in the face of slowing demand.Atwal said that there is "a general loss in consumer enthusiasm for mobile PCs" – representing notebooks and netbooks.That is key because notebook and netbook sales have been the driver of the PC market's increase, in some cases showing annual growth of 40%. But the spread of Wi-Fi and other connectivity, plus the growth of smartphones – whichfor the first time outsold PCs, in the final quarter of 2010– means portable computers are less important in peoples' lives than before.Gartner has also cut its forecast for 2012, reckoning 440.6m PCs will be sold then, up 13.6% from 2011 – rather than the 14.8% growth it had expected.The downwards revision compares with overall growth in 2010 of 13.8% (compared to 2009), when 350.9m units shipped by Gartner's figures. Rival research company IDC, which uses slightly different measurement techniques reckons that 364.2m PCs were sold.The cumulative effect of the arrival last year of Apple's iPad, and now the revised iPad 2, along with a number of rival tablets offering Google's Android system, is to make consumers think twice before buying a second PC. The limited battery life and weight have begun to show portable computers in an unfavourable light."We expect growing consumer enthusiasm for mobile PC alternatives, such as the iPad and other media tablets, to dramatically slow home mobile PC sales, especially in mature markets," said George Shiffler, the company's research director. "We once thought that mobile PC growth would continue to be sustained by consumers buying second and third mobile PCs as personal devices. However, we now believe that consumers are not only likely to forgo additional mobile PC buys but are also likely to extend the lifetimes of the mobile PCs they retain as they adopt media tablets and other mobile PC alternatives as their primary mobile device. Overall, we now expect home mobile PCs to average less than 10% annual growth in mature markets from 2011 through 2015."Even the "professional" market, where PCs are used for business, will see some cases where ageing PCs are not replaced and instead company buy tablets. "Media tablets are being considered as PC substitutes, likely at least delaying some PC replacements," said Raphael Vasquez, senior research analyst at Gartner.The slowing trend overall may include drops in growth in some regions. That was already apparent at the end of 2010, when Gartner found that PCs sales in the US declined by 6.6% – yet tablet sales took off.
A friend received a phone call out of the blue yesterday from a company claiming that her computer showed a number of problems which they would be able to fix remotely. My friend doesn't know a great deal about computers and was persuaded to part with £200 for a four-year contract, allowing the company to access her machine to fix any problems. She told me she was thrilled to see her cursor moving around the screen "all by itself", which seems to indicate the company had, indeed, gained control of her computer. I looked up the company on the net and they do seem to have a solidly-based operation, in business since 2007 with a money-back guarantee. Two questions: How did they get her phone number and know she was a computer user? And surely letting anyone have access to your computer remotely isn't a good idea. They may be in there to fix problems, but what's to stop them having a rummage around your private information while they're there?Robin O'ConnorYou don't mention the name of the firm or the website's address, but I'd be worried, and I strongly recommend making further checks. Although the UK's Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) now has the power to police marketing on the web – as from 1 March – it's not going to have much if any impact on sites that are not controlled by UK firms. Claims that the firm has been in business since 2007 and offers a money-back guarantee may not be true. Spelling mistakes and bad grammar often give scam sites away, but even a solid-looking website is no guarantee, because the design could easily have been stolen from a reputable company.In the answer to a question aboutUnwanted support callsin 2009, I pointed out that: "There's nothing fundamentally wrong with remote support: it's a service built into Windows, and offered by, for example, the very reputableGeek Squadin the UK." However, I also warned against companies "cold calling", possibly from India, who "may seem to imply they are calling from Microsoft, but they aren't".These companies claim there is something wrong with your PC and offer to fix it remotely. Since your PC doesn't have anything wrong with itas far as they know(they make the same offer to Mac and Linux users), and they don't actually fix anything, this amounts to fraud. They may install legitimate anti-virus software, but they could just as easily install "back door" programs to collect personal details or install malware. As you say, this puts personal data at risk.You ask: "How did they get her phone number and know she was a computer user?" I suspect they got her phone number from leaked data sold cheaply on the black market, or leaked from an Indian call centre, though they could be working from phone books. Nowadays, the majority of UK homes have at least one Windows PC, so it wouldn't take many calls to find a potential victim.Either way, this "cold calling" approach has grown dramatically over the past 18 months, with scammers frequently offering Windows services. (Other pitches seem to include replacement Sky boxes and Dyson maintenance.) We have covered the story in depth, and I recommend that you get your friend to read at least two of Charles Arthur's excellent reports:Virus phone scam being run from call centres in India(18 July 2010) and'Microsoft support centre' scam continues, and takes turn for worse(1 March 2011). Ask her if anything in those sounds familiar. Microsoft absolutely will not phone anyone out of the blue, and reputable computer service companies don't "cold call" home users, so I suspect it will.If your friend has been scammed, she could try the company's money-back guarantee. (The UK'sDistance Selling regulationsprovide at least a seven-day cooling off period, if that applies.) But often the best approach is to contact the credit card issuer and get the transaction reversed. This may involve getting a crime number from her local police station. Cancelling charges has an impact on credit card suppliers and makes them less likely to deal with the companies set up by scammers.She should also report what happened toAction Fraud, the UK's national fraud reporting centre, if only to get the sum added to the £4bn defrauded from British citizens, according toNational Fraud Authority (NFA) estimates. Your friend can call Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or use the fraud reporting form on its website.Unfortunately, but perhaps understandably, the "Windows service" scam does not appear to be a high priority at Action Fraud: it's probably a small part of the £38bn in losses just announced in the Annual Fraud Indicator. However, searching its site finds an advisory note from 10 November 2010 with the headlineIdentity theft scam warnings. This says: "People are being warned to be on the look-out for scams designed to trick them into divulging their personal details, following an increase in the number of complaints to Consumer Direct and Trading Standards."Consumer Direct and Trading Standards have also reported a recent increase in complaints about a scam using Microsoft's name that targets internet users. Victims receive a phone call from someone claiming to be from Microsoft. The customer is directed to a website that allows the caller remote access to the customer's computer. The fraudster then appears to make a number of "fixes" to their computer. In fact, they gain access to the victim's personal information, often by installing malware. Again, this personal information can be used to commit fraud.If everybody reported attempts at "Windows service" fraud – and there must be thousands every day – that would raise its profile.Sad to say, as things stand, I can't see anything affecting the few hundred people sitting in an Indian call centre, using internet connections to call UK numbers at negligible cost and sell unwanted services. Still, tell all your friends. The calls will stop when everybody knows it's a scam and they can't get any takers, though I expect they'll just switch to a different scam instead.
Apple has cut the price of the original iPad by £100 to £329 on its website "while stocks last" - though it's hard to know whether those stocks will last until the iPad 2, retailing from £429, arrives on March 25.Meanwhile you canpre-order Motorola's Xoom10-inch tablet from Dixon's in the UK: £499 gets you the 32GB version (the 32GB version of the iPad 2 doesn't have a price yet, but given the £70 delta between the 16GB and 32GB versions, it looks like the two will be level-pegging).Release date for the Xoom in the UK hasn't been announced yet, though it is expected by sources close to the company to be some time in April.From a hands-on with Honeycomb at Mobile World Congress in March (on a Samsung tablet), I would say that some of its tweaks seem to be trying too hard: the "carousel" effect of videos is flashy rather than informative, and some of the touch icons don't seem to be intuitive at all. (You can hear meinterviewing Fraser Speirs, who has to evaluate tablets for schools, in the Tech Weekly podcast from a couple of weeks ago.)Meanwhile the Xoom might or might not have Flash Player available by the time it comes out in the UK - but that won't help itsHTML5 performance.So, on balance, are you going to buy a Xoom?And if so,what do you intend to do with it- as in what specific purposes do you have in mind that you think it will be well-suited to? Because nobody buys something at that price just because it fulfils specifications.
Is it just me, or is theDouble Fineof 2011 channeling the spirit of DMA Design, circa 1996-99? Tim Schafer has just used GDC to reveal his studio's latest development, Trenched, a sort of darkly comic multiplayer mech shooter. Earth has been invaded by aliens and mankind's only defence is a unit of soldiers who command mobile trench robots, which appear to be massively customisable. "Turn no-man's land intorealman's land," goes the tagline.Typically, it looks thoroughly entertaining, and has a similar sense of stylised visual fun as Stacking and Costume Quest. Indeed, the company's output since it abandoned retail releases in favour of a digital business model, reminds me a lot of what Lemmings creator Dave Jones was overseeing at his DMA studio in the mid-nineties – eccentric ludic experiments created by small more-or-less autocratic teams. Already, in Trenched, there are hints of Body Harvest, DMA's N64 alien invasion shooter (which also had a '50s sci-fi movie feel), as well as Tanktics, a PC title in which you could build and modify your own mechanical battle vehicles.DoubleFine has the same desire to match innovative concepts with playful aesthetics, and crucially it's doing it at the right time. DMA's mid-nineties output was too flawed and idiosyncratic to fare well in the retail space – its spirit would have been perfect for this era.Anyway, Trenched is being developed for Xbox Live Arcade. Check out the trailer and let us know what you think.
During a keynote at theGame Developers Conferencein San Francisco yesterday, Nintendo President Satoru Iwata gave potential3DSpurchasers the news they've been waiting for: Mario is coming. Although the Italian plumber was always expected to appear on the console, this was the official confirmation. The title will be apparently feature, 'traditional Mario gameplay' and according to Nintendo's press release:Will fulfil the dream of Nintendo video game designer (and Mario creator) Shigeru Miyamoto to bring true depth and distance into the game's mechanics.The Nintendo team responsible for Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2 is handling development duties, but there's no firm release date. It looks like we'll be finding out much more at E3.Iwata-san also revealed details of a new Virtual Console service for the device, which, like the Wii and DS versions, will allow users to download conversions of classic titles. Intriguingly, this won't just include Game Boy and Game Boy Color games, there will also be titles from the Sega Game Gear handheld and NEC's cult TurboGrafx-16 console (also known as the PC Engine), launched in the late-eighties. The latter machine was famed for its brilliant 2D shooters, including GunHed, Gradius and Strider.Nintendo is also planning a series of "3D Classics", veteran titles given a 3D makeover. Current DSiWare titles will also be available on the platform, as will an internet browser and a shortform video download feature, allowing owners to view clips of music videos and movie trailers.But it's the confirmation of a brand new Mario adventure that will excite Nintendo fans. Miyamoto's creation has always been inextricably linked with the company's hardware launches, his games providing showcases of the available technology – Super Mario Bros defined the 8- and 16bit eras, while Super Mario 64 brought Nintendo into the era of polygonal graphics. It could be that a platform adventure is just the thing to show off the gameplay value of stereoscopic perception – those tricky-to-judge jumps into 3D space will surely be easier if we have some depth perception.The Nintendo 3DS will launch in the UK on March 25.*Unless you count his sort of 2.5D appearances in severalVirtual Boytitles.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Here's what folks around the web have to say about theiPad 2 announcement, with the machine to ship in the US on 11 March and in the UK and other countries on 25 March.Carolina Milanesi, vp of research in consumer technologies at Gartner, says:Competitors have a new benchmark. As they roll out their first-generation devices, Apple has moved the game to the next level - offering more for the same price, and giving users an option to go from the basic model to the high-end model, while competitors - at least for now - only match the high-end model. That gives Apple a larger addressable market. If competitors will come down on price it will certainly be done with a compromise on specifications, even if it is just on the screen size. With Apple you do not compromise your overall experience."Competitors are making the same mistake that mobile vendors made with their response to iPhone: they are making the battle about hardware, and with tablets this is even less the case than it was for smartphones. What you are empowered to do with your tablet makes the difference."Apple's approach is very different from other competitors. Look at the front camera. They could have had it in the first generation, butFacetimewas not ready. They tested out Facetime on iPhone, moved it to the Mac and rolled it out to iPad so that they have a solution to offer - not just a feature for the sake of it."The smart covers are another example of how much Apple thinks about the overall experience, and the kind of attention to detail they have."(If you haven't seen the smart covers - which are roll-up magnetically-attached covers which become a stand either horizontally or vertically - there's avideo on Apple's site. It's quite intriguing.)Sarah Rotman of Forrester reckons thatiPad 2 will claim 80% of the US tablet market share in 2011:"Apple understands desire. The first thing consumers will notice about the iPad 2 is how it feels: Lighter (by a crucial 2 ounces) and thinner (at 8.8mm, thinner than an iPhone 4). Color triggers emotion: iPad 2 comes in not just black but white, with multiple colors in the thin "smart covers" that snap into place with "auto-aligning magnets" and clean those unsightly fingerprints off your screen. The rest is important but more cerebral..."In a post-PC world, consumers have a more intimate relationship with their devices. They use them on the couch and in bed and not just at their desk. They show their devices to other people (40% of iPad owners in Forrester's surveys report regularly sharing their iPad with other people). Fostering that desire is a smart way to differentiate your piece of glass from other pieces of glass that perform essentially the same functions."That "post-PC world comment is an interesting one: note thatPC sales are slowing in the US, and are likely to do the same in Europe (certainly western Europe). If companies need growth, they need to find it in other devices - smartphones and tablets.Emarketer reckons that Apple's share of the global tablet market reached 85% by the end of 2010, and despite the rush of new tablet devices from other manufacturers; it estimates the company will account for 78% of global tablet sales in 2011. Further estimates: Apple will sell 34m iPads worldwide in 2011, up from more than 13m in 2010. (In his speech Jobs said 15m were sold.) Overall tablet sales are expected to reach an estimated 43.6m units worldwide this year, up from just 15.7m in 2010 by eMarketer estimates.At Computerworld Preston Gralla argues that "the Motorola Xoom is [still] a clear winner" - basically, arguing that the Android Market plus the Google integration, plus the coming-soon Flash and various OS elements (such as notifications and synchronisation) mean Motorola's 10-inch tablet, despite being more expensive, is the winner.Certainly it's an argument if you have a Google account, and like Google's products, especially Maps. Does it hold the same attraction if you're a Hotmail or Yahoo user?Business Insider hasa graphic comparing the two(classic tickboxing) for which it concludes that "the iPad 2 is still thinner, lighter and more affordable".Over at CNet,Chris Matyszczyk points to Jobs's closing statement: "It's in Apple's DNA that technology alone is not enough. It's technology married with liberal arts, humanities, that yields us the result that makes our heart sing. And nowhere is that more true than in these post-PC devices. And a lot of folks in this tablet market are rushing in and looking at this as the next PC."Matyszczyk comments:"For those involved in the creation, production, and development of tech products, it's so easy to let the mind fall into the chasms that please the most: the numbers, the power, the speed, the essential gadgetry of the machine... Apple, though, believes, and with some justification, that it simply isn't in the gadget business. It sees its competitors precisely as the nerds, the geeks, but not the romantics. It sees them as more prepared to play with their gadgets for the gadgets' sake, rather than to enhance their experience of life somewhere out there. These are not the guys who will get the girl..."The contrast couldn't be clearer between Jobs' presentation of the iPad 2 and the recent Verizon ad for the Motorola Xoom. While the former emphasized lightness, music, and movies, the latter talked gyroscopes."And that's a telling insight. People who aren't IT administrators don't tend to choose between tablets based on the gigahertz of the CPU (Applehasn't even released figures there, simply said that the A5 chip is dual-coresays the A5 chip is 1GHz, though you have todig into the specs for that.) They choose based on what they can do with it. When you compare the number of apps and the amount of content available for Apple's tablets and Android tablets - where the video and music services are still vaguely promised, but not yet realised, and where there are fewer than 100 designed-for-tablet apps - then it looks like the Xoom and its kin still have an uphill battle.And that's even before people start looking at the price tag.Update:Horace Dediu of Asymco, who has been one of the most accurate forecasters on the iPad front, points out that the 100m ebooks sold through iBooks in 11 months might sound impressive... untli you compare it to apps and music downloads through Apple's other online stores. If you adjust for time, it'smiles behind both downloaded music and downloaded apps.But that might be because it's only the iPad on which ebooks really make sense, and those only took off slowly too - half the total sold were in the fourth quarter.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple hits back in "App Store" trademark row &gt;&gt; PC Pro"Microsoft claimed in arguments to the US Patent and Trademark Office that 'App Store' was too widely used for a shop selling apps to be claimed by Apple, which first used the term for its online shop more than two years ago. Apple, however, has accused Microsoft of stretching the truth with 'confused and misleading' arguments, adding that the company that has traded on its 'Windows' trademark for years was in no position to argue over 'genericness'. 'What it offers... are out-of-context and misleading snippets of material printed by its outside counsel from the internet and allegations regarding how the public allegedly interprets the constituent parts of the term 'App Store',' Apple said in a submission to the patents office. 'Having itself faced a decades-long genericness challenge to its claimed Windows mark, Microsoft should be well aware that the focus in evaluating genericness is on the mark as a whole.' Translation from legal-speak: nyaah.High Court Orders Cessation of Twitter Intellectual Property Theft &gt;&gt; Officebroker.com"A landmark legal case has led to the High Court ordering a company to delete comments it made on social networking site Twitter. "The background to the high profile legal proceedings was that Instant Offices Ltd had unlawfully created web content by copying parts of the website of competitor officebroker.com." Someone tell Google!Groundhog Day: 15 years of e-government &gt;&gt; Centre for Technology Policy ResearchBut without Bill Murray. Or the groundhog. A seriously depressing recantation.UnLtdWorld acquired by Guardian Media Group &gt;&gt; UnLtdWorldOH HAI UNLTDWORLD.Can Data Predict Political Revolutions? &gt;&gt; The AtlanticIt's not internet penetration, or Facebook use; generally, youth unemployment and levels of government subsidy for bread that indicates what can happen. But this is an interesting examination too.BlackBerry PlayBook launching on April 10th &gt;&gt; BGRUm, that's about it, really. Still no price. From what we've seen it's a nice piece of equipment - but from Thursday onwards it has something of a challenge.11.6 hours survey scam spreads like wildfire on Twitter &gt;&gt; Naked Security"A rogue application has caught Twitter users off their guard today, with thousands of people duped into clicking on links believing that it will reveal how many hours they have spent on Twitter." Ho hum. Another day on the internet.Open letter to Nokia &gt;&gt; Nokia Support DiscussionsFrom October, but still encapsulates a lot about the company's problems - in an amusing way: "Can we talk? This isn't easy. We've been together now for over ten years and, well, it's not working out. It's not me, it's you. "I still remember when we first met. It was at university, some 13 years ago. Do you remember? We were inseparable! I took you everywhere I went: we used to spend hours talking and texting. "Texting was new back then, do you remember? You were really good at it...." Stay with it to the end...What Happens When You Build 10,000 Dodgy Links to a New Domain in 24 Hours? &gt;&gt; SEOptimiseDoes Google notice? Or not? It's not as simple as you might think. Or as encouraging.Watch Out iPad, Honeycomb Has 16 Tablet Apps! &gt;&gt; Gigaom"The tablet apps I've used – CNN, Pulse, Cordy and Accu Weather, among others – all do take advantage of the larger screen and new controls that Honeycomb provides. So from an end-user perspective, these apps are on the right track to help Google tablets compete against the iPad. There just aren't enough of them yet, and that means potential buyers will primarily judge devices based on apps designed for the smaller screen. Unfortunately, the experience is generally a turn-off for some of the top-tier titles right now. Facebook's home screen looks silly due to tiny icons on a relatively huge display. Twitter's text is small and hard to read. And even the popular Angry Birds game appears slightly less crisp and more blocky on the Xoom's 1280Ã—800 resolution display. Both the native Google Books, as well as Amazon's Kindle app do work well, so the e-book reading experience, at least, is solid."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's not hard to read Steve Jobs' surprise appearance at Wednesday's iPad 2 unveiling as a mark of desperation. Is Apple so in need of a boost to its share price that it needed to haul Jobs out of medical leave?The audience was thrilled that Jobs showed up: "We've been working on this product for a while, and I didn't want to miss it. Thank you for having me," he told the audience.All Things Digital's Kara Swisher said it would be so.But was his appearance designed to distract us from an underwhelming launch? His introduction seemed to try even harder than usual to build up Apple and to knock its rivals - from ebook and app download numbers to dismissing the competition's attempts at tablets.What were we left withafter that? A faster processor, a dual-core A5 chip, that will mean it can operate twice as fast and render graphics up to nine times faster.A front-facing camera that will allow Apple to push Facetime, but was an obvious omission from the first iPad and one that Apple, rather annoyingly deliberately held back so it had something to add this time around. A less logical rear-facing camera - who's going to use the iPad to shoot anything?Those improvements could all have been made to the original iPad, though you can't count a black and white version as an improvement. Lighter, thinner, maybe. Is there really much incentive to buy an iPad 2?The stats Apple revealed are more impressive, all designed as part of that share-boosting drive: 100m iPhones shipped, 200m iTunes accounts and more than $2bn paid to developers. That means Apple's own revenue from apps has been$6.6bn[Apple takes 30% commission - not 70%!] $2.8bn. If the news industry doesn't revolt, and if Apple's rivals don't make too much headway on paid-for apps, Apple will be making a lot more in that direction.But Steve Jobs' appearance undermined Apple's obligation to cultivate a new public face of Apple, apparently for the short-term benefit of a stock-price boost. Long term, that's succeeded in keeping the succession the main story.
Apple's Steve Jobs has made a surprise appearance  to show off the company's updated version of its iPad tablet computer, and to knock copycats which he said had not yet caught up with the company's original version released last year.The newer iPad, which adds a front camera for video calls and a camera on the back for taking pictures, is thinner and faster than its predecessor. It is also available for the first time in white.It will retail for the same price when it becomes available from 11 March in the US and from 25 March in the UK and other countries.Though he looked frail and thin, the presence of Jobs, 56, instantly boosted the company's stock price by $3 (£1.83), a 1% rise, and he was given a standing ovation from the audience of industry figures and executives in the Yerba Buena centre in San Francisco.In January, Jobs took indefinite medical leave from working at the company he co-founded – believed to be due to a recurrence of the cancer first diagnosed in 2004. He was, however, animated as he said: "We've been working on this product for a while, and I didn't want to miss it. Thank you for having me."Dismissing rivals' attempts at producing alternatives to the iPad as high-priced and low-selling, with few applications available for them, he also had news that underlined Apple's increasingly aggressive moves into the ebook market.Jobs said that the publisher Random House is joining the iBooks scheme for the iPad, bringing 17,000 publications, and that there had been 100m ebooks downloaded in the past year.Separately, he pointed to Apple's increasing grip on the online content market, noting that the iTunes Store, through which books, music, films and apps are sold, now has 200m accounts worldwide – making it the biggest credit card account holder on the web.Meanwhile, he said, Apple has now sold 100m iPhones, and developers have earned $2bn from selling apps on Apple's online store."We've sold 15m iPads in nine months, that's more than every tablet PC [from Microsoft] ever sold," he said. "We got over 90% market share. Our competitors were flummoxed."Industry reports from Apple suppliers suggest that the company hopes to ship around 40m of the devices this year.However, analysts are still predicting that products based around Google's free Android operating system will eventually overhaul Apple.Adam Leach of the research company Ovum said: "Devices based on Google's platforms will only overtake those based on Apple's platform by 2015, when we forecast 36% and 35% market shares respectively of a total market with shipments of approximately 150m units in 2015. This compares with Ovum's estimate of 10% for Google and 90% for Apple at the end of 2010."Microsoft has still failed to make any impact on the fast-growing market, which is beginning to show signs of eating into its traditional stronghold of PCs, from which it derives most of its revenue. In the US, PC sales have begun to flatten, partly because people are buying tablets instead, analysts say.Microsoft might not have a response to Apple's and Google's platforms before 2012, when it is expected to release a new version of Windows designed for tablets.Meanwhile other companies including BlackBerry maker Research in Motion and Hewlett-Packard have announced that they will release tablets based on their own software later this year.The new iPad will continue to solidify Apple's stranglehold on the tablet market according to Forrester Research analyst Sarah Rotman Epps. iPad 2 will claim 80% of the US tablet market this year according to Forrester's projections. Of the more than 24m tablets that will be sold to US consumers in 2011, at least 20m will be iPads.Shiny new ApplesThinner, lighter, faster – Apple has added a touch of Air to the second version of the iPad. The front and rear-facing cameras, the biggest omission from iPad 1, have nowarrived, though the iPad is an unwieldy camera. A gyroscope catches up with iPod Touch and iPhone, and the new A5 processor means better screen performance and faster graphics. Obsessives will lust after the trophy-white iPad – whose promised cousin the white iPhone 4 never appeared – while a pleasant surprise was the fingerprint-removing smart case. But Steve Jobs's surprise appearance, which instantly upped Apple's share price by 1%, may have helped boost an underwhelming launch, which largely consisted of bragging about the iPad's dominance and introducing features that were always notably absent from the first iPad.Jemima Kiss
Block 327.27pm:Here's an executive summary of Wednesday's Apple press conference:•The iPad 2, available in the US from 11 March and in Europe from 25 March, is 33% thinner and 0.2 pounds lighter than its months-old predecessor. It has front and rear-facing cameras, comes in both white and black, and will cost the same as the first-generation iPad. It uses a dual-core processor, which makes it faster than the original iPad, and has the same 10-hour battery life.•Steve Jobs, Apple's indefatigable chief executive currently on a medical leave of absence, took to the stage, shocking a usually unshockable technology world to its core.•A new version of Apple's operating system, iOS 4.3, will be released for the iPhone, iPad and fourth-generation iPod Touch, later this month. It will include improved Safari browser performance, improvements for AirPlay and new iMovie and Garageband apps for the iPad.•Random Houseis newly signed-up to Apple's iBooks store, bringing 17,000 ebooks with it.• Apple recently shipped the100millionth iPhone, and the 200 millionth iTunes and App Store account. More than $2bn has been paid to independent developers since the App Store's launch.Block 317.12pm:And that's it from Jobs. No One More Thing. Hard Days Night by The Beatles plays us out. Get ready for a full-fat summary of what Apple just announced.Block 307.11pm:"It's in Apple's DNA that technology alone is not enough. It's technology married with liberal arts, married with humanities. Nowhere is that more true than in these post-PC devices," says Jobs.Block 297.04pm:Jobs introduces the iPad 2 video, featuring Jonathan "Jony" Ive. Stand by for One More Thing.Block 287.03pm:Garageband in iPad 2 App Store on 11 March at $4.99.Block 277.02pm:Steve Jobs is back on stage. Remember, no one expected him here. "I'm blown away by this stuff," he says. "It's unbelievable."Block 266.57pm:The Apple site's iPad 2 takeoveris live. But before you evacuate in droves, we've got Apple's One More Thing yet to come. (And has RIM or Samsung hit back at Jobs yet?)Block 256.56pm:"Another great feature of these drums [on Garageband] is that your kids can play them...with headphones on"Block 246.51pm:Now a demonstration of Garageband – pronounced "Gerarjeband" – for iPad, complete with touch instruments, 200+ loops, 8 track recording and mixing. iMovie for iPad will be $4.99, available 11 March.Block 236.44pm:Jobs back on stage, introducing the iMovie app for iPad 2. Now being demonstrated.Block 226.35pm:iOS 4.3 lets users choose how to use the right-sided switch, which started life as rotation lock and annoyingly evolved into a mute button. iOS 4.3 for iPhone 4 users comes with personal hotspot.Block 216.33pm:iPad 2 will ship with iOS 4.3, with improved Safari performance, iTunes home sharing, improvements to AirPlay (which launched only months ago). Presumably iOS 4.3 will be available for those ancient first-generation iPads. Remember them?Block 206.30pm:Just been treated to a "Pixar short" video showcasing the smart cover, which does look canny smart – but won't make Apple any friends in the accessories trade.Block 196.26pm:For $39 – a HDMI cable for mirrored video output.Smart covers for iPad 2 can be adapted to prop it up, wake it up, and put it to sleep – and clean it (a big bugbear for many people).Block 186.24pm:"We think 2011 will be the year of the iPad 2," says Jobs. It will ship in the US from 11 March – a week on Friday – and across Europe, including the UK, from 25 March. Does that mean no iPad 3 this year?Block 176.22pm:Also models for both Verizon and AT&amp;T, hello US readers.iPad 2 will have same 10 hour battery life as predecessor, claims Jobs. It will also have the same price, starting at $499 for 16GB WiFi only.Block 166.21pm:Being thinner, it's also lighter by – drumroll – 0.2 pounds. You can also get a white iPad 2 – from day one (something that never happened with the iPhone 4).Block 156.20pm:iPad 2 is 33% thinner than its (hardly chunky) predecessor – actually thinner than the iPhone 4.Block 146.18pm:Completely new design, faster because of a new "A5" chip – twice as fast on CPU performance, nine times faster graphics, same low power (battery life) as A4 chip. The first dual-core processor to ship in volume, says Jobs.Cameras: rear and front-facing cameras. And a gyroscope, as with iPhone and iPod Touch.Block 136.17pm:Jobs asks: "Is 2011 the year of the copycats? Most of these tablets aren't even catching up with the first iPad."Stand to attention for iPad 2 details...Block 126.15pm:Presently being treated to an extended advert of people – doctors, teachers, Apple employees – saying how ruddy good the iPad actually is, in case you hadn't already got the gist. Phil Schiller, Apple's vice president of global product marketing, expected on stage shortly.Block 116.09pm:After a dig at Samsung – the iPad's closest competitor with its Galaxy Tab – Jobs showcases the best of 65,000 iPad-tailored apps, including Rupert Murdoch's The Daily. Has Jobs's opening salvo set a new record for smugness?Block 106.07pm:Apple sold almost 15m iPads in 2010 (nine months, April to December). More than every tablet PC ever sold, claims Jobs, generating $9.5bn in revenue in 2010. "Competitors were flummoxed, they went back to drawing boards." Modesty is the best policy.Block 96.05pm:Apple recently shipped 100 millionth iPhone. Jobs bills iPad 2 as "third post-PC blockbuster" – iPod in 2001, iPhone in 2007, an the iPad last year.Block 86.04pm:"We recently reached 200 million accounts [iTunes, App Store and iBooks combined] – accounts with credit cards and one-click purchasing," says Jobs. Paid out over $2bn to developers in total.Block 76.03pm:"We've been working on this product for a while and I didn't want to miss this event," says Jobs.Straight on to iBooks. More than 100m books downloaded in less than a year. Today announcing that Random House bringing 17,000 ebooks to iBooks – that was expected.Block 66.03pm:Good gracious, it's Steve Jobs on stage!Block 56.01pm:Word from the Yerba Buena is that Jonathan Ive, Apple's indispensable Brit with fingerprints on the iPod, iPhone and iPad, is near the stage. Expect a cheeky nod to those rumours that he's off?Block 45.59pm:Has Cook already made his mark on Apple press conferences? No Jack Johnson to warm up. Two Beatles songs, no less: With A Little Help From My Friends and now Here Comes The Sun. I'm not complaining.Block 35.56pm:Four minutes to go. No sightings of Steve Jobs yet, as expected. Phil Schiller, Apple's product marketing man, and Tim Cook, the stand-in chief executive, are both near the Yerba Buena stage.We're not in San Francisco, unfortunately. We're opposite Wood Lane tube station in deepest London – otherwise known as BBC TV Centre. And, yes, Rory Cellan-Jones is here.Block 25.35pm:Welcome, and as everyone takes seats, here's something to chew on:Digitimes reportsthat Apple is expecting to ship around 6.5m iPads in Q1, with 300-400,000 iPad 2s in the first batch. And for the whole year? 40m.Meanwhile Adam Leach, principal analyst at Ovum, forecasts that "the platform dominance of Apple and Google will continue through 2011 and beyond, albeit with devices based on Google's software platform commanding an increasing proportion of the total market opportunity."However, devices based on Google's platforms will only overtake those based on Apple's platform by 2015, when we forecast 36% and 35% market shares respectively, of a total market with shipments of approximately 150m units in 2015. This compares with Ovum's estimate of 10% for Google and 90% for Apple at the end of 2010."150m units in 2015? The interesting point there being that there's another 29% share there for other OSs - which would be what? Windows? RIM? WebOS? Let us know your thoughts. Oh, and the RIM PlayBook isrumoured to be coming out on April 10th. Will you buy that?Block 1WelcomeWelcome to the liveblog. It's a busy day and even while Apple's executive were still mumbling their lines to get them right, into our inbox dropped the first "iPad 2 case" release of the day - which you cansee on Facebook. Y'know, to us they look exactly like... iPad sleeves. Something we missed?More to the point, Apple's teaser suggests this is where we will find out "what this will be the year of". Rumours suggest, obviously, an updated iPad, but also perhaps some new details about iOS 5 - could it have better notifications that the work-blocking ones of the present iPhone/iPad system? - and maybe something involving the cloud, where the paid-for MobileMe service becomes a tiered service which includes "Find my Mac" (we were hoping for "Find my keys" and possibly "Find my train ticket", but, well) and also includes some method to listen to music and other content you've bought on the iTunes Store anywhere you like.Oh, and what about Apple TV, that slightly-unloved thing? Any forecasts for that?And for those who have a moment to divert: The Oatmeal on "What it's like to own an Apple Product". Go on, you'll laugh.
Google famously prides itself on the relevance of the results produced by its search engine algorithm, so it seems strange to suggest that the search function in its Android Market store could do with more work.Plenty of developers have suggested exactly that since its launch, though. Android Market is fine if you're searching for a specific app or are happy to browse through a lengthy scrolling chart, but beyond that, app discovery on Google's store could be better.Google knows this, and has made several improvements to Android Market in recent months, most recently with the launch of a web version. Other companies are seeing an opportunity to fill the gaps in Google's store, though, with two in the news this week: Chomp and Amazon.Chomp has been around for a while, having launched an iPhone recommendations app in January 2010. Back then, its big feature was social, presenting users with a feed of app recommendations from their friends.This week, Chomp launched an elegantly stripped-down Android version which is much more focused on searching and browsing, rather than social recommendations. Users are asked "What kind of app are you looking for?" in the expectation that they'll tap in more generic queries – "football", "recipes" or "enraged birds waging war on green pigs from the skies" perhaps.It's a subtle difference from Android Market, but a telling one: the theory clearly being that people don't always know exactly what app they want, but have a rough idea. There are wrinkles in the algorithm – the first result for "dating" is the decidedly unromantic "Retro Clock Widget" – but the theory is good.As a startup, Chomp is having to build an audience from scratch. That certainly can't be said of Amazon,which will soon launch its Amazon Appstorefor Android as both a standalone app, and a dedicated category on its website.Mobile advertising network Millennial Media hailed Amazon's plans in a blog post yesterday – the two companies are working together on ads to promote the new store:"Mobile developers are able to leverage the new self-service tool to submit and market their apps to the tens of millions of consumers who shop with Amazon. It's a win-win solution for both developers and Amazon.com customers. Developers gain additional exposure for their applications through Amazon.com and benefit from Amazon's mobile advertising efforts with us to support the Amazon Appstore for Android launch. Amazon.com customers can now easily find and purchase applications that best fit their needs and lifestyles."Recommendations are the key here too: Amazon applying its famous "people who liked x also bought y" algorithm, among others. Add in one-click purchasing and pre-registered credit card details, and then consider Amazon's ability to also recommend apps at the point of hardware purchase: "You just bought a Samsung Galaxy Tab, and based on your previous Amazon purchases, you might like these apps ..."Both Chomp and Amazon have challenges in store. By plugging gaps in Android Market, Chomp leaves itself open to being made redundant if (or rather when) Google plugs those holes itself.For Amazon, the challenge is more about distribution, and getting its store app on to devices rather than just relying on Android users searching for apps on its website. Partnerships with operators and device makers would help, but many have their own plans for Android app stores.Developers will follow the progress of both with keen interest. Sales of Android handsets are rocketing, but sales of Android apps could do with a boost. Recommendations could be the ideal launchpad.
Day one of TED2011, the insanely glamorous Californian ideas summit, has barely drawn to a close and it's already exhibiting the signature TED cocktail of impossibly brainy brains, mind-boggling new technology, beardy scientists and the odd Hollywood blonde.It's surely the only place in the world where you'll be waiting in line for one's crowd-sourced cappuccino (yesreally: check outCoffee common), and the people around you will be studiously ignoring Cameron Diaz in order to make small talk with aman who photographs polar bears.All the talks will be posted onted.comin the coming weeks, the first of them appearing late on Wednesday. In the meantime here's our run through of the brilliant, the weird and the potentially life-transforming.Weirdest factPeople called Dennis are disproportionately likely to become dentists. But call your son Lawrence and there's a far higher than average likelihood he'll become a lawyer.We are unconsciously drawn to things we sound like, according to New York Times columnistDavid Brooksin his excellent talk on man, the social animal. He joked that he'd named his daughter "President Of The United States". But then he lives in a country where he's been blessedly under-exposed to the antics of Princess Tiaamii Andre Price.Brooks makes the case for emotions: that the idea that we are rational beings is a fraud. "The conscious mind hungers for career and prestige, the unconscious mind hungers for transcendence." (And that in certain neighbourhoods where people pick up their kids from school in Volvos, BMWs and Saabs "owning a luxury vehicle is considered socially acceptable as long as it comes from a country hostile to US foreign policy".)Classical composer most likely to win a Jon Bon Jovi lookalike competitionEric Whitacre. Photograph: Marc Royce"I wanted to be a rock star,"Eric Whitacretold the audience at the beginning of his talk. You don't say, Eric. Who ever could have guessed?Whitacre is the most popular contemporary composer in the world today, but having examined both his and Goldie Hawn's hair today, at close proximity, I'd have to conclude that Whitacre's wins: it's just so golden and shaggy and perfectly coiffed.He showed a clip of his new virtual YouTube choir singing his composition, Sleep, featuring 2,051 singers from 58 countries. It's not online yet but here's his first, unexpectedly moving one,Lux Aurumque.Unlikeliest AberdonianPete Cashmore, founder of the tech website,Mashable, and one of most popular Tweeters in the world, speaks in the transatlantic tones of Madonna (this is his own description, I'm far too polite to say the words Lloyd and Grossman in his company), and it's only the tiny flecks of red in his designer stubble that betray the fact that he's actually Scotland's most successful Silicon Valley tech entrepreneur.But then he's also Scotland's only Silicon Valley tech entrepreneur, having set up the website in his bedroom as a teenager.What did your parents make of that? "Oh, I didn't really see them," he says. "I was on West Coast time." The thing about Silicon Valley, he says, is that there are so many youngsters knocking around. And, you're how old, Pete? "Me? Oh, I'm 25."Quote most likely to make the Qatari government nervous"The old corrupt elite has lost even the power of deception. I am here to tell you that the future we were dreaming of has now arrived," saidWadah Khanfar, founder of Al Jazeera, the independent Middle Eastern TV network with headquarters in Doha. Which is, um, ruled by an absolutist monarchy.Greatest crowd-sourced Johnny Cash memorial projectOkay, it's also theonly crowd-sourced Johnny Cash Memorial projectbut it's byAaron Koblin, the creative wunderkind who devised the brilliantWilderness Downtownwith Chris Milk. And it's still live, so go and contribute now.The 21st century will be defined by the interface, says Koblin. And the interface is the message. Now, I'm notexactlysure what this means, but Koblin's work with data, on the border between tech and craft is brilliantly inventive and endlessly surprising, and he seems to know what it means so this is probably enough.Chefs weirder even than Heston BlumenthalHomaru Cantuand his fellow chef,Ben Roche, aren't just a bit weirder than Heston Blumenthal, they're much, much weirder. Bacon and egg ice-cream? Ha! Try chips made out of granola bars, and ketchup made out of a health drink. No? They're experimenting with flavours to create food out of sustainable, readily available non-food items like, you know, straw. Or cactuses.The TED talk is not up yet, buthere's their TEDxWindy City talk.Cutest polar bears"There's no greater, more beautiful, more beautiful species," says the biologist and National Geographic photographer,Paul Nicklen.But then who doesn't love polar bears? Not us, or at least enough. There may be no Arctic summertime ice within four years. And they could be extinct within 50 years.Latest tech invention that will save/destroy the publishing industryTech super-kidMike Matasunveiled the first interactive book: Al Gore's follow-up to An Inconvenient Truth, something half-way between those paper volumes you have on your shelves and Inception.Why frowning at this blog post and leaving mean comments below the line may just shorten your life.A study of baseball cards found that the players who had the broadest smiles lived the longest lives, according to Ted University speaker,Ron Gutman. So, yeah. Chew on that.
More than 50 applications on Google's Android Market have been discovered to be infected with malware called "DroidDream" which can compromise personal data by taking over the user's device, and have been "suspended" from the store.Google removed the apps from the Market immediately on being alerted, but it is not clear whether it has removed them from devices to which they have been downloaded. As many as 200,000 Android devices could have been infected.The revelation comes from Android Police, a news site on Google's operating system,which calls it "the mother of all Android malware", noting that its examination had found that it "steals nearly everything it can: product ID, model, partner (provider?), language, country, and userID. But that's all child's play; the true pièce de résistance is that it has the ability to download more code. In other words, there's no way to know what the app does after it's installed, and the possibilities are nearly endless."Lookout, a security company, which in ablogpostlists the 50-plus apps discovered to be infected. (The list is also below, via Lookout.)Smartphones running Google's Android software have become enormously popular and are reckoned to be close to taking over worldwide as the fastest-selling smartphone platform, ahead of Finland's Nokia. Its growth has been fuelled by the fact that the software is free to license, and for developers there is no charge or checks to putting apps on the Market – unlike Apple's iPhone App Store, which checks every app against a suite of tests for suitability before allowing it on its store.That has led the Market to grow rapidly, but also makes situations like the latest one – which is not the first case of malware found on the Market – harder to avoid.The malware was first discovered by a Reddit user, Lompolo, who spotted that the developer of one of the malware apps had also posted pirated versions of legit apps, using the developer name "Myournet". But two other developers' products have also been found to include DroidReam.Lompolo noted that "Myournet" had "taken 21 popular free apps from the Market, injected root exploit [code] into them and republished". More worryingly, those had seen between 50,000 and 200,000 downloads altogether in just four days.DroidDream contains code which can "root" – take complete control of – a user's decice, and send detailed information such as the phone's IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) and IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) numbers and send them to remote servers. But as Android Police's team found, the code can go much further in rooting through a phone.Update:details of how the root code works arehere. Note that this is a "privilege escalation" attack - once the app starts it uses the fact that it has user privileges to jump out of its sandbox and root the phone.It's a rather brutal reminder of the fact that Android's openness is both a strength and, at times like this, a weakness – though Google's rapid action, in which it pulled the apps from the Android Market within just five minutes of being alerted, is encouraging.It now looks likely that security companies will begin to compete to offer antivirus and anti-malware products for Android devices – which, given its rapid growth, could prove a fertile area for them with PC sales flat.If you have downloaded any of the apps below, you should contact your phone company.Full list of infected applications published by "Myournet":• Falling Down • Super Guitar Solo • Super History Eraser • Photo Editor • Super Ringtone Maker • Super Sex Positions • Hot Sexy Videos • Chess • 下坠滚球_Falldown • Hilton Sex Sound • Screaming Sexy Japanese Girls • Falling Ball Dodge • Scientific Calculator • Dice Roller • 躲避弹球 • Advanced Currency Converter • App Uninstaller • 几何战机_PewPew • Funny Paint • Spider Man • 蜘蛛侠Full list of infected applications published by "Kingmall2010″:• Bowling Time • Advanced Barcode Scanner • Supre Bluetooth Transfer • Task Killer Pro • Music Box • Sexy Girls: Japanese • Sexy Legs • Advanced File Manager • Magic Strobe Light • 致命绝色美腿 • 墨水坦克Panzer Panic • 裸奔先生Mr. Runner • 软件强力卸载 • Advanced App to SD • Super Stopwatch &amp; Timer • Advanced Compass Leveler • Best password safe • 掷骰子 • 多彩绘画Full list of infected apps under the developer name "we20090202″:•  • Finger Race • Piano • Bubble Shoot • Advanced Sound Manager • Magic Hypnotic Spiral • Funny Face • Color Blindness Test • Tie a Tie • Quick Notes • Basketball Shot Now • Quick Delete Contacts • Omok Five in a Row • Super Sexy Ringtones • 大家来找茬 • 桌上曲棍球 • 投篮高手
"Here they come!"Two minutes into EA's scintillating trailer forBattlefield 3and all hell breaks loose for Staff Sgt. Black and his team of U.S. Marines. After sneaking through abandoned buildings and dank alleys, they're caught by RPG fire in what is euphemistically refered to as 'the bad part of town'.Due out in the autumn on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360, DICE's tactical shooter employs the cutting edge Frostbite 2 engine, hence some amazingly fluid animation and lots of convincing lighting and explosion effects.The action takes place in 2014, with allied forces attempting to maintain peace and stability along the Iraq/Iran border. It doesn't seem to be working.
We know what's expected with the launch on Wednesday night of iPad 2. Not a teleporter, unfortunately, but a sensible list of improved features we've explained before onPDA– plenty of which, like the camera, should arguably have been included on iPad 1 in the first place.There's the predictable slew of buzz-building reports overnight, the most unlikely of which comes from the usually infallible Kara Swisher onAll Things Digitalwho says Steve Jobs himself is mulling an appearance. That's based on sources who say it is unconfirmed, but that if he does show up it would be a cameo role. A cameo may be, but this would be a very bad idea.Apple may want toreassure shareholdersafter speculation about Jobs' health, rumours aboutJonathan Ivewanting to relocate and coverage of former executivePaul Devinewho could face 20 years in prison after admitting fraud. But a brief appearance by Jobs is only likely to focus speculation on how healthy he seems, undermine the status-building ofpossible successorswho need to lead the show this time round and take attention away from iPad, which should be enough of a boost for Apple. Also, the guy is onmedical leave, and this constant speculation on re-involving him in the daily Apple show is rather naive.To re-cap, we're expecting: alighter, thinneriPad, possibly with a curved back; afront-facing camerato enable Facetime, though a less-logical rear camera is also possible; a new128GBversion; a three-axisgyroscope; a mini-USB universal charging port; andMobileMeis due an overhaul that will introduce a swathe of cloud-based features. April is the likely release time for the US.Apple will also add a few surprises, the most dramatic of which would beretinal display. We think that's unlikely give the extra demands on battery power, though perhaps they've worked out a way round that. A new global iPad could also run onGSM and CDMAnetworks, which is another possibility. But what else will Apple have thought of?We hope for some more writer-friendly tools. As@ThwartedEffortscommented last week, iPad is "fine for idle surfing and games, but ... even editing a short email requires beta blockers".@ParkyDRalso suggested a self-wiping screen to get rid of fingerprints, which we love.In anticipation of iPad 2, Random House has tweaked its ebook pricing, reportspaidContent, so that it can set the retail price, and then gives booksellers a cut. Previously, publishing houses had sold wholesale and allowed retailers to discount, which is why Amazon sold ebooks at a loss to encourage sales for the Kindle.Also overnight, we learnt that all this fuss might be for not very much at all.Cult of Machas been told by one Apple Insider that the iPad 3 will be the one really worth waiting for. That's expected later this year, says the report – though less than six months from iPad 2, that seems way too soon. The source also confirmed rumours of the GSM/CDMA model, faster chip and more Ram and both cameras."The new MobileMe service will store music, TV shows, and films that were purchased from the iTunes store," claims Cult of Mac. "The staffer also said that there was talk inside Apple of being able to upload all your music and videos to the cloud whether it was purchased from iTunes or not."This may finally be where music streaming service Lala,Apple's 2009 acquisition, finally bears fruit.
Facebook is planning to make users' addresses and mobile phone numbers available to apps that people use on the site, although it says it would require users to give explicit permission for it to happen.The company reiterated its plan to go ahead with opening up users' personal details, which was first revealed in ablogpost on its Developer blog in January— opaquely entitled "Platform Updates: New User Object fields, Edge.remove Event and More" — butsuspended three days laterin the face of angry responses from privacy advocates.That included a letter from US congress representatives Edward Markey and Joe Barton, who objected to the idea. "Facebook needs to protect the personal information of its users to ensure that Facebook doesn't become Phonebook," Markey wrote. "That's why I am requesting responses to these questions to better understand Facebook's practices regarding possible access to users' personal information by third parties. This is sensitive data and needs to be protected."Despite criticism from privacy advocates and lawmakers in the US when the plans were announced, the company said in aletter to the House of Representativesby Marne Levine, its vice president of global public policy, published on Tuesday, that "We expect that, once the feature [to share address and mobile data] is re-enabled, Facebook will again permit users to authorise application to obtain their contact information." But Facebook is "currently evaluating methods to further enhance user control in this area".The change will make the data available to app developers via a "permissions dialog" when users enable an app on the social networking site.Writing at MSNBC, Helen Popkin said of the latest plan that "Facebook is the slowly-warming pot of water and we, my friends, are the frog. By the time we noticed our peeling skin, another hunk of our privacy is long gone."She commented that Facebook's announcement, reversal, and re-announcement fits a repeated pattern: "This is how Facebook rolls: Strip away a huge chunk of your privacy, cry 'Our bad!' and roll it back when users and/or privacy advocates complain. Then wait awhile, and do whatever it is Facebook planned to do anyway. Voila! Boiled frog."Facebook is meanwhile experimenting with a new privacy policy that would be more like a guide to how personal information is used, rather than a long legal document.
There aren't enough undead cowboy puppet games. Seriously, if you trawled through the archives of digital entertainment history you'd be lucky to find more than 10. It's a wasteland out there. Fortunately, however, US indie developerTwisted Pixelhas noticed this glaring niche in the market. Previously responsible for offbeat Xbox Live gems like 'Splosion Man and Comic Jumper, the studio is now set to releaseThe Gunstringer, the tale of a Wild West gunman, betrayed and murdered by his old posse and now out for zombified revenge.The Gunstringer will be the first independently produced Xbox Live Arcade title to feature Kinect support – and, as you'd expect from Twisted Pixel, it's a brilliantly skewed implementation. It turns out that everything that happens here is actually being performed as a stage play. Right at the beginning of the game, we see video footage of audience members filing into a theatre – they're here to watch your production of The Gunstringer and throughout the action you'll hear them cheering as you progress, or booing when you're doing badly. It's a stylish and whimsical conceit that will no doubt remind Tim Schafer fans of Stacking, which also takes place in a proscenium arch setting.Oh yes, this is also a puppet theatre. You take control of the lead character by lifting his strings with your left hand and then swiping left and right to direct him past obstacles; you can also jerk your arm in the air to make him jump."We've had the idea of doing a marionette game for years," says Twisted Pixel CEO, Michael Wilford. "Our co-founder Josh Bear and art director Dave Leung go way back, and I think when the DS first came out, they were thinking of new stuff you could do with motion controls, and one of their ideas was a puppet-based game. But it didn't really work with the DS or with the Wii, and finally Microsoft started talking to us about the Kinect, they shared the tech with us early on, and we thought this is finally the perfect time!"On each stage, Gunstringer runs into the screen, swerving from side to side to avoid boulders and leaping over gates. You have no direct control over his speed – although he accelerates if you shoot stuff – so it's all about timing those evasive manoeuvres. And shooting stuff.Controlling the character's six-shooters is like playing cowboys and indians as a kid: you shape your right hand into a gun, then move it around to direct the onscreen reticule, flicking your wrist upwards to fire. Naturally, as you charge along the dusty track, you run into various bandits – these can be dispatched one at a time by targeting them individually and then immediately shooting. For better combo scores, however, you can run your reticule over a group of enemies andthenfire, taking them all out in a flurry of bullet fire. You'll also occasionally run into tasty taco icons – these open up bonus stages allowing you to collect masses of points during a timed shooting frenzy.In the sections I saw, there were several mid-level set-piece encounters. At one point, Gunstringer runs into a wagon circle and must hide behind rocks as evil cowboys blast back at you. You can fire from behind the cover by wafting your left hand in the relevant direction to peek out, and then flicking that right wrist. It's a really engaging and natural interface – multi-tasking with arm movements rather than button presses takes some practice, but gradually it all clicks into place, and you're taking down bad guys like a super-speed Clint Eastwood. When enough enemies have been dispatched to Boot Hill, one of the wagons rolls away, prompting a chase scene, with Gunstringer legging it behind, taking pot shots at cowboys firing from the carriage windows.The action is split into five acts, each culminating in a boss battle. We only got to see one of these – a hilarious skirmish against a giant inflatable wavy-hand man (the sort you tend to find outside second-hand car showrooms), who you have to shoot in multiple body areas to finally deflate. In the next act, the bandits are able to throw dynamite sticks, which have to be shot mid-air or they'll cause massive damage to your character. It also looks as though there will be 2D platforming sections – a hark back to Twisted Pixel's previous titles.There are lots of other neat little touches. Occasionally, birds fly past, and shooting those provides extra points. There are also Pythonesque mixed-media moments where stop-go animated arms reach into the scene, sometimes rolling boulders down the hill at you, sometimes creating impassable barriers. After each boss encounter, the player unlocks new abilities, one of which makes a giant hand come down and crush your onscreen enemy – a sort of Terry Gilliam smart bomb.I also love the way that, as in Stacking, most of the scenery is designed to resemble theatrical props: trees for example, are made from interlocking pieces of wood, and boulders look like paper-mache. This goes for the animals too. "It adds an extra layer of visual depth," says Wilford. "The first time you see a steer running past, you just blow it away without thinking. Then, on the second or third time, you notice it's a steer made out of a beer can – and when you shoot it in the butt beer comes spraying out of its ass. It adds humour and the artists have a lot more fun trying to build everything out of common objects."Gunstringer is the perfect start-point for XBLA and Kinect. It makes a fine implementation of the technology (both gun and puppet controls are slick and intuitive), but it's also idiosyncratic and core gamer-friendly; both key elements in the Arcade marketplace. "As a smaller studio we can focus entirely on design," says Wilford. "We can think about how to make a new type of game, without having to worry about pouring $20m into the art budget... Our art looks awesome, though."Microsoft is now making Kinect support a key element of its SDKs so we should see plenty more original and amusing takes on motion control gaming in the wake of Twisted Pixel's promising title. For now though, start honing your shooting and puppetry skills – there is zombie cowboy revenge to be had.The Gunstringer will be released on Xbox Live Arcade in the spring. There's an official trailerhere.
Jimmy sits alone in his attic bedroom. He presses the green and silver button once again and waits in silence. As it flickers into life, the blinking red light of the Xbox Wireless Network Adapter illuminates the small, solitary tear that runs down his cheek. The signal's just too weak.He will never connect to the Xbox Live Arcade. He will never know the joys of trying to work out the Sterling to Microsoft Points exchange rate, or realising that it costs £8 just to change your Gamertag. He's never played Peggle. He's never even heard of PopCap. His life as a gamer is incomplete.Clive sits alone in his empty corner office. He opens up the spreadsheet once again and waits in silence. As it loads, a tremor of unease stabs into his abdomen. The numbers just don't add up. PopCap's customer base grew and grew as Xbox Live's subscribers did. But now they've plateaued. The designers haven't come up with a decent new game in months. How can he keep the shareholders happy and find a new market for a bunch of old products?It's a wonderful thing when market forces conspire to satisfy such a small pocket of demand. PopCap Hits is a humble offering of four of the the company's most popular games, and will be of little interest to those who've previously been able to download them. But for all the Jimmies out there, the collection finally offers a chance to join in with the download-only fun they'd previously been missing out on.For the uninitiated, PopCap has become the definitive brand in casual puzzle games over the past decade – a genre that has seen an unexpected resurgence in recent years despite the advanced technical capabilities of modern consoles. It seems that 2D time-wasters will never go out of fashion.Peggle is a great example of this sort of timeless appeal and if, like myself, you've only previously experienced the mobile version, playing on a full-size screen really adds something to the experience.It's an ingenious ball-shooting-cum-seaside-slot-machine enterprise, all finished off with a pleasing aesthetic flourish. Online multiplayer is included, somewhat bafflingly, and there's a great deal of replayability in the game's various modes and stages.I could continue trying to sell it to you in this paragraph, but hey,why not read Keith's full review instead?Bejeweled 2 is undoubtedly a great puzzle game – and the most popular of the past decade, according to my press release. But very little is added by playing on a larger screen and while the block-swapping and matching is curiously satisfying, the whole thing feels pretty drab in comparison to PopCap's more recent releases. Bejeweled, like Tetris before it, seems much better suited to a mobile format.Feeding Frenzy carefully treads the line between game and interactive screensaver. This is not a good thing. Guide a fish around a screen, eating smaller fish and avoiding bigger ones. It becomes tiresome after about three or four levels. This has proved a very popular title for PopCap over the years, though I fail to understand why. I guess some people just really like fish.AstroPop is almost five years old now, and looks it. It's a mildy diverting spaceship block-swapping exercise, but unless you're a puzzle-game obsessive, within 10 minutes you'll wonder why you aren't playing something a bit more stimulating. The worst and, considering the number of better games in PopCap's library, most frustrating inclusion of the bunch.PopCap Hits makes sense for the Clives and Jimmys of the world. But for everyone else only one, perhaps two of these games is worth your time, making the package deal (unless you can find it heavily reduced) a false economy – especially considering all of these games are available, cheaper, for different formats.A second instalment featuring the fantastic Plants vs Zombies is due to be released next month and it's a shame the best titles are being divided up to maximise sales, rather than combined into a better collection. As it is, the uninspiring selection on offer and the relatively small target audience makes this release something of a puzzle in itself.• Game reviewed on XBox 360
At last week's Xbox Spring Showcase event in San Francisco, Rocksteady Studios revealed the first chapter in its hotly anticipated Batman sequel,Arkham City. The story kicks off a year after the events of the previous instalment. Asylum boss Quincy Sharp is now the Mayor of Gotham, and determined to clean up the crime-filled streets, he has transformed a slum area of the city into a gigantic open-air prison, overseen by unstable psychiatrist Hugo Strange.Although the walls are patrolled by Strange's own private army, The Tygers, inside it's anarchy. With several Batman nemeses looking to take advantage of the chaos, this is a super villain pressure cooker that's just about ready to explode…Possible spoiler alert: this article refers to events from the very beginning of the first chapter. Proceed with caution if you want to avoid all plot details from the game…At the beginning of chapter one, we join the Dark Knight surveying the dense sprawl of Gotham City. Rocksteady's artists have brilliantly replicated the grand gothic vision of Christopher Nolan's Batman movies with densely packed skyscrapers looming from the darkness as searchlights streak the night sky. We're told that most of this game will take place outside, contrasting heavily with the interior-based original; and with a map five times the size of Arkham Asylum, it seems there will be much more freedom to explore this time around.At first though, we get a call from Alfred, letting Batman know that Harvey Dent has Catwoman tied up and hanging above a vat of bubbling acid in an old courthouse building within Arkham City. The crazed District Attorney is on a thug recruitment drive and reckons that murdering Batman's favourite thief will be a great way to attract new gang members.From here, Batman can either head straight to the venue, or explore the vicinity – launching from the tops of buildings he's able to glide above the city, using a new power dive move to gain extra speed and altitude. In our demo, he sets down on a billboard above an alley, where several hardnuts are threatening journalist Jack Ryder, who's been dumped in Arkham for asking too many questions about Strange. Naturally, Batman swoops down to intervene, but here's where we learn that combat is a more complex business these days. Viewing the group in detective mode shows that, among the hoods there's a Riddler cohort, who could provide some useful intel on the questioner's whereabouts. So Batman has to take down the other hoods without harming the potential informant.As in the first title, fights are punishingly robust, filled with crunching kicks, punches and elbow smashes. Rocksteady has doubled the number of animations, though, and it shows as Batman segues seamlessly between attacks. When the goons are dispatched, he turns on the snitch who gives up the location of several Riddler trophies, which will be hidden in tricky locations around the city, and should provide clues on the villain's whereabouts. In this way, Batman is able to piece together side-quests and mini-objectives while also pursuing the main story thread. It's not quite Grand Theft Batmobile, but it seems there is some freedom to explore and experiment here, which wasn't the case in the more linear Arkham Asylum.Later, at the crowded courthouse, Batman uses the detective mode to scan the criminals, looking for the most heavily armed. He spots machetes and various clubs, but on a balcony above the courtroom, there' a lone figure with an assault rifle. The Caped Crusader grapple hooks up there, performs a silent takedown, then drops down onto a hood with a machete. The mass scuffle that follows shows up the sequel's capacity for larger groups of enemies: completely surrounded, Batman resorts to picking up chairs an lobbing them at incoming heavies, with satisfyingly effective results.After freeing Catwoman (who indulges in a relentless stream of suggestive small talk revolving around the word 'kitty'), Batman listens to her theories about the Joker, Hugo Strange and a possible partnership between the two. Meanwhile, in a bell tower overlooking the courtroom, The Joker has a sniper rifle trained on the flirtatious twosome; he fires, but Batman pushes Catwoman to safety. It's time to head after smiler once again.But at this point, the demo takes another detour. We're shown the updated cryptographic sequencer, which had a minor role in the first title, but becomes a key tech here, allowing Batman to hack into communications anywhere in the city – including those between Hugo Strange and his security forces. You're also able to listen in to snatches of nearby conversations via the local surveillance function, which appears as a sound wave-style display on the right of the screen.There's also a handy new transport option. Tyger helicopters continually patrol the skies above Arkham City, and Batman can use his grapple hook to latch on and catch a ride with any of these aerial taxis. While circulating the area in this way, he can switch into detective mode, which shows up any interesting activity, including super villain henchmen hiding out in alleyways. You can also spot manhole covers that will let you into the sewer system and question marks spray-painted onto walls that reveal Riddler objectives.Swooping down into the churchyard, Batman encounters a group of Joker cronies. Using the power dive move it's possible to segue straight into a fight, knocking down at least one enemy on landing. During this fight, one henchman manages to block Batman's blows, so we call upon a new special – the 'beatdown' – which employs the B and X buttons to ignite a sequence of moves from cape stun, to pummelling left and right hooks, to a rather conclusive uppercut.Inside the church, Harley Quinn has hostages and a cabal of gun-toting gangsters. When she orders Batman's assassination, the Dark Knight drops a new toy – a smoke pellet – covering his escape into the cavernous room's upper architecture. This is vintage Batman: Arkham Asylum gameplay, swooping from rafter to rafter, and lurking on gargoyles, waiting to get in behind separated enemies. At one point, a lone figure darts into a confessional box. Not a great decision. In the first game, the Dark Knight could take down weak walls with an explosive compound; this time he can just physically smash his way through. The wooden confessional doesn't really stand a chance. That'll be 50 Hail Marys, Batman.Up in the bell tower, it turns out the sniper rifle was remotely controlled. Instead of the Joker, Batman discovers a roomful of life-sized Joker dolls, each with a TV as a head. On the screen is the Joker, laughing, warning Batman the place is booby-trapped. It's a neat moment, like something out of Saw, and it suggests Rocksteady is becoming more and more comfortable with the darker, more psychologically unhinged elements of the Batman universe. The tower explodes, but the Caped Crusader swoops to safety. Up on another billboard he spots a bizarre message daubed in red pain – it provides a frequency for him to check on his cryptographic sequencer. Who's the message from? Rocksteady aren't saying. We know there are other vintage Batman baddies on the loose in here – might someone else be preparing to step in for the obviously sickly joker?Intriguing stuff then, with some hints at a more expansive environment, and a structure that will allow players to pursue their own objectives. Rocksteady has told gamers not to expect an entirely open-world adventure though, so it will be interesting to see what sort of constraints are placed on your movements in the game world; and can the solidly driven experience delivered in Arkham Asylum work in a title with non-linear elements?Certainly, the strong design sensibilities of this studio are clear. From the congested skyline to the ruined splendour of the courthouse and the wrecked church strewn with bibles, Arkham City is a detailed vision of the modern Batman mythos, channelling the influence of Frank Miller, Alan Moore, Christopher Nolan and Tim Burton into a detailed vision of shadowy gothic horror. The Dark Knight looks to have well and truly returned.Batman: Arkham City will be released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in the autumn. BAFTA is running a special event entitled "Mastering Your Craft: Games Art Direction" at the ICA on March 9. It will feature Rocksteady Studios art director David Hego talking through the Batman titles, "from concept phase to final implementation". You can find out morehere.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Millions of broadband customers are being sold super-fast connections that their internet providers are unable to deliver, according to new research.Data released by Ofcom, the communications watchdog, shows that the average broadband speed is still less than half of the average advertised speed.The report, published on Wednesday, says that Britons get an average broadband speed of 6.2 megabits per second (Mbps) – less than half the average advertised speed of 13.8Mb.Ofcom is pushing for a change in the way internet providers, including BT, Sky and O2, advertise "up to" broadband speeds, which most customers are unable to receive.Its findings willfeed into a consultation now underwayby the Advertising Standards Authority's committee of advertising practice (CAP) and broadcast committee of adverting practice (BCAP) into how broadband speeds are advertised. That is expected to report in the next three months."The research shows that ISPs need to do more to ensure they are giving customers clear and accurate information about the services they provide and the factors that may affect the actual speeds customers will receive," said Ed Richards, Ofcom's chief executive."It is important that the rules around broadband advertising change, so that consumers are able to make more informed decisions based on the adverts they see, and that advertisers are able to communicate more clearly how their products compare to others in the market."Ofcom carried out performance tests in 1,700 homes across the UK in November and December last year. The report is based on 11 broadband packages from the UK's seven largest providers, including Virgin Media and TalkTalk.The growing demand for faster broadband packages has led ISPs to advertise maximum speeds, despitecurrent infrastructure being unable to support them. The only ISP delivering close to the maximum speed advertised, according to Ofcom, was Virgin Media, with the advantage of a relatively new cable network in many urban areas.The typical broadband speed received by customers was much closer to the advertised speed with fibre-optic cable packages, such as the those delivered by Virgin Media and BT's Infinity package. However, only 22% of Britons have fibre-optic connections, with 77% of the population using copper-based DSL phone lines.The greatest disparity in advertised and delivered broadband speeds came with "up to" 20Mbps connections delivered over the current-generation DSL lines. Only 3% of customers with this package received an average speed close to 20Mbps, with 69% receiving an average speed of less than 8Mbps.The overall average broadband speed increased from5.2Mbps in Maylast year to 6.2Mbps in December, the report shows, meaning a typical five-minute song would take just under four seconds to download, compared with just over five seconds on the slower speed.Ofcom recommends that broadband speeds should be advertised on a "typical speeds range" – the speed which customers can expect to receive. The regulator says typical speeds must "have at least equal prominence" to headline speeds, and that maximum speeds must only be advertised "if it is actually achievable in practice by a material number of consumers".Under Ofcom's recommendations, ISPs advertising DSL connections of "up to" 8Mbps – the service used by the majority of Britons – would be forced to reveal that the typical speed is in reality between 2Mbps and 5Mbps.However, BT said it had "real concerns" with Ofcom's approach. "Moving to typical speed ranges will potentially be highly misleading as the average performance will vary depending on where people live," said John Petter, the managing director BT Retail's consumer business. "Enforcing typical speed ranges is also dangerous as it could encourage more ISPs to cherry pick customers who will increase their average, leaving customers in rural and suburban areas under-served. That would encourage digital exclusion rather than tackle it."Sky said the debate about headline speeds had the potential to be a "red herring", given that existing Ofcom guidelines state that providers must give customers individual speed estimates at the point of sale.Jon James, executive director of broadband at Virgin Media, described the report as "yet another damning indictment that consumers continue to be treated like mugs and misled by ISPs that simply cannot deliver on their advertised speed claims".
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's Steve Jobs Considering Appearance at iPad 2 Event &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"But the possibility – which would be a big sensation at the San Francisco gathering and has been subject to great speculation – is also just as definitely not confirmed as yet, stressed sources. If he did appear, sources said, Jobs would make at least a brief appearance on stage along with other top company execs in showing off Apple's latest version of it hugely popular tablet."Lost all respect for Emma Watson? Facebook clickjacking attack spreads virally &gt;&gt; Naked Security"If you've got this far, you'll probably be tempted to click to view the video. However, like the many clickjacking attacks we saw on Facebook last year, you will be invisibly clicking on a "Like" button without your knowledge, sharing the link further with your friends. "The page is designed to display a survey scam, which both earns money for the scammers and can trick you into handing over your mobile phone number to sign you up for a premium rate SMS service. "You can protect yourself from clickjacking threats like this by using browser plugins such as NoScript for Firefox. "But wouldn't it be great if Facebook required users to confirm that they wished to "Like" a webpage? That would make scams like have a harder time spreading virally via the social network." It would, but having to click an OK dialog could be easily faked by Javascript too, and would annoy people too.Angry Birds CEO: 'We really have Apple to thank' &gt;&gt; The Loop"We really have Apple to thank," said Vesterbacka – not just for helping to promote Angry Birds, but for creating the App Store to begin with. "We got away from this carrier-dominated Soviet model," he explained – before the App Store, the carriers were responsible for figuring out what software would run on their phones. "Other people decided on our behalf what was a good game and what was a bad game," Rovio chief Peter Vesterbacka said.Apple Staffer: iPad 3 Is The One To 'Make A Song &amp; Dance About' &gt;&gt; Cult of MacHere are Cult of Mac's source's crystal ballings. Note them down: MobileMe is being revamped with cloud storage features. The iPad 2 is a ho-hum update. It's more of a speed bump than a redesign. The iPad 3 is the one to get excited about, and it's on track for release later this year.Microsoft delivers its 'other' tablet operating system: Windows Embedded Compact 7 &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Microsoft announced general availability on March 1 of the final version of its Windows Embedded Compact 7 operating system, codenamed "Chelan.""Submission to the Judicial Review of the Digital Economy Act &gt;&gt; Open Rights Group"The witness statement from Executive Director Jim Killock touches on the impact on public wifi provision, the harm to individuals of a reliance on IP address evidence, and some of the privacy risks associated with the Act. There is supporting evidence from Richard Clayton on the possible weaknesses of IP address evidence and the ways that people can avoid detection. We would like to thank Francis and Richard for their very valuable contributions. You can download these documents here."New Android Market web store could open backdoor for phone hackers &gt;&gt; Naked Security"The most important security aspect of the installation process on Android are the permissions an app requires on a device after the installation. Android users should particularly carefully read the required permissions before they install any applications, from the official Android Market or any other source. "For example, a game which requests unusual permissions such as SEND_SMS or RECEIVE_SMS should be considered highly suspicious and installed only if the user is certain about its functionality." The general problem with deciding about the permissions requests is figuring out, before you've used it, what the app is actually going to do, and how that connects to the permissions requested.Secrets of Thunderbolt and Lion &gt;&gt; TidBitsGlenn Fleishman with useful details about Thunderbolt (formerly Intel's Light Peak) - which explains in passing why some ports can and some can't charge iPads.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The Guardianreported on Mondayon LG's latest patent strike against Sony in a wider patent battle over Blu-ray Discs, smartphones andvideo game consoles:"European customs officers have been ordered to seize shipments of Playstation 3s after LG won a preliminary injunction against Sony [...] The ruling by the civil court of justice in the Hague means that all new PS3s have to be confiscated as they are imported into the UK and the rest of Europe for at least 10 days."How much trouble is Sony in now? Is Europe about to run out of PS3s?LG made a bold move that definitely ups the pressure on Sony. But it's important to understand that patent enforcement in Europe is still a country-by-country affair – even though there is a European Patent Office – and Sony can work around the Dutch decision by going through entry points outside of the Netherlands. That's a logistical nightmare, but it is a possibility. Sony is most likely already exploring such alternative routes.(And in case you'd forgotten what the dispute is actually about: LG claims that Sony's Blu-ray playback infringes LG patents. Sony, meanwhile, filed suit in December against LG over smartphone technologies, and trying to stop their import into the US. LG, in response, is trying to get PS3 imports into the US banned. Now read on.)In order to cause greater disruption to European PlayStation sales, LG would have to obtain injunctions in more EU member states than just the Netherlands, a country that accounts for only 3% of Europe's total population size.While LG hasn't confirmed anything, and Sony's official statement doesn't say much, there's every indication that LG requested customs action against goods suspected of patent infringement in accordance withEU Council Regulation No 1383/2003and additionallyobtained a prejudgment seizure decision from a court in The Hague, Netherlands. The combination of those two measures means Sony has a serious problem in the Dutch market, but it's not the end of the world for the PlayStation in the whole of Europe.As The Guardian reports, "Rotterdam [a Dutch seaport] and Schiphol [Amsterdam airport] are the main import points for PS3s for both the UK and continental Europe". But Sony could change that.Other high-tech companies will be watching this with interest, and with concern. For example,Apple and Nokiaare also battling each other in Europe, and other litigants can never know when their adversaries are going to seek European customs action as a way to increase the pressure on them.Customs action against goods suspected of infringing certain intellectual property rights (Council Regulation (EC) No. 1383/2003)In 1994 the European Community (nowadays known as the European Union, or "EU") passed a law for the seizure of counterfeit and pirated goods, amended it in 1999, and replaced it in 2003 withCouncil Regulation (EC) No. 1383/2003 concerning customs action against goods suspected of infringing certain intellectual property rights and the measures to be taken against goods found to have infringed such rights.Over time, the regulation had evolved from an anti-counterfeiting measure into a broader protection of right holders. In particular, patents were not within the scope of the regulation at the outset: while many counterfeit goods infringe patents, most patent infringers aren't pirates.Customs authorities are usually not equipped to make the technically and legally complicated determination of infringement that usually requires multi-year lawsuits. The regulation provides the possibility that customs offices may act at their own initiative (ex officio) if they suspect infringement, but its Section 2 sets out the practically more relevant scenario of a right holder applying for customs action in writing. In that case, a right holder doesn't bear the burden of proof that there is an actual infringement. It is merely sufficient that "goods are suspected of infringing an intellectual property right", such as a patent under the law of the EU member state in which the application is filed.Yes, being "suspected" of infringement is all it takes. Looks lopsided, doesn't it?But rights holders seeking to harm competitors must be careful. A rights holder whose infringement allegations aren't confirmed by a court of law may be liable for the damage inflicted under the law of the EU member state in which the application was made. In other words, if Sony prevails, it could sue LG for damages.Also, seized goods will be released after 10 days if the relevant customs office hasn't been notified of judicial proceedings under national law. Even if a lawsuit has been filed, there is still a potential way out: "the declarant, owner, importer, holder or consignee of the goods shall be able to obtain the release of the goods or an end to their detention on provision of a security", pursuant to Article 14.What sort of 'security'? "The security [...] must be sufficient to protect the interests of the right-holder", which means that Sony would have to deposit the amount of damages LG might be awarded if it prevailed in court. But in the Netherlands this doesn't seem to be an option for Sony, because LG appears to have obtained a preliminary injunction by a court in The Hague, ordering prejudgment seizure. As a result, the PlayStations detained there won't be released without LG's consent until the end of the lawsuit.Courts hand down such injunctions only based on a summary judgment standard: it's a quick procedure, but the party requesting the injunction must show that it has a reasonable chance to prevail. By contrast, the application for customs action under the said EU regulation merely has to meet formal requirements without proving the infringement allegations by any standard at all.European patent fragmentation? Handy for SonyWhile the European Patent Office (EPO) performs the centralized examination of European patent applications, EPO patents are just bundles of national patents, each of which is assigned a national patent number and can be enforced only in the one country in which it is valid. This is going to change:the EU is in the processof creating a single EU patent and patent judiciary, but this will take years to come to fruition.The aforementioned European regulation requires a patent holder to claim an infringement only of a national patent. LG holds some Dutch patents that it apparently claims are infringed by the PS3, and didn't have to allege the infringement of patents in any other EU member state.But the prejudgment seizure order issued by the court in The Hague is valid only in the Netherlands. Therefore, if Sony ships PlayStations directly into other EU member states, the local customs authorities there will not take that seizure order into account. They may pay attention to LG's application for customs action, but in that case Sony could bail out the detained goods on security after a maximum of 10 days. Any further detention would require an injunction in the relevant country.Prejudgment seizure appears to be a particularly Dutch phenomenon. It is also mentioned in a very interestingManaging Intellectual Property articleon how customs can help patent owners.While other European countries may not provide prejudgment seizure, it would be possible to seek preliminary injunctions against the sale of allegedly infringing goods. This is an option in many European countries. In Germany, the largest EU member state (and home to the major seaports of Hamburg and Bremen as well as Frankfurt Airport, one of the world's 10 largest cargo hubs), it is possible to obtain preliminary injunctions in a relatively rapid procedure, but alleged infringers are usually given an opportunity to defend themselves prior to a preliminary injunction. Also, if a preliminary injunction is granted but fails to be upheld in a subsequent main proceeding, there is a considerable liability risk involved.In order not to give LG any clues, Sony will likely not announce which alternative routes into Europe it is exploring for the PS3. This is a major logistical challenge – Sony needs to import an estimated 100,000 per week to keep up with sales demand – but it will probably go to extreme lengths to avoid the loss of market share in Europe. In that case, LG will have to chase the PS3 down across the EU, or at least in the largest markets. It will take much more than the surprise effect of the Dutch decision – however impressive it may be per se – to bring Sony to its knees.That said, it seems that the patent wars between major industry players are ever more bitterly contested, and Europe increasingly becomes a battlefield.If you'd like to be updated on the smartphone patent disputes and other intellectual property matters I cover, pleasefollow me on Twitter @FOSSpatents.A version of this post first appeared on Florian Mueller's FOSSPatents blog. It is used with permission.
You're going to hear a lot about cloud music apps this year. The music industry is throwing its weight behind services that let people stream music both from their existing collection and an on-demand catalogue of millions of tracks. Apps will be the key conduit for both of those features.Two announcements this week sum up the state of cloud music: there is intense interest in the idea, but it is by no means a guaranteed cash cow for the companies providing it.US company Thumbplay has sold its Thumbplay Music streaming service to radio group Clear Channel for an undisclosed amount, withAll Things Digital suggestingthat the service – launched early last year and available for BlackBerry, iPhone and Android – only signed up 20,000 paying users.Meanwhile, cloud startup Didiom has been going since 2008 with its service that lets people stream their collections to remote devices. Its iPhone app came out in September last year, but now the company has sold the technology and appsto another mobile startup, Exclaim Mobility, which will add music features to its existing photo and video cloud-storage offering.Thumbplay and Didiom clearly didn't make big money from cloud music apps, but Clear Channel and Exclaim Mobility presumably think there's a gold lining to be found in 2011 and beyond.Add to this the news that Motorola's handset armannounced a strategic investment in cloud music provider Catch Medialast week, and  you can see the big beasts sniffing around this kind of app – Catch Media runs the Music Anywhere services for Carphone Warehouse and Best Buy in the UK – with even bigger beasts like Apple and Google waiting in the wings.The Thumbplay and Didiom apps were technically impressive, but in 2011 it looks like cloud music apps will require deep pockets to fund them too.Not only do companies have to foot the server and bandwidth bills, but their margins may be squeezed from two sides: record labels and music publishers looking for licensing fees on one, and Apple's new subscription rules on the other, which could force cloud music providers to offer an in-app payment option and give up 30% of the revenues.With that in mind, it's no wonder the costs of these apps are increasingly likely to be footed by companies like Carphone Warehouse, Motorola and Clear Channel, rather than startups like Didiom and Thumbplay.
The Xoom has come out tomixedreviewsin the US (nice hardware, where are the apps? could be a summation). Now it's facing a tougher review: how well does it meet the HTML5 specification, and how does its CSS3 and Javascript support match up?The latter being particularly useful just at the moment because the Xoom, like at least one other well-known 10-inch tablet, doesn't ship with Flash. Nada. None. (Even though Motorola said it would "ship with support for Flash". Clearly, shipping "with support for" is different from shipping "with".) Here's what it says presently in the small print wayyy down on theVerizonsite:Yes, even though that was one of the advertising points, theversion being sold in the USdoesn't actually include it just yet. It's just "coming soon" as a download from the Android Market. Just don't ask when "soon" is.Aditya Bansod at Sencha (which provides open-source web application frameworks and tools to major Enterprises and independent developers - including Best Buy, Dell, Salesforce.com and Adobe)has done the examination of the Xoom, running it through a rigorous series of tests. On the face, you would expect that the WebKit-based browser would do well. And certainly on the Acid 3 test it scores 100/100 - but Bansod points out that it doesn't actually pass, because there are some (tiny) rendering bugs: a colour error and lack of a drop shadow.Other tests suggest that the Xoom supports HTML5 features including SVG, inline SVG and CSS3 3-D transformations. Not present: WebGL, Web Sockets, Web Workers.The processing power is very hefty - the Xoom, with a dual-core Nvidia Tegra 2 processor is miles ahead of the iPad and Samsung Galaxy Tab in Javascript performance. (Here'show the Samsung Galaxy Tab performed on Sencha's tests, theBlackBerry Torch(which came out very well); weirdly they don't seem to have run the Scorecard on the original iPad. Perhaps they're waiting for a forthcoming event..)The Xoom does fantastically on the W3C's Sunspider Javascript benchmarkingBut that's where it peaked. Bansod points out that CSS3 animations were "almost completely broken":"We often found even for the most basic animations the browser skipped frames, incorrectly rendered elements, or didn't run the animation to completion. If Animations were simply slow, that would be one thing, but the Xoom CSS3 Animation support faces basic correctness issues."Looking at more complex animations, the picture didn't improve:"We found that text sometimes doesn't appear, parts of the artwork are clipped incorrectly, fonts are rendered poorly, and frames of the animation are dropped. For some of the 3D effects, the browser simply drops the 3D or tries and fails to render the effects. For anything but the most basic CSS transitions and animations the Xoom does not make the grade."Bansod's summary: "It's been nearly a year since Apple shipped the iPad and we're still incredibly surprised that Google and Motorola have yet to build a mobile browser that has a correct and high-performance CSS3 implementation. The silicon power is definitely present to support it."HTML5 audio worked ("although we find that sometimes the audio plays even after we left the page or even closed the browser") but HTML5 video didn't work at all. It would be interesting to know if Android is dumping H.264 support (given that YouTube isn't, but that the Google Chrome browser is) - or indeed to what extent it ever had it.The message to HTML5 developers: "wait for the inevitable patches". For now, this might not be the ideal machine to code against; says Bansod: "We found consistent and reproducible issues in CSS3 Animations and CSS3 Transitions among other things. We had issues where the browser either hung or crashed. Regular scrolling was slow or below full framerate. We had issues where media playback failed or performed incorrectly. At times it felt like we were using a preproduction device, but we bought our test device from a Verizon Wireless store."And beyond the HTML5 features, there were many more mundane web rendering issues: form element borders disappearing unpredictably at various zoom resolutions, CSS border radii with flattened edges, the accelerometer object being upside-down, the virtual keyboard causing layout bugs etc. Hopefully the patches will come quickly."The conclusion: "We said it in the Galaxy Tab review, and we'll say it again now: we're still waiting for the first awesome Android tablet."But next week they're looking at the RIM PlayBook's HTML5 capability - and given that HTML5/CSS3/JS coding is one of the methods of getting apps on to the PlayBook, you might hope that it would do well. Bansod hints that it does: "we'll give you a one word prequel: 'awesomeness'". That certainly sounds promising for the PlayBook.
Aleks Krotoski and Jemima Kiss are joined by Tom Watson MP, former director of digital engagement at the Cabinet Office, to discuss the amount the government pays for their web solutions.Charles Arthur asks Margaret Manning, the CEO of digital consultancy Reading Room, why her organisation charged the UK taxpayer almost £600 for a 32x32 pixel favicon during the corporate rebrand of the Information Commissioner Office in July 2010.Tom explains the challenges of being a digital advocate in public office, the ways the civil service can be technologically empowered, and the role the current minister for the Cabinet Office, Francis Maude, must play in overhauling the digital procurement strategies. He suggests that the same digital work could be done for half the price, that some projects overcharged and unnecessary, and that trying to grasp hold of government technology projects is like trying to catch water in your hands.Also this week: Sue Black from University College London explains how Britain's important role in the history of computer science has been secured thanks to a social media fundraising effort for the purchase of Alan Turing's papers from Bletchley Park.Finally, the team look at the future of web searching, after several credible news aggregators were downranked in search results after they fell foul to a tweak in the Google algorithm aimed at weeding out sites that recycle others' content.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Europe's highest court looks set to decide whether Google should remove links to articles in newspapers, including El País, from its search engine following a Spanish demand about invasion of privacy.Google wasordered to remove almost 100 online articles from its search resultsby Spain's data protection authority (DPA) earlier this year. The articles, some of which appeared in official gazettes, were subject to privacy complaints by their subjects.The US technology giant vowed to fight Spain's demand in a Madrid court, warning that it would have a "profound, chilling effect" on freedom of expression.The case will now be referred to the European court of justice, which will offer guidance on whether Spain's demands comply with European law – potentially setting a controversial precedent for internet publishing in the country.Peter Barron, Google's head of European external relations, welcomed the development. "We're pleased that the court is considering asking guidance from Europe's top court on whether Spain's DPA has overridden European law," he said."It shows that key issues are at stake. We believe that European law rightly holds the publisher of material responsible for its content."Requiring intermediaries like search engines to censor material published by others would have a profound, chilling effect on free expression without protecting people's privacy."The Spanish authority argues that bringing an injunction against search engines such as Google is the only way to block access to sensitive material online, as newspapers can legally refuse to comply with more informal requests.However, Google argues that the privacy complaints should be levelled at the publisher of the article, rather than search portal which helps people find it.Cases covering five disputed articles reached the Madrid magistrates' court in January. Those cases will now be considered by Luxembourg's European court of justice, with the remaining 80-odd articles to be resolved at a later date.Spain's demands follow a growing public debate in the country and elsewhere in mainland Europe about "the right to be forgotten" – or the right for people to delete their internet "data trails". Complaints from the Spanish public about their representation online have jumped 75% year on year, the country's privacy regulator said in June last year.
Morgan Stanley suffered a "very sensitive" break-in by the Chinese computer hackers who attacked Google last year, according to leaked emails from an internet security firm working for the investment bank.The emails, which were sent by California-based HB Gary Federal,detail howMorgan Stanley was "hit hard" by a six-month strong attack on its network in June 2009 – within weeks of the attack on Google by Chinese hackers.George Kurtz, chief technology officer for security firm McAfee whichinvestigated the so-called "Operation Aurora" attacks, described it as the "largest and most sophisticated cyberattack we have seen in years".An email sent by Phil Wallisch, a senior security engineer at HB Gary Federal, which provided internet security for Morgan Stanley, said: "They [Morgan Stanley] were hit hard by the real Aurora attacks (not the crap in the news)."They have given me access to a very sensitive report on their Aurora experience," Wallisch said in an email to a colleague in May last year. "I will honor their wishes about not sharing the info with anyone, but the good news is that I have some great ideas for our final reports."The HB Gary Federal emails were made public in the wake ofan attack by online collective Anonymous. The emails did not reveal what information may have been stolen from Morgan Stanley.Morgan Stanley declined on Monday to comment specifically on the Operation Aurora attack. A spokeswoman said: "Morgan Stanley invests significantly in IT security and manages a robust programme to deal with malware and attempted computer compromises."A senior member of China's communist politburo organised the hack into Google,according to leaked classified informationsent by US diplomats in China to Hillary Clinton's state department, revealed by WikiLeaks.Google made public the "highly sophisticated and targeted attack" last January, shortly before the hackers shut down their operation. The attack, which involved "more than 20 other US companies", was partly aimed at the Gmail accounts of "Chinese human rights activists".Classified diplomatic cables sent by the US embassy in Beijing, andreleased by WikiLeaks in December, alleged that a leading Chinese politician had "coordinated" the assault on Google, which the Americans claimed was "100% political in nature".The attack caused Google to abandon mainland China and sparked a global diplomatic row about internet censorship.Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, renewed her calls for China and other countries to adopt common standards for internet use, which includes removing barriers to access.• Booby-trapped adverts hit visitors to the London Stock Exchange (LSE) website on Monday. The ads, which the LSE said were provided by a third party, caused some users' computers to crash – with one victimclaiminghis machine became unusable after landing on the site. The LSE site has been involuntarily hosting computer viruses on around 363 pages in the last 90 days, according to an analysis by Google.
ForgetSunday night's tawdry exhibition of expensive frocks and the jaw-dropping displays of human vanity, the really exclusive event in southern California this week was not the Oscars: it'sTED.The hair may not be as big, and the women's faces are less likely to have been paralysed with exciting new strains of botulism, but TED2011, taking place 30 miles south of Los Angeles in Long Beach, is not unlike another sort of Academy Awards. Only for nerds.Or rather nerds, tech billionaires, neuroscientists and philanthropists, along with various people who want to change the world, cure cancer, create artificial life, solve global hunger or clean up oil spills using a piece of old string and some leftoverPlasticine. Because TED is where the next new big ideas are unveiled. And where, once a year all the people hungry for the next new big idea converge.It's where the first Apple Mac saw the light of day, the first CD, the first touch screen, where Al Gore first gave the talk that became An Inconvenient Truth, and where to attend the conference (this year's theme: the Rediscovery of Wonder) you need to first cough up $6,000. And then show that you have "done somethingfascinating"with your life. And then provide evidence of your "creativity, innovation, insight or brilliance".So, no, Anne Hathaway will not be hosting the event.But then TED is rather like the way you'd like the world to be: the smartest people are applauded the loudest, and the likes of Cameron Diaz, Goldie Hawn and Will Smith are paying actual money to be here.But the people who really pull in the fans and receive all the adulation and the prospect of groupie sex are obscure physicists and public healthprofessorswho no one has ever heard of. Who TED thenput onlineand turn into the kind of viral hits usually associated with cats who look likeHitler.So who and what will be the hits of this year's conference? The opening talk beamed from space? (Astronaut Catherine "Cady" Coleman will be speaking live from the international space station.) Or Bill Gates, who is not merely speaking this year, but apparently "curating" his session?Or Jamie Oliver, who will report on how his TED wish is going (he won the TED prize in 2010 and vowed to fight obesity)?In all probability, it'll be none of the above. But who knows? The Observer is hosting a mini TED in three weeks' time, TEDxObserver, and let's just say that this conference lark is harder than it looks, involving as it does a really quite large amount of unknowns, what-ifs and who-knows. (As well as, obviously, a host of brilliant, internationaltalent...)I'll be blogging all week from TED, and here are my highlights of day one, which is a kind of preview day before the event proper gets under way.Greatest nightmare for anybody who has looked at a set of Ikea instructions and hung their head in existential despairMarcin Jakubowski's talk on his "Global village construction set". He and his collaborators have identified the 50 machines most important for modern life and are publishing instructions so that anyone can build them with nothing more than their bare hands and assorted household materials. Linux brought us open-source software; this is open-source hardware. If you want to give it a go, a tractor takes six days andall instructions are here.Most unlikely setting for a piece of academic researchA Toronto nightclub. DJ YaleFoxtook the Dow Jones industrial average and cross referenced it with an analysis of all songs from the billboard charts and found that "economic busts are associated with faster music in minor keys".Best parent-of-tech-billionare idle chit chatA close-run thing, this category. Could it be Mike Bezos, father of Amazon's Jeff Bezos? Or Cathy McLain, an educational psychologist who works in the former soviet republic of Georgia. "I came because my daughter gave me a ticket." And what does she do? "She has a PhD in bioinformatics. But her husband's quite well known." Oh, who's that? "Larry Page." Blimey, Kathy, what's it like having the billionaire co-founder of Google for a son-in-law? "Well, of course, every mother wants her daughter to marry someone successful. But I'm a psychologist so I worried he might betoosuccessful. He's terribly nice though."Least likely Middle Eastern radicalEsra'a Al Shafeiis a 24-year-old Bahraini woman who, says Tom Rielly, the head of the TED Fellows programme, "looks like she still shops in the junior high school section". She's barely over five feet tall, weighs as much as perhaps a domestic cat, and is the scourge of despots and torturers everywhere. She has set up a host of websites to highlight and organise protest in the Arabic world, launching her latest,www.crowdvoice.orglast summer to collect the tweets, posts, videos and news of voices of protest from around the world. She's also incredibly brave: Esra'a can't be photographed because of the danger to herself and her family.Best billionaire reflection"I'm smart but I'm not smart enough to have made the sort of wealth I now have. Nobody is that smart." The words of Nick Hanauer, Amazon.com's first investor, and the founder of online advertising agency aQuantive which he sold to Microsoft two years ago for $6.5bn.Update: as @ZigZoomer points out the comments, the Mac and CD stories are TED urban myths. Of which there are many.
Yesterday,I introduced our Indie Dozen experimentand revealed our first six victims/volunteers. Today, here are the final half-dozen developers willing to share their coding year with us.Jonas KyratzesandTerry CavanaghWho are they?German-born Kyratzes is a bit of an indie polymath: "I've just finished a political game about Wikileaks (You Shall Know The Truth) and am in the process of starting a post-apocalyptic platform/exploration game (A Candle in the Dark) and a fantasy RPG (Rise Like Lions). I'm also writing a novel, editing a film and working on several other non-game projects." Blimey. Terry Cavanagh, meanwhile, is a famed indie coder, responsible for brilliant titles like VVVVVV, Don't Look Back, and the recent game jam entryAmerican Dream, which he created with fellow scenesters,Stephen Lavelle,Jasper ByrneandTom Morgan-Jones.What are they doing?Together, Terry and Jonas are working on an intriguing project named Nexus City. As Kyratzes explains, "It's an RPG, with an equal emphasis on interesting mechanics and a well-told story, set in a fictional town in an alternate-history Arizona. From my perspective as the game's writer, its main themes are of resistance and of pluralism; the point, however, is to develop these themes through an exciting and fun story in a setting no-one's ever done before (we're talking *very* alternate history here), not through 'movie of the week' moralizing or tiresome anti-Americanism."Twitter:@evil_communistand@terrycavanaghMesshofWho is it?Mark Essen is a digital artist and game maker, who has shownhis challenging, provocative and often amusing worksat galleries throughout the world; titles like Flywrench and Jetpack Basketball have been namechecked by Hecker and Jonathan Blow. "A lot of my games are inspired by stuff I grew up playing or discovered through the wonderful world of emulators," he explains. "Music gives me a lot of inspiration as well. Right now I've been listening to a lot ofGDFXbecause he's working on the Nidhogg soundtrack. I like reading stuff like Pilgrim in the Microworld, Jordan Mechner's old journals from when he started making Prince of Persia, Masters of Doom... I like Alejandro Jodorowsky and Jim Jarmusch.LoVidandPaper Radare some inspiring video artists."What is he working on?"Right now I'm just working on Nidhogg, which is my fighting game that got into the IGF this year. It's two player swordfighting with one hit kills and a tug of war mechanic that's similar to American football in that you need possession to advance towards your endzone. In this case possession is having killed your opponent most recently. If youwatch the videoit kind of looks like a one player Contra style platformer except when one of the enemies kills you the game flips and he's the hero."Twitter:@Messhofand@nidhogg_gameMike BithellWho is it?Until recently, Bithell was a designer at Blitz Games, working on a series of big licensed and original console titles. Then last year, he challenged himself to prototype his own game in 24 hours. The result was Thomas Was Alone – and a reignited passion for back-to-basics development. "I'm a design nerd in all its forms," he explains. "Graphic design, architecture, product design. Thomas Was Alone was a direct result of my desire to pull games back to minimalism, to see how much you could strip away from a game and keep it compelling." He's now left Blitz and is just abut to join a social games developer in London.What is he working on?Mike is now developing Thomas Was Alone into a more polished indie product. It's best described as a minimalist platformer about friendship – and geometry.Twitter:@mikebithellPocketwatch GamesWho are they?"I've been a hobbiest developer since I was seven years old," says San Diego-based coder, Andy Schatz, who effectivelyisPocketwatch Games. "I spent six years in the big-budget game dev world, working on such critically derided titles as Whacked! and Goldeneye: Rogue Agent, before I got fed up and went indie.  I've been making games independently for six years now." So far, he has released two acclaimed eco-system sims, Venture Africa and Venture Arctic.What are they working on?Andy's current project,Monaco, has won two awards at the Independent Games Festival. Inspired by movies like Riffifi and The Italian Job, it's a heist game for up to four players. "Each player has a distinct skillset," explains Schatz. "For example, The Hacker can hack electronics, and The Redhead can *ahem* distract guards. It plays a little like a multiplayer Pacman set in the world of Oceans 11." When I ask him what he hopes to achieve this year in game development, his answer is short, but truthful: "After winning the IGF last year, all that's left is to climb out of the seemingly endless pit of debt and relative poverty."Twitter:@monacoisminePaul HoeyWho is he?Like many indie developers, Hoey started out by poking about in game files to see what he could change, before graduating to Game Maker. He started working on full projects while at college ("my first game was a command line-based version of Tetris"), and has completed several titles including Russian Landmine Patrol and the amusing Large Scale Vehicular Stealing ("Grand Theft Auto envisioned as a bootleg 80s game"). Asked about his influences he replies, "I'm a real stickler for how a game provides feedback to the player through sound – games like Metal Gear Solid and World of Warcraft do this very well."What is he doing?Paul: "I'm currently working on a 2D platforming/fighting game which mixes the mentality of SNES era titles (cartoon graphics, simple combat system) with the features you'd expect from more modern games (open levels with various approaches). It focuses on giving the player levels that are easy to move around, with various battles that allow you to come from different angles or avoid altogether. I do the programming and game/level design. The name has not yet been decided on."Twitter:@seregrail7Zombie CowWho are they?Dan Marshall and the team he ropes into his idiosyncratic games provide another highlight of the UK indie scene. After releasing the clever and genuinely funny point-and-click adventures Ben There, Dan That! and Time Gentlemen, Please! Dan was commissioned by Channel 4 to write an educational game about sexually transmitted infections. The result,Privates, has to be seen to be appreciated – or indeed, believed. "The thread that ties everything Zombie Cow produces together is humour, so I suppose the prime influences are all the comedians and sitcoms I grew up watching," says Marshall. "That's everything from The Young Ones to Red Dwarf and Lee &amp; Herring. In terms of games, I'm a huge fan of the stuff Valve puts out – not just that the games they make are fun, but that they've really taken time over minor elements to make a great experience – placing lights or sounds in a certain way to draw the eye, it's mind-blowing stuff."What are they doing?"We're hard at work on two things, actually. We're making a new level for our hit sex education game Privates, which should be out round about Easter, unless more things go wrong, which I'm hoping isn't cosmically possible. The other thing is so completely and utterly secret that even I'm not sure what it is." But hopefully he'll be able to tell us more as the year goes on...Twitter:@thezombiecowRemember you can also follow theIndieDozen Twitter feed!
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
The scam wherebypeople in Indian call centres ring up and insist that they are calling from "Microsoft Windows Support"and that they have been alerted - by Microsoft, or your ISP - that "your computer is running slowly because of viruses" - is still going on.And they're still charging people for their fake "help", and people are still falling for it: I get a few emails a week confirming it (and that of course is only the people who realise they've been had). If you need confirmation, Microsoft's Answers system isstuffed with people asking about itUntil now, it has been a relatively harmless process: the call centre workers didn't leave anything (such as malware) on your computer, because that could involve the police internationally, and even in Kolkata (Calcutta as was), where the criminal gang that's behind this is based, the police might take notice. Nor have I seen any evidence that they steal details such as bank information. You got scammed for a couple of hundred pounds, but if you realised what had happened, you could get the payment reversed.But something has changed: they seem to have started trying to install software. That takes the scam into new territory altogether, because it means that the scammers are now changing the setup of the computer, and while it's still fraud, it also now strays into fields such as the Computer Misuse Act.The confirmation came in an email a few days ago from a man called Steven, based in Manchester, who was called from a company claiming to be "Windows Service Centre" based in East London (on the phone number 020 3318 3026)."She advised that there were numerous error reports that had come through and that my computer was badly affected and running slow (which sounded true)," saysGrahamSteven. "I was taken through various screens, which induicated numerous warnings and alerts and it was suggested that as my computer care warranties had expired, I should purchase a new one."Being wary, he called them back in case the phone number was fake. But of course the phone number worked: it's a VOIP line back to India.The cost? £199 - which included the installation of Kaspersky Antivirus. With tax, it came to £240.The scammers were careful, though: they used his card details to make the purchase. It was only afterwards that Steven realised his mistake: "I received an Invoice from "SWREG" [Digital River, a download service in the US] for the service and thought nothing of it, until I checked the possible frauds page that you have. I phoned my credit card company, who confirmed that the transaction had gone through, so I immediately cancelled my card. A friend came round and uninstalled all of the Kaspersky and other applications. I do not know for sure that this is a scam, but strongly suspect that I have been conned."Unfortunately it is a scam, and he has been conned. But he may be able to get the money back.If you, or someone you know, falls victim to this scam, then do three things:1) contact your card issuer and get the transaction reversed2) report what happened toAction Fraud, the UK's national fraud reporting centre. It has itsown page on Microsoft-related scams, as doesMicrosoft itself.3) contact the police so you can get a crime number.If you do a search on the phone number given, you find that it appears on a number of sites - including one calling itself YTech Solutions (ytechltd.com), which looks like another standard template for the scam; the sites are set up by the dozen, and as soon as police get one taken down, six more are ready to spring up - with similar misspellings, "privacy policies" and so on. YTechltd hides its ownership details behind a domain proxy - hardly what you'd expect from a reputable company.People are still getting these calls - often multiple times. The clue though that there is a single gang behind all this - rather than multiple people trying their luck - comes from the fact that I've never come across anyone who has been phoned twice once they've taken out this "support". That suggests that they are keeping some sort of database - but the other question is, where do they get their database of people to call?Updated: Corrected name - victim's name is Steven, not Graham. Added third thing to do - contact police. Misspellings corrected.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBefore You Install Windows 7 Service Pack 1 &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security"My take? I'd say that the main benefit of this service pack for Windows 7 users would be if you were considering re-installing the operating system for some reason. In that case, Service Pack 1 would streamline the process quite a bit. Otherwise, I would urge Windows 7 users who are up-to-date to ignore this offering, at least for now." Up-to-date meaning that you've taken on all the security fixes.Free parking and contactless cards &gt;&gt; Digital Money blogDave Birch on why you need contactless payment at places like car parks: because it saves money. "Meanwhile, I can't help noticing that not everyone wants to remove cash from the car park. Take, for example, Wokingham council. It car park machines (according to The Daily Telegraph of 26th February 2011, p.4) took in Â£982,057 last year but only issued Â£945,417 of tickets. The discrepancy, as you might expect, comes from the machines that don't give change, a form of institutionalised extortion. Simply arithmetic reveals that hapless motorists are thus facing a 4% service charge for using cash. It's time to take action: councils should start making car parks cash-free as soon as possible and learn to cut their cloth. But if the car parks are cash free, and not everyone is using mobile payments, and the banks haven't issued contactless cards to everyone yet, then how to close the gap? Well, why not have local prepaid cards that function as "town cards" as well."Yahoo's (and Associated Content Founder) Luke Beatty Talks About Google Content Farm Attack &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAmong the sites hit by Google's rejig: Associated Content, part of Yahoo, down 93% according to Sistrix. Worried? Its chief says he's not worried. "'Search traffic is not our focus within Yahoo – it hasn't been for 10 months – traffic sources have changed endlessly over that last six years – search is one, albeit an important one and clearly, [but] now it too is changing and we see the future of our content distribution coming from O&amp;O properties and social networks, as much as anything.' Shall we check back in 6 months, Mr Beatty?Top 10 Pirated eBooks at The Pirate Bay &gt;&gt; GalleyCatSome are PDFs - so do they count? - but one is tempted to agree with the commenter saying "So what does this prove besides the fact that computer nerds still find reading about sex to be less threatening than actually doing some field work?"Why operators will find it hard to sell tablets &gt;&gt; Asymco"Apple engineered a price for the iPad that makes comparisons extremely favorable. Buyers know the thing they are buying is not a phone so they look at the price carefully. "But the most crucial weakness of alternative vendors is the fact that operators don't know how to sell tablets. Tablets are small computers. They are bought in the same way that buyers buy laptops: in-store testing. Notice that except for the iPhone operators only provide phone mockups in their stores. This is because they want buyers to discuss their purchase with a sales rep. This is not the way laptop hunters shop. Another tell-tale sign of a disconnect between operators and tablets is that operator shops are physically tiny. PCs (and tablets) need large tables for users to look, touch, heft and fondle. Just on square feet alone, operators and tablets are not a good match."Why a Xoom? &gt;&gt; tecosystems"Q: Why a tablet?"A: Truthfully, I never wanted a tablet. Seriously. Nor have comments like Al3x's helped."But here's the thing: I travel a lot. Way more than I would like to. Just since joining TripIt, I've made 131 trips to 40 cities and 5 countries and been gone 296 days..."The fact is that a laptop just isn't ideal for travel. First, there's the limited battery life. Yes, even the MacBooks. Second, there's the weight. Even three or four pounds (with charger) gets old when you're walking a conference floor all day. Third, there's the form factor. How many times have you delicately propped an open laptop between the crook of your arm, looking up a meeting room or a session schedule. Or tried to show technology to someone with a machine."Q: Are you sure you're going to use a tablet as much as you think? A lot of iPad owners are like Al3x, using them far less than anticipated."A: No, I'm not sure. Which is why the 14- day trial period will be important for me." Watch this space..Don't be fooled. 24-bit will not fix computer audio &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson delves into some of the misinformation swirling around Jimmy Iovine (record company exec's) suggestion that all you need is bigger files to hear better music. Nope, that won't do it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Blackberry Radio.Apple only makes 11 of the 350,000-plus apps available on its app store, preferring to focus its energies on new hardware features and applications programme interfaces (API) for its community of mobile operating system (iOS) developers to use.Its rivals are eagerly courting those companies to port their apps to Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone, webOS and the rest, while pitching the merits of their own developer ecosystems. However, in parallel with that strategy, they are also taking a do-it-yourself approach to ensure they have some apps that aren't available on Apple devices.Microsoft is the latest example, as outlined in aNew York Times (NYT) featurethis weekend. It describes the company's policy of encouraging staff to develop Windows Phone 7 apps in their spare time, keeping 70% of the revenues and (just as importantly) 100% of the intellectual property, rather than taking ownership itself.Google Maps."We tend to have strict moonlighting rules," Microsoft's Brandon Watson tells the NYT. "But we've changed those rules so developers can do this in their spare time, and have the financial benefit and outcome of the work."The example given is Instagram-esquephoto app Bubblegum, but Watson says there are more than 840 employee-developed apps already available for Windows Phone 7 (WP7), with 3,000 staff having signed up to the scheme.Microsoft is far from the only company adopting the do-it-yourself approach to its apps platform. Many of the apps pushing the boundaries of Android the most are made by Google – compare the downloadable Google Maps app for Android with the preloaded one for iPhone for example.Google's famous 20%  policy of allowing employees to pursue their own projects in work hours will fuel more good app ideas, while in January, the Wall Street JournalclaimedGoogle is actively recruiting small teams of developers to make Android apps too.Meanwhile, Research In Motion's (RIM) latest self-made app isBlackBerry Radio– currently in beta – while it has also built bespoke apps for U2 and even Facebook, as showcases for some of the BlackBerry APIs available for other developers to make use of.Nokia's Beta Labs teams have been responsible for innovative Symbian apps likeNokia Sports TrackerandPoint &amp; Findin the past, while more recently, the company has worked with digital agency Marvellous to make apps for its Ovi Store.Few homegrown apps – RIM's BlackBerry Messenger excepted – are likely to convince significant numbers of people to choose one smartphone over another. It's probably still more important to secure ports of the key apps from iOS, as shown byMicrosoft's announcement last weekthat Angry Birds, Doodle Jump and Plants vs. Zombies will all make their WP7 debuts in April.Even so, a flow of original, innovative apps will create a healthy buzz around the platforms of Apple's rivals. Could the next Foursquare, Instagram or Angry Birds be spawned within Google, RIM or Nokia, rather than without? That might sound like crazy talk, but there's no harm in trying.
European customs officers have been ordered to seize shipments of Playstation 3s after LG won a preliminary injunction against Sony in an acrimonious patent battle between the two Asian electronics giants.The injunction means that all new PS3s have to be confiscated as they are imported into the UK and the rest of Europe for at least 10 days.If the blockade was extended it could mean consoles disappearing from high street shelves. It is understood that Sony and computer games retailers typically have about two to three weeks' worth of PS3s in stock across the continent.Tens of thousands of PS3s were seized by customs officers last week in the Netherlands, the Guardian has learnt, in a dispute that centres on Sony's allegedly infringing use of Blu-ray technology belonging to LG.Sony, which imports around 100,000 of the consoles a week, is frantically trying to get the ban lifted. The Japanese company has the right to appeal to the European patents office.LG meanwhile, could apply to the same patents office to get the 10-day import ban extended. Alternatively, the Korean company could apply for a court order to get the consoles destroyed but it is highly unlikely the court would grant a request to eliminate the warehoused goods.LG argues that Sony PS3s infringe a number of its patents relating to playback of Blu-ray Discs. LG called for an investigation into the PS3's Blu-ray use in a filing with the US international trade commission earlier this month, and said it sought a "permanent exclusion order ... excluding entry into the United States" of the games console.If Sony is found to have infringed LG patents, it could be forced to compensate the South Korean manufacturer for each PS3 it has sold around the world, which could cost hundreds of millions of pounds.The two technology giants are involved ina complex web of seven separate patent disputes, with Sony also seeking to block shipments of LG smartphones to the US.Rotterdam and Schiphol are the main import points for PS3s for both the UK and continental Europe. The consoles are being stockpiled in Dutch warehouses until it becomes clear how the case will develop.A spokesman for Sony Playstation said: "We are currently looking into this matter, and cannot make any comments at this point in time." LG declined to comment, although sources close to the company confirmed the current legal position.Sony has sold more than 3m PS3s in the UK since its launch in March 2007. The Japanese manufacturer is understood to have a stockpile of around 6,500 PS3s in Germany and 10,000 in the UK.However, the majority of PS3 sales around Europe are pre-orders, meaning they are already sold before they gather dust at warehouses in the UK and elsewhere. Stockpiles could run out within two to three weeks if the ban is not lifted, the Guardian understands.• This article was amended on 3 March to clarify the role of the civil court of justice in the Hague in this injunction. The court only serves to grant the LG's lawyer's application to have power of attorney for the company on this matter. Once this is granted, the attorney can then order EU customs officials to blockade imports of this product.
It would be churlish to pick on a fashion brand for getting a tad carried away with its own awesomeness when latching on to the trend for tactile tablet apps. You'd be disappointed if it eschewed hyperbole for humility.Suffice to say,Ralph Lauren's new iPad appclaims to sit "at the convergence of technology, fashion and art with cutting-edge multi-touch functionality, a built-in accelerometer and assisted GPS technology".Which, for the churls among us, can be translated as "boggling at pretty pictures of sports clothing by touching and tilting your iPad, while looking up the nearest stockist if you fancy buying them". There's a reason we don't get asked to ghost-write App Store listings.The free app – a weighty 173.3MB to download – has been designed to show off Ralph Lauren's Spring 2011 RLX collection of "technical sports apparel", as it's known. The app is split into three sections – luxury, technology and performance – and each  features four scenes to interact with.That includes tapping the screen to freeze-frame models drop-kicking and somersaulting in slow motion, tilting the iPad to flick between two different outfits, and blowing into the microphone to swish up a lady's skirt (sorry, "exhale to set light-as-air fabric in motion"). You can share screenshots via email or Facebook.The photography is excellent, of course, and the key schtick of seeing the clothing in motion works very well too. It feels like a showcase, though, rather than a genuinely useful shopping tool. Tap on the shop button, and you're simply sent to the RLX section of Ralph Lauren's website, rather than the specific item of clothing that you've been looking at.There is a great deal of potential for fashion and clothing apps on the iPad and the coming wave of rival tablets. Ralph Lauren RLX is a step along the way, and while it has nailed the necessary style, there is potential to complement that with more functionality.
Here is a moment that typifies the multiplayer action inGears of War 3. A lone gunman weaves between two chunks of cover in the centre of Checkout, perhaps the new game's standout map. Suddenly, two members of the opposing team run out at him from either side and simultaneously blast him with sawn-off shotguns; the result is a nuclear apocalypse of blood, spraying at the screen, the background scenery and everywhere else within a five-metre vicinity of the collision. Over the headset comes a torrent of laughter. It is ultra violence as slapstick comedy.This joyously cataclysmic exchange took place at a hands-on event in San Francisco last week. Surrounded by the world's gaming press, design director, Cliff Bleszinski and executive producer, Rod Fergusson, revealed six multiplayer maps from the closing title in the Gears trilogy, due out on September 20. Apparently, this is only a selection from the final line-up, but the half-dozen arenas revealed here gave a good indication of what to expect: frantic, gore-splattered mayhem.My first experience of the game is with the aforementioned Checkout, a ruined supermarket, complete collapsing product displays, rusting shelving units and an array of smaller departments leading off from a central shopping floor. It's an ultra-compact map, designed for close-quarters combat – and that's exactly what you get. It's here that one key new weapon comes into its own: the sawn-off shotgun. This spiteful little maniac has terrible range but within a few feet it's explosively deadly. If you stumble across a group of enemies, you can take out three with one blast, which is indecently messy. Also handy here is the new Retro Lancer, a version of the standard Lancer assault rifle that features a secondary bayonet rather than a chainsaw. Hit B and you'll perform a charge, bolting up to an enemy and skewering him with your blade. The timing and direction require practise, but get it just right and your victim can be lifted from his feet and waved in the air like a gory flag.On the same scale is Thrashball, a ruined sports arena, flanked by locker rooms and surrounded by collapsing seating units, which provide handy overviews of the central area. The court is strewn with low and high cover objects, so you get these miniature wars of attrition as sides edge toward each other through the debris. However, the side areas also allow for pincer movements so there are pockets of violence continually exploding throughout the stadium. It's another fun map, especially with the giant scoreboard suspended high above, which records each kill on the digital readout. This can also be shot down mid-bout, making instant jam out of anyone caught underneath.Set in the locust dead lands, Trenches provides a slightly larger field of play, taking place over a desolate and scarred landscape. Here, a trench line extends through the centre of the map, with various lookout points dotted around and above it. It's a real heavy weapons zone, with a Mulcher spawnpoint at the bottom and a 'One Shot' at the top. This devastating newcomer features a laser target that scans the area looking for enemies; if anyone strays into its sightline, they are seamlessly converted into a thin red mist. As the converging red lines sweep across the sandy surface they create plenty of amusingly hectic activity, with soldiers diving for cover behind any stunted tree trunk they can find.This level also boasts another interesting feature. Several minutes into each bout, a horn sounds and suddenly a sand storm rolls in reducing visibility to a few feet. Cue several seconds of tension as players creep about, blasting at any object that looms into their sight line. This is also a useful opportunity to test out another new weapon, the Digger, a projectile that tunnels beneath the ground, before popping out and exploding. It's designed to get beneath cover objects, but as it moves beneath the ground it leaves a pretty obvious dirt furrow in its wake, usually giving intended targets a few seconds to get away. But in the midst of a sandstorm, it's not visible, leaving stationary players extremely vulnerable.Overpass, is a similarly mid-sized map, with a suspended roadway heading over the central area. Slap bang in the middle of the environment is a high turret in which you find four Retro Lancers, perfect for laying down a suppressing fire and controlling the area. As the bout progresses, the overpass supports slowly sink into the mud, altering the playing field and sending architecture crashing down.The last two maps we played were Old Town and Mercy. The latter was described by Fergusson as a Spanish-style version of Gridlock, a favourite map from Gears 1. It's a series of overgrown garden areas, divided by decorative arches and overlooked by a crumbling church. This map provides a more tactical, slower-paced encounter, in which long-range and heavy weapons (several of which are ironically stashed away inside the place of worship) come to the fore. Old Town is an urban map, with lots of smaller streets and alleys arranged around an open marketplace. "It's great for territory-type modes," says Bleszinski. "It's one of those maps where people get down the sides and you have these great gun fights; people are running back and forth through the middle, while other players are flanking them." It also has chickens running around. Which you can shoot, naturally.Within a few minutes of play on any of these maps, you'll spot several little tweaks to the familiar Gears system. The 'tap and hold' controls have been simplified to improve usability. If you tap X you'll revive a teammate or take a passing enemy as a meat shield, but if you hold it, you'll pick up a weapon. The system is designed so that, when you rush in to save a buddy, you won't just grab a nearby shotgun by mistake – there's even a little timer display that shows how long you've held the button. It takes a while to get used to, but when every microsecond counts, it soon becomes a vitally useful function.There's new functionality in other areas too. When you spot an enemy player, you can hold down the left analogue stick to tag them, allowing your comrades to view their position. "We really tried to find ways for the player to communicate with teammates without having to use voice comms all the time," explains Fergusson. Also, pressing the left bumper button at any time will reveal all the weapon spawn points on the map – great for newcomers or those of us who have trouble memorising such locations. Elsewhere, players are now able to change their load-outs before a match, and after they get killed, allowing better control over weapons and tactics than previous Gears titles.Gears of War 3 is also refining the very basic experience points system from Gears 2, adding a variety of unlocks for veteran players. Each weapon, for example, has unlockable (and suitably bloody) Execution modes, which only become available to players who have proved their proficiency with the relevant firearms. There are both short and long execution manoeuvres, selected by either tapping or holding the button – these go on the official scale of visceral brutality from 'ugh, that must smart' to 'argh, my eyes!' and contain scenes of chest-bursting, neck-throttling and skull-smashing which may be unsuitable for, well, anybody. You're also able to access new character models and costumes as you reach key milestones: completing five matches might give you access to Baird or a new Savage Theron, while 70 earns you Coltrane. For the beta test, starting in April, Epic Games has created a gold version of the Retro Lancer, available to those who play 90 matches. Get 100 kills with it, and it yours to keep and take into the retail version.After about two hours exposure, I can confirm that the savage delights of Gears remain undimmed. The mismatch at the heart of the series is still weirdly compelling  – these giant, graceless characters who find themselves lumbering into sudden, hyperkinetic gunfights. The new weapons add extremes of range to the action, with the sawn-off at one end and the deadly One Shot at the other; and there are useful modifications to familiar equipment – the powerful Hammerburst rifle, for example, now features iron sights for greater accuracy. "You just click the right stick to go into sight mode, It's really effective at range," explains Fergusson.Of the various multiplayer modes, I played and enjoyed the tweaked Team Deathmatch the most. Here, each five-man team gets just 15 respawns per round, and matches often end in a pitiless manhunt, with packs of players legging it after a lone survivor from the opposing team. Turning around this deficit and triumphing against the odds is enormously satisfying. The other options available in our hands-on were a modified, more fluid version of King of the Hill, which no longer requires players to stand in the target area once it's taken, and Capture the Leader, in which players have to grab the other side's leader and hold him for a set period. The aim with both has apparently been to simplify the notion of objective-based multiplayer, making it more appealing to newer and more casual players.And behind it all are those magic words – dedicated servers. Epic has made the switch to this more reliable method of delivering online gameplay (though apparently peer-to-peer options will be available), and fans will no doubt be delighted. But those fans have a long wait – anyone who doesn't make it into April's beta has til September before they can experience the carnage. This later release date has been put to good use though, according to Fergusson: "the extra time has allowed us to add extra polish. This is going to be the most polished Gears of War game we've ever made. It's going to be the best in the series…"
There has probably never been a better time to be an indie developer. While old-timers wax lyrical about the golden days of the 8- and 16bit computers, there was no digital distribution back then, and bedroom coders still had to clamber into the sack with The Man to get their games published and marketed.Now we have Steam, Xbox Live Indie Games, app stores andKongregate; we have Facebook and Twitter for publicity; we have global game jams and festivals. Competition is tough, and hundreds of games never get the attention they deserve. But as titles likeBraid,MinecraftandWorld of Goohave shown, it is possible to create a game with a small team, with little corporate control and sell hundreds of thousands of copies.So what's it like to work in indie development? How are the games made, and what are the problems and frustrations of coding alone or in small teams? To find out, I approached 12 indie developers and asked if we could track them throughout the year. We'll be reporting regularly on their progress, we'll get them to tell us about the life of an indie programmer, and we'll encourage you to get involved with the communities of the games you like the best.At theGameCityfestival last year, veteran games programmer Chris Hecker gave a speech in which he said community was the most vital element in the indie studio's armoury. You need people onboard early, you need to engage with them, you need to connect directly with an audience. The idea behind the Indie Dozen is to see how that works, and to give an insight into how difficult, challenging and rewarding it is.I haveset up a Twitter feedfor the project and over the next two days I'll be introducing each developer. I'm also planning some tutorials for readers interested in giving game development a go.But for now, meet the Indie Dozen...Bolt CreativeWho are they?Founded by industry veterans Dave Castelnuovo and Allan Dye, this San Francisco studio worked on flash games for a decade before moving onto iPhone development. "I'm influenced by John Carmack, GTA, God of War, Geometry Wars, anything by Jeff Minter, Japanese RPGs, anime and comics like Walking Dead, Invincible and Bleach," says Castelnuovo who started out on the 1992 SNES game, Clayfighter. "They just threw me on as lead with hardly any experience!"What are they doing?Bolt developed the highly acclaimed iPhone hitPocket God, and they're currently working on new titles in that series, including Pocket God Journey to Uranus for iPad and Pocket God Anti-social for Facebook.Twitter:@pocketgodCharlie KnightWho is he?As seen inmy feature on the return of bedroom coders, ex-gardener Knight is a key figure in the UK indie scene, whose brilliant, funny shooters channel the anarchic spirit of the 8bit era. The likes of Bullet Candy, Irukandji and the incredibly named Space Phallus have earned him a growing fanbase of schmup obessives.What is he doing?Knight is working on his latest shooter,Scoregasm, which has been in development for two years. As for his inspirations, "I was pretty influenced by Jeff Minter's Llamatron when I was writing Bullet Candy," he explains. "Scoregasm has been more influenced by the Mario Galaxy games. Space Phallus was mostly a response to the phallic nature of spaceships in the shoot-em-ups of yore. Irukandji was my attempt at making some cool sea monsters asfter I watched Deep Blue, the BBC documentary." Of course.Twitter:@charliesgamesChris HeckerWho is he?Hecker is veteran programmer and respected expert on 3D games coding. He started out at Microsoft working on the company's Direct X game development platform before moving to Maxis to work on Spore. He's also been editor-at-large on the widely read US industry magazine, Game Developer, and helped set up the originalIndie Game Jam.What is he doing?He's currently working on the hugely promisingSpy Party, an asymmetric two-player strategy game for PC, PSN and Xbox 360. One participant is a spy attempting to complete a series of stealth missions during a diplomatic party, the other is an assassin attempting to identify and shoot the spy. "It's a game about subtle human behaviour," explains Hecker. "I think the industry is massively undershooting in its potential as an art and entertainment form, so I want to help it get to where it deserves to be. I think interactivity is an incredibly powerful tool for art, but we have, so far, under-utilised it."Twitter:@spypartyCrankshaft GamesWho are they?Based in Montreal, the seven members of the Crankshaft team have diverse backgrounds in game development. Founders Paul Dalessi and Dan Menard coded the IGF-nominated Half-Life 2 mod, Eternal Silence, while Liz Hollerman was previously at Midway working on the likes of Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe.What are they doing?They're currently working onParty of Sin, a 'COOPetitive platformer', in which players take on personified versions of the seven deadly as they seek to flee Hell. "We are exploring a lot of religious mythology," explains community manager, Alex Galasso. "We're going through the story of the angels, how the Sins were born, and tying that into our game design. We want to communicate some interesting thoughts on how Heaven, Hell, and everything in between relate. From a gameplay point of view, New Super Mario Bros. has been a huge influence, along with classics like Contra and Metal Slug. Co-op Mario is a lot of fun, and we loved that you could trip up fellow players in that game."Twitter:@crankshaftgamesDark AcreWho is he?Dark Acre is the studio name for lone coder Jack Nilssen. A relative newcomer to game development, he graduated from Vancouver Film School's Game Design program last October: "I left with several complete paper designs, an analog board game, a completed Flash project called Tideturner, a full 80-page design document, several Unreal levels, and a completed Unity game called Gravitos."What is he doing?I'll let Jack explain. "I've got a magnum opus that I'm slowly adding to by developing smaller projects that teach me what I need to know to make the larger one a success. The big one's an inter-galactic space trader that pays homage to games like Star Flight, Star Control and Privateer, with a heavy focus on economics.  The current smaller project, an eight-week development, is a puzzle toy that's helping me practice level design and improving my abilities with the 3D modelling tools."Twitter:@DarkAcreJackDifferent TunaWho are they?A collective of indie developers including Different Cloth,Tunaand an artist named Ronzo. Different Cloth has worked on Flash and iPhone games, while Sheffield-based studio Tuna is currently developing a claymation platform beat-'em-up named Cletus Clay for Xbox Live Arcade, and has just finished the browser gameCover Girlfor Channel 4. "Ronzo is much like a bad passport photo," explains, Different Cloth's Gordon Midwood. "He refuses to explain his background." Erm, okay then.What are they doing?Together they're all working on a project funded by Screen Yorkshire and 4IP entitledDerrick the Deathfin. "It's essentially a parable about the futility of existence," says Midwood. "I mean, if we managed to get funding to make something with such a ridiculous name, really, what is the point?"Twitter:@derrickdeathfinMeet the rest of our Indie Dozen developers tomorrow!
Broadband provider TalkTalk and its Tiscali subsidiary have been warned that they could yet face a fine from the communications regulator Ofcom, despite paying £2.5m in compensation to 62,000 people over faulty billing.The payments followed afour-month investigation between August and November last year instigated by Ofcom, after it had received more than a thousand complaints relating to incorrect bills from the companies after people had ceased taking their services.But the watchdog is still receiving complaints, and warned it could issue TalkTalk with a fine – which could be up to 10% of the company's turnover – if it found evidence that the firm had continued to breach regulations.TalkTalk, the UK's third-biggest internet service provider behind BT and Virgin Media, has been dogged by customer service problems following its takeover of rival Tiscali's UK business in 2009.Among the billing errors, one customer received bills for £109.77 from TalkTalk after she switched to another provider. She was given no assurances that it would stop sending her bills even after spending more than an hour on the phone trying to resolve the problem. Another customer paid Tiscali UK £610, despite cancelling her account in February 2006, after being sent bills from debt collection services. "Tiscali's billing errors are legendary,"saidMark Jackson of ISP Review, an independent site which offers information about UK internet service providers (ISPs).Ofcom ordered TalkTalk to provide refunds to all consumers who were billed for cancelled services since 1 January 2010, cancel debt collection action and take steps to repair the credit ratings of affected customers.Because TalkTalk had taken significant steps to fix the problem within the deadline, Ofcom said that under existing laws it could not fine the company for the original offences.But it can take additional action against TalkTalk, including a possible fine, if it finds evidence of a further breach of the rules.It also hopes that the government will approve a change in the law that would enable Ofcom to fine companies even if they take action to address such problems. If that comes into force, the regulator will be able to wield that power from 25 May  – effectively setting a deadline for ISPs to sort out billing problems or suffer the double hit of a fine and compensation.TalkTalk lost 25,000 subscribers in the final three months of 2010 after disruption caused by switching customers from Tiscali UK.Under chief executive Dido Harding, TalkTalk said it has created a central support team to improve service quality and rectify the problems. "We're pleased that Ofcom has recognised the significant steps we've taken to fix the billing issues identified," the company said in a statement. "We moved all of our customers to our single billing platform at the end of January and our focus on resolving any outstanding billing issues continues. We remain committed to providing great value and service to our 4.2 million phone and broadband customers."Ofcom has an online guide to help people who want tocomplain about telecoms services.
An analysis bySistrix, an independent company that looks at how sites rank against huge numbers of common search keywords, has revealed more than 300 sites that have lost out  fromGoogle's re-ranking of sites for "original content" (or the lack of it).Among the names are well-known sites such as:•the British Medical Journal, the respected medical resource•Cult of Mac, which provides Apple news and interviews;•Daniweb, a big IT discussion site;•Digital Trends, a tech news site•Mahalo, the "human-mediated" search engine backed by entrepreneur Jason Calacanis;•PR Newswire, which pumps out press releases on behalf of companies, and so is often a mirror of what appears elsewhere, on companies' sites;•Robtex.com, which offers domain details on sites, and is a handy tool if you're trying to find out who is cohosted on a suspected spam site;•Slideshare, used to share presentations online;•Songkick, which alerts fans to when their favourite band is heading to town;•Technorati, the once-great, now-fading blog-indexer;•The Well, "the birthplace of the online community movement"•Wikinvest, a web startup that tries to challenge Yahoo and others by letting you track stock portfolios.(The full list from Sistrix is at the end of this post.)Sistrix looked at more than 60m domains across six countries: each week it tries searches for 1m most commonly used search engine keywords and looks at where sites rank.Johannes Beus, its founder and chief executive, says the company's focus is principally European – Germany initially, and since last year in the UK, Italy, Spain and France. Indexing for US keywords "will follow in some weeks".Notably there are also big losers among obvious sites hoping to benefit from people mistyping or misremembering a URL - such as britannia.com (rather than britannica.com). And it's not obvious that the world will be a poorer place for rankmytattoos.com and whosdatedwho.com not having so much Googlejuice.Update:as you'd expect,Cult of Mac's Leander Kahney is livid, and we don't blame him. He wonders why:Perhaps it was because we're constantly ripped off by shitty clone blogs?Or maybe because we ranked so highly for popular keywords like "Apple" and "iPhone." In fact, we used to get a lot of love from Google, placing highly on Google News and Google's general search pages. A lot of our traffic came from Google, which is why the changes are so serious. I'm already seeing a big drop-off in traffic. Over the weekend and today, the traffic is half what it normally would be.I'm pissed because we've worked our asses off over the last two years to make this a successful site. Cult of Mac is an independently owned small business. We're a startup. We have a small but talented team, and I'm the only full timer. We're busting our chops to produce high-quality, original content on a shoestring budget.We were just starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel. After two years of uncertainty, the site finally looks like it will be able to stand on its two feet.But this is a major setback. Anyone got Larry's cell number?The BMJ might somehow stagger on via its expensive subscriptions, but Kahney's post is a reminder that changes to Google's algorithm aren't without collateral damage.Many of the domains on there may be among those which you've noticed out of the corner of your eye when you've done a search on something generic (hint: lots more words, and quote marks around phrases you're particularly looking for narrow a search on Google and Bing usefully). The biggest five losers, in terms of the percentage of keywords on which they've been downranked by Sistrix's measurement are• wisegeek.com• ezinearticles.com• suite101.com• hubpages.com• yourdictionary.comNotably not on the list is ehow.com, which is owned by Demand Media and whicharguably forms a large part of that company's valuation. (Demand Media, if you didn't know, is often described as a "content farm": it looks for what phrases, especially questions, people are plugging into search engines and generates content to match). In fact the Google change has really helped eHow,argues Seobook.com. It points out that Articlesbase.com and lovetoknow.com (the latter put an entire out-of-copyright 1911 encyclopaedia online) have both been downranked in the new Google shakeup.While it's arguably obvious that Technorati, PR Newswire, Robtex, Slideshare and Wikinvest don't create any original content, it isn't as obvious why other sites should have fallen foul of this system. Google has, for obvious reasons, been opaque about quite what it has done here and how it has tweaked its algorithm. But since it does this sort of change at least once a day – though hardly ever with such big effects – it may be that those sites that humans see as generating useful, new content, or simply providing useful links to information (such as Songkick) might move up the rankings again.After all, if Google were to downrank sites that don't actually generate much content but simply copy others' content and link to it, then it wouldn't figure very highly in its own search rankings, would it? The argument over quite what constitutes "useful" content looks set to continue for some time. Spam is an arms race where no armistice is ever declared – and civilian casualties continue.The full list isavailable as a web page.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 26 FebruaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Killzone 3(18+)PS3 (100)12 (–)Bulletstorm(18+)Xbox 360 (81)PS3 (15)PC (3)13 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (38)Wii (3)PC (3)164 (5)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (31)DS (7)Wii (6)225 (6)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)206 (3)Dead Space 2(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (42)PC (7)57 (2)Marvel Vs Capcom 3: Fate Of Two Worlds (12+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)28 (11)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (38)Wii (10)PC (2)159 (14)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)1810 (7)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)15UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Nintendo's 3DS handheld console sold out within hours of its Japanese launch on Saturday. Nintendo claims that all 400,000 units in the opening shipment were gone by the close of day one, with most already secured via pre-orders.According to specialist Japanese games site Adriasang, large queues were forming outside key electronics shops throughout Tokyo on Friday night, but many stores were dealing with pre-order customers only.The device, due for release in Europe on March 25, offers glasses-free 3D gaming, as well as a 3D camera and Wi-Fi connectivity. The console launched with eight games including Nintendogs + cats, Ridge Racer 3D and Super Street Fighter IV 3D.While Nintendo games hardware usually performs well in domestic launches, it's an encouraging sign for the company, especially as the Wii and DS consoles are not shifting in the numbers they once were: sales of the Wii console were down by over 30% in January compared to the same period in 2010.Nintendo has, of course, promised that more units will be available shortly.
Is Jonathan Ive, Apple's iconic designer, about to leave Apple and move back to the UK?ASunday Timesreport claims Ive is about to benefit from a three-year golden handcuff deal that means he can cash in £25m in shares. Ive wants to spend more time in the UK where he wants his sons to go to school, the Times claims, but the Apple board has refused to support his relocation.The storyquotes a family friend as saying that "they have told him in no uncertain terms that if he headed back to England he would not be able to sustain his position with them".As with most things Apple the story is largely speculative, based on the nugget of a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission which outlines Ive's share deal. But the timing is particulalrly painful for Apple, which is already suffering uncertainty after Steve Jobs' medical leave of absence.Apple's second-highest profile employee after Jobs (Steve Wozniak's Segway stunts notwithstanding), Jonathan Ive is also the other Apple employee most closely identified with the personality and success of its products. Ive's fortune is of far less interest than his perceived value to Apple and its share price.There was no hint in Apple'srecent annual meetingthat Ive's position was in doubt in any way, but also no suggestion that it might be Ive rather than current acting chief executive Tim Cook who might replace Jobs permanently. That might be a more popular, though less logical choice, among Apple devotees.Surely Apple's board, though they must be desperate to retain Ive, would find it in their interest to allow flexible working in this instance?
As lead designer of Need for Speed Shift 2: Unleashed, Andy Tudor is close to finishing the second iteration of the simulation wing of Electronic Arts' Need for Speed driving game franchise. He is the only home-grown developer at Gamesblog Live – Slightly Mad Studios is based in London – Tudor revealed the complexities of making an ultra-realistic racer, and argued passionately about how mathematical realism in games falls flat unless it is complemented by emotional engagement.What level of detail do you have to go into to make a modern racing game realistic?Starting from scratch, with the cars in the game, we get the CAD data from the manufacturers. We have great relationships with the manufacturers, and they want to be in our game. Of course, we want them just as much, to showcase these amazing cars that most of us can't afford to buy. They give us all their assets, and when you look at those amazing cars, there's craftsmanship in terms of the technical side of things – how fast they go, their acceleration and so on – and then the aesthetic side. So the craftsmanship that they put into the real cars, we try to recreate as accurately as possible, in 3D as well. And it's the same with the tracks. We try to get as many tracks in as possible, and to get them mathematically correct, but we also take the guys out to track days, so they can drive the tracks themselves. Because what you find is that what looks correct on a Google Earth map doesn't necessarily give you the same sensation when you drive it. You find yourself thinking things like: "Oh my God, that's way steeper than I thought it would have been, or than the mathematical height elevation tells me it is."What are your favourite cars and tracks?In Shift 2, we've got variety, which people want. It's like if you ask me what my favourite game is, I wouldn't be able to answer that, because I like one from each genre – one last-generation game, one handheld one, one MMO and so on – so when it comes to my favourite cars, I personally drive a muscle-car, but other people may hate that. The new Pagani, which we announced today, is absolutely stunning. But then there are lots of people who like old retro machines.Do you have tracks such as the Nürburgring Nordschleife in Shift 2?Absolutely: we've got fifty unique locations in the game now, including the Nordschleife and the Nürburgring GP circuit. Then we've included the Bathurst circuit. Again, speaking to variety, Bathurst is something we really wanted in the game – it's out in Australia, there's an epic event there every year, and the scenery stretches out over an amazing vista, which you won't get somewhere smaller, like Hockenheim. I think Bathurst is one of my favourites, as is the new Shanghai circuit.In technical terms, what does Shift 2 have that other racing games don't?The simulation genre, really, is just a numbers game at the moment; it's all about "We've got the greatest physics engine, and we're going to add 1,000 cars, tracks etcetera." Which is quite a dry experience. We want to turn that on its head, by adding in social features, such as Autolog, for example: which lets you compete with your friends, even if they're not online right now. But having that thing, where I can see all your lap times, and spend half an hour or an hour trying just to beat you is great. And we're continuing to pioneer in new areas. Many games have night racing, for example, but nobody has night racing like we do it, because previous games have always done it the same as normal, just with darker lighting – there's no new gameplay in there at all. What we do is strip away all the lights and now you've just got your headlights to guide you, which is a scary place. That's based on feedback which has been given to us by real drivers: they say: "We've got these high-beams on, but as powerful as they are, we still can't see the next corner coming up."Is Shift 2: Unleashed finished yet?We're so close to finishing – we're just adding the last 5% of polish, making sure that things are stable and everything is as polished as it can be, and it will be released on 1 April.Where can simulation games go in the future? What lies beyond complete realism?One thing is that graphics will always get better and better: cars will look smoother, tracks will have more spectators and detail – every single blade of grass will be modelled and all that. So we can sort of discount that: that will naturally happen. Where we feel it's going to go is adding in the real feeling you get when you're driving: the emotional response, the G-forces. When you're sat at home on the couch with a gamepad, that's already one step removed from a wheel, which is one step removed from actually being in a car with suspension and so on. We feel that rather being just a mathematical simulation, we need to be an emotional simulation of what's happening. So with the helmet cam, for example, the physics from the track are transferred to the tyres, which are transferred to the suspension, which goes to your body, which goes to your head, and that's where the helmet cam comes in. Your head moving around simulates the stuff you can't actually feel with just a gamepad in your hands.What can you tell us about the racing drivers you used as consultants?I'm sure lots of other games say they had feedback from drivers, but in Need for Speed's case, we have a racing team, Team Need for Speed. They're out there – they won the Dubai 24-hour race, running a BMW Z4 GT3 car. And another team are winners of the Formula D Drift championship. Those guys are winners, the best in their field, and they are driving under the Need for Speed flag. They've been giving us feedback on how the cars feel, how they handle, what angles the lights should be at, how powerful they should be, how hard the handbrake should be, what angle your head should be at going into a corner and so on. That kind of feedback is probably unprecedented.How do you reckon Shift 2: Unleashed stacks up against Gran Turismo 5?I've gone on record before saying GT5 and Forza are on pedestals at the moment: everyone believes they are the games to beat. They are great products, but they stop at being a numbers game, a mathematical simulation of great physics, whereas we go beyond that with the emotional and social aspects. This has happened previously in games, when FIFA was trying to keep up with Pro Evolution Soccer and Dante's Inferno with God Of War: it's the same kind of sparring we have with our competitors. We'll see where we go, but we're in it for the long haul.
