What's your favourite piece of technology and why?The computer software Photoshop and Final Cut Pro.Is it good for your art?I kind of can't make my art without it, so I would have to say yes. A lot of people in the art world hate to use the word "Photoshop", like it's cheating or easy or something. I say bollocks to that - for me, it's my tool, my paintbrush if you like, and lets me create my own visual language.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Today, I finished retouching the largest photograph I've ever made - 90 inches in height by 210 inches in width - based on Schubert's Last Three Piano Sonatas. It nearly made me blind. And a few weeks ago, I finished editing my second film also based on Schubert's Last Sonatas using Final Cut.What additional features would you add if you could?A keyboard shortcut for the tool Flatten Image. I use it all the time and have to use my mouse to click and click when I could just go Apple and whatever letter.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years time?No - it will just have a different name and be better.What one tip would you give to non-Photoshop users?The best way to start using manipulative software for images is to have a strong idea of what you want to achieve from it. Recently, I can't seem to take a straight photograph without thinking that what I am photographing won't be the final image - like the world in front of me is not good enough or something. And don't be put off by someone telling you that your image looks too digital; maybe that's the way it's supposed to look.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I grew up in the heart of the Black Country and my partner has a strong interest in the dying art of hand weaving. I also worked in a factory making handmade snooker tables. I'm not opposed to technological advancements - I embrace technology as part of my artistic process - I just hope that we still teach younger generations to use their hands creatively and not lose their sense of touch.Mac or PC?I was a PC user up until 2004. My flatmate at the time used a Mac to do 3D Design. It was so cool and looked so much better than my PC that I converted and never looked back.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Mac Pro. It is quite frustrating when you think you've just bought an amazing machine and two weeks later you have to add more memory. More memory, more money!What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?Emily by Joanna Newsom. I just saw her perform at The Green Man festival. I was right at the front so I could see her pluck that harp. The way she loses herself in the complexity of the songs is incredible - she was mesmerising to watch.Will robots rule the world?I get more and more concerned that they do already.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A 70 inch width light jet printer, which is a digital projection on to photographic paper and then chemically printed. It would have to come with an endless supply of paper and chemicals so I can print in my own time instead of doing it in Germany!PhotographerIdris Khan's first solo exhibition runs atYvon Lambert, New York from October 4 till October 29.
Last weekend I finally got around to watching the recent Bond movie Casino Royale. Super-stakes poker, nail gun fights, parkouriste leaps between construction cranes - what's not to like? And Daniel Craig is suitably sociopathic in the lead role. (Yes, I know that's not how female viewers view him.)One interesting element of the plot was how answering your mobile phone became a way of identifying yourself in a crowd: script writers have absorbed the way that nowadays in our eyes, if you pick up when I dial, you're my target. Again and again, Bond found his quarry by calling them.But if you thought the hi-tech, high stakes world Bond inhabits was entirely fictional, then it might be worth thinking about the three radicals who used online poker sites to launder the cash they'd garnered from innocent net users. They would then buy equipment for insurgents in Iraq - plane tickets, GPS devices, night vision goggles, sleeping bags, knives and tents.You don't have to be a fan of George Bush to realise that equipping insurgents isn't a friendly act: many hundreds of innocent Iraqis are dying as a result of the brutality there every month. So while some of the people playing poker online were imagining that they were up against Le Chiffre ("four jacks, Mr Bond"), somewhere around the virtual table real money was being diverted to real bad guys.The three men convicted last month - Tariq al-Daour, Waseem Mughal and Younes Tsouli - used Windows-based trojans to steal information such as credit card numbers, and then allegedly laundered them using thousand-dollar tabs through dozens of online gambling sites.According to theWashington Post), "All told, al-Daour and other members of the group conducted 350 transactions at 43 different online wagering sites, using more than 130 compromised credit card accounts. It didn't matter if they lost money on their wagering. Winnings were withdrawn and transferred to online bank accounts the men controlled."Betfair, one of the companies named by the Post, has strenuously denied that the men laundered any money through it, saying "they were unsuccessful: they were identified; accounts were closed; and all relevant information was shared with the police."This method though is precisely what I've always suspected about how criminals could use such sites for money laundering: buy a stake with a stolen credit card and play, say, poker badly with it against your own credit card, with which you collect your money. I've previously been assured that gambling sites which operate in the UK are so tightly regulated that that's impossible.Well, the trio who were convicted were operating out of the UK. So either that regulation isn't quite that tight, and some of the sites are liable to being used for fraud, or else the police were watching every single step of what they were doing, waiting for the moment to strike. Except, as you'll see, they probably weren't.Their exploits demonstrate that the internet is now another place where the effects of the "war on terror" are felt. George Bush might entreat the American public to "stay the course" in Iraq, warning people that terrorists will "follow us home" if the US fails in Iraq.Doonesburyhas already lampooned this daft statement, whileSteve Bellis making much of the comparison Bush then made with Vietnam. (Why, oh why, didn't any of the White House Press Corps ask "What was it about your extensive experience in Vietnam that persuaded you this would happen, Mr President?")Well, here's the news, George: they're already using the place that many people think of as a second home to fund attacks on their first one.The use of online gambling sites for money laundering brings a new dimension to the problem. In their way, these sites are a microcosm of the internet; poker players say that if you look around the table and you can't see the fool, it's you. Online gambling is an entire industry dedicated to finding the bigger fool online.But the internet has become like that in its entirety: if you aren't certain that your computer is secured against trojans, worms, and every new variety of virus, then criminals think you're the fool sitting up at the table. Even then you may not be safe:  phishing emails, after all, target the Human 1.0 operating system, which still has a lot of bugs.In the end, the trio weren't however captured by some brilliant surveillance of activity on online gambling sites, even allowing for Betfair's protestations. Instead, it came after a 19-year-old Swede of Bosnian origin, Mirsad Bektasevic, was caught: he had saved one of their numbers on his personal mobile phone.A very Bond-ish twist, I think you'll agree.
Just something to make you think this Friday - and I don't believe it's something we've pondered before. If you could only play one game series for the rest of your life, what would you choose? Of course, you've got to be sensible and weigh up the longevity of your chosen 'franchise'. I mean, Final Fantasy would be a good idea, just through sheer abundance, but then wouldn't you miss the trigger-jerk thrills of the FPS?So maybe Half-Life? You could perhaps sneak the likes of Counter-Strike and Opposing Force in here alongside the main titles, and there's enough to explore in Half-Life 2 to keep you going for a while. But then, you'd miss the genuine excitement and anticipation that proceeds the big GTA, Metal Gear Solid and Resident Evil instalments. Personally, I could live without the first two, but never again to shotgun a zombie in the neck? It would be a wrenching sacrifice.So what do you think? What series would you stick with and why?
Nokia is planning to launch a music service to compete with Apple's iTunes store, as the Guardian's Richard Wray reportedhere.Nokia's press release aboutOvi(meaning door) and the new music service says:The Nokia Music Store (http://music.nokia.com) offers millions of tracks from major artists, independent labels as well as a broad range of local artists from around the world. The store is accessible via a desktop computer or directly from a compatible Nokia device, such as the Nokia N81 or Nokia N95 8GB multimedia computer.Which does't mean Nokia is developing a music service from scratch. A year ago,Nokia bought OD2(On-Demand Distribution), the pioneering music service launched by musician Peter Gabriel in 1999, well before the iPod.OD2 uses Microsoft's WMV video format and DRM, so if Nokia is successful, this will provide more support for Microsoft's system. It certainly puts Nokia in the opposite camp to Apple.
THQ has confirmed that Team 17 will be bringing its longrunning combat strategy series, Worms, to Wii. Worms: A Space Oddity abandons the historically-themed level design of yore for a more sci-fi-influenced range of environments. The title will boast four-player online battles as well as single-player modes and mini-games. No word yet on whether its 2D or 3D. Please let it be the former.Naturally, the Wii controller will replace - or at least enhance - the usual power bar-based weapons control system, so you'll presumably get to lob grenades with a realistic throwing action. It's due out in Spring 2008. Hurray.
Who dunnit: Rumours scotched. Photograph: Martin Rickett/PANot much to do with technology, this one, but you might be interested in it anyway. This morning's Sun claimed that David Bowie - the original star man - was beinglined up for a cameo appearance in Doctor Who. I nearly wet myself.Unfortunately, it all looks like a bit of space oddity, as a statement onDavid Bowie dot comsays there is no foundation in what we commonly call "truth".David Bowie is not planning to star in Dr Who and the whole story is "absolute tish and tosh".Whatever the intention behind The Sun's story, it certainly wouldn't be the first time that Dr Who producers have approached Bowie to appear in the show. If memory serves, he spurned their advances in the eighties too.I mean, personally I'm very sceptical about the fact thatCatherine Tate, will take over as the Doctor's companion in the next series (I thought Freema Agyeman was awesome) and the forthcoming appearance by Kylie Minogue hasn't got me salivating.But Bowie? He would have been out of this world - I mean, look at him inLabyrinth!
I love internet banking. It allows me to check my balance from anywhere, whether I'm at home in my pyjamas or halfway up a tree. All I need is a computer and a secure internet connection.But my bank doesn't want to make it easy. It has sent me a card reader. Now there's no danger of anyone being able to take money out of my account, least of all me.The point of this lump of plastic is to provide increased security. Even if would-be thieves somehow manage to guess my gobbledygook password and online PIN, despite neither ever being used in its entirety, they'll need to have my card as well so they can generate a one-off access code.I'm all for making sure that no one can pinch my wages. But isn't internet banking supposed to happen on the internet? Now if I lose my card I'd better hope that I don't need to make any transactions outside my bank's opening hours, while waiting two weeks (if I'm lucky) for a new one.I phoned the bank to ask if I needed to use the card reader every time I wanted to access my account. The person on the other end of the line didn't sound too sure, but she thought that the answer was yes.I asked her what would happen when the batteries run out. "That's funny," she said, "another customer just rang and asked us the exact same question." She thought that they'd sort it out, but she didn't sound sure."What happens if I break it?"There's a pause. She thought that they'd sort that out too. Probably."And what if I keep on breaking it?"There's a much longer pause."I'm not sure I understand ..."Back to the lump of plastic. It looks like a school calculator. I don't trust it. I also don't fancy carrying it with me at all times, just in case I might happen to want to access my account online.So I phone the bank once again and ask if I really have to use the card reader every single time I want to log on. Apparently I have been misinformed, because none of them is quite sure exactly what it's for.They tell me that I can check my balance without using the card reader. I only need it for making payments and adding payees. It's fine for would-be thieves to find out what I've been buying this month, they just won't be able to get their hands on my cash.This means that I can probably get away with throwing the reader out of the window, but only if I'm willing to do my banking the old-fashioned way. In the bank.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
You know what Thursday is, don't you? It's the day when our weekly printed Technology supplement comes packed inside your copy of the Guardian. Buy it now!If you can't bear to peel yourself away from the computer screen for long enough to get down to the newsagent - or if you're just to stingy to shell out 70p to support all our hard work - then you can read iton this very websitefor nowt.This week Kate Bevan takes a look insidethe business of being an internet service provider- and it turns out there's not a lot of money to be made for ISPs, even if they plug their high-cost support lines.Plus we've also got more fromVint Cerf, Jack writes about Microsoft's latestcopy protection snafuand we find out whether downloading gameswill help the industry. Oh, but there'sso much more...
If a series of recent patent filings by Google are any indication, web advertising may be about to get a whole lot friendlier - and the definition of spam a whole lot fuzzier. Google's system for selling and distributing advertisements tied to search results has been fabulously lucrative. In the first six months of this year, the scheme, which encompasses the AdWords auction and the AdSense publishing network, brought in close to $4bn (&pound;2bn) in revenue and more than $1bn in profits.But the automated system is far from perfect. Despite the great sophistication of Google's software, the vast majority of the adverts the company serves up are ignored by web surfers. Either they don't see the ads, or they see them but don't click on them.But Google wants to change that. Its patent applications point to a new, much more personal way of delivering advertising. Unlike AdWords and AdSense, the method relies not just on software algorithms but on manual labour and individual judgment.Ordinary people would select ads, or ad themes, and Google would then insert the adverts into their emails, instant messages and other personal communications. You and I, in short, would help Google to get the right ads in front of the right people at the right time.The system, as described in the patent filings, has three major components. The first is what Google researchers call "a universal distributed search system [that] allows users to find and distribute search results (possibly including advertisements) to those with whom they communicate".Google has seen that when people write emails or other messages, they often include links to related information on the internet.The tool described in the patent would automate the discovery and inclusion of such references, making the process simpler and faster. In essence, it provides a new way for Google to distribute search results - not from search engine to user but from friend to friend.That would also give Google information about the content of personal messages. The system's second component uses that information as the basis for a tool that allows people to insert related ads into their emails and other communications. The ads could either be inserted automatically, as in the AdSense system, or chosen individually by the sender.Google provides an example of how that might work: a woman "sends an email to members of her book club informing the members of what next month's book is". Under its scenario, she includes in the email some Google search results such as a picture of the book cover or a link to an online review. When her friends open the email, Google automatically inserts "content-relevant ads" into the message. These ads might include an Amazon one "offering free shipping for purchases made in the next 48 hours".The final component is a reward system to provide people with incentives to include ads in their personal communications.As Google explains it, the rewards could include cash payments, credits for future product purchases, or "an enhanced reputation or reputation increase" - whatever that means. Google would, in effect, pay us to pitch ads to our friends and acquaintances.It's an ingenious system, but there's something repugnant about it. It seems to blur the line between personal messages and spam. Do we really want our friends to send us ads along with their news or greetings? Do we want to be personal ad syndicators ourselves, earning money according to how adept we are at pitching ads to our mates?Google's automated ad delivery system has been enormously successful, generating huge revenues and profits for the company. But the automatic targeting of ads remains imperfect.The new system would help solve that problem - but it might well result in the distribution of more and "more relevant" adverts, giving a further boost to its earnings. But it would also mean the injection of commerce, and commercial motives, into the most intimate of electronic communications.Nicholas Carr's next book will be The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple made its first foray into British television yesterday, and immediately found itself facing questions over the costs of its video downloads, which observers said were forcing British consumers to pay much higher prices than their US counterparts.After years of speculation, the iPod maker launched its UK television download service, a project that allows customers to buy a handful of American television series through the company's massively popular iTunes Store.But some experts said the service - whose offerings, for &pound;1.89 a show, include the fictional series Lost, plus Ugly Betty, and Desperate Housewives - was much more expensive than in the US. The same purchases from the American iTunes Store, where television shows have been available for almost two years, cost just 99p ($1.99) an episode."The thing is that British TV viewers already have another place to go to catch up on programmes they have missed, thanks to download services like the BBC iPlayer, which is free," said Mark Mulligan, a technology analyst with Jupiter Research. "I wouldn't be surprised if they had to change their prices soon: we're in a situation where everything is always more expensive in Britain."Apple refused to comment on how it arrived at the video download prices. The European commission this year decided to investigate the company over the pricing of iTunes tracks. That inquiry was prompted by a complaint from the consumer group Which? claiming that variations in cost and availability of music downloads from country to country were unfair to consumers.News of the video service came as Apple faced a further challenge to its dominance - this time from Nokia, the world's biggest mobile phone manufacturer. The Finnish firm yesterday threw down the gauntlet by announcing its service Ovi, a music download deal aimed at European customers. It also unveiled four new handsets designed to challenge the iPod and the forthcoming iPhone, which is set to appear in Britain before Christmas.The music download service will charge 79p a track - the same price as iTunes' music downloads and much less than many of the music shops offered by the mobile operators themselves. It will let customers load CD collections on to a computer and move them on to a Nokia phone. But Ovi, due to launch at the end of the year, may face difficulties if it goes into direct competition with the phone networks' own music products. Some mobile networks are already threatening to block the Nokia service altogether by refusing to sell handsets compatible with it.The concern is that if Nokia cannot secure deals with companies such as Vodafone, Orange and O2 British customers who have signed up to the music service could end up paying extra for downloading tracks over the air. Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, admitted Ovi owed a lot to the success of the iPod, but said the store - which has already signed up the world's four big record labels - would have a catalogue of "millions" of tracks. "Our target is to have all the music in the world available to everybody," he said.Apple's TV downloads will also face stiff competition, not least from British TV companies, most of which have launched video-on-demand; some of the shows are free for a time.But one industry analyst said Apple's video prices were competitive in relation to other options open to British consumers. "In some cases iTunes UK is cheaper than the DVD format," said Arash Amel, chief analyst with Screen Digest.Vint Cerf, one of the creators of the internet, told the MediaGuardian Edinburgh International TV Festival this week that downloading would eventually replace broadcasting as the dominant force in television. He said 85% of all video watched was pre-recorded; consumers would still need live television for events in the news and sport but increasingly would "download content to look at later".Mr Amel predicted that the UK download market would be worth &pound;65m within four years, with Apple taking the dominant share.At a glanceThe price for season three of Lost on iTunes yesterdayUK&pound;1.89 per episode or &pound;32.99 per season of 23 episodesUS$1.99 per episode or $34.99 per season (&pound;17.35)The price for season 10 of South ParkUK&pound;1.89 per episode or &pound;19.99 for the whole seriesUS$1.99 per episode or $23.99 (&pound;11.90) for the series
More than 50,000 music artists from Amy Winehouse and Lily Allen to Sir Paul McCartney and Spamalot creator Eric Idle will now get paid when their tracks are used as backing music for clips on YouTube, in a new deal between the music industry and the website.The group which collects music royalties for publishers when songs are performed in the UK said yesterday it had licensed more than 10m pieces of music for use on YouTube, which was acquired by Google two years ago for $1.65bn.The agreement between the MCPS-PRS Alliance and YouTube follows a similar deal in the US and though it does not get Google around the thorny issue of copyrighted material appearing on the website,  it does mean artists will get paid performance fees when other people upload video clips containing their tracks.In essence the deal gives online video creators the same freedom to use music that actors and comedians have at events such as the Edinburgh Festival fringe, which operates a PRS waiver. But for online content creators, it is YouTube that picks up the bill for any music they use.Neither Google not the Alliance would say how much money will be paid through the deal for the Alliance to distribute to rights owners, but it is likely to stretch into the tens of millions of pounds.The news came as a video-sharing website intended to challenge the dominance of YouTube was named by its joint backers, News Corporation and NBC.Hulu will allow users to watch complete episodes of popular television shows from NBC and News Corp's Fox network, such as 24, The Simpsons and House.The rival broadcasters revealed in March they were working on a project which was swiftly dubbed "YouTube killer" in the media industry. Both of them have fought a long, litigious battle with Google to prevent clips from their shows being posted on the internet without authorisation.Initially planned to launch over the summer, the site's debut has gradually been pushed back. In a statement, Hulu chief Jason Kilar said operations would begin in October for invitation-only trials. In addition to TV shows, a selection of movies will be available including hits from Twentieth Century Fox's studio, such as The Devil Wears Prada and Borat.
The TUC yesterday appealed to the employers of the 3.5m Facebook users not to give them the sack for doing a bit of social networking while at their desks.The plea follows decisions by a number of employers - the latest being Kent county council - that staff caught sending messages to their friends while they should be working would be sacked.A guide - written by John Wood, Facebook user and the TUC's web expert, and Sarah Veale, head of the TUC's equalities department - warns that firms have the right to sack staff who spend hours on Facebook.Firms could also use indiscreet personal information on their public site against anyone applying for promotion or a new job.But Brendan Barber, TUC general secretary, urged firms not take such drastic action. "Simply cracking down on use of new web tools like Facebook is not a sensible solution to a problem which is only going to get bigger."It's unreasonable for employers to try to stop their staff from having a life outside work."It is better to invest a little time in working out sensible conduct guidelines, so that there don't need to be any nasty surprises for staff or employers."The TUC advice also says that not enough workplaces are being upfront about what they expect from staff in terms of personal conduct when using social networking sites. As a result, a number of employers have disciplined staff for their conduct online, and more cases are likely unless sensible precautions are taken.The guide warns people to be very careful what they put on their site. "Before you start making social network connections with people at work, stop and consider what you're going to end up letting them into. It might be safest to allow some people into a limited profile, and save the really juicy details for people you know you can trust."Work is a major part of our lives, and staff have always discussed aspects of their jobs in private. Now that online social networking is becoming mainstream, many of these private conversations are searchable by the public."
See me, feel me: VR goggles. Photograph: David Sillitoe/GuardianBack during the virtual reality craze a few years ago, the idea of being able to touch and feel. Now that virtual worlds are back on the agenda, researchers at Queen's University in Belfast are working on systems that will allow you to use your sense of touch online.According to anews release, a team of engineers are trying to work out how you can use haptics inside the virtual, networked environment.At present, almost all haptic devices are only capable of being connected to a single stand-alone system. Professor Marshall and his partners hope to develop networks to increase the user's immersion in a virtual environment by allowing them not only to see but also to touch the environment around them.It is hoped users will also be able to share these sensations with fellow users in numerous locations. The study will also aim to overcome the challenge of maintaining a consistent view of the shared information in the face of inevitable network delays and variable bandwidth.Given the nature of the web and the possibilities of touch, I can only imagine exactly what would get squeezed, prodded and poked over the net.But it's another move forward for haptics, which could potentially be combined with new technologythat uses vibration to fool you into thinking you're touching real buttons when you're actually using a touchscreen.
Go back a couple of years and most analysts, and gamers for that matter, thought Nintendo's upcoming console would simply bring up the rear of the three horse console race. PlayStation 3 would "win", with the 360 closing the gap in second. The new console, codenamed "Revolution", would plod along in third place, with some suggesting that Nintendo would ultimately "do a Sega" and go software only. How very very wrong we all were. The Wii is now the fastest selling home console ever seen in the UK, with 1 million sales achieved in 38 weeks. In comparison the PS2 took 50 and the 360 took 60 weeks to reach the same milestone. There is obviously still a huge market for traditional videogames but the Wii's success has changed everything. Sony and, to a lesser extent, Microsoft have responded with a raft of family friendly releases while big publishers like EA have belatedly gone big on Wii development. Expect future consoles like PlayStation 4 and Xbox 720 to be more casual-friendly too. But for now the Wii is riding high - you still in love with yours?
Information World Review, a VNU publication, has joined the Free Our Data campaign. Mark Chillingworth, the editor of IWR - which is circulated to information professionals, information managers and content managers in corporations, consultancies and public-sector organisations in the UK - said he had been following the campaign's reporting of the "interesting disparities" in central and local government's use and charges for information, including the money-go-round where government departments pay for the use within government of data gathered by government, and the problems that private organisations such as OnOneMap and the Virtual London project have had.Announcing the move on theIWR blog, Chillingworth noted: "It would be great if Information World Review and its readers can be part of a campaign to make the information we already own more easily available."&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Rapture, a crumbling underwater city complete with art deco architecture and gramophones, is not your typical videogame setting. But then Bioshock isn't your typical game. Technically a first person shooter, Bioshock is as much about a sense of place as size of gun. Yes, you are dispatching enemies in traditional FPS style, but at the same time marvelling at the atmospheric ruins of the failed subterranean utopia. A surprisingly engaging story is fleshed out by diaries left scattered around, while a hacking sub-game that lets you pilfer from safes and tame robotic security slows the pace down nicely. Your morals are tested early on too, although the consequences are not fully realised. The violence can jar and the action can get repetitive, but Bioshock is the first truly next-generation videogame.
Over the past two months, the unlocked iPhone has become the hi-tech equivalent of Bigfoot: chased around north America by geeks, but rarely seen and possibly completely fictitious.That all changed last week when Apple's flagship touchscreen mobile phone was finally hacked to run on any mobile network, not just America's AT&amp;T. The breakthrough came in the unlikely shape of New Jersey teenager George Hotz. Armed with a soldering iron and a suite of software, the 17-year-old became an instant celebrity when he managed to get his iPhone running with a T-Mobile Sim card. But his hack was daunting and dangerous - so it was no surprise when two other sources claimed they had easier alternatives.One website,iPhoneSimFree.com, said it had a working unlocking process. So far the only confirmation has come from the websiteEngadget, which claims to have seen it in action.Another group, Uniquephone, boasted that it would make an unlocking code public - before pulling out at the last minute, claiming legal pressure from AT&amp;T.Some pundits say they smell a rat, and it would not be surprising if these remain shrouded in mystery. There is, after all, plenty of reason for hackers to claim an iPhone; with gadget-hounds in Europe and the US desperate to use their existing Sim cards in an iPhone, the promise of easy unlocking could prove very lucrative indeed.But the prospect of a few dollars won't bother Hotz, who has already cashed in by auctioning off his hacked handset."I traded it for a sweet Nissan 350Z and three 8GB iPhones," he said, making the deal worth in the region of &pound;25,000. "I leave for college tomorrow, and this has been a great end to a great summer."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Virtual hospitalThe "hospital of the future" has been built in Second Life by the National Physical Laboratory and Imperial College London, based on a report about healthcare for London.secondhealth.orgShoot on smileSony is offering Cyber-shot T200 and T70 digital cameras that can detect a smile and take the picture without the user pressing a button.sonystyle.co.ukFrom Ambilight to AureaPhilips Electronics has launched the Aurea range of lifestyle-oriented flat-screen TV sets, taking the use of light beyond the Ambilight models.seductionbylight.comPlayTV for PS3Sony says it will start selling PlayTV, a twin-tuner accessory that turns a PS3 console into a digital recorder, next year.gamesindustry.bizPortable "pinkpads"Hi-grade has unveiled the Notino D2200P, its second pink laptop PC "designed especially for women".higrade.comHip Sansa ClipSansa has announced the Sansa Clip, a tiny wearable MP3/WMA player with screen, FM radio, voice recording and 1GB or 2GB of Flash memory.sandisk.comSound mattersPhilips Electronics is shipping two new DECT phones, the CD445 and CD645, which offer "high definition sound".press.ce.philips.comIt's a feed, mateFeedM8 provides a way to receive RSS web feeds on mobile phones.feedm8.com
If you relish adventure games, intricate strategy titles or like anything other than World of Warcraft and The Sims, you're in trouble. Game development costs are reaching exospheric heights and titles that don't have established, proven and, most importantly, massive user bases simply won't survive. Games are typically given a two-week retail window to prove their value and if they come up short, they're usually marginalised or abandoned. So if you're developing a game that doesn't have blockbuster potential, chances are you won't make much money from it through the shops, unless you have the marketing muscle of one of the console companies or film studios behind you.Developing an innovative, unusual piece of interactive entertainment is prohibitively expensive and can, in some cases, lead to bankruptcy. Take Tim Schafer's critically lauded Psychonauts. Its commercial failure was reported as a  contributing factor to publisher Majesco's net loss of $70.2m (&pound;34.9m) in 2005 and the game itself is now out of print. While Psychonauts may no longer be available, though, it's enjoying new life through online content distribution. Services such as Steam, GameTap and Manifesto Games are now delivering original and niche-focused titles via the internet, significantly slashing production and marketing costs and providing a persistent, Amazon-esque market for independent game developers.Casual gamingGreg Costikyan, known in the industry as Designer X, created the Manifesto Games website with the latter goal in mind. He explains: "The basic idea is to provide a path to market for more creative works that may not reach as large an audience, but can still attract a following. We also look at the casual game market, which has grown from nothing to a pretty substantial market in a very short period of time, by appealing to a largely middle-aged female demographic. Shouldn't it be possible to do the same thing, but do it for people who have traditionally purchased games?"Costikyan doesn't think digital distribution's advantages should preclude traditional publishing deals. "I think that any small developer should be trying to get distribution through any channels they can," he says. "I would never say 'don't sign a deal with a conventional publisher'. What I would recommend is that you  try to retain digital distribution rights. Don't sign those away."Jason Holtman is the director of business development at Valve Software, the creator of the Steam client application. Steam allows players to compete against each other online on Valve's secure servers and it also serves as a virtual store where both independent and triple-A titles can be purchased. Holtman agrees with Costikyan's sentiment: "In many cases digital distribution complements traditional retail channels. The online channel can be a great way for smaller developers to get noticed by publishers who can secure shelf space in major retail outlets. By providing more convenient access to games, Steam and other digital distribution services can only benefit the industry. People are finally gaining access to the games they want in the way they expect to access entertainment content. PC titles are experiencing longer sales cycles; both digitally distributed and boxed retail games, thanks to the greater and longer visibility that digital distribution provides."In referring to Valve's system-specific benefits, he points to Steam's 13-million-plus installed user base; this in effect guarantees they will be introduced to one of Steam's offerings, if only because they're using the client to play Valve's multimillion-seller, Half-Life 2."Steam is a tool that lets developers identify and directly connect with their audience," Holtman says, "whether mainstream or niche, from among the over 13 million Steam users. We have both the long tail and a huge breadth of potential customers."Plus, developers are also given integrated tools for flexible billing, ensured version control, anti-cheating, anti-piracy and lots of other features that place control in the hands of the content owner," he adds.Costikyan hopes that Manifesto and Steam won't just attract mainstream developers. "There were many developers who were frustrated by the constraints of the conventional market," he notes, "and flocked to the casual market and I think there's the potential for the same thing to happen to the independent games market ... but we don't have a Bejeweled [the puzzle game which has even appeared on the iPhone] yet, you know? And although Manifesto exists as a similar market for independent games, we're not putting out the same volumes of content that a casual distributor like Yahoo! is."Serving the communityOne of the ways of providing online distribution outlets with a stronger presence is to unite consumers through community features. Steam, by virtue of serving as a gateway to multiplayer matches, is probably the most obvious example of this. But Valve wants to take it further."We keep an open mind about the direction of Steam," Holtman says, "an approach that has driven its evolution in a relatively short timeframe from a tool for automatically updating games to a platform for authenticating, purchasing, marketing and distributing games."While Costikyan acknowledges Steam's importance to the online distribution industry, he believes one of its most attractive features to developers - its solid, installed userbase - is also a limiting factor. "Steam is interesting technology," he concedes, "and, you know, their independent game offerings have been very helpful to a number of developers, and I think that's great. On the other hand, not everyone is going to download and install the Steam client, but just about everyone has access to the web. Steam has a large installed base of users that it can market games to, and that's great, but you're kind of locked into that existing audience of users. Somebody who's interested in indie games probably isn't going to download and install Steam. If they've already got Half-Life 2 and like to play Counter-Strike and so on, though, then that's fine."Steam also suffered initial problems with instability and impaired functionality - players could occasionally find their Steam-bought titles deemed pirated copies by the system - but this has been more or less cleared up. "Deploying a new set of services to millions of customers, while attempting to ship a sequel of epic portions - Half-Life 2 - taught us a lot in the very early stages," Holtman admits. "Since then, we've shipped hundreds of games from third parties, which has also been a tremendous learning experience."Judging from Steam and Manifesto's successes, it would seem that independent and otherwise unconventional developers really have no choice but to take advantage of this new market for interactive software. One UK-based independent company, Introversion Software, was arguably saved by Steam: its games enjoyed significantly improved sales once made available on the system; at retail, the company faced bankruptcy.However, Costikyan admits that the retail channel has some very important advantages: "For one thing, review media tend to take things that appear in boxes more seriously, so it's easier to get attention that way. Added to that, just the fact that the box is sitting on a shelf in a store means it's kind of serving as a billboard for itself; it's being exposed to people who are presumably there because they want to purchase games. And even if they haven't heard about it from someplace else, they can still pick up the box and have a look."So, yes, the drawback of the website model is that, yes, a billion people can access your site, but trying to make them aware that you exist and have products they may be interested in isn't a trivial concern."Whether or not digital distribution will overtake retail is unclear. But there is little doubt that providing easily accessible and distribution platforms that are in effect omnipresent for games that probably won't survive at retail will only benefit the industry. If game developers can be allowed to create titles that bust genres, or titles that appeal to specific but loyal niches, one can expect creativity to once again flourish in an industry that has become increasingly hit-driven.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I am unhappy because I can no longer access 10 years' data in Quicken 98. I have loaded it on a new PC, but the software tells me I must register it or it will terminate. I cannot do this as Quicken is no longer supported in Europe. I have phoned Quicken support, who cannot offer a practical solution.Ted PollardQuicken brings out a new version every year, and all support for Quicken 98, 99 and 2000 was dropped in 2004. At that point you should have switched to a different package, or moved to Quicken 2004, for which support was dropped in April this year. Quicken does have a "Quicken 98/99 Registration Tool" on the web, and this is your best chance of getting a number that works.If you can get access to a working Quicken 98, export all your data in Quicken Interchange Format (QIF), which most financial programs can import. All users of financial software should keep extra backups by exporting data in the QIF or OFX (Open Financial Exchange) formats to make it easier to load valuable data into a different program. Quicken's QFX is best avoided.Windows offers a large number of alternative financial programs that will import QIF, OFX or raw Quicken data. Microsoft Money is particularly good at it, and dominates the UK market. Alternatives includeMoneyBox, which is available in a limited free version, andGnuCash, which is free and open source. Paid-for alternatives includePersonal AccountzandTesco Personal Finance. Check the data import features before you buy any of them.
The 1920s hit song The Best Things in Life are Free revolved around the fact that the moon, the stars and "sunbeams that shine" are yours and mine. They don't cost anything, yet give pleasure to everyone. This example of heavenly altruism entered the internet world last week when Google extended its wonderful Google Earth service towards the rest of the universe. Using Google Sky, we can now probe the moon, stars and planets like Mars at no cost (apart from broadband charges).The availability of such free services is one of the wonders of the web. But as in real life, it turns out that in an internet economy some things are freer than others. Google Sky brings virtual space exploration to a much wider audience. But as Simon Bisson points out, astronomical applications have been a profitable niche for a large number of companies, and sophisticated sky explorers (remember Redshift?) have been developed over a number of years and "now, overnight, that market has been blown away". In a way this is simply the "creative destruction" that ensures the long-term efficiency of capitalism, in which better products or companies destroy old ones. The difference is that increasingly on the internet a lot of these products are given away to the user and paid for by the advertising revenues often generated elsewhere, thereby stifling competition. As one blogger has pointed out, this is a bit like a rentier economy in which a country rich in oil or raw materials can afford very low domestic taxes because of the taxes it gets from exporting the oil.Google is still a great company, but attitudes towards it are changing. Only a few years ago people could muse that in a fair world they really ought to be paying search engines for the economic value they generated, if only because life without them would be almost unthinkable. But now that Google, unexpectedly, is making billions of dollars from placing discreet adverts near content it merely indexes, the content providers, such as newspapers, want a share of the honeypot. Google is reported to be paying selected users on its YouTube subsidiary a share of the revenues; it may not be long before other Google content providers stake a similar claim.The true DNA of the internet is the free exchange of knowledge between people, universities and institutions where nothing is demanded in return. This includes the free software and open source movements as well as the Wikipedia - which, for all the recent criticism, remains most internet users' first port of call for information. It is free (apart from voluntary donations) with no subliminal advertisements. As long as enough people give freely to the web everyone gains from the exchange and no one suffers - except, that is, the statistics for Gross National Product, because if such exchanges were charged for they would become part of reported economic wealth. Some offerings look free but don't bear examination. Barter deals can often be a disguised way of tax avoidance including some peer-to-peer exchanges (of films and songs), though the economic impact of it on the industries affected is often grossly exaggerated. Skype is a free service between users, many of whom don't realise that one of the reasons it can be done for nothing is that their own computers form Skype's network so it doesn't need to shell out for its own infrastructure.In 1970 Richard Titmuss wrote an influential book, The Gift Relationship, examining the greater effectiveness of Britain's culture of giving blood for free compared with charging for it in the US, which is credited with leading to reforms in the US system. If he were alive today, Titmuss would be delighted that his theories of the importance of altruism in promoting economic welfare are endorsed by the gift relationships online. Long may it continue, but we must be vigilante about seemingly unimportant erosions.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Monster ravingInteresting that so many people were hit by the Monster trojan (Monster hit by "worst ever" trojan, August 23) - but I would hazard a guess that all those hit were using the same operating system. Would it be Windows by any chance?Nick Dore,Lincoln&middot;Perhaps I missed something but it seems to me that either "jobseekers" downloaded a toolbar on to a computer at their current employment, or kept login details for sensitive work sites on their personal computers. Best of luck with the job hunt ... but maybe you should just stick to the idiot who gave you your present job.Alan Reynolds,St Blazey Gate&middot;Surely the victims of the trojan which encrypted their files won't have lost all their data? After all, they'll be able to restore from their backups, won't they? ... they did take backups, didn't they?Tony Green,Ipswich&#183;They don't grow trees tall enough or braid rope long enough to properly hang the animals who would do this to the unemployed.tinkertytonk.blogspot.comSet theoryJames Mackenzie (Letters, August 23) believes he is justified in illegally downloading a track because he bought it originally on record (which was stolen) and then again on cassette (which wore out). Using the same logic, if his TV was nicked and the one he bought to replace it wore out, would he think it OK to get a replacement TV he knew was stolen?Dave Stewart,CornwallCast aside your doubtsI couldn't disagree more (Forget sleeping pills, try games podcasts, August 23). Admittedly I'm a hardcore gamer, but I listen to a lot of game podcasts and find most of them fascinating. If you want accessible, digestible bits of information, surely that's what blogs are for.Chris Dammers,London&middot;That's just because you haven't played the game yet, Keith. Play Metroid Prime III Corruption and you'll know why everyone is talking about it. By the way, I read your articles before bedtime. (You left yourself open to that one.)Tiffany Young,Smashing Ideas Inc, US&middot;Some games podcasts can be tedious. But you must trygametheoryshow.com- my favourite podcast. Intelligent discussion about all aspects of gaming.Jesse Davies,LiverpooliPhone furyThis is a terrible piece of "journalism" (Does the iPhone touchscreen slow you down, August 23). This shoddy study has been kicked about on the internet for the best part of a week, with most commentators dismissing it as bunk. The Guardian is the first, and only, mainstream news outlet (so far) to have legitimised this drivel. Really, really disappointing. Your "journalist" failed to point out that the participants in the study, all 20 of them, were given just one minute with the iPhone before the "study" began, not the 30 minutes suggested in the story.Trevor Caswell,Philadelphia, USOff the postThe range of public sector sites that unconscionably boost the Microsoft quasi-monopoly is alarmingly wide. I recently opened a Post Office Instant Saver account, only to belatedly discover it is restricted to users of IE6 and above. My protests to the Post Office have gone unanswered.Paul Godier,BournemouthSpam crittersI have had six articles of mine used by a spam blog without being attributed to me (Why Google is the choice for sploggers, July 12). The blogger then placed one in a blog carnival to increase traffic to their site, and they have!Louise Manning,Ledbury
As our regular columnist Seth Finkelstein would tell you, the only people who truly benefit from web filters are the people who make them - such as those who laboured on those provided under the Australian government's NetAlert filter scheme (netalert.gov.au) at a total cost of A$84m (&pound;34.7m). One of them was cracked in 30 minutes by Tom Wood, a 16-year-old who is a former victim of cyber bullying. When he pointed out the filter's failings to the Australian government (via the Australian Broadcasting Corporation), the Australian government added a home-grown filter - Intergard - to the mix. That impressed Wood so much that it took him an extra 10 minutes to crack it. In both cases the software appeared to be running - meaning any parent or teacher drifting by would be reassured that the filtering was still operative.Almost unnoticed by the rest of the world, which has mostly shrugged its shoulders and decided that people have to grow up some time, Australia has decided to see if it can get the porn off the net by filtering on PCs (any Australian can download a free filter; we're sure porn companies wanting to check their output isn't blocked will be among the customers) or at the ISP level.The NetAlert scheme, its page says soothingly, is "part of the Australian Government's ongoing commitment to providing a safe online environment for all families, especially children". (Do childless families need filters?)Senator Helen Coonan, communications minister, said of Wood's breach that "unfortunately, no single measure can protect children from online harm and ... traditional parenting skills have never been more important".Which raises the question: wouldn't traditional parenting skills - such as talking to your children and teaching them about safe searching and surfing and being honest about sex and internet content - be a lot more effective, better-tailored and cheaper than huge government initiatives?As has been pointed out repeatedly, no web filter can work perfectly because it demands software as smart as a human which can make the distinction between pornography and art - something even humans find tricksy.Wood himself thinks that filters miss the point: "Filters aren't addressing the bigger issues anyway," he told the Melbourne Herald Sun. "Cyber bullying, educating children on how to protect themselves and their privacy are the first problems I'd fix. They really need to develop a youth-involved forum to discuss some of these problems and ideas for fixing them."He sounds very sensible. No doubt Senator Coonan will ignore him.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Lots of people start packing up early on a Friday afternoon, and last week, Microsoft's WGA servers decided to follow suit. WGA stands for Windows Genuine Advantage, though a more accurate name would be WAPS, for Windows Anti-Piracy System. In Windows XP, WGA merely checks if a PC is using a valid version of Windows. In Vista, however, it can reduce the functionality of the "pirate" operating system by, for example, turning off the Aero-enhanced graphics. So if the WGA servers fail, it could ultimately punish more than 60 million innocent - and legal - users.Microsoft became aware of the problem after users started posting angry complaints to the WGA support forum. WGA product manager Phil Liusaidhe wasn't going to sleep until the problem was fixed, and the servers were working correctly on Saturday morning.The WGA blogsays: "Our data shows that fewer than 12,000 systems were affected worldwide and that many of those have already revalidated and are fixed. This is encouraging news but we want to emphasise that one bad customer experience is one too many and that we're committed to learning from this experience and working to prevent this type of event from occurring again".It would have been a lot worse if it had happened during a security update. Only a small proportion of more than 700 million Windows users would have needed to validate, because they were using Windows Update or downloading some of the free WGA programs, such as the Media Centre Karaoke Plug-in. But users are bound to be upset when software that has already been validated is later refused; and it's patently unfair to mark software as invalid when it is the server that is at fault, not the user.It would be more courteous, for example, to give users three attempts at validation, just as banks give you three attempts at remembering your pin.When Vista fails validation, Microsoft can turn off Windows Aero and ReadyBoost and it can reduce the functionality of Windows Defender and Windows Update, so that only critical security issues are dealt with. Ultimately, it can put Vista into "non-genuinereduced functionalitymode", which starts after a 30-day grace period. Microsoft says the WGA server failure did not put anyone into the grace period.WGA is unpopular because users have to revalidate their systems if they make substantial alterations, such as changing the PC's hard drive or motherboard. Also, legitimate systems can fail validation for unrelated reasons, including badly written third-party software. Microsoft claims the rate of "false positives" is less than 1%, which sounds small - but that could still affect around 5 million users.There's a fine line between reducing piracy - which should increase sales of Windows, putting more money in Microsoft's pockets - and annoying legitimate users to the point where they defect to alternative operating systems. Given the high level of Windows piracy, Microsoft seems increasingly likely to push the limits and make WGA more aggressive.But following the recent Skype failure (Skype's nightmare weekend highlights peer-to-peer fears, August 23), some users may also wonder if they are becoming too dependent on net-based services. The trend is towards using online applications, online storage and online maintenance and support. It's worth remembering that all online services are liable to fail. Losing WGA for a few hours is small beer compared to losing access to vital business data or a decade's email.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The more I read about Singapore, the location for last week's State of Play conference on virtual worlds and the poly-media metaverse, the more I realise that the politics of online games and virtual worlds are awfully similar to its infamous system of Big Brother-esque governance.According to Lonely Planet, since Singapore became independent of its northern neighbour Malaysia in the early 1960s, consecutive leaders have tightly observed the social behaviour of the people, regulating it through policies resembling "social engineering dreams". After two days of conference sessions about the regulation of and social behaviour in virtual worlds, some clear parallels emerged.For example, it quickly became obvious how much information the so-called game gods collect: everything. And while we'd like to think that these spaces are libertarian autocracies, as Professor Richard Bartle, co-developer of the very first virtual world, explained, they are in fact benevolent dictatorships. The gods have the power.A case being heard in the US between Second Life resident Marc Bragg and developers Linden Lab demonstrates this. Bragg, who owned approximately $3,000 (&pound;1,500) worth of virtual land, discovered a loophole in the land auction processes and proceeded to buy thousands more acres at knock-down prices. Linden Lab discovered that he was gaming the system, banned his account and took away all his land.And what happens with all the stuff recorded about players if game and virtual world developers have so much power? When pressed by conference organiser Professor Dan Hunter, There.com CEO Michael Wilson said the company is cognizant of the records it keeps in to watch for any nefarious activity. Linden Lab says it wipes all of its data after eight days.Sony Online, publisher of EverQuest and Star Wars Galaxies, apparently keeps records indefinitely. But what about Microsoft's Xbox Live? Blizzard's World of Warcraft? How about Google, which recently filed a patent for a technology that will mine gamers' searches in order to target relevant in-game advertising?Under European law, we have the right to ask what kind of data is being collected about us. But these companies aren't European, so does our right still remain? These questions go beyond complaining to the game gods about the inflation and deflation of virtual properties. No longer simply the realm of the popular fantastic, our movements in entertainment and social spaces are being observed by the people who at the minute we simply must trust to do right.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It was almost certainly one of the simplest interviews that Google has ever conducted. The Silicon Valley giant, famous for its punishing hiring process and exacting standards, received a short email asking a straightforward question. "Do you need any help?" it said. A one-word response - "yes" - was enough to secure a job with the company.It was unusual in many respects, of course: the man saying yes was Google chief executive Eric Schmidt - and the man asking the question was Vint Cerf, the pioneering researcher commonly regarded as one of the founding fathers of the internet.Polar oppositeTwo years after sending that message, Cerf is working as Google's "chief internet evangelist" and is a vice-president of the company. Dressed impeccably, sporting a flawless three-piece suit and a well-groomed grey beard, he seems the polar opposite of Google's famously casual ethos. But, he says, his role in the company is a better fit than it looks."They said to me to 'just keep doing what you've been doing', which is try to get more internet built everywhere," he explains. "I thought that was pretty cool, because I really would like more internet - I honestly want all six-and-a-half billion people on the planet to have access to the internet because I think it would be a good thing. I also think a lot of them would contribute some things that we'd all benefit from."Now 64, Cerf started his career on the net decades before most of its users were even born. As a researcher at UCLA, Stanford and with the US military, he helped define the new communications systems which eventually became the internet we know today. But he is still surprised by what it has become."I have been astonished by the number of devices out there," he says. "I never anticipated in 1973 that somebody would build an internet-enabled refrigerator, but the guy that takes the cake is the guy who invented an internet-enabled surfboard."Now he can operate as (in his words) an "intellectual bumblebee", Cerf's latest interest is the mobile net. The rise of the mobile phone fascinates him, and he is one of many sages predicting that it will soon become the most important way of using the internet."The internet on mobile is really dramatic. First of all, it expands the potential user population by a factor of two instantly. Second, it forces us to rethink how we present our applications. The extra functionality of a mobile brings possibilities that even a laptop doesn't have."There has been plenty of speculation about Google's plans to move into the mobile market, but Cerf refuses to confirm or deny whether there is really a Google phone in the offing."I'm actually interested in people thinking about the mobile as a controller for lots of other devices," he says. "Most of the focus so far has been about how we access Google services on a device."But while the future seems bright, Cerf suggests that there are still going to be plenty of problems along the way. One is that broadband providers in the US are lobbying for the right to give some web traffic preferential treatment in return for cash, while UK internet companies have started grumbling about the bandwidth used by peer-to-peer video systems such as the BBC iPlayer."I'm not confident," he says, with a look of concern. His vision of the net is based on it remaining entirely neutral and open - but that's not what everybody has in mind for the future. "When you have incumbents that have enormous market power - or even potentially monopoly control - the temptation is overwhelming to take control of that capability and to inhibit competition. This is why I am of the opinion that you sometimes need regulation to ensure fair competition."He is also concerned that there needs to be better coordination between governments if the net is going to remain viable: "There are a variety of problems that the internet poses - public protection, law enforcement - and that does require international cooperation." Groups such as Interpol show the way forward, he says, but admits that things get trickier when governments treat the net as something to be feared and controlled.Online censorship is a hot topic since the World Organisation for Human Rights announced it was suing Yahoo! on behalf of Chinese pro-democracy campaigners who were imprisoned after the Silicon Valley company handed their identities over to the government.As a net libertarian, it clearly pains Cerf to think about the relationship with the Chinese authorities, particularly the controversial decision by Google to launch a censored version of its index inside China.Chinese puzzle"We debated it for a long time before finally deciding that it was in our business interests, and in the Chinese people's interest, to have some form of Google service there. I have this perhaps naive hope that the Chinese government will become more comfortable with it - there's a definitely softening among ordinary people."When I go to Beijing or Shanghai I hear normal people talking among themselves and criticising the government: that wouldn't have happened before."But even if he remains optimistic, the grand old man of the net recognises that such a process could be very, very slow."It's like the Grand Canyon - it started off as a river on a plain, but eventually dug down until it was a mile deep."Suddenly a wry smile breaks out across his face. "That process only took 235m years ... I really hope it doesn't take the Chinese government that long."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I am running Intuit Quicken on my PC to keep track of my finances, but am about to be presented with an Apple computer. Can you recommend similar software for the Mac?Stanley RussellThere is a US version of Quicken for the Mac, but it uses a different data format, and has fewer features, so much of your PC data may not convert. Quicken has someadviceon doing the conversion which involves, for example, shortening account and category names and removing special characters before saving a QIF file. This could be useful, even though you will be importing the data into a different program. If all else fails, you can probably export your data in a tab-delimited format that will import into Microsoft Excel, then move the Excel file from PC to Mac.Unfortunately, there isn't a version of Microsoft Money for the Mac, but there are a few programs you could look at. These includeiCash,MoneydanceandLiquid Ledger. Personal Accountz and GnuCash (see queryabove) are also available for the Mac. SearchingDownload.comwill find more.Reading thediscussionon "Looking for Mac OS X personal finance software" might help you pick one to try.
How can I get rid of an offensive web page that shows up with my name on it in Google? I've trawled through Google's complex and unhelpful "help" pages, to no avail.FCGoogle targets this sort of information at webmasters, and there are instructions on theGoogle Webmaster Blog. Scroll down to the section that says "Requesting removal of content you don't own". Generally you have to get the person who owns the web page to remove the content before Google will remove it from its index.If the owner won't remove it, you can write to the company that hosts the site. Polite letters might work. You stand more chance of success if there is a legal argument for removing the content, in which case you can try a solicitor's letter and threaten court action. However, there is always a risk that any action will attract more attention than simply ignoring the page.
If you ever fancied trying your hand as a surgeon, yet never had the dedication to go through all that training, Trauma Centre: Second Opinion could suggest either a missed vocation or a wise decision. It's essentially a more sophisticated version of the old board game, Operation, on the Wii, with the Wiimote acting as your scalpel, drain, laser and so on. Those who played Trauma Centre on the DS will find it reassuringly similar, although it does make great use of the Wii's control system - when performing operations (under increasingly tricky time constraints) you must follow procedure, selecting the right instrument using the Nunchuk's joystick then wielding it with a steady hand. There's an utterly lame medical soap-style back-story, but the operations themselves prove riveting, requiring a surprising amount of concentration and an ability to avoid the temptation to panic. Not a great game technically, but a lot of fun to play.
I've always liked the Blitzkrieg series - perfectly balanced, old-school realtime strategy with great detail and loads of explosions. And for a game that barely improved between sequels, this mission pack adds two new campaigns of rock-hard levels, loads of new units and even a slightly improved engine - not that there was much wrong with the old one. Alas, missions tend to consist of the same level played out in slightly different terrains, with the same survive/reinforce/survive mechanic throughout. It's also infuriating how few units they allow you to call on each level, given there are 250+ available. Still, if you like your wargames challenging and bristling with tanks, this is highly playable stuff.
Among the many sleights of hand perpetrated by Steve Jobs has been the portrayal of the sale on the iTunes Store of music without DRM (the copy protection that prevents you giving it to a few million of your closest friends without first burning it to a CD and then re-encoding it), but at higher audio quality as the only alternative to selling that same music with DRM and at lower quality. You can get it with DRM at 128kbps AAC; or without DRM, at 256kbps.Why is that sleight of hand? Because if you draw a square with four compartments in your head, with the columns headed "without DRM" and "with DRM" and the rows "lower quality" and "higher quality", then you'll see that the iTunes Store is selling music in opposite corners of the square. It's not selling in the same row, or the same column. Where's the music that's low-quality and without DRM? Alternatively, where do we get the with-DRM high-quality stuff?And more importantly, if we accept (for the purposes of argument) that the prices for the existing items are correct, how much should we pay for the music in the other boxes? We know how much we pay for low-quality DRM music: 79p per track. (In the US it's 99&cent;, or - at current exchange rates - 50p. In Europe it's 99 Euro cents, or 67p. Amazing how passing across water makes digital goods rise in price.) For high-quality DRM-free music, it's 99p.There's another data point: we know that people will buy legal DRM-free music from sites like eMusic where the price works out at 30p per track. We also know that people will download DRM-free music at all sorts of quality via file-sharing for nothing but the incremental cost of their broadband connection, but that's not a very helpful data point. Using that as a basis, the whole of our DRM-free column would read "0".Clearly, having DRM added to a track makes it cheaper - the record labels are in effect admitting that DRM degrades the value of the digital product. And lower-quality audio is also, more obviously, worse.Anyway, the price of DRM-tinged high-quality tracks must lie between 79p and 99p. Now, is adding DRM as much of a disbenefit to a track as lower quality? That is, how much of the 20p difference should we allocate to audio quality, and how much to the presence of the DRM?As noted above, you can get rid of the iTunes DRM by burning the track to a CD. You can't, however, improve its audio quality: once lost by lossy encoding like MP3 or AAC, quality is never regained, only painted over. Logically, then, we should be willing to pay more for the presence of high quality than for the absence of DRM.If that were true, then DRM would be the cheapest part of the 20p price difference in our four-squared box. Less than 10p, perhaps even less than 5p. That's what logic says. Yet the upside of zero DRM is that you can easily move it on to other devices - and as we've seen before (No taste for high-quality audio, August 2), people aren't prepared to pay for better audio quality with DRM (in SACDs); they'd rather have convenience. So zero DRM is more valuable than audio quality. Which means we have two watertight arguments on the value of DRM which produce diametrically opposed outcomes.If Apple were to get really inventive, it would let us submit bids on how much we'd pay for those two missing varieties of song. Anywhere between 79p and 99p: how much is audio quality worth to you? How much is the absence of DRM worth? What would you pay? And when, Mr Jobs, will we get the chance to decide?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When the Free Our Data campaign started roughly 18 months ago, one argument in favour of making the data from Ordnance Survey's maps available for free to everyone was that it would encourage visits to rural areas, boosting revenues there - for many of those areas are among the poorest in the country while having the most beautiful and uplifting scenery (Give us back our crown jewels, March 9 2006).However, the trading fund model under which Ordnance Survey is required to operate precludes doing that: it must completely cover its costs, and make a profit from licensing its data, whether to other government departments or outside organisations. That, though, means that the cost of putting maps online can be prohibitive - as one site which encourages walking in the Scottish Highlands,walkhighlands.co.uk, discovered.Success storyThe site itself is something of a small business success story: set up only this February, it operates from Staffin, in northern Skye, and already gets an average of 600,000 hits every month from about 18,000 visitors a month. It has recently been chosen as one of 26 new businesses to receive funding from Nesta, the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts, and features more than 250 walking routes, which its organisers are expanding all the time.But when Paul Webster, who runs the site, inquired into the costs of putting printable Ordnance Survey maps on the site (which already offers links to buy the full printed versions), he was horrified by the cost quoted by a reseller: &pound;20,000 per year for the licence for the digital data. (OS says that it did not give a direct quote for that data). Trying to pay that would bankrupt the site.But on searching the Ordnance Survey's website, and during discussions with its licensing department, he came across a quirk in its charging system that could cut his costs by more than 99%.The method: buy a "paper licence" - which allows you to scan maps - and put the scans online."I was very keen to use OS maps fromQuo, which is a consumer mapping application, but this wasn't permitted," says Webster. Mapyx's Quo does offer a downloadable pack costing &pound;99.95 incorporating the walks on an OS map.So instead, he turned to paper. "As long as you have purchased a 'paper' licence, you can scan maps and put them on the internet - as long as the webpage and the map doesn't contain advertising," he explains. He insists that the OS put this permission in writing - which it did, with a letter from a "senior service advisor".This confirmed that "paper map extracts currently displayed on your website are covered by your Paper Map Copying Licence". This, the letter says, is because "the map extracts are being used as an information tool on your website to enhance your business; the mapping is not being sold and you are making no financial gain from the use; the map extract would need to be used in conjunction with the whole map sheet to give your extract context; there is no advertising on the same pages".Scanning timeThe cost to Walkhighlands? &pound;50 per year - a 99.75% saving over the digital licence. The only disadvantages, says Webster, are that there are creases on the scanned image and that the process of scanning is time-consuming.But he is mystified by the distinction that OS draws between digitally useful data and a scan of the same data. "It seems a real anomaly that the means by which you put maps on a site determines the cost, rather than the end result - what maps are provided and for what purpose."OS told the Guardian that digital maps of Skye alone would cost the site &pound;526 annually at the 1:25,000 scale Webster wants. The digital Highlands data would cost more than &pound;10,000.The episode does point to contradictions in the trading fund system under which OS is obliged to operate. First, the time spent by the people within the agency's licensing department must be greater than the &pound;50 eventually paid by Walkhighlands - so, in effect, licensing it was a lossmaking exercise. Second, who benefits from placing obstacles in front of a startup trying to encourage people to visit places that could benefit from tourism? Not the residents, and not the government.Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign argues that it would be simpler to make all non-personal government data free for reuse, and collect taxes from the businesses inspired by it - more than covering revenues lost from data licensing.Of course, this is not OS's decision: ministers determine how it is funded. But with the trading fund model now being investigated, and OS under fire from a number of other government departments, the time is ripe for a radical revision of its funding regime.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Despite the recent "credit crunch", it seems life in the City is sweeter than ever. Reports that bonuses have increased this year by 30% to a record &pound;14bn will have Home Counties prestige car dealers rubbing their hands together in glee. Because if there's one thing your modern-day master of the universe loves above all else, it's the latest supercar tucked away in the underground parking space.If they can get their hands on it, that is. These are such high times that demand is currently outstripping supply for a host of prized luxury models. Bentley, that Crewe-based bastion of quality British engineering, has enjoyed a remarkable renaissance since Volkswagen bought it in 1998. In 2006 it sold 9,200 cars, its most successful year ever, and 2007 is likely to be better still."The last thing we want is for our cars to become less exclusive," a spokesman confirmed. "The waiting list for a Continental GTC [convertible] is currently about 12 months. We think that's acceptable. In fact, some of our UK customers in particular take an almost perverse pleasure in having to wait for their new car."Rolls-Royce's gargantuan Phantom Drophead Coupe has a two-year waiting list, with reports that non-franchised dealers are selling the car on to those who can't wait for a whopping &pound;100,000 on top of its &pound;306,000 list price. Rolls-Royce can't do much about such entrepreneurial exploits, though things inevitably settle when a new model loses its fashionable lustre.Aston Martin's 007-endorsed DBS and Audi's R8 both enjoy 18 month-plus waiting lists, while Alfa Romeo's 8C Competizione - of which only 500 will be made - is sold out, guaranteeing instant cult status. But Ferrari still sets the pace, refusing to increase production of its 430 and 599 models despite sky-high demand - buyers of the ultra-rare Enzo were vetted and "invited" to spend the necessary &pound;399,000.Still, it's not all phone-number prices and V12 engines. In Hollywood, there's a six-month wait for the Toyota Prius hybrid. And next year's car to be seen in, the new Fiat 500, is due to land in the UK in January. Cost? Rather less than a bottle of Petrus in Claridges.
No wait, this is N-Gage the gamingplatform, not the chunky, barely disguised Series 60 handset that pretended to be a games console (and to its credit could run some great emulators). Of course, we've all known about the N-Gage plans for ages, but this morning Nokia revealed a little more detail about the concept.Set for launch in November, owners of compatible handsets will be able to download the N-Gage app to their phones and/or PCs fromthis address. Gamers will then be able to access the N-Gage site, which works rather like iTunes, giving easy access to a whole range of games and allowing users to try before they buy - removing one of the biggest barriers to the widescale adoption of mobile games (at least that's what the mobile industry keeps telling itself).The service will also offer a community element, allowing games to challenge players from around the world - another factor largelky missing from the UK mobile gaming experience. Games will cost between sic and ten euros each. Morehere.The company also announced four new handsets including the high-end Nokia N81, which comes complete with dedicated gaming keys. Here aresome images. It's also pre-configured for N-Gage AND the keys light up when you hit 'em.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Nokia: getting ready to rumble. Photograph: Shaun Curry/AFPIt's been brewing for a while, but it looks like there is now full-on war between Nokia and Apple.Briefly: this morning at a news conference in London, Nokia announced a new touchscreen phone, a music download service and gaming system (more details to come). It's pretty clearly a strike at Apple's growing business and interest in the mobile phone industry, taking on the iPhone and iTunes as well as the run by the networks.A couple of weeks ago our own Victor Keegan presaged the announcement in his column, saying that there was now a battle between thehandset makers and the mobile networks: "Nokia's upcoming N81 'music phone'... will offer what is being hyped as a seamless music download service that could gobble up some of the operators' revenues".The FTsuggests something similar:Nokia's music service will be a new rival for mobile operators' own music offerings, many of which have failed to gain traction in the market. Most mobile music users simply "sideload" music from their computer direct to their handset.The launch will be the most substantial push Nokia has made into offering online services since it opened the Club Nokia website - offering games, ringtones and other content - in 1998.If mobile operators feel threatened by the music service, they may shun Nokia's new flagship music handset, the N81, which is also expected to be unveiled on Wednesday as a competitor to Apple's iPhone.In response Apple looks like it's tried to put out some spoiler news in the form of the launch ofiTunes TV downloads in the UK(costing a whopping 1.89 per show), and sending out invites for a September 5 product launch which looks likely to include some new iPods.
I blame Nintendo. Ever since the company rethought its entire approach to videogames and came up with the Wii's innovative, TV remote-shaped motion-sensing joystick, rival companies have indulged in a frenzy of inventing ever-wackier controllers.The Wiimote confounded many sceptics, and has helped Nintendo to open up a hitherto untapped market of casual gamers  but now, with everybody else thinking outside the box, it's too easy to become submerged in a controller mountain.I've just taken delivery of Rock Band, a game which comes with a fake drumkit, two plastic facsimiles of a Fender Stratocaster guitar and a microphone. These vie for space with the balance-board that comes with Nintendo's recently announced Wii Fit, and the pile of peripherals already occupying a sizeable space in my office - two dance-mats, a set of plastic Donkey Konga drums, countless light-guns, four quiz-show-style Buzz controllers, an EyeToy, a PlayStation Eye, two Guitar Hero guitars, two SingStar microphones and even a Slouchpod Interactive NXT gaming beanbag with its fearsomely loud built-in speaker system. I'd love to add a steering wheel and a set of pedals  but I'd have to start renting a barn.When Eye of Judgment for the PS3 arrives, with its assemblage for mounting a PlayStation Eye so that it looks down on a table and senses the movement of your hands, goodness knows where that's going to go. Only the partridge and the pear tree are missing.This rash of joystick replacements raises real issues for already cluttered households  particularly if they include young children discovering the joys of gaming. The best advice may be to think about how long it will retain the attention of you and your family. The only peripherals in my office which have seen regular use since they arrived are the Guitar Hero guitars.It's not just me."Novelty controllers I've had in the past: SNES Superscope, Saturn 3D pad, Dreamcast Fishing Rod, Dreamcast Wheel + Pedals, Dreamcast Seaman Microphone, PlayStation Dance Mat, PlayStation Beatmania Controller, PlayStation 2 Time Crisis Gun, PlayStation 2 Eye Toy, PlayStation 2 SingStar Microphones, PlayStation 2 Buzz Controllers (x2), PlayStation 2 Guitar Hero Guitar, Xbox Steel Battalion Controller, GameCube Bongos," says Reto Fisher, who works at high street retailer Game.A Steel Battalion controller is a sure sign of an addiction to arcane input mechanisms  it reconstructed, in plastic about three feet across, with pedals, the flight deck of a giant battle robot."If it wasn't for the controller, the game would have been of no interest to me, but I couldn't resist all those buttons," he says. "Over the two years I owned it, it was only played a dozen times."Clutter is clearly an issue here  Fisher lives in a small one bedroom flat and  for Fisher: "I live in a small one bedroom place which limits peripherals to stuff that will slide out the way under the TV unit  namely Buzz/SingStar/Eye Toy. Most of the stuff had to go when we moved from a larger two-bedroom place on the ground floor. Dance mats don't help friendly relations with the downstairs neighbours."Another game addict, who asked to remain anonymous also has an extensive and wacky collection, including a Dreamcast fishing rod and a chainsaw. Clutter isn't necessarily the problem, though. "Want a quick game of Samba di Amigo? Sure - just give me 10 minutes to set up the maracas."Fisher says that his wife doesn't like the number of accessories filling up their flat except for when they belongs to games she plays too. That's crucial - imaginative controllers are much more inclusive than joypads, but be under no illusion: the games industry sees them as a kind of Trojan horse, hoping that they'll kindle an interest in games which will lead to experiments with games that require joypads.Much of the time gamers are swayed by controllers that look attractive in the shop, but have little beyond novelty value. Still, at least there is eBay much more convenient than a garage sale.
More than 5,000 people are thought to sleep in internet cafes across Japan, according to a government study released yesterday.In its first study of a growing group dubbed "net cafe refugees" by local media, the health ministry estimated that 5,400 people live at least half the week at the 24-hour cafes because they have no permanent home.Japanese people in their 20s make up the largest group of the internet cafe homeless, many of whom hop from one temporary job to another, according to the study, which surveyed 1,700 overnight customers at 87 cafes in June and July.
Bioshock, the fab art-deco shooter/adventure, is at number one inthis week's UK gaming charts. This is deserved success for a game which heralds the start of the most exciting pre-Christmas release schedule - Mass Effect, Mario Galaxy, Halo 3 - for years. Less exciting is the continual presence of the abysmal Transformers, which is still at number 2 after being top dog for weeks. You can blame the summer holidays, film tie-in, brand appeal and the rest, but the sad fact is that come the end of the year Transformers is likely to have outsold Bioshock.The rest of the top ten holds few surprises, although Japanese RPG Blue Dragon has debuted higher than probably even Microsoft UK expected. And despite a pile of new releases this Friday - Stuntman Ignition, 08 versions of Tiger Woods and Madden, Total War Kingdoms - you can't imagine too many changes in next week's top five at least. And then there is Impossible Mission for DS and PS2. Due to my belated recent discovery of the excellent Retro Gamer magazine I'm looking forward to a nostalgia trip - but will it match the C64 original?
I never tire of reading about how games can begoodfor the family. Which is a good thing as we're hearing more and more of it these days - if you can pick out the positive stuff from the hysterical fear-mongering of the chattering classes who are now worried about something called'junk sleep', an affliction suffered by teenagers with too many gadgets in their rooms. What. Ever.Anyway, casual game giant,Popcap, has revealed the results of an online survery, carried out by theInformation Solutions Group, which shows that of the nearly 7,500 people interviewed, 2,298 confessed to being casual gamers. Or 'family gamers' in the parlance of Popcap's press release. From that source:"Among adult "family gamers," 92% overall (and 95% of grandparents in particular) said that they felt the games provided an opportunity to "bond with, or better relate to" their children or grandchildren. And fully 70% of respondents said they see casual games as providing valuable educational benefits. On a related note, only 28% of adult family gamers indicated they allowed their children or grandchildren to play "hardcore" video games - with fathers and grandfathers being significantly more inclined to allow the playing of such games than mothers and grandmothers (37% vs. 25%)."More detailshere.Casual games represent a convenient win-win situation for parents (and carers, of course). They're computer games so kids naturally love them, but they're often based on classic archetypes that parents can easily get to grips with. In this sense they shift the gaming power relationship back in favour of the parent: when mum or dad tries to play Half-Life with their child, they often just end up feeling confused and alienated, but when they play word games, they're in control. Casual games re-affirm the traditional family status quo, with mum/dad/carer as teacher and guide.I wonder if that will change with the coming generation. We've all grown up playing games, we know games inside out - when my son starts playiing first-person shooters, I doubt they'll have changed so much that I won't be able to continuously frag him for several years.Or maybe Wii will change everything. Maybe I'll be just as lost as my parents, because a new breed of social casual games will have taken over. I'd better start taking Wii Sports more seriously.
Soldering on: George Hotz. Photograph: Jeff Christensen/APGeorge Hotz, a 17 year-old American, has had a huge amount of publicity for unlocking the Apple iPhone, which is sold tied to an unloved AT&amp;T phone service.But this is just one of many. Gizmodo has been tracking the phenomenon, and has covered theforged SIM method, theTurbo SIM method, thehardware soldering solution, and a new claim bythree Israeli hackers.Belfast-based UniquePhones, which was planning a commercial service, has "received a 3am call from a lawyer claiming to represent AT&amp;T and warning it that selling unlocking software could constitute copyright infringement and illegal software dissemination," saysBBC News.But will Apple and AT&amp;T be able to stop the flood? "Hardly," saysBusiness Week.Individual users are already allowed to unlock their own phones under an exemption to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) that the U.S. Copyright Office issued last November. The exemption, in force for three years, applies to "computer programs...that enable wireless telephone handsets to connect to a wireless telephone communication network, when circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of lawfully connecting to a wireless telephone communication network."What's less clear is whether companies and hackers can legally unlock the phones and then sell them to others, or sell unlocking software. "The law here is unclear," says Jonathan Kramer, founder of Kramer Telecom Law Firm in Los Angeles.The iPhone locking is also getting a legal challenge. Herbert H. Kliegerman has filed a complaint in a New York Supreme Court.Apple Insidersays he "accuses Apple of engaging in deceptive and misleading practices by failing to properly disclose to iPhone buyers that their phones would be locked to only work with AT&amp;T SIM cards and that the unlock codes would not be provided."Kliegerman used his iPone in Mexico and got a $2,000 bill, Yes, he should have signed up forAT&amp;T World Traveler, which costs $5.99 a month.The more obvious solution to all this unlocking stuff is the one proposed by InfoWorld's Enterprise Mac columnist, Tom Yager:Buy a real phone.
"An IBM server worth $1.4 million was wrecked after it fell off a forklift during shipping. Now the customer is suing -- claiming that the computer maker failed to properly package the high-end business system," reportsInformation Week.In its lawsuit, T.R. Systems claims its own clumsiness isn't to blame for the server's destruction. "The damages sustained by T.R. Systems was due to the poor workmanship and/or defective packaging design and methods used by IBM," the company argues in court papers.The server was intended for the US Patent and Trademark Office.Could do with a picture, really.....
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It being a sunny bank holiday weekend, I spent my days working at theMediaGuardian Edinburgh International TV Festival, where lots of small screen luvvies get in a room and talk telly at each other. There was plenty of coverage of the festival from ourmedia blogand from guruKevin, who's been attending the accompanyingUnfestivalfor the requisitegeek quotient.I spent the best part of Sunday with Vint Cerf, one of the"founding fathers of the internet"turned internet evangelist for Google - and the man who delivered the Alternative McTaggart Lecture (watch the videos on ourYouTube page).Over the course of several meetings during the day we discussed a wide range of topics including but not limited to: the future of the TV industry, internet censorship, the net in space, Google's plans for mobile phones, being chair of ICANN, where the internet is headed - oh, and what it is he actuallydoesat Google and how he came to be there.Yesterday we published a story followinghis speech to TV execs, but I'm just putting together the rest of the interview, which we'll run later in the week. Hopefully we'll be able to provide some audio and video as well.(Picture of Vint Cerf byJoi Ito, released under CC license)
A little late with this as we were all away yesterday enjoying the Bank Holiday sunshine. Or playing Bioshock in a darkened attic.Anyway, The Best of Games Convention results were announced on Friday evening, revealing the best games shown atthe eventin 10 categories. The awards were open to all exhibitors demonstrating playable code on the show floor. I'm not quite sure who the judging panel were, but here are the results:In the PC category: Crysis (Electronic Arts GmbH) In the Xbox category: BioShock (Take 2 Interactive GmbH) In the PSP category: God of War: Chains of Olympus (Sony Computer Entertainment GmbH) In the PS2 category: Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 (Konami Digital Entertainment GmbH) In the PS3 category: Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 (Konami Digital Entertainment GmbH In the Wii category: Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympics (SEGA Germany GmbH) In the NDS category: Eye Training (Nintendo of Europe GmbH) In the Online category: Age of Conan: Hyborian Adventures (Eidos GmbH) In the Best Hardware Accessory Product category: Wii Balance Board (Nintendo of Europe GmbH) In the category Mobile: No prize was awarded in this category due to a lack of participants.That last bit annoyed/interested me. I'm not sure what it means - were there no publishers with sufficient confidence in their mobile titles to submit them for assessment? There were certainly several titles revealed at the events as my post last week mentioned and theoriginal press releaseon the awards event initially stated that Electronics Arts had submitted two games for consideration: Skate and Medal of Honor Airborne. Is this an indictment of the awards themselves or of the games? Who is not taking who seriously?Apart from that, not many surprises, apart from Age of Conan beating Hellgate: London and Enemy Territory Quake Wars to the Online award.
Somewhere, deep in your heart, you have a secret that you could never tell anyone. But you could tell the whole world, anonymously, via the internet. Just write it on a postcard and send it to a website calledPostSecret.You might think this an unlikely idea. Think again. In less than three years, PostSecret has become one of the world's most popular blogs. Last year it won five Bloggies for Best American Weblog, Best Topical Weblog, Best Community Weblog, Best New Weblog, and Weblog of the Year.The formula is simple. The site's curator, Frank Warren, gets 100 to 200 postcards a day. Every Sunday, he picks about 20, scans them and posts them on his blog. That's it. PostSecret was exploiting "user generated content" before it became fashionable."Curator" is the word because PostSecret started as a community art project, exhibited at Artomatic in Washington DC. Most people don't just write their secrets, they express them in photos or drawings, or at least by adapting picture postcards.Warren has received postcards written in numerous languages, including Braille and Morse code. Many people type or print out their secret and stick it on a picture, which reduces the risk of someone recognising their handwriting. It has happened.Secrets have also been sent in on Starbucks cups, balloons and other things. Postcards have arrived with cash, keys, cigarettes, drugs and other items attached.The secrets themselves cover all human emotions from joy to despair. Some are funny, some philosophical, some heartbreaking. It's the mixture of art and emotion that makes the site work so well.Some secrets raise a laugh: "All my life I wanted to look like Liz Taylor, now Liz Taylor is starting to look like me." But as you'd expect, there are many more sad secrets than happy ones: "I still haven't told my father I have the same disease that killed my mother." One card was a prenatal scan. It said: "This is the only picture that will ever be taken of you."While PostSecret doesn't take paid advertising, it has the phone number for Hope, a suicide helpline. Warren helps as a volunteer and has given it financial support.He thinks sharing secrets can help set people free. At a book signing, Warren said: "Sometimes when we think we're keeping a secret, that secret's actually keeping us."Selections of the best postcards form a travelling art exhibition and have been published in book form. Thethird volume- A Lifetime of Secrets: A PostSecret Book  is due in October. There's even a pop song,Dirty Little Secret, by All American Rejects.In fact, perhaps the best way to experience PostSecret now is to go to YouTube and search for PostSecret or Frank Warren. There are plenty of user-created videos that combine a string of cards with an emotional song. Prepare to weep.Here's another secret: "Your last mortal thought will be: Why did I take so many days - just like this - for granted?"
From SIGGRAPH, here's an amazing video on image resizing byDr Shai AvidanandDr Ariel Shamir, in support of their paper on Seam Carving for Content-Aware Image Resizing (PDF).It achieves the ultimate level for any graphics processing trick, which is that when it's implemented in software, people won't notice. They'll just think, well, that's how resizingshouldwork.Thanks toTechCrunchfor the link.
It's tough being one of America's top 5 PC manufacturers, and another one may be about to disappear if Taiwan's Acer buys Gateway. As reported inThe Wall Street Journal:In their joint statement, Acer and Gateway said Acer would make a cash offer for all outstanding shares of Irvine, Calif.-based Gateway for $1.90 a share, a steep premium to their closing price of $1.21 Friday. The stock's 52-week high is $2.44, hit March 19. The deal has been unanimously by approved the boards of both companies and is expected to close by December, the statement said.The idea is that the joint company will also take over Packard Bell. "Lap Shun (John) Hui, who sold eMachines to Gateway for some $235 million in cash and stock, owns all of the shares of PB Holding Company, S.ar.l, the parent company of Packard Bell," says the WSJ.There's now a battle between Acer and China's Lenovo (formerly called Legend) to be the world's third largest PC manufacturer.This means at least five companies that were once amongst America's Top 5 PC manufacturers will have been swallowed. That is:Compaq(taken over by Hewlett-Packard),IBM(the PC division was taken over by Lenovo),Packard Bell(taken over by NEC),eMachines(taken over by Gateway), andGateway(taken over by Acer). The survivors are HP and Dell, and Dell is having a rocky time of it.I'll be somewhat sorry to see Gateway go. It made good PCs at good prices, and after it set up in the UK, I bought three of its desktops in a row. However, Gateway withdrew from the UK market, and the company I used to know stopped existing a long time ago. Thebadge, of course, may continue for some years....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
