Comin' atcha, Kutcher. On your case, Oprah. But where are you, Jennifer Aniston?The occasion:Guardian Technology's Twitter feedearlier this morning passed Stephen Fry, the UK's most-loved geek, for followers. At the time of writing, @guardiantech has 466,027 followers, while our national treasure has an amazing - oh, come on, it's not bad - 464,791 followers.Fry of course famously joined Twitter on 15 July 2008, and ascended the follower ranks in a blaze of glory; the Guardian's Technology account, despite being rather older (created on 2 August 2007 - well, we are famously early adopters) had a rather slower takeoff. But some time during the night of 1 May, we sailed past. (Completely unimportant? Well, up to a point.)But you know about the fable of the tortoise and the hare.However, we think that we might have to rival the Galapagos tortoises to survive long enough to challenge some of the biggest names on Twitter. According to Twittercounter.com (which provided thegraph),Kutcheris now on 1.5m followers,CNN's Breaking Newshas 1.3m,Britney Spears(she never calls, she never writes...) has 1.2m,Barack Obama(ditto) has 1m, whileJohn Mayer(guitar player) has 910,000,Shaquille O'Neal(basketball player) has 845,000,Ryan Seacrest(no idea) is on 820,000, Kutcher's wifeDemi Moorehas 793,000 (does this cause tensions in the Kutcher household? "But why can'tIhave some of your followers? Huh?") and theNew York Times, a local paper based on an island near the American mainland, has 752,000. Oh, and of courseOprah, who's languishing there with 746,000.Right. I think we've figured out our next target. (We'll leave unanswered the question of "does this actually mean anything?") Just a reminder: if you need to find any of the Guardian's feeds, or its staff who are tweeting, then see the entirely unofficial, but for the meantime useful,Twitian.co.uk(Guardian + Twitter - geddit?).Oh, and on the left is a picture of Ms Aniston, as the person who's had themost public falling-outover her (now ex-)partner's use of Twitter. Isthat you, Jen? Hmm - since you seem to have joined on 18 March 2007 (courtesywhendidyoujointwitter), and are following 0 people, and have done 0 updates, perhaps it was your secretary. And your secretary thought better of it too.Update:Gosh,so many Jennifer Anistons, but none of them, it seems, real. That's disappointing, it must be said. If Demi and Aston can do it, why not Jennifer and...? Oh.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I couldn't resist. To publicise its X-Men Origins: Wolverine game, Activision has sponsored the wolverine enclosure at Edinburgh Zoo for one year. On top of that, the lead male wolverine has "voluntarily" changed his name to Logan, "in respect of the legendary Marvel character"."What better way is there to pay homage to the mighty Wolverine by making sure his real life cousins are cared for during the next year?" implored Activision Senior Brand Manager, Aruna Sinha, failing to make grammatical sense in all the excitement. Whatever, I'm guessing this is a rhetorical question.I love the way that the promotional cardboard cut-out looks as though it was either photo-shopped rather haphazardly onto the image, or lobbed into the enclosure from quite some considerable distance.Caption competition!Come up with a better one than mine before 3.30pm and I'll swap it in. There's no prize, but what else are you going to do on a sunny Friday afternoon at work?
Those rumours aboutApplebrewing a cheaper,netbook-styleMacjust won't go away.AppleInsiderreports again that Apple is "tailoring changes to a pair of its offerings," partly in retaliation for a Microsoft ad campaign that paints Macs as expensive PCs (did that ever bother Apple before?) and partly make sure it continues to grow market share despite the downturn. (Checkout this1983 Apple marketing strategythat describes that: "Macintosh cannot and will not be 'all things to all people'.")A bigger challenge might also be the rise of the netbook - but then any prospect that Apple might lower itself (or its prices) to attract a very different market and ruled out by chief operating officerTim Cookonly last week duringApple's financial results."When I look at netbooks, I see cramped keyboards, terrible software, junky hardware, very small screens. It's just not a good consumer experience and not something we would put the Mac brand on. It's a segment we would not choose to play in."That said, something between a full Mac laptop and the web-optimised iPhonehasn't&nbsp; been ruled out completely, and Cook did say Apple is looking at the space.And if that's not enough, there's alsorumour of aniPhonecamcorder, which would explain the lack of video capability on the current iPhone and make up for that very shoddy camera.The Acer Aspire One notebook. Photograph:zieak/Flickr/Some rights reserved
Microsoft has announced that theRelease Candidate version of Windows 7will be available to the public as a free download on May 5. And since the RC version seems to be pretty much finished (I have not tried it), then it's essentially giving it away for more than a year: as mentionedearlier, it won't expire until 1 June next year.RC includes a couple of new features, mainly Remote Media Streaming (so you can stream stuff from your home PC to your work PC, for example), and in pro versions, Windows XP Mode (below).The slight drawback is that if or when you want to buy the final version, it's not designed to install over the beta RC. Microsoft is only testing the normal use case, which is an upgrade from a previous version of Windows.TheWindows Engineering bloghas provided a workaround you can use "IF YOU REALLY REALLY NEED TO" (their bold caps), but it's not recommended.Of course, if you are planning to buy a new PC running Windows 7 some time in the next 13 months, W7RC will get you there ahead of time. In fact, running the 32-bit RC then buying a PC with the 64-bit version pre-installed could be a reasonable strategy.The head-in-sanders also have things to think about, but a decreasing amount of time to think about them. The Microsoft press release quotes "an independent report from Forrester Research Inc.'s Ben Gray" which says:The beta of Windows 7 shows significant promise, and most IT operations professionals are looking forward to its availability and eventual enterprise deployment ... start preparing for it now, and the best way to prepare for Windows 7 is by deploying Windows Vista. Short of that, begin testing your applications and hardware for compatibility against Windows Vista; it will pay off with greater compatibility with Windows 7. (Get Ready for Windows 7, Forrester Research, April 2009.)Some corporate IT departments move so slowly they may just be getting round to installing Windows XP. However, those who have managed to upgrade to XP during the past 8 years will probably not be keen on rolling out Vista at this stage, and will be wary of taking a flyer on Windows 7. On the good side, the ones who have spent two or three years adapting and qualifying their in-house applications for Vista will at least find redoing the job for Windows 7 much easier.Meanwhile, we've now seen an early sign of the hardware moving away from XP, with Intel's GN40 chipset for netbooks. This provides, in the words of DigiTimes, "enhanced 3D graphics performance and hardware video decoding, but some of these new features make use of DirectX 10 and DXVA 2.0 (DirectX Video Acceleration 2.0) APIs which require Windows Vista or later." (Intel GN40 netbooks held back by Windows XP)So if you're thinking of getting, say, an Asus Eee PC 1004DN for the latest and greatest graphics and video decoding, they don't work fully under XP, which only has DXVA 1.0.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?The thing that changed everything for me was the Firefox browser. I was pretty bad when it came to computers – I didn't know how powerful the internet could be until I discovered tabbed browsing. What I love about the Firefox browser is when I sit down to do some writing up, working on the show, updating my website and talking on Twitter, and jumping between all these pages where I keep all these documents. It's been my gateway to all the other wonderful programs such as WordPress and Twitter and Backpack. I have all my music online, and all my documents.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm on it now as we talk, and casually seeing if anything is updating. I use it all the time – every time I sit down at the computer I have this great feeling of, 'Where will this machine take me today?'.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd like to see if there's some way it would work as a tattoo on my arm – then it would be perfect. The only other thing that could be useful is if it didn't use so much memory.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I don't know – I don't know what's going to happen in 10 years' time, everything's changing. Twitter is such a powerful new invention, that's changing everything. I think the Twitter revolution is going to cause the next big seismic shift in the internet.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I hate the way things can sometimes get overly complicated. I think all technology should be plug and play. I would say it's easier to set up a blog than it is to change channels on your telly.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Hover your cursor over things. People are very confused about how to do things on a computer, but generally, if you hover your cursor over things, it will tell you what it is.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a luddite in comparison with some of the people I follow on Twitter, but a nerd in comparison with many people. But I was always a nerd in other terms – always a big Dungeons &amp; Dragons fan, stuff like that.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I think it might be my desktop, which is an Alienware gaming machine – that's my one luxury, because I really love computer games. I get frustrated when something comes out that I can't play.Mac or PC, and why?PC, unfortunately, because Mac doesn't play games. I'm tied in to PCs because you can't get Call of Duty on a Mac.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I still buy CDs because I'm always suspicious of the sound quality of the things you download. And I want to support the artists as well. I use Spotify to try before I buy, but will always purchase things I like. The last thing I bought was the Mummers album, Tale to Tell.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Well, there's always the chance they'll go mad and kill everybody, so in general, no.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Something that exercises you in your sleep.•Graham Linehanis the creator and writer of the Bafta-winning The IT Crowd, which is now available on DVD. He was also co-writer and co-creator of Father Ted and Black Books, and contributed to Brass Eye and The Day Today, among many other great British comedies..
Stephen Wolfram, creator of Mathematica, gave a webcast talk about Wolfram|Alpha at Harvard this week (see Bobbie Johnson's post,First look: Wolfram Alpha shows itself in public) and now a10-minute videohas been posted by the Berkman Center.There's alsoStephen Wolfram discusses Wolfram|Alpha: Computational Knowledge Engine, which is the full 1 hour 65 minutes. The blurb says:There's been great anticipation around Stephen Wolfram's ambitious project to create a comprehensive "computational knowledge engine." The Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society at Harvard University will host a sneak preview of the Wolfram|Alpha system, and a discussion of its underlying technology and implications. Participants will include Wolfram|Alpha founder Stephen Wolfram and Professor of Law Jonathan Zittrain. Stephen Wolfram is the creator of Mathematica, the author of A New Kind of Science, and now the creator of Wolfram|Alpha. He is the founder and CEO of Wolfram Research.ReadWriteWebhas readable screen shots, the short video, and another YouTube video that provides "a look behind the scenes" at the Wolfram|Alpha data centre.It's clearly going to be a useful tool, rather than a search engine -- as Wolfram says, "we're trying to compute things -- and I can imagine using it. But I can't see it replacing Google for all day use, and any "Google killer" talk seems way over the top. On the other hand, this is just the beginning. What do you think?
Friday's Bank Holiday edition of Chatterbox
Yes, it's that time again. With the long weekend stretching gloriously ahead of us (in the UK at least) the time has come to forget about the bad things (like your team getting relegated to League 1) and instead enjoy some gaming action. I'm planning to spend some time on thenew Riddick(the original was right up there on the "greatest Xbox games" list) and checking out the X-Men Wolverine game.  But what about you? What are you playing this Bank Holiday?
&bull; After a bit of to and fro, American video service Hulu hassigned up Disney as its latest partner. The iPlayer-esque website isn't available in the UK - but the stronger it gets, the more chance it will look further afield for users... does this make it more likely that it might step into the spot that theill-fated Project Kangaroowas meant to fill?&bull; Apple has added to itsrecent trawlof executives by bringing in former Xbox strategy dude Richard Teversham from Microsoft,reports MCV.&bull; And I'm going to send you off on this week with a blast from the past:Andy Warhol painting Debbie Harry on a Commodore Amiga in 1985. Oh, Amiga, how I loved thee.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Here's a list for you: the telegraph, the telephone, radio, TV, the home computer... and Twitter.What? For once it's not the Guardian waxing lyrical about the virtues of Twitter, butTime magazine... or, more accurately Ashton Kutcher - who, you may remember,recently pippedCNN's breaking news account to be the first Twitter user with a million followers. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Kutcher thinks Twitter ranks up there with the greats of communication (note: no Tim Berners-Lee on there, among others).Years from now, when historians reflect on the time we are currently living in, the names Biz Stone and Evan Williams will be referenced side by side with the likes of Samuel Morse, Alexander Graham Bell, Guglielmo Marconi, Philo Farnsworth, Bill Gates and Steve Jobs — because the creation of Twitter by Stone, 35, Williams, 37, and Jack Dorsey, 32, is as significant and paradigm-shifting as the invention of Morse code, the telephone, radio, television or the personal computer.Kutcher is almost certainly falling into the trap of hyperbole, but Twitter's simultaneously decided to finally launch a feature that people have been wanting for some time now:built-in search.Twitter's had some interesting search functions for a while (courtesy of anotherstartup it bought, called Summize) and everyone and their dog recognises that part of the system's strength is the ability to searchwhat people are saying right now(includingyours truly). But until now, have always existedslightly separatelyto the main Twitter website.But today they added search functions straight into the site itself, giving you the chance of searching across millions of people's streams in real time (you can also see hot topics and save your searches).Co-founder Biz Stone gives examples of how you might use it: "What was that loud noise outside your apartment? Did you just feel an earthquake? What do people think about your company, your product, or your city?". Perhaps more importantly, for Twitter at least, it also gives them the chance to make some money by potentially placing adverts alongside search results... after all, we might complain if our Twitter stream got stuffed with ads, but if Google can advertise alongside its search results, why not everyone else?
Acer, one of the world's three biggest PC manufacturers, held a press conference in London this afternoon to announce its exciting new Timeline series of notebooks, and upstaged itself by appearing to pre-announce Windows 7.One of Acer's future products is the Z5600 PC all-in-one running Windows 7, which Acer said would be "one of the key products going into Christmas". Launch date? "It will on the shelves on October 23.""Have you just given away the launch date for Windows 7?" asked ZD-Net's David Meyer, amid much laughter.From his seat in the audience, Acer vice president Massimo D'Angelo, in charge of Europe, said it would be on the shelves running Windows 7 "or Windows 7 ready: then we will have the final news."D'Angelo said Windows 7 was "already available, and seems to run very well" -- albeit that's the RC (release candidate) version. If it isn't actually released by October 23, however, "there will be free upgrade options from Vista. I believe that, like last time, you will only pay the freight cost," he said.Microsoft has not announced an official release date, and John Curran, the American who runs Microsoft UK's Windows Client Group, told me that Windows 7 will be launched before 1 June 2010, when the free RC beta expires."We're on track to deliver within three years of Windows Vista," said Curran. "The final date will be governed by the quality of the build," based on the performance and reliability metrics collected from millions of test PCs.However, Curran also confirmed that Microsoft was not planning to offer RC2 and RC3 builds for testing. The new RC version, available to programmers today, is therefore the final hurdle before the release of Window 7. It therefore seems a reasonable bet that it will appear before October 23, and that Acer has not given away the launch date. It could, in fact, be out 6-8 weeks before that.However, Microsoft will be calculating not just when Windows 7 is ready to ship, but how soon PC suppliers will be able to deliver Windows 7 machines to the shops. Since Acer only sells PCs at retail, not directly, Microsoft could well consider its needs before it decides on the final date.
A scam that tries to steal people's Facebook password details – using a website that mimics Facebook's login page – is spreading rapidly through the social networking site.The scam's emergence comes as a report shows thatFacebook was the seventh most popular target of such "phishing" scams in March– although it is some distance behind PayPal and eBay, the two most popular targets, and banks such as Bank of America, HSBC and Alliance Bank.In the latest attack, messages that link to the website fbstarter.com or fbaction.net are "phishing scams", which take the user to a credible-looking website that is in fact a facade: like the buildings in a Western film, there's nothing behind them but a system recording the details that are supplied, enabling criminals to use them. Given a user's name and password, anyone can log in as that person, change their password and send on the same phishing message to the victim's friends.Taking control of the Facebook profile is a staging post. The overall purpose is to eventually send out links to malicious software that can take control of people's computers and compromise bank accounts and credit card details."I suspect that the initial attack vector was purely through forged email, but once accounts had been compromised, the attacks were launched through Facebook itself," said Adam Engst, who runs the news websiteTidBITS.com. He received one of the Facebook invites earlier today from "someone ... I haven't otherwise spoken to in 25 years". The message said "Look at this!" and linked to the fbstarter.com site.Facebook said today that it has blocked the fbaction.net link from being shared on its site, that it is removing messages that refer to the content, and that it is resetting the passwords of people whose accounts are sending links to that site on the basis that they have clearly been compromised.Facebook, which has more than 200 million users worldwide, has come under repeated attack from gangs trying to spread viruses and phishing scams through the network, taking advantage of the fact that people are more likely to click on links in on-site emails or messages that appear to come from their "friends" than they might with conventional email.The site waswarned in March that it should vet potentially dangerous programsfor malicious intentbut Mark Zuckerberg, its founder, declined, saying that "an open system anyone can participate in is generally better".However, Facebook has had to struggle withthe continued resurgence of the so-called "Koobface" virus, which has popped up repeatedly since last July. It sends out intriguing-sounding links to the friends of infected users; they are then tempted to a "video" page which instead infects their computer. With Koobface, only PCs running Microsoft Windows are at risk.However, the fbstarter websites can capture usernames and passwords from users of any sort of computer, because they rely on users themselves entering details.
I know plenty of camera geeks - and I bet you do too - but however obsessed they are with their equipment, I can guarantee they've never got their hands on anything like this.Here's a video of a new camera system, developed by physicists at the University of California in Los Angeles, which can takesix million pictures every second.The system, which is described in a paper the latest issue of Nature is called STEAM (that's Serial Time-Encoded Amplified Microscopy) and it involves beaming a laser at the subject. This bounces infrared light off the target, beams it back through a fibre optic cable and read at the other end by a detector. This means it's many times faster than anything on the market - and can take pictures of things we've never been able to measure in the same way.What could it be used for? Well, it still needs improvement - at 2,500 pixels, the current system is a couple of orders of magnitude worse than a VGA camera. But plans are in the offing to use it for nanosecond-level studies of combustion and laser cutting."I would imagine that STEAM would be useful for any scientist," researcher Keisuke Goda toldNature News.
Phorm's peculiar new burst of PR - the launch, particularly, of its "Stop Phoul Play" website - may look odd for a company which requires consent, rather than antagonism, from potential users. But digging into it reveals a number of rather intriguing facts. To wit:1) a website called Uninphormed.com seems to have been set up - anonymously (the whois details are obscured) - in April of last year to try to "counteract" publicity that wasn't favourable to Phorm. But it also seems to have quickly run out of steam; the last post there (about Richard Clayton) was in July 08. Total posts: five.Whose idea was uninphormed.com? Why did they start (principally sniping at Clayton and Chris Williams, the reporter on The Register who has made a lot of the running on Phorm stories)?2) We're told that the Stopphoulplay.com site has eased up its language relating to the BBC's story of Tuesday about theswapping of emails between the Home Office and Phormover whether its service was legal, and what the Home Office position would be. (The Home Office has denied any suggestion of "collusion".) If it's confident of its case, why would it do that?3) Where exactly is the Stopphoulplay.com website hosted? This could matter if any of those named take it upon themselves to call up a libel lawyer to see whether any of the material there - phrases applied to a named group of people on the site, such as "distort the truth", "smears" and "privacy pirates", all made the lawyers at the Guardian wince.Now, it ill behoves journalists to advise anyone to call up libel lawyers, because that can potentially chill free speech, so generally we dislike it. But like it or not, libel law is a facet of life in the UK. In the US, it's rather different: the First Amendment guarantees freedom of speech, meaning you can say nearly anything; libel cases are extremely rare there.Phorm insists that the server is located in the US.But is it? An IP query shows it at the IPv4 address 91.205.220.31 - part of a block that belongs to Phorm itself. That block is assigned to RIPE - the European IP blocks.So on first glance it seems like the server is actually in the UK, and so might fall under UK (libel) jurisdiction. But wait - you can set up a server in the US and simply get your DNS (domain name server) to point to it, serving the content from abroad. (Strangely, traceroute fails on trying to make the hops to the server. If anyone can explain that, we'll all be wiser.)Some things don't point to a US server, though. Two points: first, the time required to contact the stopphoulplay server. (Pinging stopphoulplay.com fails, at least for me.) It's short for contacting a US-based server; viewed on an HTTP client that shows the raw redirects, there doesn't seem to be any messing around with extra hops.But we've also heard from a source in the industry thatI have verbal confirmation that Phorm have "webservers" in the address listed at Telestra Europe colo.So the second mystery: why can't we figure out where the server is physically located? And where is it?4) Probably least interesting, but good for name-dropping: Patrick Robertson, the PR man who has started advising Phorm since the former chancellor Norman Lamont joined (just before adramatic boardroom bustup in Decemberthat saw six directors depart, only days after it had reportedsuccess of a trial with BT)used to do PR on behalf of General Augusto Pinochet of Chileand is former director of communications with Sir James Goldsmith's Referendum party. Goldsmith and Pinochet are both dead, of course. Robertson will surely have to hope his latest client (you know, Phorm) isn't going to meet the same fate.If you've got more information about uninphormed, or can figure out for sure where the stopphoulplay.com website is located, let us know in the comments...
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Killzone 2 and Resistance 2 for the PS3 are both decent games, especially when played online. But neither is likely to tempt 360 owners - who have a stack of first person shooters for their console – to investigate the charms of the PS3. Forthcoming game MAG might. The original title – Massive Action Game – gives it away. This is a first person shooter that sees 256 players simultaneously on the same battlefield.  The game was recently showed off in a pre-E3 event and the pressseem excited.MAG is fun. In fact, it's massive fun. It's fast and loose, free-flowing, improvisational, spectacular, structured without being too rigid; it accommodates lone wolves, team players and power-trippers alike, and makes it easy for players themselves to direct the action. You'd expect it to be intimidating, but it actually feels like the FPS for everybody. Even after just one 20-minute, 128-player match, it's hard to shake the feeling that, one day, all multiplayer shooters will be made in its image.The game breaks down the chaos of 256 players by dropping the player into a 16 player skirmish and then up to a 32 and 64 as you gradually meet up with other members of your team. Eurogamer explain.If you're talking sheer chaos, in terms of, if you drop 256 players into a village square like an arena, that's going to be unmitigated," says creative director Ed Byrne. "So what we wanted to do is build that intensity and use that flow to direct players from small encounters to larger, and to basically make sure that squads link up actually more like a realistic military operation.Huge in every way then, MAG has the potential to revolutionise the increasingly conservative first person shooter market. Heck it may even have ousted Uncharted 2 from my PS3 most wanted list.What do you think then? MAG doing it for you?
&bull; European regulators are circulating their draft ruling in theirantitrust caseagainst Intel - and, according to the New York Times, itcould result in the largest fine ever. Elsewhere, British chip firmsARM and Wolfsontook a slap in their latest results, while the Wall Street Journal speculates thatApple could be preparing to manufacture its own chips.&bull; The dwindling fortunes of AOL could be even more dwindly if parent company Time Warner goes ahead with itsplans to spin the company off, put forward last night.&bull; Today, for one day only, your local newsagent will gladly swap 90 pence for a copy of Technology Guardian (comes with a free copy of the Guardian included). Inside you can find out about computers that canfinally win games of Go, the problem withelectronic voting machines, newnanosurgery techniquesand much more. Full details aregathered hereYou can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I'm thinking of upgrading my PC – my current 512MB of memory and 80GB hard disk seem pathetic – but should I wait until Windows 7 in 2010?Peter AtkinsIt depends whether you need to upgrade now. If your machine is too slow, you can speed it up significantly by fitting 2GB or even 4GB of memory for less than £50. You can also expand your hard drive space by adding a 500GB or 1TB external hard drive, though you'll only have USB v1 so transferring files will be very slow. This will not be money wasted as you will be able to use the external drive with your next PC as well.However, you can now get fantastic desktop PCs with DVD or Blu-ray drives, 4GB of memory, dual- or quad-core processors, 64-bit Windows Vista and decent LCD screens for very little money. The extra power may tempt you to do more interesting things, and if your time has any value at all, a new desktop will pay for itself very quickly. And while a clean installation of Windows is always better than an upgrade, the upgrade from Vista SP1 to Windows 7 is as good as this process gets. There is no upgrade from XP to Windows 7: you have to do a clean installation then migrate data.*If you need to upgrade now, I have no hesitation in recommending Vista SP1, if it is correctly installed on good quality hardware. I've read the hate, of course, but I've used Vista myself, and I live with two full-time Vista users who chose it all by themselves, so my experience suggests that most of the hate is ignorant or misguided at best. Yes, it had problems three years ago, but today, I think Vista has fewer problems than XP.On the other hand, Microsoft will post the first "release candidate" beta version of Windows 7 on 5 May, so everyone will be able to try it. It seems you will not have to wait until 2010 to buy a Windows 7 PC. Depending on how well the testing goes, it could be on sale in three or four months. So, if you definitely need a new PC, your best bet is to wait.* Whether or not Microsoft offers an XP upgrade pack at a reduced rate is a marketing and packaging decision, it doesn't change the installation process.
I downloaded a free version of AVG and it worked really well. After several months, some functions stopped working, so I assumed it was a trial version, not a free version. However, when I tried to remove it, it would not un­install. I tried to remove it manually, but it is still there and blocking all attempts to install another virus checker.Paul OliverThere is no trial version of AVG: there is a free version (which is free forever) and a paid-for version with extra features. Loss of functionality may mean another program, or a virus, is blocking it.Antivirus programs tend to use some deep tricks that make them hard to remove, otherwise viruses could disable them. However, they should uninstall correctly. If not, it's often because the program wasn't installed correctly, or because the installation has been corrupted. The simplest solution is usually to download and install the latest version of the program, then uninstall that.In AVG's case, the uninstallation option is included as part of the setup wizard. When you try this, disconnect your PC from the net, disable all other security software and reboot your PC before re-installing. Don't run any other programs while you are doing this.AVG does not offer a removal tool. However, it does have a forum where users of the free version help each other. The section forAVG 8.0/8.5 Free Edition - Installation Issueshas almost 8,000 posts, including one with "recommended basic AVG uninstall/re-install instructions".
Our PC says: "CMOS check sum error. Defaults loaded" on start up, and the date and time are always incorrect.Caroline GoodThis almost always means the CMOS battery on the motherboard is out of power though, rarely, it could be a memory corruption problem. You will need to take the lid off your PC and look for aflat silver cell of the sort often used in watches and hearing aids, or other small battery. It's very easy to change, but make sure the PC mains power is off and that you are not carrying an electrostatic charge.
I'm considering a NAS hard drive for my home network, but I'm unclear about what protects my data. Can I rely on the router firewall and the protected PCs?John PalmerIt's a good question and this is a neglected area. At the moment, I suspect most people rely on the firewall in their router, and use the PC's antivirus software to scan external hard drives. This should be safe enough but doesn't provide real-time protection. Symantec is sellingSAV for NAS(Symantec Anti-Virus for Network Attached Storage), but it's not altogether clear how this helps. Storage servers, which run their own operating system, should also be able to run their own antivirus software. A very small example is a Windows Home Server, but this is a much more expensive type of storage.
Reading the futurePeople are paying for the same content when it is consumed on devices or in another format (Ebooks battle for next chapter, 23 April). Example: books are the fastest-growing category on the iPhone. The Espresso book machine is revolutionary. Nokia's Comes With Music is becoming a success. The Amazon Kindle is already making traction and we see that the traditional media will lose out – unless it evolves, ITV will miss out on Susan Boyle fame.The caveat is: prices may be lower in the digital world – and that means traditional media will suffer due to their large overheads, ie, content will be paid for, but at a lower pricepoint. That's partly why ebooks never took off, since many tried to charge the same cost for the ebook as they do for the print version (which is silly) but only now is the ebook market taking off driven by Kindle and Sony book readers but at lower pricepoints. In the recession, devices may be an avenue chosen by content creators since they will act as a de facto micropayment system.opengardensblog.futuretext.com• In the wake of media layoffs, near as I can tell the only reporters who've bought the Idiot's Nonsense About Publishers Adopting Epub Broadly and kept their jobs are GalleyCat Ron and a stringer for PC Magazine whose market won't last the summer.munseys.com/technosnarl• I guess the psychology here is that we are more likely to buy something which, while not the same as what we are used to and like, is very similar. This of course raises the question about what we really like about print books, eg, is it turning the pages? Or is it more to do with having physical objects on your shelves which not only decorate your room but give you a feeling of being physically near intellectually creative works?jherring.wordpress.com• Happy to say that publishers sat down this past week at the London Book Fair to discuss just this. To credit them, they have fully accepted the necessity to embrace the ebook and learn how to profit from it. And as it's a common topic in the industry, their concerns are valid: look at what piracy has done to the music and movie industries. Once the tangible product becomes digital, all bets are off.nycbookgirl.wordpress.comGardeners' worldThe lawn is half-mowed (Beige boxes with green fingers, 23 April). I gave up at lunchtime after reading the article in Guardian Technology. Apparently you can now get solar-powered robot mowers which cut the lawn with razor blades while you are doing something more interesting. And they send you a text message when it is done.They cost around £1,000, but what the hell. I spent more than a hundred quid on the rotary electric I have been pushing up and down this morning. Only to have my wife ask, when she came out to inspect my progress: "Can you tell me which bits you have done and which bits you have still to do?'thedailynovel.com• Robotic lawnmowers? I can't wait for them to come down in price!!!twitter.com/julieann100Squeezebox rerunAs a very satisfied owner of two of these devices you could get some facts right about the Squeezebox (Technophile, 23 April). The most glaring mistake is that the display is described as LED. Completely wrong – it's a vacuum fluorescent display (VFD), a completely different technology that enables clear viewing from across a room. You could also have mentioned the open-source nature of the streaming software on the PC (downloadable from Logitech for free and which also has an emulator), which has a developer community second to none. And, by the way, a quick check on Amazon UK shows you can buy it postage-free for £179.99.Paul BalbiReadingGame theoryMovie industry wakes up to new paradigm (Game theory, 23 April).twitter.com/timekord/status/1602348548• Gaming as the platform for all culture?twitter.com/Handyman3Ordnance survey movesThere we were expecting an announcement about the future status of the Trading Fund and instead there will be a strategy released, according to the OS website (Free Our Data, 23 April). If you think it represents positive change, if you think it doesn't go far enough or if you have other thoughts, give them your responses.giscussions.blogspot.com• Ordnance Survey data will be more available, but for a fee. The argument is for taxpayers against, I suppose, business.twitter.com/vickrumloi• I'm all right with the government's OS cop-out... OpenStreetmap quality [is] better, the OS boundary data is the unique bit.twitter.com/jaggereeMobile futuresVic Keegan on"Why mobiles are the market of the future" (23 April)– every word is true, and I'll eat my mobile too if he's wrong.twitter.com/marcusa• The mobile changes everything! I am up to five pages of free apps on my iTouch, but the pricing comments here are key.twitter.com/michaelredwoodAVG interviewedScaremongering is not the way Mr. Smith does business ('We are a viral business', 23 April). I have used AVG Anti-virus for a long time and I would recommend it for anybody who goes on the net. It works.Microsoft is working on their free anti-virus "Morro" to be released soon, I hope it works better than their firewall.earlpundit.blogspot.com• Nice piece. Highlights the free/freemium problem though.twitter.com/BenjaminEllisCalling the deafBetter phone services for deaf people (Phone calls for the deaf a step closer, 23 April)? But awful Victorian headline!twitter.com/AliceLagnadoBelieve in the machineThe construction of physiological computing systems is a bridge-building exercise in some ways – a link between the nervous system and the computer chip (It's always best to keep your own lie detector turned on, 23 April). Unlike similar constructions, this bridge is unlikely to ever meet in the middle. For that to happen, the user must rely on his or her gullibility to make the necessary leap of faith to close the circuit. Unrealistic expectation will lead to disappointment, conservative cynicism will leave the whole concept stranded at the starting gate – it's up to designers to build interfaces that lead the user down the middle path.physiologicalcomputing.net/wordpress• It's baffling we "believe what machines tell us". Same in health too... machines that go ping!twitter.com/doctorblogsHyperlinkedThanks for publishing (Letters and blogs, 9 April) my letter about excessive URLs making an article by Bruce ­Schneier almost unreadable. Bruce is still at it, with 17 in a 640-word piece (Read me first, 23 April). Please tell him that the phrase "The first of April passed without incident" doesn't need any URLs by way of reference, let alone three. He's writing for a newspaper, not an extremely pedantic PhD supervisor!Bob RotheramNottinghamPiracyYou want a new name for it (Is it time to stop using the word "piracy", 16 April)? What about piracy™?Anthony AsburyPrestonTo be precise ...In the article by Chris Edwards on the demise of SGI, you caption the photograph with "SGI's machines appeared in Jurassic Park, as well as being used to render the dinosaurs" (Death of the dinosaur, 9 April).I think you will find the correct English usage is "SGI's machines appeared in Jurassic Park, as well as being used to render images of the dinosaurs." "To render dinosaurs" means to "treat the bodies of dinosaurs in order to take out the fat and other substances that can be used in other products".Very perceptive comments by Dr Parsons, though. These rendered a good perspective to the reader.Francis WrayLondon• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
Waiting for Windows 7?I'm thinking of upgrading my PC – my current 512MB of memory and 80GB hard disk seem pathetic – but should I wait until Windows 7 in 2010?Peter AtkinsJS:It depends whether you need to upgrade now. If your machine is too slow, you can speed it up significantly by fitting 2GB or even 4GB of memory for less than £50. You can also expand your hard drive space by adding a 500GB or 1TB external hard drive, though you'll only have USB v1 so transferring files will be very slow. This will not be money wasted as you will be able to use the external drive with your next PC as well.However, you can now get fantastic desktop PCs with DVD or Blu-ray drives, 4GB of memory, dual- or quad-core processors, 64-bit Windows Vista and decent LCD screens for very little money. The extra power may tempt you to do more interesting things, and if your time has any value at all, a new desktop will pay for itself very quickly. And while a clean installation of Windows is always better than an upgrade, the upgrade from Vista SP1 to Windows 7 is as good as this process gets. There is no upgrade from XP to Windows 7: you have to do a clean installation then migrate data.If you need to upgrade now, I have no hesitation in recommending Vista SP1, if it is correctly installed on good quality hardware. I've read the hate, of course, but I've used Vista myself, and I live with two full-time Vista users who chose it all by themselves, so my experience suggests that most of the hate is ignorant or misguided at best. Yes, it had problems three years ago, but today, I think Vista has fewer problems than XP.On the other hand, Microsoft will post the first "release candidate" beta version of Windows 7 on 5 May, so everyone will be able to try it. It seems you will not have to wait until 2010 to buy a Windows 7 PC. Depending on how well the testing goes, it could be on sale in three or four months. So, if you definitely need a new PC, your best bet is to wait.Removing AVGI downloaded a free version of AVG and it worked really well. After several months, some functions stopped working, so I assumed it was a trial version, not a free version. However, when I tried to remove it, it would not un­install. I tried to remove it manually, but it is still there and blocking all attempts to install another virus checker.Paul OliverJS:There is no trial version of AVG: there is a free version (which is free for ever) and a paid-for version with extra features. Loss of functionality may mean another program, or a virus, is blocking it.Antivirus programs tend to use some deep tricks that make them hard to remove, otherwise viruses could disable them. However, they should uninstall correctly. If not, it's often because the program wasn't installed correctly, or because the installation has been corrupted. The simplest solution is usually to download and install the latest version of the program, then uninstall that.In AVG's case, the uninstallation option is included as part of the setup wizard. When you try this, disconnect your PC from the net, disable all other security software and reboot your PC before re-installing. Don't run any other programs while you are doing this.AVG does not offer a removal tool. However, it does have a forum where users of the free version help each other.&nbsp;The section forAVG 8.0/8.5 Free&nbsp;Edition - Installation Issueshas almost 8,000 posts, includingone with "recommended basic&nbsp;AVG uninstall/re-install instructions".Flat batteryOur PC says: "CMOS check sum error. Defaults loaded" on start up, and the date &amp; time are always incorrect.Caroline GoodJS:This almost always means the CMOS battery on the motherboard is out of power though, rarely, it could be a memory corruption problem. You will need to take the lid off your PC and look fora flat silver cell of the sort often used in watches and hearing aids. It's very easy to change, but make sure the PC mains power is off and that you are not carrying an electrostatic charge.Network storageI'm considering a NAS hard drive for my home network, but I'm unclear about what protects my data. Can I rely on the router firewall and the protected PCs?John PalmerJS:It's a good question and this is a neglected area. At the moment, I suspect most people rely on the firewall in their router, and use the PC's antivirus software to scan external hard drives. This should be safe enough but doesn't provide real-time protection. Symantec is sellingSAV for NAS (Symantec Anti-Virus for Network Attached Storage), but it's not altogether clear how this helps. Storage servers, which run their own operating system, should also be able to run their own antivirus software. A very small example is a Windows Home Server, but this is a much more expensive type of storage.Backchat• Paul Foy is interested in ebooks. On the Ask Jack blog, nickpheas recommended manybooks.net, "which acts as a rather more user friendly front end for sites such as Project Gutenberg. It also allows downloading books in about 20 different file formats." Also, Colin Hall has provideda better link for the University of Virginia's ebook library.
It's commonly said that insanity is doing the same thing over and over again while expecting different results. Yet this is what we keep doing with electronic voting machines - find flaws and try again. It should therefore have been no surprise when, at the end of March, California's secretary of state's office of voting system technology assessment decertified older voting systems from Diebold's Premier Election Solutions division. The reason: a security flaw that erased 197 votes in the Humboldt county precinct in last November's presidential election.Clearly, 197 votes would not have changed the national result. But the loss, which exceeds the error rate allowed under the Help America Vote Act of 2002, was only spotted because a local citizen group, the Humboldt County Election Transparency Project (humtp.com) monitored the vote using a ballot-imaging scanner to create an independent record. How many votes were lost elsewhere?Humboldt county used Diebold's GEMS operating system version 1.18.19 to tally postal ballots scanned in batches, or "decks". The omission of votes was a result of a flaw in the system, where, given particular circumstances, it deletes the first deck, named "Deck Zero", without noting it in the system's audit logs.Voting slipsDiebold recommended decertification of its older version, which should force precincts to upgrade and eliminate the flaw. But the secretary of state's report notes flaws in the audit logs that will be harder to erase: wrongly recorded entry dates and times, and silent deletions of audit logs."It's nothing new," says Rebecca Mercuri, a security consultant who studied voting systems for her 1999 doctoral dissertation. "These are all security flaws that are well known in the industry. Why are they acting as if this is the first time they've heard this?" The audit log problems were documented in Bev Harris's 2004 book,Black Box Voting.Mercuri explains that election software belongs to the class of problems known as "NP-complete", that is, problems computers cannot solve in a known amount of time. How much time have you got to test that a given voting system will function perfectly under all possible circumstances?"What are people going to do about it?" she asks. "Say we fixed it when it's theoretically not possible to fix these things at any real level?"So, it's not fair just to pick on Diebold. Last month, election officials in Clay county, Kentucky, were charged with conspiring to alter ballots cast on ES&amp;S iVotronic election machines in recent elections. The key: interface design. In most cases, voters cast ballots by pressing a big red button labelled "VOTE". But some versions of the system require touching a "confirm vote" box on the screen to complete the ballot. It is alleged officials hid this fact from voters and would then "correct" and confirm the ballot after the voter had left. The officials have pleaded not guilty.Matt Blaze, a security researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, writes in his blog that if this were a strategy, "it's a pretty elegant attack, exploiting little more than a poorly designed, ambiguous user interface, printed instructions that conflict with actual machine behaviour, and public unfamiliarity with equipment that most citizens use at most once or twice each year. And once done, it leaves behind little forensic evidence to expose the deed."But Diebold's current problems aren't limited to voting machines. More startling was the discovery of malware designed to attack its ATMs. Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant for the security company Sophos, says the company found a sample in its archives."If [the malware] were planted on the version of Windows on those Diebold machines," Cluley says, "you could actually steal information from the cards being used on the device, and hackers with a specially crafted card would get a receipt with people's information." Diebold sent out a customer warning in January and provided a software update.As in the Kentucky voting machine case, the attack on Diebold's ATMs requires inside access. "We're seeing more and more organised criminal gangs because of the money they can make," says Cluley, pointing out how difficult it would be to spot a legitimate maintenance engineer who's been bought off installing an extra patch off a USB stick in a back pocket.Black box recorderFor consumers, the problem is that both ATMs and voting machines are black-box technologies. You can count your cash and keep the receipt; but if someone else withdrew the money you can't prove it wasn't you. "It's the same with voting," Mercuri says. "You have no way to prove or disprove how you voted."At least with voting, citizen groups are motivated to push for greater transparency. Jason Kitcat, Green councillor for Brighton and Hove, organised volunteers to observe e-voting trials in the 2007 local government elections in England and Scotland on behalf of the Open Rights Group."We saw the same audit log issues," he says. "We know from a computer science point of view that making an audit log that can't be changed is impossible. But it seems as if there's a huge disconnect between people who are computer-science literate, and the people delivering the policy."Besides, politicians like making uncontroversial decisions. Who could fault them for trusting a company that makes ATMs worldwide? Again, it comes back to humans."The folks who buy ATMs [bank managers] and voting machines [election officials] don't really want to pay for a facility that will make it easier for people to challenge them," says Ross Anderson, a professor of security engineering at Cambridge University."In the long run, of course, this ends up costing them more: fraud can lead to challenges that are systemic rather than local. Nevertheless, the purchasers may be rational. Most of the bank managers who bought crap ATM systems in the 80s are retired now - they got away with it. With voting machines, some vendors have been discredited in some countries, but lots of money has still been made."That is, from us - the taxpayer and the bank customer. Kitcat says: "It is shocking that in this day and age this has been allowed to continue."
The takeover of Sun by Oracle should concentrate our minds on what open-source software means. Here's a hint: it doesn't mean software that users can fix. Nor does it mean software that your money gives someone else an incentive to fix. It means software that is maintained for the benefit of large corporations. Everyone who has cheerfully been using OpenOffice for the past seven or eight years must face the prospect that the new owners will drop the project. As it's open source, this is easily accomplished by "releasing it into the community", which will make it reliant on Novell and IBM, the only other companies to put significant numbers of programmers into the work.Software companies want hardware to be free, or as cheap and interchangeable a commodity as possible, whereas hardware companies want software to be the cheap and interchangeable part of the equation. So it would have been better for OpenOffice to have been bought by IBM. But IBM blocked a deal for Oracle to buy the only three bits of Sun's software that it actually wanted - Java, Solaris, and MySQL. So Oracle had to buy the whole company. But that's bad news for the bits that it doesn't want and can't make money from.Well, I quite like OpenOffice, for all my bitching about it. I have written my past three books in it, and by now have a set of macros and customisations that do almost everything I could want when writing radio scripts or blogposts, as well as the wonderful Zotero, a Firefox extension, which integrates with OpenOffice to do scholarly bibliographies, and can pull in references from all over the place. But I have never believed it was a "community project" in any real sense. Building software is skilled, full-time work, and the people who just use it can't keep it working.So the millions of people who use OpenOffice are utterly dependent on large corporations who hope to use it to damage Microsoft; what worries me is that Google no longer sees OpenOffice as a useful weapon. Google now has its own set of office applications in the cloud. That's why there has been no one accepted to work this year on OpenOffice for Google's Summer of Code, which picks out talented student programmers and lets them show what they can do on open-source projects. The system benefits everyone - except the project not chosen - and there is no equivalent from any of the companies that sponsor OpenOffice now.As a writer, I don't find Google Docs very convenient. It has far less power and flexibility than a proper word processor. But it does collaborate. It makes it easy to share documents, and that matters more inside an organisation than what any individual can do with the documents shared: the majority of users never try to improve in any way on the most obvious things their software can do. But Google Docs, though free to use, is not a benevolent operation. That may be why it works so well.For an example of benevolence without professionalism, look no further than Ubuntu Linux. This has a reputation as the most professional of the end-user distributions, in the sense that it is the one backed by the most money, and the one with the clearest focus on being usable by people who don't care about computers.But when I upgraded to the latest version, I found two things: half the sounds had stopped working, and there are no resources online or elsewhere that actually help when this happens. There is an immense amount of verbiage on the matter - a thousand-post thread in the official forums, for example. But it consists almost entirely of people posting problems and one man trying, and usually failing, to answer them. For support from the community to work better than care in the community there has to be a fairly narrow spread of expertise among users, so the problems make sense to the people who may solve them. Once that stops being true, you must be prepared to spend millions of dollars, as Sun did over the years, on professional developers who carefully document what works and what doesn't.I can't see Oracle keeping up this tradition - not unless it decides that OpenOffice is a way to make money, or to damage rivals. And why should either of those things be true?thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Last week saw the start of a trial that pitches Hollywood studios against the technology industry, and whose outcome could change the face of home entertainment. The trial, taking place in San Francisco, centres around a $30 (&pound;20) software package published last year calledRealDVD.RealDVD, marketed by RealNetworks, allows DVD owners to copy their discs on to a computer or laptop hard drive. RealNetworks insists that RealDVD is not a hacker's tool, because it not only maintains a DVD's copy protection technology (known as Content Scramble System or CSS), but adds an additional layer of digital rights management technology that, in effect, locks the copied DVD to the hard drive. As a result, users can't copy, upload or export the DVD copy. RealNetworks argues that the software allows consumers to carry their DVDs on a laptop while leaving the original discs behind, or file DVDs by, say, title or genre. "Consumers expect flexibility with the digital content they've purchased," says Rob Glaser, RealNetwork's chief executive.RealDVD offers the same features that millions of people are using today with music libraries such as iTunes. But Hollywood is keen to protect the DVD market, which last year was worth almost $22bn in the US alone.The Motion Picture Association of America, which is representing six major studios (including Disney and Sony) in the trial, has described RealDVD as "StealDVD" and argues that it opens the way for vast numbers of consumers to illegally copy DVDs. It cites the "3R" scenario - rent, rip and return - whereby consumers could rent DVDs, use RealDVD to copy them, and then return the original. Last October, the MPAA won a temporary restraining order, forcing RealDVD off the market.The DVD Copy Control Association (DCCA), which licenses CSS, is also suing RealNetworks. Both the MPAA and DCCA allege that RealDVD falls foul of the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), which makes it an offence to publish tools that could be used to circumvent copy protection technology.RealNetwork's defence is that RealDVD strengthens DVD copy protection. Some observers, such as Fred von Lohmann, a senior lawyer with theElectronic Frontier Foundation, think Hollywood is fighting a losing battle: "I'm not sure what alternate version of reality the MPAA is living in, but consumers have been able to copy DVDs for a long time, thanks to free, widely available DVD rippers," he says.Hollywood argues that it has introduced features to its discs such as Digital Copy, which allows users to copy DVDs on to a hard drive, although in much lower resolution and with DRM constraints."Our industry will continue on this path because it gives consumers greater choices ... however, we will vigorously defend our right to stop companies from bringing products to market that ... clearly violate the law," says the MPAA.However, FreedomWorks Foundation, a free market champion, has published areport on the RealDVD caseby its chief economist, Wayne T Brough, which says the lawsuit "will do little to achieve its stated goal of curbing DVD piracy and protecting intellectual property. Instead, if it wins, [it] would set a dangerous precedent in hampering competition and technological innovation in one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy.".The trial is presided over by Judge Marilyn Patel, who was also involved in the original Napster case. In that trial, she ruled in favour of the music industry, but it remains to be seen whether the film industry will achieve the same result.
Digital futurismResearch Councils UK has announced three hubs to develop life-improving digital technologies, based in Nottingham, Newcastle and Aberdeen universities.Earphones get personalEtymotic Research has launched the hf2 hi-fi headset with the option to fit custom earmoulds from ACS.bit.ly/etymotic(PDF)Talking about WindowsMicrosoft has launched a website to discuss its next operating system with IT professionals.Saving GeoCitiesYahoo is closing its GeoCities homepage service, and the Apollo Foundation is backing up all the sites it can find.Go for poleiOpener is looking for 5,000 of the world's best PC racers to beta test its real-time racing portal.SD to USB, QEDLaCie's DataShare gadget provides a way to recycle SD and microSD cards in USB thumbdrives - or just to read them.MPs who snappedJessops has published the results of its latest all-party parliamentary photographic competition, and visitors can vote for the best.High on broadbandNorwegian Air Shuttle thinks it will be the first European carrier to provide in-flight broadband from Row 44.
Surgeons are always handy with a needle and thread, but the idea of closing skin incisions without stitches is attractive too. Thanks to Professor Irene Kochevar of the Wellman Centre for Photomedicine at Massachusetts general hospital, the combination of a clinical laser and a pink medical dye may soon do the job."Nanosuturing" is set to become the latest method for closing an incision following years of research by Kochevar and her colleague Dr Robert Redmond. Although lasers can connect tissues by generating heat (laser tissue welding), it kills cells and damages the tissue beyond."A colleague suggested that photochemical processes might be able to bond tissue surfaces together without the collateral thermal damage accompanying laser welding of tissues," says Kochevar.The two photochemists already knew that light energy absorbed by molecules is converted into chemical energy rather than heat. A key part of skin is collagen, a protein that gives strength and elasticity. Chemical crosslinking reactions between collagen molecules join them together - the nanosutures are the crosslinks themselves."The dye/photosensitiser absorbs the light energy and starts the reactions leading to protein-protein crosslinking," says Kochevar. Their tests with corneal tissue (the surface of the eye) demonstrated that photochemical tissue bonding worked.So how does nanosuturing join skin? The stain Rose Bengal is dripped on to both sides of the skin incision and a laser beam carefully focused along it. After a few minutes' harmless exposure, it has sealed neatly together by collagen crosslinking with natural healing following. It has been tried on patients with skin cancers and suspicious moles; what about facial injuries?"Plastic surgeons are highly skilled with suturing techniques and can repair facial injuries with very little perceptible scarring. However, many patients may not have access to highly trained plastic surgeons - our technology could help physicians (non-plastic surgeons) close wounds with less scarring," says Kochevar.Approval from the US Food and Drug Administration will be sought for nanosuturing in dermatology with more clinical trials planned. Preclinical studies have already shown that photochemical tissue bonding can reconnect severed peripheral nerves and help treat eye injuries.Sheila MacNeil, professor of tissue engineering at the University of Sheffield (Sweet peas make a second skin, 31 July 2008) thinks the method is promising. "As a light-activated super-glue for tissues, it's been overdue. It will now open up lots of research," she says.
More than a decade on from the original European release and Pokemon is still going strong. Platinum, the latest edition to the evergreen franchise, offers some Wi-Fi tweaks and minor improvements, but this is essentially business as usual.Players can expect the same compulsive mix of exploration and collection as you roam the landscapes looking for rare Pokemon species. The rock-paper-scissors combat, which sees you ­battling to win ownership of the Pokemon, is as addictive as ever – although any gamers who played 10 years ago will probably wince at the lack of gameplay progression. The innovation, such as it is, comes in the connected options. Players can battle through a new location together and trade Pokemon online.The latter has a nifty messaging system on the Wii that lets you know when a trade is complete. Back-story and graphics were never the series's strongpoints and nothing has changed here. The visuals in particular are in dire need of a makeover. But by offering some neat new connectivity features, Pokemon Platinum does just enough to keep the fans happy.
If you thought the younger generation ran rings around you on the Wii, you ain't seen nothing yet. The Wii jOG – yes, that's a deliberate, oh-so-trendy, Apple-esque lower-case-j – is a neat extension to the Wii's interactive gaming experience.The device (which is also a pedometer) clips into the Nunchuk joystick. Then, in order for your character to move, you have to jog on the spot. It's a little confusing at first and, while Mario Kart remains a challenge too far, for other games – particularly a Pro-Evo, Resident Evil or other adrenaline-generator – it's worth sticking with.An hour's gaming can apparently generate 7,500 steps of the daily recommended 10,000 and burn some 225kcal. I couldn't make it to the former or comment on the latter but it: a) certainly feels like exercise; and b) is a lot more fun than the Wii Fit.
First it would have to demonstrate that there has been foul play - but judging by thestopphoulplay.comwebsite, which went live on Tuesday morning, the software company Phorm doesn't have much to go on apart from its own continuing frustration at its critics."Over the last year Phorm has been the subject of a smear campaign orchestrated by a small but dedicated band of online 'privacy pirates' who appear very determined to harm our company," the site says, claiming that "energetic blogging and letter-writing campaigns" have misrepresented Phorm's technology."We have decided to expose the smears and set out the true story, so that you can judge the facts for yourself."The idea for the site is understood to have come from Patrick Robertson, a newly hired adviser to Phorm, who felt that it was time for the company to go on the offensive.Initial reaction, however, suggests the idea has backfired badly. And to the possible delight of libel lawyers, the site names those it calls "the main characters in the anti-Phorm campaign", including The Register website (which was the first to write about Phorm's first, potentially illegal, trial in 2007, carried out without user consent), the Open Rights Group (ORG) and a number of individuals including the IT specialist Alexander Hanff.The Register's Chris Williams, who has written extensively about the company, said: "I can't see anything resembling substantive criticisms of my reporting." Jim Killock, ORG's executive director, said: "It's very strange behaviour for a stockmarket-listed company to be making accusations like that."Hanff, on his blog, said: "I am sure the media and public will see it for exactly what it is - a desperate attempt by Phorm to discredit a group of innocent people concerned about the threat Phorm's technology poses to their privacy."Phorm is controversial to some because it aims to monitor web pages that people visit and then serve up targeted adverts in other web pages based on the entirety of their browsing, not just the content of the page being viewed. Certain categories, such as gambling and pornography, would be excluded from adverts. Such "behavioural advertising" would require people to be advised ahead of time so they could opt out.But Phorm may have more immediate problems. Its accounts show that last year it lost $24.66m (&pound;17m), and $16.3m in 2007, with no recorded revenue. Phorm is thus burning through its cash reserves (though it raised &pound;32m last March); it urgently needs BT to roll out its technology across its broadband network and begin serving adverts. Otherwise there is the possibility that it will simply flame out, and a surviving company - perhaps BT itself? - may buy the technology on the cheap from the receivers.
Why would you feel dizzy?Want to set a world record? You'll have to beat the record set here (on French TV, no less) of 141 rotations while holding on to an electric drill stuck in a ceiling. What do you mean, pointless?Buddy, can you spare a byte?Here's what happened when Robocop got laid off: he took up begging, and turned out to be quite good at it. A robot beggar made $7 an hour in Slovenia - in locations where beggars were banned.Cat v printer: war continuesIn the ongoing struggle by cats to subdue electronic devices in the home, this is just another skirmish gone wrong.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
This should be good for a laugh - as the chancellor announces the largest peacetime deficit in history, the IT industry is lining up to say what the government really needs to do is spend more taxpayers' money on computers. Purveyors of IT systems and services are wasting no time in portraying the catastrophic state of public finances as an opportunity for technology to do its stuff. Let's call it the "one last heave" message.OK, we've spent billions over the past 10 years with little effect on the size and cost of the government machine - but one more round of investment could achieve drastic savings. For a clue to where such opportunities are perceived, take a look at the report of the Operational Efficiency Programme, published along with the budget. In it, Martin Read, a former chief executive of Logica, takes a look at the government's portfolio of IT systems and finds a mess.For a start, we don't even know how much we're spending - the accepted figure is &pound;16bn, but Read says the real figure could be anything from &pound;12.5bn to &pound;18.5bn. What we do know is that a lot of systems out there are a) under-used and b) duplicating those in the ministry (or other public body) up the road. This is a consequence of the 1990s revolution in public management, which encouraged government agencies to behave as quasi-commercial entities.Five years ago, the Treasury realised that this thinking had gone too far, and started promoting the sharing of "back-office" services. However, as Read observes, this effort has made little difference to central government. He calls for government bodies to accelerate the process by consolidating and running the result as a resource for the whole of government. This makes more sense than the current absurd model of agencies trying to flog surplus services to each other, but there are snags.First, most managers won't join the scheme unless they're compelled to. Second, setting up the government back-office service (Backoff?) will cost money. This is the very sales opportunity the IT industry is enthusing about - preferably providing much more than bean-counting and data-processing services. Read reckons that, in three years' time, his scheme could shave &pound;4bn a year from the cost of back-office operations and &pound;3.2bn from the annual IT bill.The industry will argue that, rather than skimping on IT, we should build a gargantuan shared services operation that handles interactions with citizens as well as the boring stuff, on behalf of the entire public sector. The remaining arms of the state could then be cut to the bone - and hey presto, public spending is more or less back under control. All it takes is one last heave ... Dream on.In the pre-election period, there's little political appetite for swingeing job cuts. There's an alternative to one last heave, though the industry is less keen to talk about it: stop buying IT entirely. Or rather, freeze budgets at just those needed to keep existing big systems, such as those at the Department for Work and Pensions and HMRC just ticking over. Any new programmes would have to be achieved with Gmail, Flickr, and whatever other free stuff can be found on the web. Preferably running on public employees' own laptops and mobile phones.Crackpot? The market research firm Gartner is peddling a similar line, under the heading "The future of government is no government". And, as my last column predicted, the Tories seem to be picking up the idea: David Cameron this week proposed replacing the &pound;12bn NHS Care Records Service with something off Google. Politically, it could be a runner: however much the electorate distrust Google, they distrust the government IT machine even more.
If you want to beat the best software in the world at a classic board game, the only one left to you is the strategy game Go. It's long been considered the last bastion of human gaming superiority, holding out against the onslaught of computational brute force and artificial intelligence techniques, while draughts, Othello, backgammon and chess have all fallen.But to be a human winner at Go, you're going to have to get good in a hurry. The end, with computers ruling, is in sight.In February, the software MoGo, developed at the University of Paris-Sud, achieved what was once thought impossible: it won two games, on a 19x19 board, against professional Go players. (It did benefit from a handicap - in effect, a number of free turns at the start of the game.) The same month, a program called Many Faces of Go, with a seven-turn handicap, beat a professional in a game played during the general meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. (Click here for the human-computer Go challenges page.)The wins did require a lot of computing power, however. MoGo was running on 640 cores of the Huygens supercomputer in Amsterdam; Many Faces of Go on a 32-core 3.2GHz Xeon, eight quad cores networked together.Next month the bar is likely to rise again as programmers fine-tune their code for the annualInternational Computer Games Association tournament, the computer olympiad, in Pamplona, Spain.Yet even a few years ago Go looked like an impossible computing task: the "search space" for each move was too big. At each turn, especially in the beginning, there are hundreds of possible places to play (the board has 361 points, compared to chess's 64), and deciding on which will turn out better a number of moves ahead - a comparatively simple task in chess and draughts - turns into a morass, with hundreds of almost-equal possibilities and a few hundred moves over which to compare them. Standard "minimax" methods that work for chess (picking the move that gives your opponent the fewest high-value moves in future) don't work in Go.Across the boardWhat's changed has been the development of theUCT algorithm, a special case of the Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) algorithm. UCT first appeared in 2006 applied to small 9x9 Go boards, and now academics, and professional Go programmers, are extending and refining its techniques. It has led to a revolution in Go program development.David Fotland, the US-based commercial developer behindMany Faces of Go, says the results represent a major leap. But he's realistic about the achievement. "My machine can beat a good amateur, but not a great amateur."In 2008 he spent six months incorporating UCT into his software, combined with his traditional Go algorithm ("the new algorithm has some blind spots"), and won that year's computer olympiad. At the event every program incorporating UCT beat all the ones using traditional methods.Go pieces are called stones, are black or white, and identical. Playing alternately, the object is to use one's stones to surround as many blank intersections (called "territory") as possible. Games typically have a couple of hundred moves.The Go rating scale for amateurs starts at 35 kyu, and moves towards 0: the highest level is 1 kyu. The next amateur rank is 1 dan, up to 7 dan. Above them are professionals, who start at pro 1 dan going up to pro 9 dan, the highest level possible."Handicapping" allows weaker competitors to play on a level footing with stronger ones: each difference in grading is given as one stone's start. Thus a 20-kyu player would get nine stones in a game against an 11-kyu player.Many Faces of Go's result puts it at about a 1-dan amateur ranking. David Silver, who's researching Go for his PhD at the University of Alberta, says that: "Anyone who would have suggested this [could happen] a couple of years ago would have been laughed out of town."Silver contributed to MoGo in 2007, developing UCT, which led to the first victories against human pro players on 9x9 boards. But when he started his PhD, pre-UCT, he was discouraged from studying the game by the head of the university's games research group. Too many good minds had been wasted on it, and the research was doomed to failure, it was thought.Game of chanceFor the past 30 years, Go programs have evaluated positions by using handcrafted heuristics based on human knowledge of shapes, patterns and rules. However, professional Go players often play moves according to intuitive feelings that are hard to quantify. Encoding their knowledge into machine-understandable rules has proved to be a dead end.UCT works on the idea of playing out games over and over again, choosing moves at random, but it is biased to what's been successful before. It does this while still allowing alternative lines to be explored.Now, Silver says: "I feel very fortunate doing research during this revolutionary period. MCTS is in its infancy, but the rate of performance improvement is pretty rapid." He thinks a machine to beat all humans could appear in four to five years.Yet humans haven't lost all their tricks. As the human v computer Go challenges page notes: "In every case where each player [computer and human] won at least one game, the human lost the first game played and won the rest. This may be because of experience gained in the first game, or because of techniques learned from discussions with the other players." But the randomisation the UCT algorithm brings may make that result less likely.Fotland thinks the UCT-based work responds to a certain amount of processor supercharging, but then plateaus. "There is a certain kind of large-scale fighting in Go that requires a kind of thinking the algorithm not good at. [The ranking] 1 dan amateur is where people start being good at these large-scale fights."Wacky racesHis rival Mick Reiss, the commercial programmer behind Go++ (bit.ly/AnJ9s), released his version incorporating UCT in Japan this month. His publisher says it matches the Japanese commercial version of Many Faces of Go in strength.Reiss doesn't think UCT is the total answer. Of pure UCT-based programs, he says: "A lot of them play in a wacky way, which doesn't really work. Because it's so different to what Go players are used to, in the early games they get beaten. Once they get a bit of practice they get their revenge."The highest level of his own program is based on a combination of the old-style Go approach and the UCT program. "It does less of the strangeness of the pure UCT programs. It plays in a more conventional way."Fotland is still circumspect about when computers will dominate Go. "I'd say 20 years. There's got to be several algorithm breakthroughs, and 20 years ofMoore's law."And then? The end of an era? Certainly. But the end of playing Go? Thankfully, as the evidence shows, we still enjoy the simple pleasure of just playing games.• This article was amended on Friday 1 May 2009. We previously said that a program called Many Faces of Go beat a professional in a game played during the general meeting of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. It was actually during the general meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. This has been corrected.
Most of us have already progressed from dial-up connections to broadband and probably Wi-Fi, which means we have always-on internet access around the house. The next step is to have always-on access in the car or on the train, or wherever else we happen to be, which makes mobile broadband the obvious next step.Naturally, the networks that already supply us with ubiquitous mobile phone connections are keen to sell us mobile broadband as well. But, like other new markets, it's also confusing, and still has numerous traps for the unwary.How do you know how much data you've downloaded, and how much will you be charged for going over the limit? Would you knowingly spend &pound;200 to watch Friday Night With Jonathan Ross, or to keep up your online life from Paris? Rob Webber, commercial director at Broadband Expert, says: "The first thing people know is that they've got a massive bill ... Suppliers should be forced to display these charges at the point of sign-up."According to Chris Marling, editor of Broadband Genie: "Mobile broadband is a real minefield, and often expectations are too high. Consumers are very confused about the difference between megabits and megabytes. You're sold a service in bits per second but your allowance is in gigabytes. It's not an easy translation to make."Living in a laptop worldPeople need to read the small print and the "fair use" policies for each service, and to find out if they will be prevented from using Skype, Windows Messenger, filesharing or other activities.Ian Fogg, a principal analyst with Forrester Research, says the trend towards mobile broadband reflects a move to "a laptop world". PCs are going from one per home to one per person, and we expect to take them around the house and then out of the house. "The growth of netbooks is part of that picture," says Fogg.Also, he adds: "You need that internet connection for the computer to do what you expect it to do." Examples include email, messaging, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, and so on. The need to keep in touch is driving the adoption of smartphones such as the iPhone as well as mobile broadband bundled with notebook PCs and netbooks.Increasing demand is being met by increasing supply, says Fogg. "The 3G networks are now just about good enough, and prices have gone from being prohibitively expensive to very cheap: from &pound;1 per megabyte to &pound;1 per gigabyte, for the cheapest."The problem is that the mobile phone networks haven't improved that much in the past three or four years. Fogg says data broadband's responsiveness is more like dial-up than broadband - "speed falls off very quickly if a lot of people are online".This is something that Nick Piggott experiences while commuting from Bristol to London. He switched from "intermittent Wi-Fi connections" to using Orange 3G with his Asus Eee PC and is "reasonably satisfied with it". "When the train's quiet, the performance is very good: over 100kbps at 110mph. The throughput bounces up and down a fair bit, but overall the inconsistency of data rate is more than balanced by the fact I can stay connected almost continuously for 112 miles."At peak travel times, "about 80% of people have laptops, and of those, 60% have got 3G sticks in them, and throughput takes a real hit. There can be long sections where you get a dribble of data or nothing at all," he says. It seems the mobile networks can't handle the data for 300 people between them.The mobile broadband suppliers are increasing coverage and download speeds, but they are also talking about supplying home users, not just mobile users. This can be a boon in remote areas.  It's also useful for people who need to move house, such as students, because they can take their broadband with them.The idea appeals to Funda Cizgenakad, a communications consultant speaking personally, who pays for a BT landline and Virgin broadband as well as a mobile phone. She'd love a mobile broadband deal that replaced two, if not all three, with a single bill. "Why would I have a fixed line if my mobile broadband was faster? But I need to sit down and work out how I'm using the net," she says. "Is the BBC iPlayer going to use up all my allowance?"Daleep Chhabria, 3's mobile broadband marketing manager, says most people don't have to worry about download caps, though users can see how much they've used from the connection manager software. He says: "About a third of the mobile broadband market is people buying it for home use as well: you get pretty decent speed with added mobility. Filesharing is allowed, too, but if you're a heavy file sharer, you'll probably want a fixed line."Fast, faster, fastest?Fixed lines are still, on average, twice as fast, and the difference is growing, according to Broadband Expert. The site reckons the average fixed line broadband speed is 3.61Mbps (based on 308,584 tests) compared with 1.57Mbps for mobile broadband (based on 5,345 tests).Vodafone pioneered the UK mobile broadband market by catering for business users, and has introduced flexible contracts. But while this makes mobile broadband relatively simple to try, it also makes it expensive to use, at &pound;15 for 1GB on TopUp And Go. On a Pay Monthly Vodafone contract, you get 3GB for &pound;15 a month, which is today's most common market price.The need to try different services, or to share a single service, may account for the popularity of mobile broadband "dongles". A family can share a dongle if they all load the software on to their PCs.I tried O2 and Vodafone dongles, and while both worked reasonably well on Thameslink trains, the Vodafone won't connect to the 3G service inside my house - the walls are too thick - so it falls back to GSM's slow data service, GPRS. The O2 dongle works well. Where you live, of course, it might be the other way round.
Canonical has unleashed the Jackalope, or Ubuntu 9.04, code-named the Jaunty Jackalope. It's the latest release of an operating system that has become one of the most popular Linux distributions, and it manages to balance adding new features (including cloud computing), a netbook release and an improved interface with performance. That's a balance that Microsoft and Apple don't always make with major updates to their operating systems.I've been using Ubuntu since 6.10, and with each release, Ubuntu has become a little more polished. Each update has built on their easy installation process. After installation, the first thing you'll notice is the much faster boot time. It was one of the main goals of therelease. As others have said, everything just feels smoother and more responsive.I run Ubuntu primarily on an Athlon XP 2400+ desktop computer with a little over a gigabyte of Ram as a home media server. Windows runs sluggishly on it, even with a clean install, but Linux has given it a second life.Ubuntu comes in a number of flavours. I primarily use theXubuntu versionbased on XFCE, a lighter desktop environment than Gnome in Ubuntu or KDE inKubuntu. It doesn't have all the visual tricks of Ubuntu or the eye candy of KDE, but it is very polished and the best choice for older systems like mine.With Jaunty, I can play music using the included Rhythmbox jukebox software, and the system barely seems to be working hard at all. Even running multiple applications, including watching Freeview using VLC, doesn't stress my system, which is based on a five-year-old MSI motherboard. Another useful feature since the 8.10 release has been the ability to easily create a full install on a USB memory stick. This will operate much like a live CD except you can save changes, add software and even store a few gigs of documents.For the server version of Ubuntu, web developers and tech start-ups will be happy to see Jaunty includes theEucalyptus cloud-computing system, which can create aprivate cloud-computing environmentand is also compatible withAmazon's EC2 cloud-computing system. The other major development in this release is aNetbook Remix. While Linux does have a toe-hold on netbooks, many users have expressed frustration with netbook manufacturers' efforts, and it's great to have another Linux option for these increasingly popular devices.Pros:Snappy performance even on older systemsCons:AMD hasn't made drivers for their ATI cards to work with the OSUbuntu.com
Drum King should have inherited a clear template for success after Rock Band and Guitar Hero. Unfortunately, despite reasonable looks it plays with all the believability of the Cadbury gorilla.Things start badly with three different drumming modes ranging from pointlessly basic to torturously tricky (holding down direction keys for hitting toms is particularly irritating) and get worse with a selection of tracks hardly known for their rhythm sections. But what really derails it is the cheesy, cover-band lift music, especially if you've been spoiled by licensed original tracks. Drum King sounds like Stars in Their Eyes for ­wannabe members of McFly – hardly a gig you'd want to see, let alone play in.
Last weekend, the Department for Health released its latest TV ad in the Change4Life campaign. It features a clay modelled family coming to the realisation that the scientists are right: a sedentary lifestyle leads to health problems. "Throw down the remote! Chuck away the joystick! Stop eating greasy takeaways!" was the message. "Save our NHS from an epidemic of fatties!" was the subtext. And dutifully, the family did as they were told and started freakin' on Dance Dance Revolution.The videogame industry is taking this as a personal win. A month ago, it publicly raged against the government for condemning games as a one-way ticket to six feet under. The print Change4Life campaign, which ran on buses and billboards for a fortnight, depicted a pre-teen slumped against a wall with a console controller under the shock headline: "Do nothing, risk an early DEATH." All that was missing was a bit of drool coming out of the kid's mouth.There were threats, complaints and a whole lot of righteous hand flailing. The bewildered health services had given little thought to the impact their ad would have on one of the biggest contributors to the British economy, and had used the image as the most easily recognisable shortcut for "sedentary lifestyle". Sure, it could have used an image of a child reading a book, a family of couch potatoes staring at the TV, or an office worker sat at a computer. Instead, it took on an already defensive industry as quick to shout media conspiracy as Simon Warr, chairman of the Lap Dancing Association, is quick to deny that his profession is not intended to cause sexual stimulation.Come on, games people. Come on. Whatever the general public thinks of interactive entertainment - pleasure or pariah - you have to accept that is a sedentary activity. Your remit is to encourage players to stay put for long sessions. You must make output that is compelling. That's its unique selling point. That's why so many industries want what you have. Denying it ignores the basic foundations of your being. I worry about you, games industry. That lack of self-actualisation suggests a degree of self-loathing. Have you thought about talking to someone about that?As yet, there's no mention in the games press that the TV campaign is only encouraging active game play. The passive stuff - you know, with the controllers and the long stretches in front of the boob tube - is still in the doghouse.However, as the industry believes it has been personally recompensed for the previous slight against its public image, the UK health services have, in effect, thrown it a bone. Hopefully that will keep it occupied for a while.
Why isn't there a Pirate Bay for banks, where people can send money to each other without having to wait days for it to arrive? One of the continuing mysteries of the web revolution is why the equivalent of an eBay or Amazon hasn't emerged in the banking sector, where vast profits accrue - or used to accrue - to the middlemen. It is a rite of passage for younger people to swap music files, but never money, despite some interesting experiments, such aszopa.com, where borrowers can get money from lenders without banks being involved.If you want to see pioneering experiments in banking you will have to go to a surprising place - Africa. And the question is, why can't we do the same here? If the Post Office is looking for a new role, it need look no farther. In Kenya, customers of M-Pesa can send money to each other from around the country in 14 seconds flat using their mobiles. In the UK it takes three days, thereby endowing the banks with a huge float of money in transit on which they can earn interest. In Kenya, people leave their money at a trusted outlet such as a shop or pharmacy, where it is loaded into their sim cards.At aForum Oxford future technologies conferenceat the weekend we were updated on the startling success of the operation. It is reckoned that 17% of the Kenyan population is on M-Pesa. As a result they don't need to carry cash any more, as everything from a can of Coke to your funeral can be paid for by phone. It works because the cash is held centrally by the bank, thereby enabling transactions to take place at very fast speeds. The average transaction is $30 (&pound;20) because people trust it to do big ticket items.One of the bestselling handsets contains seven address books, each with a different ringtone, in recognition of the fact that phones are often shared among multiple users. In Lake Victoria there is a woman who travels from village to village by boat topping up phones. Fraud so far has been mercifully rare, although the system is far from perfect in other ways, as cash is not always available in the right place and the existence of lots of people with the same name in some places makes identity checks difficult beyond the phone and pin number you hold. It's a case of "Le mobile, c'est moi".Kenya's experience is just one example of the amazing impact that mobile phones are having on economic growth in developing countries. A report commissioned by Vodafone,India: The Impact of Mobile Phonesfound that Indian states with high mobile penetration grow faster economically than those with lower penetration by as much as 1.2 percentage points a year for every 10% increase in the penetration rate. Even if that were only half true it is an astonishing tribute to the power of mobiles as an engine of growth.Maybe it is because we are not used to the idea of technology transfer coming from poorer to richer nations that industrialised nations have been so slow to realise not only that Africa is leading the world in mobile banking, but that it has big lessons for us. I am surprised Vodafone, which is behind M-Pesa, hasn't introduced a similar service to the UK. It is also a dream opportunity for the government to turn the Post Office into a serious competitor to the banks. Your local post office would be the trusted place to put your money into the system. After that, practically every transfer can be made by mobile. And if anyone thinks it is too difficult - not something that happens much in Africa, it seems - then the Post Office will help out.If Gordon Brown wants to turn the PO into a "people's bank" he need look no farther. Given the low esteem in which banks are currently held, there could be a stampede to join. And I'd be among the first.victorkeegan.com
The government has thrown away an opportunity to boost the digital economy through a "free data" regime. Announcements made with the budget dashed hopes of radical reforms to the "trading fund" status of state-owned information businesses.Even worse, the plans do not deal with "derived data" - one of the most contentious fields in intellectual property creation, whereby the creator of a product claims ownership of any IP built with it. Ordnance Survey's aggressive annexation of "derived data" - any detail, such as a cycling route, created using an OS product - has riled a number of people in the commercial sector. "Derived data is the elephant in the room," says Ed Parsons, Google UK's geospatial technologist.Government failureThe plans - which go against the spirit and recommendations of several recent initiatives to boost the knowledge economy - immediately came under fire from private sector users of government information. "The government has failed to capitalise on the opportunity the budget presented for real change and innovation," said Locus, the trade association representing users of public sector information.The report of theOperational Efficiency Programme, published by the Treasury last week, contained long-awaited findings of an official assessment into trading funds. It covered OS, the Met Office, Land Registry, Companies House, the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency and UK Hydrographic Office.There is some recognition of the case, for which Technology Guardian has campaigned for three years, that making these organisations' data available freely for reuse would boost the economy - a point given weight by anindependent government-commissioned study published last year, which showed a net benefit to the economy of &pound;164m.The new report notes that availability of information "generates opportunities for innovation, added-value and growth in both the wider economy and society" and says that information should be available "where possible at low or marginal cost".In other, better news for the free data campaign, it says that trading funds should have clear and transparent pricing structures, account separately for different parts of their activities and draw up "simple and transparent licences" to facilitate reuse of data for news purposes and have their public tasks clearly defined.However, the report encourages these bodies to continue to operate commercially in their own right - in many cases even more commercially than at present.For the most commercially active trading fund, OS, the Treasury report concludes it "needs to be more customer-focused and commercially driven". This is the background to anew commercial strategy, published last week.One measure proposed in that strategy is the creation of an "innovative trading entity" which will offer "new and innovative services" through a richer website. But Parsons - previously chief technology officer at OS - predicted it would be controversial: "It will be competing with existing commercial partners on a 'level playing field' while at the same time [being] branded as Ordnance Survey." Although the new business strategy has as a goal to "increase the use of Ordnance Survey data" it does not deal with the problems faced by organisations producing products containing OS data.The Treasury report is equally cautious about the future of other trading funds. On Land Registry, which handles data on land and property in England and Wales, it says that especially in the current economic climate, this work must stay in the public sector - as will the Met Office.Weather forecastThe report says there is potential to expand commercial operations at the Met Office, "possibly through the introduction of private capital in some areas". The Met Office should "seek opportunities for private sector partners to develop specific services to complement the Met Office's business".Locus, the trade association that represents commercial users of public sector information, expressed "disappointment at the missed opportunity". It said that the findings contrast with those of numerous independent reports, several commissioned by the government, none of which have suggested maintaining the status quo. Michael Nicholson, chairman of Locus, also condemned the government's failure to publish the whole trading fund assessment.The Treasury's vision for the future comes with a big caveat. The report says it has "set key milestones for delivery" in six and 12 months' time. "If sufficient progress is not made to promote competition and innovation in these timescales, the government will consider further reforms."The implicit threat is that outright privatisation of at least some trading funds is very much on the agenda. That might get the chancellor - or his successor - out of a tight corner, but the impact for the wider economy might be disastrous. The campaign continues.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Twitter has enjoyed a boom, recently, particularly withOprah Winfreycoming aboard at the same time as Ashton Kutcher accumulated more than a million followers. Over the past year to March, the number of users jumped from about 500,000 to almost 14 million, andComScore's graphshows usage going through the roof. TechCrunch said: "Worldwide visitors to Twitter.com increased 95% in the month of March from 9.8 million to 19.1 million, according to its estimates."But aNielsen surveyreports that only about 40% of users who sign up for Twitter are still around a month later. And that's bad news. David Martin, Vice President, Primary Research, Nielsen Online, says:it is clear that a retention rate of 40% will limit a site's growth to about a 10% reach figure. To be clear, a high retention rate doesn't guarantee a massive audience, but it is a prerequisite. There simply aren't enough new users to make up for defecting ones after a certain point.Nielsen Online has a graph showing how Twitter is faring against the similarly hyped MySpace and Facebook social networks. Martin says "their retention rates were twice as high. When they went through their explosive growth phases, that retention only went up, and both sit at nearly 70% today."The pity is that Nielsen hasn't publicly compared Twitter with Second Life, which is another site that appears to have problems retaining users over the long term.Are you a Twitter quitter? Will you ever return to the service, or have you seen enough?
It appears that Time Warner's troubled relationship with AOL could be coming to an end, after the media giant announced its plan to spin off its struggling internet division today.In afiling with American regulators, Time Warner said it is carefully considering the benefits of selling off all or part AOL in the near future."Although the company's board of directors has not made any decision," it said. "The company currently anticipates that it would initiate a process to spin off one or more parts of the businesses of AOL to Time Warner's stockholders, in one or a series of transactions."It was just the latest move in a love-hate relationship between Time Warner and its subisidiary, but be accelerated as the companyannounced a significant 14% drop in quarterly profits- battered by the decline of AOL and its Time Inc publishing arm."While we remain open to other potential solutions, the next step is an independent evaluation of AOL - a process that will likely take a few months," said Jeff Bewkes, Time Warner's chairman and chief executive.It's no secret that AOL has found it difficult to recapture the glory days of the dotcom boom - when the internet company grew so large thatit was able to buy Time Warner(rather than the other way round). At the time, it created the largest media company in the world - covering movies, television, magazine publishing, sports teams and internet.The company recently brought inGoogle executive Tim Armstrongto run things, but also said it was able to buy back the 5% stake in the company thatGoogle bought in 2005, after having renegotiated the terms on $12bn of its debt."That provides us with much more flexibility with regard to AOL's structure going forward," said Bewkes.
Last week's survey brought in a mixed bag of comments about the Best Of posts, but for now, we'll keep plugging away - after all, people asking me not to write things, has never stopped me writing things in the past!Although actually, you can thank Limni for this grab bag of conversational nuggets, taking in Red Dwarf, running shoes and Killzone 2. If you're a fitness enthusiast who likes sci-fi comedy and showy first-person shooters, you are absolutely in the right place. Take your Asics of and settle down...Oh and there were no suitable photos this week. Smellavision, I loved the photo of Sackboy but it needs to belandscaperather than portrait, so that I can display it in 460 x 276 pixels.So just to recap: I want your photos to head up the 'Best of' post. They must be videogame related, they must be of reasonable quality (I got sent another one that was far too blurry to use sadly) and they must be wider than they are long. Just get out there with your camera and see what you can find.Part one: the boys from the DwarfEaster weekend saw the return of Red Dwarf to TV with the first new episodes for a decade. With Chatterbox being a hotbed of geek activity - and "Smeg Head" t-shirts - how did the mini-series go down?Smikewas the first to comment: "I thought it was good. Not great but good. Probably better than some of the later series."This set a pattern of faint and mostly damning praise.BeardOfBees:"To begin with, it had some promising snappy dialogue, nice enough writing, was going better than I thought it would. Then went massively off the rails until I was shouting at the TV, 'Please make it stop'. Then somehow sort of brought it back in the last part to the level of 'Uh, sort of alright'. Overall, I expected it to be absolutely dire, it turned out to be average. That's a win, I suppose."CunningStuntseemed to agree: "First ep was pretty good, 2nd and most of the 3rd were a bit pants (but still better than season 8) end of the 3rd improved. Back to earth sci-fis are a bit passe these days aren't they? Like the 2nd season of the original BSG and Star Trek 4. I liked the Blade Runner references for the most part though."Makar27was less impressed: "A couple of laugh out loud moments, but pretty disappointed on the whole - I don't think the advert breaks helped and the fact that it was a three-parter made it feel even more segmented than usual. Surprised they didn't put canned laughter - or film in front of a live audience. Comedy timing is difficult to achieve when there is no one there actually laughing at your jokes - hard to know when to pause or keep going - the audience often sets the rhythm. They should call it a day now though..."Let's leave it there shall we?Part two: Nacht die UntotenCameroon95stirred up a veritable undead hornet's nest with this little beauty:"Nazi Zombies is better than Left4Dead. There, I said it and I mean it. Much more use for tactics as you are holding the same position, much more variety of weapons, better graphics and comes with power-ups. I do like Left4Dead's variety in enemies however."It seems he's ploughing a lonely furrow though.BillyBrushwas the first to disagree: "On no planet is the Nazi Zombies mode as good as Left4Dead, you just don't like the 360 my boy... but this is Valve we're talking about, people know, even if they don't like to admit, that they're the mutt's."Bigworvdecided to take a more tactful approach: "You are wrong, you are so wrong I can't even be bothered to jot down the reasons."That's that settled then.Part three: footwear for the Modern GentlemanIt never fails to warm my heart when a 'boxer sends out a heartfelt plea for assistance and is showered with good advice. This week,Makar27was the man in need:"I'm sure there is someone on here who really knows their shit when it comes to running shoes - apologies, I can't remember who that is... I have started taking up running a bit more seriously and need to invest in a new pair of proper running shoes rather than the 10-year-old muddy trainers I have been using so far. I'm sure someone mentioned an excellent online place for this sort of thing - any prodding in the right direction would be appreciated."Craggyislandknows his stuff: "I don't think that running shoes are something that you should buy online, unless you are just replacing a worn pair with the same model. Go into a Sweatshop if you have one near you, or an independent shop and speak to the oldest member of staff that you can find."If you have nowhere decent near you then you could try some of the online guides that provide information about what type of shoes might suit you and how to do a wet-test to find out if you have any pronation issues (whether you have high arches or flat feet)" He also pointed us towardsUp and Running.Pepperinoconcurred: "Would highly recommend going into a good shop (like Sweatshop) to get your running shoes. Somewhere where they have a treadmill and a trained dude to asses your needs - they can tell how wonky your feet/knees are by watching you run around the shop and videoing you on the treadmill then suggest appropriate footwear. Very cool."I went in with a fixed idea of what brand/shoe I wanted and was totally turned around by the guy in store (apparently I pronate mildly) and not just to a more expensive shoe."He did keep trying to get me to sign-up to their mailing list and come on their weekly 10km 'social' run. Don't know how this could possibly be social as would be hacking my lungs up after about 3km.""I've got a pair of Asics cross country as I prefer running through mud to running on pavements. Hurts less when I inevitably fall over.Alimantadowas next to weigh in on this unlikely help session. "If there's a dedicated running shop round your way, the people there should let you try some pairs and run down the street a bit in them to look at your gait. Makes you feel like a knob at the time but if they know their stuff it'll avoid a lot of blisters etc. in the future."Goody84broke ranks and recommended another retailer: "Runningworld do a breakdown of what running shoes are better for different people - road running, cross country, flat footed, bad ankles etc. Check it out and you can probably pigeon hole yourself better than asking us. Asics are always a good investment - worth finding a good running store that can examine your gate (running style) and advise." As you can see, his good advice was instantly invalidated when he miss-spelling gait...The Rest...Quote of the week"My mother-in-law came home to her dad, who was babysitting. She went to feed the cat and asked what happened to the tin in the fridge. It was a tin of cat food which had the label missing. He had put it on a sandwich and ate the lot, thinking it was "just" corned beef which had gone off."Umborous23 puts everyone off their lunch, especially those eating meat products of questionable origin.Other Quotes"Our cat was ultra lazy as well and she was imaginatively named 'Cat'...now you've got me remincing ~sniffle~"Automatic now has a police caution for mincing her cat in the first place."Lazy, good to meet you squire. Quite amusing I must say. Bit of blind date action..."Love is in the air for TonyHayers and Lazybones"Has anybody noticed how Greg Howson looks like Vin Diesel without the muscles?!"I'm not sure whether this is a compliment from Shewrog2 or not….."Playing Resident Evil 5 is like watching an old friend slowly slip into a coma. At the start he's full of life and fun(start of game) but he eventually dithers away to a weakened state(zombies with guns)"Cameroon95 has a lovely turn of phrase."Brutal. Commiserations. Preggers, or just a gross mistake?"TonyHayers congratulates SavageManc on his recent marriage.Links of the WeekFrom ImperfectRex, simulate your ownNew World OrderBillyBrush with a link to one ofthe maddest games I've seen for some time.New faces:Bobnessuk1, Bigfatdavey, Monders, LuckyJimmy. Welcome one and all. Although I think Bobness turned up by mistake…The Libel List:Phil Spector and Stephan Nolan were on the receiving end this week.Games:Killzone 2, Eternal Sonata, Fallout 3, Resi 5, Worms, Heavenly Sword, GTA: Chinatown Wars, House of the Dead: Overkill, Persona 4, Mass Effect, Red Alert 3, Flock, Puzzle Quest Galactrix, Burn Zombie Burn, Enchanted Arms, Valkyria Chronicles,Films:Predator, The Running Man, Blood Diamond, Let the Right One In, The Boat That Rocked, Sweeney Todd, The Damned United, Wall-E, Blind Fury, Rocknrolla, Zatoichi, Disturbia, Defiance, The Day the Earth Stood Still, Frost/Nixon, Wanted, The Wrestler, The Expendables, Max Payne, Jumper, In The Loop, Fast &amp; Furious, Crank 2, Borat,TV:The Inbetweeners, Caprica, The Wire, Entourage, John Adams, 30 Rock, The Big Bang Theory, The IT Crowd, My Name is Earl, Chuck,Books:Dune, Judas Unchained, Illium, Olympos, Revelation Space, Money.
Over the past couple of years, those very clever people at Google.org have been trying to buildearly-warning systems for diseases- by tracking trends in the data that Google sees in order to build up a picture of whether people are succumbing to certain symptoms.The US data on Flu Trends has beengoing since last autumn- but now, given the concern over swine flu, they're also mapping information in Mexico with anew, experimental system.Engineers admit that it's not perfect, but they do think there's something to be learned from the information:We cannot be fully confident that the data is correct because we don't have enough historical surveillance data for Mexico against which to compare and calibrate our estimates.  Although we cannot validate our estimates as we did for Flu Trends for U.S., we have seen that Google users in Mexico also search for flu-related topics when they experience flu-related symptoms.  We are cautiously optimistic that the graphs reflect actual flu activity.  The system detected an increase in Mexico City before major news coverage.Google flu trends for MexicoCompared to historical data it doesn't look like today's problem is that widespread - because, of course, the data is not weighted towards more virulent strains of the flu virus. But you can see that searches for flu-related topics are higher in the federal district of Mexico and the nearby state of Morelos than in the surrounding countryside.Now, the crucial thing will be not just to use this to analyse things when a disease is already spreading... but to be able to spot problems before they start to take hold. And that's what researchers such asNathan Wolfeand the Global Viral Forecasting Initiative are concentrating on.
"Eric Lewis? Isn't that the guy who Michael Howard threatened to overrule?""What?""Nothing - that joke doesn't really travel. Eric Lewis is the piano guy from TED, right?""Yes - didn't you see the Facebook link I just Twittered?""No, I'm out shopping, and until I get a social security number I can't get a proper phone with the internet on it.""Jesus. Well, just come down to the DNA Lounge. It's going to be amazing."And so it was that I found myself, this past Saturday, standing at the back ofThe DNA Lounge, waiting to experience something amazing. The DNA lounge, it turns out, is something of a San Francisco institution. Owned by open-source hacker Jamie Zawinski (whobought it from Deuce Bigalow), it used to be famous for hosting surprise gigs by the likes of Prince, Metallica and – most recently – Green Day. I say "used to be" because now it's better known for its ongoing battle with the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which wants to shut it down. Specifically, the department has accused DNA of being "a disorderly house injurous to the public welfare and morals" following some alleged "lewd behaviour" during the club's gay and lesbian nights. I'm not kidding, they actually used the phrases "lewd behavior" and "injurious to the public welfare and morals". In San Francisco. In 2009. Eat that, Lenny Bruce.But while I wouldn't normally need an excuse to visit a disorderly house, on Saturday I definitely had one: a 35-year-old jazz pianist,wearing a checked jacketand sitting at a Steinway piano. It's pretty much a cast iron certainty that, unless you were at the recentTED conferencein Long Beach, you won't have heard of Eric Lewis. Not yet, at any rate. But you will. Because rumour has it that in a few weeks he's playing at the White House for Barack Obama – and he's going to raise the fucking roof.You see, Lewis doesn't just play the piano. Rather he owns – pwns – it. Reachinginside the lid, he pulls and pounds at the strings, creating a magic eye pictures of sound – walls of noise that suddenly snap into focus as you realise you're actually listening to the opening bars of Evanescence'sGoing Under, or The Knife'sHeatbeatsor Nirvana'sSmells Like Teen Spirit. And just as you've worked out what's going on with the strings, Lewis starts on the keys – reinventing songs you've heard many times before in ways that you'll probably never hear again. Jesus Christ, the man's so good he could cover Coldplay's Clocks and make it sound edgy and frightening and weird and brilliant.And so he did.Just in case any of us in the audience doubted how much effort and passion it takes to make Coldplay sound good, the pain was written across Lewis's face: eyes tightly shut, teeth clenched and features contorted into a mask of – I dunno,rage and talent, I suppose. I really can't describe it – there arephotosbut really you'll need to check out thevideos on YouTube. Actually no, that's not true either. Even if you do watch the videos, you still won't get it. What it felt like to be in that room seeing a man in a checked jacket make a piano do things it had no idea it could do, watched by an audience of maybe 100 people, all smiling and gasping and clapping and – this is America after all – whooping.Once the set had finished and the standing ovation ended, I turned to my friend - almost two hours had passed and we'd barely touched our drinks - as we tried to find the right words."That was...""Yeah.""I mean, I don't know what the word I'm looking for is. I don't want to sound wanky but it was...""It was Real."Yes. That's it. It was Real. And not in that meaningless, wanky, "urban" way but Real in the way that so many things in today's virtual world simply aren't.In recent years, Real social experiences have been under constant attack from technologically simulated ones. Where once schoolkids would buy a CD and invite their friends round to listen to it, now they forward  those same tracks or share them on MySpace from the comfort and loneliness of their bedrooms. The music is the same, but the experience of listening to it is almost entirely virtual. Where once there was something exciting about buying a DVD and settling down with a special friend and a bottle of wine to watch it, now we download the same movie at work in 10 minutes and watch it on the train on the way home. Music and film have become commodities: digital, virtual and decidedly unspecial.Even that last hold-out of the Real – the book – is facing a digital threat from the Kindle and the Sony Reader. It's not the physical feeling of holding a book that we'll miss when it's gone, but the potential for social interaction it could lead to. How many conversations between strangers have started when they both noticed they were reading the same book?  How many relationships? Kindles don't have covers, so the possibility for that interaction will die with the printed page.Even our relationships with our friends have become less Real. On the face of it, services like Twitter bring us closer to people we know than ever before. At any given moment, we know where they are, what they're doing and, often, what they're thinking. And yet actually, that virtual closeness is actually making us more distant. Before Twitter and its ilk came along, if we wanted to catch up on the minutiae of our friends lives, we'd have to actually phone them up and have a conversation – or better still, invite them out for dinner or down the pub. Now we can happily go for months without seeing someone, and still feel like we haven't missed them at all. I suppose we should be glad we still have friends at all, given that for the generation following behind us, a "friend" is just an avatar and a username.The great thing about entertainment – whether that was a movie, a book, or just gossip from a friend – used to be that it gave us an excuse to get together and have Real experiences. Now, it's possible to imagine a hideous dystopian future where we went for years at a time without ever glimpsing a human being but where technology still fools into thinking we're connected and entertained.And that's precisely the reason why seeing Eric Lewis on Saturday made me feel so deliriously happy. It made me realise that imagined dystopian future will never exist. Because no matter how cool technology gets, it will never feel truly Real in the way that standing next to my friends while a man played the shit out of a piano felt Real.And sure enough, just when it looked like we might all up-sticks and relocate to Second Life, the technology pendulum has started to swing back the other way. Look at how the way we use Twitter has evolved, moving from simple status updates to organising real world meetups (although we could definitely survive as a species without the word "tweetup"). Facebook use has adapted too, with more and more people using it as a way to manage party invitations and to publicise events rather than simply collecting old school friends like Panini stickers. If I'd have been able to access Facebook from my crappy pay-as-you go phone, I'd have seen just how many of my friends were going to be at the Eric Lewis gig. It's lucky one of them phoned me to tell me about it; the resulting amazing experience, shared with friends, is something a YouTube video alone could never recreate.This move back to technology as a trigger for Real social interaction should also come as a huge relief for the entertainment industry. Only this week we've seen theRIAA finally settlinga four-year-old lawsuit (for a mere $7,000) against a computer illiterate mother who ended up with Kazaa installed on her home computer. We've seen theMPAA continuing its caseagainst RealNetworks over the hypothetical possibility that its software could be used to pirate DVDs. And we've even seenLawrence Lessigreceive a takedown noticefrom Warner Music over one of his own presentations appearing on YouTube. When they're attacking Lawrence Lessig for copyright infringement, you know the entertainment industry is panicking.And yet while CD and DVD sales are undoubtedly screwed, with printed books probably next to go, the increasingly virtual nature of our lives makes us willing to pay higher and higher premiums for shared social entertainment like live gigs and going to the cinema. Certainly I've spent many times more money in recent years on tickets to music events than I've ever spent on CDs, and they've brought me and my friends many times more joy. (Technology has a part to play there too: before Eric Lewis, my previous five gigs were all bands I've discovered throughLast.fm.)Even authors are getting in on the act – faced with poorer and poorer advances and dropping book sales, they're realising just how lucrative public speaking gigs can be. In fact, several authors I know have accepted advances that didn't even cover the cost of their writing time, safe in the knowledge that the five figure sums they earn for each personal appearance  on the back fo the book will more than make up for the shortfall.Back to consumers, and, thanks to the rise in smartphone ownership, the use of technology as a trigger for Real experiences looks sent to explode. After leaving the DNA lounge a group of us went for dinner atMission Street Food. Before we'd even ordered drinks, everyone (except me, dammit) took out their iPhones and started tapping away at their screens. They were "checking in" to the restaurant usingFoursquare, a service that tells your friends where you are, and invites them to join you. If San Francisco is anything to go by (and, when it comes to social media, it usually is), Foursquare is very likely to become the new Twitter – moving away from the idea of "what are you doing" and asking instead "where are you doing it?".Foursquare isn't available in the UK yet but, like most of these things, it will be soon. Until then, Brits can sign up toGoogle's Latitudewhich uses GPS to track your whereabouts which can then be shared with trusted friends. Latitude lacks many of the features that make Foursquare so cool but if, as seems likely, Google releases an API for developers to build their own Latitude services, we're likely to see a zillion other location-based services launching in the coming weeks and months. Oh, yes, the future's bright ... the future's social.All of which means, I suppose, I'd better get my finger out and get a proper smartphone so I can stop worrying about missing out on this brave new world of Real. But while I work out how to make that happen, if you should find yourself doing something amazing in a disorderly house injurous to the public welfare and morals, do make sure youtell me about itwon't you?F'real.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Ahead of the release of Release Candidate 1 of Windows 7, I'm intrigued by the angling going on around its Starter (or possibly Standard, depending who you listen to) edition.This is the version that will be sold on netbooks, which will be limited to running only 3 apps at a time. Except, as this story in BusinessWeek shows, Microsoft intends to make it easy for you to upgrade to a version that will do all the things that "normal" Windows 7 can do - like run more than 3 apps at a time.In "How Microsoft is fighting back - finally", BusinessWeek's Peter Burrows looks at the travails of Microsoft (on whichI've also written) and how low-priced netbooks, where Microsoft can only charge about $15 per install - as opposed to four times or more on a standard PC - have hurt its margins.Still, it has meant that from being only 10% of the netbook install market (losing out to Linux), Windows has moved to around 90-95% share of netbook OSs. Even so, it's no good for the margins.But never fear, Windows 7 is (nearly) here. And as with Vista, it has that "everything's included, but you can't use it unless you've paid for it" trick. Basically, you have to unlock the code that's already installed on the drive.Thus Windows 7 Standard edition (though I've heard it called "Starter" edition too), which will be provided to netbook makers, will have limited functionality available - but the code on hand can actually do all that Windows 7 can.Which leads to an interesting exchange in the article.Because of the smaller size of Windows 7, three versions of the program will come loaded even on lower-end machines. If a consumer on a cheaper PC running the "Standard" version tries to use a high-definition monitor or run more than three software programs at once, he'll discover that neither is possible. Then he'll be prompted to upgrade to the pricier "Home Premium" or "Ultimate" version.Microsoft says the process will be simple. Customers enter their credit-card information, then a 25-character code, make a few keystrokes, then reboot. [Bad] Brooks [Microsoft's corporate vice-president for consumer-product marketing] says pricing hasn't been determined, but upgrading "will cost less than a night out for four at a pizza restaurant."Wait - it'll cost how much?Seriously: how much is a night out for four (and how wasthatnumber chosen) at a pizza restaurant? Does that include drinks? Tips? Taxi fares? Clearly it does include drinks, because otherwise Brooks would just say "four pizzas". And it's more than just the meal, or he'd say "a meal for four.."Anyway, we did what any rational journalist does these days, andasked Twitter.The guesses vary widely. "£20 a head? So £80-£100?"suggestedMatthew Burton. "£99?"offeredEmily King. More budget-minded, Chris Hillsays£60.Slightly cynically (though experience might prove correct)Nevynxxxsaid "Knowing Microsoft, $60 or £60"; ahopefulMatt Johnson had "about $50".And that's where a lot of the numbers range around: £80, $100. Now, the next question: is that a lot to unlock the capability that was already sitting there on the hard drive/SSD of your netbook? Will you actually be able to make use of all that capability? And is it going to annoy the hell out of people who had thought they'd bought, you know, acomputerthat might be able to do things like run a display?Over again to BusinessWeek:Even at Pizza Hut prices, it's a risky proposition. Consumers may not appreciate having to fork over more money to accomplish routine tasks. "It could create a backlash from consumers," says analyst Toni Sacconaghi of Bernstein Research. "Such a move could be viewed as a bait and switch."Er, yes - or potentially a class action suit in the making. We'll watch this one with interest.So: how much would you pay to unlock that functionality on your netbook?
We've decided to try to ramp up the gamesblognewsbucketfeature, to offer you more more more good gaming news from around the web that we've found in our trawls. We expect to post twice a week.If you've got anything you'd like to bring our attention, you can do so by tagging it forguardiangamesblogondelicious(free account to the service required, then you add us to your network), or by sending it to gamesblog + at + gmail + dot + com.Here're the picks for this Wednesday:• Human rights &amp; the 'online game provider' (What rights do you have, as a player?) &gt;&gt;terranova.blogs.com• Playing To New Nations (the Zeebo console aims to extend the player market) &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• Shaken Baby? Ok! Brassiere? Offensive! (the trials and tribulations of an iPhone developer) &gt;&gt;watercoolergames.org• Small is big in gaming world (a pbusiness model for games in the future) &gt;&gt;news.bbc.co.uk• Richard Bartle's IMGDC keynote &gt;&gt;mud.co.uk• The Bryant Collection: A treasure trove of interactive fiction salvaged from a garage sale &gt;&gt;ludusnovus.net• Blueberry Garden (play the IGF winner on Steam) &gt;&gt;store.steampowered.com• Hacking online games a widespread problem (the implications for Mom and Pop) &gt;&gt;news.cnet.com
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Microsoft could be preparing a new front in its battle to take on Apple's iPhone - by working with a third party manufacturer and US network Verizon to produce a new phone,codenamed "Pink"(paid link at the Wall Street Journal). It would certainly add a new element to Microsoft's colourful history... anyone rememberZune brown?&bull; The number of child abuse websites dropped by 10% last year,according to new figuresfrom the Internet Watch Foundation.&bull; It's official: 4Chan founder moot - akaChristopher Poole- is Time.com'smost influential person, thanks to the site's anarchic users hacking the vote.Music Machinery has the inside story, while Jason Kottke compares it tohis own attemptto sway the poll back in 1999.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google is facing fresh accusations of anti-competitive behaviour, following reports that the US Justice Department is investigating the internet giant over its dealings with the book industry.Lawyers for the government are examining potential antitrust issues surrounding a $125m settlement made between Google and authors - in a move that could scupper the internet company's plans to create an "iTunes for books".The deal, struck last autumn between the web giant and authors' groups, would see Google pay $125m for the right to digitise millions of books in the US, with the intention of selling the files online and taking a significant cut of the profit.The proposed settlement came after two years of negotiations and legal wranglings, and washailed at the timeas a "great leap" by Google co-founder Sergey Brin.But the proposals have concerned some other campaigners, particularly because it would give Google exclusive rights to digitise so-called orphan works - books that are still under copyright, but without any clear owner.Peter Brantley of the Internet Archive, a San Francisco-based organisation that documents millions of web pages and digitises out-of-copyright books, said that there had been ongoing conversations between concerned parties and the Department of Justice."There are legitimate antitrust issues related to Google's ability to solely commercialise this content," hetold Reuters.As a result of similar, worries a judge in New York yesterday granted a four-month extension to allow those affected by the deal to examine the details and decide whether to opt out of it or not.That move pleased campaigners, who said they are worried that it could damage the industry to hand too much power over to one company."We now have time to really sink our teeth into what this agreement will mean," said Gail Knight Steinbeck, chair of the Creative Property Rights Alliance and daughter-in-law of late author John Steinbeck.At the moment, the deal would only affect authors in the United States, but Google has previously said that it is in discussions with other organisations around the world about similar proposals.It is not the first time that Google has raised the attention of government lawyers thanks to its increasing dominance in the online world.Last year it emerged that the Department of Justice hadstarted an investigationto explore whether a proposed link between Google and Yahoo could have an unfair impact on the internet advertising market.High profile litigator Sandy Litvack was brought in to run the operation, which was eventually curtailed when Google announced that it was backing out of the deal.Subsequently the pressure appeared to be relieved thanks to the relationship between the White House and Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, who acted as an adviser to the Obama campaign. That bond was reinforced earlier this week when Dr Schmidt was named as one of the first members of a Presidential advisory committee on science and technology.However, not everybody inside the administration has such warm feelings towards the Californian internet powerhouse. Christine Varney - Obama's nominee to run the Department of Justice's antitrust division - hasalready voiced concerns about Google's power, saying she could "see a problem, potentially, with Google".Varney, who was part of the team who fought a long-running antitrust case against Microsoft in the 1990s, told a meeting in Washington last year that "Microsoft is so last century", but that Google could pose a threat because it "has acquired a monopoly in internet online advertising".
