A few weeks ago, I posted a piece about theLeapster 2, a handheld games console aimed at 3-5 years olds, which offers a selection of educational games that are actually pretty good and very much enjoyed by my two sons. Quite a few readers responded to the story, so I thought I'd follow up with a quick look at theLeapster Explorer, a new version aimed at slightly older children.Retailing at £59.99, it's a significantly more advanced take on the idea of a 'learning games system', taking in some of the current fads in web and game design. The refreshed slimline form factor is great for larger, more dextrous hands, adding two extra shoulder buttons as well as port for a compatible camera, being released later this year. It may be slimmer, but it's still just as hardy – a fact demonstrated this very morning, when my son rushed into our kitchen, tripped up and sent our review unit skimming across the flagstone floor and slamming into the side of the fridge. Not even a scratch. But sorry anyway, Leapfrog.As with the Leapster model, the Explorer has a decent-sized touchscreen display, but this time, it's much more sensitive and accurate, allowing better finger interaction, rather than relying on the chunky stylus. The graphical quality is superior too, with a really crisp LCD display and reasonably detailed 3D visuals. Add to this the 512MB of memory, which means players can save their progress, and you get a system that promises more advanced gaming experiences, approaching those of a standard handheld like the Nintendo DS.The difference is, of course, that these are educational games. All of them, whether based around Toy Story 3 or Spongebob Squarepants, involve word, number and problem-solving tasks designed to encourage basic numeracy and literacy. There will be 35 titles available this year according to manufacturer Leapfrog, but the system is not compatible with your old Leapster 2 carts, so you won't be able to boost your software library with older games. That's a shame for families who've built up large collections of Leapster titles and want to ensure they're not consigned to the cartridge graveyard if their child upgrades. Also, at £20 a throw, they're not incredibly cheap.The Explorer can also be connected to a PC or Mac to access LeapFrogConnect where children can play online games, and parents can monitor what their kids have been playing and learning. You can also download mini-games – known cutely as 'Leaplets' – and e-books that feature illustrations and reading guides. Both of these have to be purchased with Leaplet code cards available at major toy retailers or directly from Leapfrog – the cards cost £10 for two, and at a fiver each, the games compare reasonably well with the deluge of educational software available on the iPhone and Google Android smartphones.My four-year-old son likes Jewel Train, a simple puzzler that gets you to line up tracks in order for the train to reach the station. He's also into The Penguins of Madagascar: Operation Plushy Rescue, a platformer based around the spin-off cartoon series. It's more demanding than the Sonic title on Leapster 2, and involves a few maths challenges that are quite nicely slotted in to the main gameplay. My favourite, though, is Harmonies, a musical time waster which simply has four little characters singing along to a few classic ditties; the player's only input is to switch off the spotlight over any of the vocalists removing them from the soundtrack. For some reason this has amused me for ages.Finally, the Explorer contains its own persistent virtual pet for users to look after. It appears on the menu screen, but also has its own little app, where your children can customise their creature and play a few micro-games with it. It's a nice addition that would probably benefit from Bluetooth connectivity so the kids could exchange their creations.At £60, the Explorer is £20 more expensive than the Leapster and with the games getting closer in style and challenge to DS titles, some may wonder whether they're better off just taking the plunge with Nintendo's console. But then, the Explorer is still half the price of the DS, and all its games are clearly designed with the educational benefits in mind. My sons are definitely getting more use out of this than the old Leapster 2 – plus, they enjoy the convenience of having several mini-games available on the machine at once, rather than having to get mum or dad to swap DS carts over for them (and we don't have that many DS titles that are suitable for young children, anyway).At the lower-end of the suggested 4-9 age range, the Explorer will be a popular purchase, and a great option for long journeys. And even when an older child moves on to the DS (or, heaven forbid, away from video game consoles altogether), it will still be in good enough shape to hand down to a younger relative. With its downloadable apps and forthcoming camera add-on, it's also much more in tune with where consumer tech is right now. It's up to you whether you want to prepare your children for a life of digital consumerism – at the very least Explorer should keep them well away from your Samsung Galaxy S.
A spammer has exploited a serious vulnerability in Facebook's photo upload system to spam both Facebook and Twitter with photos promising "free" iPads and iPhones.The photos, which were posted to peoples' walls by exploiting a flaw in which it was not checked whether a photo could be posted to someone's profile, pretended to be from the profile owner and promoted schemes promising cheap or free gadgets - particularly iPhones and iPads.Among those affected were a friend of Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg - who responded, says the security company Sophos; Zuckerberg responded to the picture by asking his friend "Is this real or did your account get hacked?"Robert McMillan for IDGwas the first with the detail, which he says let the spammer post "thousands" of messages on peoples' Walls.People who saw the fake postings appear on their Wall, and knew they hadn't put them there, would assume it was their own account which had been hacked and change their password - but this made no difference, because the flaw is in Facebook's basic photo authentication code.As the company told McMillan, "Earlier this week, we discovered a bug in the code that processes photos as they're uploaded. This bug caused us not to make the correct checks when determining whether a photo should be posted to a person's profile...  We quickly worked to resolve the issue and fixed it shortly after discovering it. For a short period of time before it was fixed, a single spammer was able to post photos to people's profiles that they hadn't approved."It remains to be seen whether that's the last of the problem. Meanwhile, Twitter users have had their own problems: property doyenne Kirstie Allsopp was among a number of people whose accounts were hacked at the weekend to send out (yet more) "free iPad" and "OMG free iPhone"  tweets.Sophos notes that Allsopp has since removed the offending tweets, which would have led anyone who followed them to webpages where they were encouraged to apply for "free" iPads in exchange for personal information and sign up for scams that charged £4.50 per week."Interestingly, the spam messages were sent 'via web', suggesting that it wasn't a third party application or linked website that was used to send the messages," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant, Sophos. "It seems likely that Kirstie Allsopp's Twitter password was stolen via a phishing or spyware infection on her computer, or that she was using the same password on multiple websites – which is never a good idea."Allsopp isn't pleased: "Hacking is a pain in the bum" sheobserved pithilyafter changing her password, profile picture and deleting the offending tweets. Yup - which only makes the case for better passwords stronger.
UK top 10 games chart, week ending September 4 2010PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Mafia Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (44)22 (2)Kane & Lynch 2: Dog Days(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (47)PC (1)33 (5)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)594 (3)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (40)Wii (20)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (17)85 (4)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)166 (6)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)397 (7)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)138 (9)Sniper: Ghost Warrior(16+)Xbox 360 (94)PC (6)99 (10)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (32)Wii (4)1610 (–)Tom Clancy's H.a.w.x. 2(12+)Xbox 360 (100)1Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2010ELSPA(UK) Ltd
WhenDuke Nukem Foreverwas first announced, Bill Clinton had just begun his second term as US president, Britain was about to hand over Hong Kong to China, and 'New Labour' was a sparkling political dream, rather than an offensive term of derision. It was another world. It was 1997. It was 13 years ago.Since then, the cigar-chomping hero, who starred in a series of foul-mouthed but highly entertaining shooters in the early '90s, has had more failed comback attempts than an army of eighties hair metal bands. Original developer 3D Realms was on the case at first, but a series of publisher takeovers, legal fall-outs and tech re-starts kept the project in limbo for over a decade, winning the brand a string Vaporware awards.But now, Texan developerGearbox Softwarehas picked up the rights and actually revealed a playable demo of the game at last week'sPenny Arcade Expoin Seattle. The title is now due out on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 – although the vague release date of '2011' won't inspire many hardened Duke watchers with much confidence.Randy Pitchford, president of Gearbox Software, certainly has all the talk. In the press release for the game, he seems to be channeling Duke himself when he stated, "All gamers deserve a happy ending and after all of us gamers feeling the full range of emotions about Duke Nukem Forever, I am thrilled to be in a position with the trust, power and means to make it happen. Am I crazy? Balls of steel, baby, balls of steel!"He does at least know what he's getting himself into – Pitchford worked at 3D Realms in the mid-Nineties, when Duke was an ongoing series, rather than a byword for undeliverable gaming promises.As for the content – well, how do you follow a collection of games famed for their low-brow wit, intense violence and daft one-liners? With more of the same, naturally. From the release:The alien hordes are back and only Duke can save the world, again. Pig cops, alien shrink rays and enormous alien bosses won't stop our hero from accomplishing his one and only goal: to save the world, save the babes and to be a bad-ass while doing it. The King of All Shooters is back with over-the-top weapons, massive aliens and unprecedented levels of interactivity.This game puts pedal to the metal and tongue firmly in cheek, among other places. Shoot hoops, lift weights, read adult magazines, draw crude messages on whiteboards or ogle one of the many beautiful women that populate Duke's life; that is if you can pull yourself away long enough from kicking ass and taking names. Duke Nukem was and will forever be immortalized in gaming history, and this is his legend.So are you ready to hail to the king (baby) at last? Or have the intervening years somewhat lessened your appetite? Do you even know what we're writing about here?
DoDonPachi is one of the longest-running shoot-em-up franchises in Japan, with its first iteration, DonPachi, establishing itself in arcades all the way back in 1995.DoDonPachi Resurrection is developer Cave's first mobile release for the franchise, and offers both an optimised iPhone mode and a straight-up port of the arcade version – though the difference between the two is fairly negligible.In a format that will be instantly familiar to most, you pilot a small, laser-toting fighter ship over a landscape packed to the nines with enemies, projectiles, power-ups and score notifiers.Your vessel – available in three different varieties – constantly fires, so all you need to worry about is navigation. Bombs, a "hyper cannon" and the game's "slaughter menace" mode (which changes your ship depending on your style of play) offer some variety but, handily for a mobile release, your input is pretty basic.Inifinite continues means DoDonPachi is pretty forgiving, though the difficulty level if you do attempt to avoid damage is incredibly high.The game falls in to the niche shmup subcategory of "bullet hell", where the screen is almost constantly more than three-quarters full of moving sprites (often with noticeable lag): you'll probably need a lie down after any extended period of play.Meanwhile, the game's Japanese idiosyncrasies charm and annoy in equal measure. The strangely translated instructions fail to give you any real idea of how to play – for example, you're told "scrape" your ship against bullets to power-up the 'menace bar' – I'm still not too sure what this means.At the same time there's something weird and wonderful about some of the Parodius-like strangeness to be found. The first end-of-level boss turns into a mechanised schoolgirl before exploding, for example.Sadly this oddball charm and the game's frenetic action can't hide that fact that, on a small screen, there's simply far too much going on for the game to be remotely playable.It's rare a game makes me feel old, but the difficulty I had working out what was happening most of the time made for a completely bewildering experience.The fact that your fingers cover part of the playing field as you swipe to move your ship around only makes things worse. At least now I know how my Gran felt when I forced her to play GoldenEye with me.OpenFeint compatibility, polished graphics and controls and the niche appeal of such a title means it will probably please many hardcore shmup fans. Sadly, this reviewer just wasn't hardcore enough.
Mine was limited this weekend but new air combat title HAWX 2 - fun in short doses - and Deathspank both got a look in. But what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
View of Dubai. Photo byFaithful Chant [ back ]on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBlackberry a spy tool? &gt;&gt; SkunkPost.com"Worries about spying by the U.S. and Israel spurred plans to sharply limit BlackBerry services in the United Arab Emirates, Dubai's police chief said in comments that suggest a tough line in talks with the smart phone maker."Hail to the King! 2K Games Announces Duke Nukem Forever(R) &gt;&gt; Take-Two Interactive"2K Games and Gearbox Software announced today that forever is nearly here, as Duke Nukem Forever(R) will officially make its long-awaited debut for the Xbox 360(R) video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation(R)3 computer entertainment system and Windows PC in calendar 2011." On past experience, that means a release date of December 32nd. But we await developments.Westminster commercial noise map - experiment with Google Fusion Tables &gt;&gt; William PerrinWho used Google Fusion Tables to create a noise map, with zero coding: "It isn't perfect, but it's easy. If you can use a spreadsheet you can take some real public data and make a map to make a point. Any suggestions for other visualisation services i could try with no coding required are welcome." Ditto.Sad Nokia Wants You To Know It's Activating 300,000 Smartphones Daily &gt;&gt; Business InsiderYup - Symbian is activating many more smartphones than Android or iPhone. But is that good enough? "There is NO excitement or momentum around Symbian in U.S.&#10;Internationally, it doesn't seem much better. When we talk to mobile&#10;developers from around the world --India,Korea, theUK, theUS-- none of them ever talk about working on projects for Symbian." Oh.How to sort a date array in PHP &gt;&gt; Stack OverflowSomeone is bound to find this useful today, or at least this week. You might as well bookmark it. You're going to have to tell someone about it eventually.Rise of the Anti-Content Farmers &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIn a guest post, the head of a professional video content company rails against the "content farmers": "The jury's out on whether the content farm approach will prove successful, but I am betting that in 2011, you will start to see a regression to the mean, with the very same companies who are rushing to emulate the leading content farm companies revert back towards a more balanced approach to publishing and focus on quality.  Meanwhile, the firms who bet the farm on quality and focus on offering value  in the form of quality content, instead of focusing on costs and output alone, will reap the most come harvest time."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Regulators in Texas have launched the first broad anti-trust review of Google's search and advertising practices in the US.While federal regulators in Washington have investigated the impact on competition of Google's business deals in the past, Greg Abbott, Texas attorney general, is the first regulator to look more broadly at its core search business, amid growing concerns about the power the online business wields.Officials in Brussels have also raised the prospect of a possible inquiry into anti-competitive behaviour by Google. Leading competition official, Joaquín Almunia, said in July he would examine complaints from three companies, including Microsoft, that the search engine had been unfairly demoting rivals in its rankings.In the Texas case, Google said in ablog poston Friday that it had been asked for information about three different firms that have raised complaints against it.The three – myTriggers and SourceTool/TradeComet in the US, and Foundem in the UK – have accused Google of reducing their traffic by pushing them down its search rankings."Occasionally, we're asked about the 'fairness' of our search engine – why do some websites get higher rankings than others?" Don Harrison, Google deputy general counsel, wrote in the post."The important thing to remember is that we built Google to provide the most useful, relevant search results and ads for users. In other words, our focus is on users, not websites. Given that not every website can be at the top of the results, or even appear on the first page of our results, it's unsurprising that some less relevant, lower-quality websites will be unhappy with their ranking."He added that companies such as Amazon, Shopping.com and Expedia typically rank high in Google's search results "because of the quality of the service they offer users".The internet firm has faced a flurry of legal challenges and lost a copyright case in Germany against its YouTube business. It also paid $8.5m to settle a class action lawsuit in the US over alleged privacy violations at its Buzz social networking service. It also faces a lawsuit from software company Oracle, which accuses Google of patent infringement with the Android mobile operating system.
You have to feel sorry for Sony sometimes. I mean to say, there it was on Wednesday in Berlin, at the IFA consumer electronics show, launching a new music and video download service calledQriocity(it's like "curiosity", only it couldn't get the domain name, I suppose) – and what happens? Steve Jobs goes on stage in San Francisco and announces that Apple is having another go at the TV download business.And guess who gets all the media coverage?How are the mighty fallen. I remember a time when Sony dominated the gadgetry business, when it was a synonym for elegant design and advanced functionality, when Walkmans ruled the world. It had shops in upmarket malls where young males came to drool. And now? Ask a teenager about Sony and s/he will reply: "Aren't they the outfit that makes flat-screen TVs and DVD players and other stuff for adults?" Analysing the reasons for Sony's fall from grace would make for an interesting MBA thesis. My favoured candidates are a failure to understand software and missing the significance of the internet.Whatever the explanation, however, the outcome was what we witnessed last week – massive coverage of Steve Jobs strutting his stuff in San Francisco, while over in Berlin poor old Fujio Nishida, president of Sony Europe, might as well have been flogging army-surplus radios in a Baghdad souk.Which is a pity because the world needs a competitive market in multimedia downloads and, at the moment, Apple looks like scooping the pool. In his presentation, Jobs announced a new device that will deliver 99¢ rentals of TV shows over the net. This replaces the old Apple TV device, which was launched in 2007 and stored video purchased from the iTunes store for display on a domestic television set, but which never really caught on. "We've sold a lot of them," said His Steveness, "but it's never been a huge hit." The device was, he said, "too complicated for average consumers".The sole fly in his ointment was that only two US networks have signed up to rent their shows via the new gizmo. One is Fox, a network whose doings passeth all understanding; the other is ABC, which is owned by Disney, of which Jobs is the largest single shareholder. But the other networks have stayed aloof, for the very good reason that turkeys eschew Christmas. They see the day coming when Apple will exert the kind of control over them that it now has over record companies. Jobs appeared unperturbed by such laggardly behaviour."We think the rest of the studios will see the light and get onboard," he said, loftily, before adding that Netflix, the video-rental company, has also climbed "onboard". Henceforth, first-run HD movies will be available for rental for $4.99 on the same day as they are released on DVD.Netflix executives are doubtless extolling this deal to their shareholders as a brilliant strategic move. But in fact they are being nice to the crocodile in the hope that it will eat them last.If the new Apple service/device proves a hit, then the movie studios will indeed get onboard the iTunes bandwagon, in which case they will begin to wonder why they need Netflix as an intermediary.But I digress. Since nothing interests the mainstream media as much as television, Jobs's announcement of the new Apple TV device attracted most of the attention. In the process, another Apple initiative went under-reported – a new "feature" in the latest version of iTunes. It's called Ping and is described as "a social network for music". And it starts with 160 million members, the current number of iTunes users. The idea is that you can elect to "follow" – and be followed by – your friends, so that you know what music they're playing and vice versa. And, quite by accident, there's a "buy" button somewhere conveniently to hand."It's like Facebook and Twitter meet iTunes," said Jobs, which is a bit rich, not to say misleading. "As far as I can tell,"writes John Battelle, a well-known commentator on these things, "they in fact don't ever meet. You can't leverage your networks on Facebook and Twitter in Ping. It's another closed Apple system, another Apple universe in a gilded gift box."Dave Winer, one of the elder statesmen of the web, signed up for Ping on launch day and found that he'd been assigned the username "scriptingnews". "They didn't give me a choice of name," he writes. "That's the name I chose when I got my first iPod or whatever got me logged into their store the first time. I never would have chosen to be scriptingnews on a social network. Not at all obvious how to change it, if I can."Welcome to Steve's Walled Garden. We'll all wind up there if we're not careful. Wake up, Sony.
Every year, in the midst of the fringe festival, big names from the games industry come together at the Filmhouse for Edinburgh Interactive – two days of conferences on the future of interactive entertainment. At the same time, on Festival Square, forthcoming titles are made available for the public to play; on showwereNintendo's Christmas big hitters,PlayStation 3'snew 3D-enabled titles andMicrosoft Kinect.The overwhelming theme was digital distribution, validated succinctly by Igor Pusenjak of iPhone phenomenonDoodle Jumpwho charted his game's course from underground sensation to 4 million seller. At the close of the first day,Square Enix's Ian Livingstone chaired a controversial debate on whether the future for developers lay in communicating directly with customers without publishers intervening at all, while Jerry Johnson, ofXbox LIVE, went on to explore how Microsoft's online service had evolved from simple gaming to a full entertainment hub involving Sky, Facebook and Netflix movies. It's by no means a clear-cut issue, but the debates suggested that huge individual successes are leaving smaller developers genuinely confident that digital distribution will enable them to move ahead without publishers in the future – a potentially huge shift for the gaming industry.Elsewhere,Sony Computer Entertainment's CEO Ray Maguire, who led a session on gaming in 3D, acknowledged the crucial state of flux the distribution debate had illustrated. Edinburgh had offered, he said, a window on the "transitions that the industry is going through, rather than just today's product… we used to call ourselves the video game industry, but we're a million miles away from that. We're the interactive industry now."
Tom Clancy. The name is shorthand for mediocrity, be it attached to novels, movies or games. Like one of those service station sandwiches that costs £4 and tastes of packaging, a Tom Clancy-branded product will fill its allotted time in your life with a wonky facsimile of entertainment.Tom Clancy'sHawx 2, the sequel to last year's breathtakingly average Tom Clancy'sHawx, is also an air-combat game. The "plot" is the usual puerile irrelevance: rogue elements have plunged the planet into a state of emergency. The story can be played from US, British or Russian perspectives, but the meat of the game is the same: piloting the cream of the world's most thrusting and manly combat aircraft and shooting seven shades out of anyone who gets in your way. The control system is loose and sloppy; the (vast) terrain looks superb until you're flying at low levels (when it looks a mess). Enemies are predictable dullards and the missile guidance systems are complex to the point of aneurysm. Despite all this, it's an improvement onHawx.
Popularly considered the bastion of cute, family-friendly, casual gaming, the Wii, it seems, has a dirty little secret. Against the odds, it now hasGunblade NYandLA Machine Guns. Bringing together two classics once confined to rasping cabinets in neon-lit arcades, both are light-gun games, meaning they originally required huge plastic firearms wired to the machines to play.Pokémonis absolutely not in attendance.The conversion to Wii allows its remote to serve as a make-believe gun, but the concept and execution remain the same: point your weapon at the screen and let the hapless cannon fodder that wanders into view feel your wrath with a torrent of virtual bullets. It's a simple enough concept, but falls far from the remit of the typical Wii game and that alone makes this an intriguing release.Sega's double pack is somewhat rudimentary, but with almost enough extras in the form of new modes and scoring methods to offset the lack of a rattling plastic machine gun, it has a no-frills charm that will certainly delight retro-fantasist gamers who remember the arcade release.For those with more contemporary tastes, it might feel a little dated, but the popularly perceived Wii gamer was never the target market for this defiantly nostalgic glimpse into action gaming history.
Price£24,190MPG30.1Top speed107mphThe sweaty-headed banker sitting next to me at a charity comedy evening didn't know what to make of the first act. "Is it a man?" he whispered, as a pencil-thin female impersonator whooped on to the stage in a blizzard of sequins and intimately subdued body parts. Tina C introduced herself as a "country music artiste from Open Throat Holler, Tennessee". And with songs like "No Dick's as Hard as My Life!"  she went on to brilliantly eviscerate the country &amp; western stereotype, grinding it under the heels of her rhinestoned cowboy boots.As I listened, I could only imagine what Ms C would have made of the bizarrely appropriate vehicle I'd pulled up in that night. Jeep's Wrangler Ultimate is a bristlingly macho, red neck stereotype all of its own. With its bloated wheels, thigh-high bumpers and die-hard looks, it's  a vehicle that's almost impossible to  sit in with a straight face. It feels  like a theatrical prop rather than  a car. It's a motor that's immune to the sensibilities of our times, virtually unchanged from the dark decades before the sexual revolution, when off-roaders were thrashed by men who wore chaps, neckerchiefs and fearsome moustaches even when they weren't parodying the Village People.This 4x4 has its roots in the CJ (Civilian Jeep), the public version of the famous US military Jeep first introduced in the Second World War. Since then many variations have come and gone but the basic vehicle has always stayed the same. However, after you've taken away theyee-haa, what are you really left with? So much of the all-American Jeep is about image that it's difficult to remain objective.The two-door version with clip-on, clip-off roof system that I drove was certainly brilliant fun (once I'd worked out how to get the roof off and found a garage to store it in), though it did sometimes feel more like wrestling than driving. And the 13-year-old boys I ferried around over a long weekend thought they'd died and gone to line-dancing heaven. But is that really what you want in a car as an adult?The Ultimate weighs 2.5 tonnes  and can happily tow a 2-tonne trailer.  Its 2.8-litre diesel engine delivers  a top speed of 107mph and will take you to 62mph in a dozen seconds. Remarkably, it will do about 30mpg –  a figure that's higher than you'd expect from such an unreconstructed brute.On the open road the Wrangler Ultimate's imperious height means it feels slightly unsteady at speed, and the super-responsive steering makes motorway driving twitchy and exhausting. But that's to miss the point of the Jeep. Beyond all the Wild West posturing the Wrangler is an off-roader with real pedigree. Its hard-plastic interior and no-nonsense finishing are made to be hosed out after a long day in the dust, rounding up those longhorns. It has a ground clearance of almost a foot, it can iron out a 38-degree slope with ease and will wade through water that's half  a metre deep without hesitation.But trapped on the tarmac, this bulked-up Jeep is like a performing sea lion, a powerful beast sentenced to a life of meaningless tricks. If only Tina C could set it free…On the road: Do you hate garages?When it comes to choosing  a new car, we consider its safety, its speed and its sexiness. But surely its reliability should be the ultimate arbiter? What Car? examined Warranty Direct's data on breakdowns for 50,000 insurance policies and found, for the fifth consecutive year, that the most reliable cars on the road were all made by Honda (below).The most expensive car to repair, not surprisingly is  a Porsche, with an average bill of £717. Conversely, Renaults may break down all the time, but at least they are the cheapest to repair – an average of £226 per garage visit.The endless grey ribbonLike most of us I spend 50 weeks of the year driving on congested, pot-holed, over-signposted roads. The other two weeks of the year are all I have to remind myself that there is another way. Last month, we headed for the southeastern corner of Spain for two weeks of sunshine. My wife organised the villa, the passports, the dog (and cat) sitter, the holiday clothes… All I had to do was sort out the flights and rent a car. Easy, 20 minutes on the computer and return flights to Alicante for five were booked and a car was reserved atSixt.co.uk. The only problem was that the villa was actually near Almeria – not Alicante – a mere 300km away. A boring waste of time for the rest of the family, yes. But for me, a chance to drive at speed down a great chunk of the glorious E15/N7. Also known as the Autovia del Mediterráneo, this incredible strip of virtually vehicle-free, velvety smooth tarmac slices through the desert-like scrub and rugged mountains of the most arid corner of Europe. The road is actually 1,300km long and runs from Barcelona in the north to Algeciras in the south. And the best thing of all? I got to do it all again at the end of the fortnight…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
The Metroid series has always felt like an interloper in Nintendo's family-friendly line-up, its darker, adult tone at odds with the sunny disposition ofMarioand company. So it's fitting that, amid the safe sequels and familiar follow ups,Other Mshould offer arguably the most audacious franchise update of this console generation.It's a collaborative effort, with series creator Yoshio Sakamoto working alongside the controversial Team Ninja, renowned for the gratuitous gore ofNinja Gaidenand an unhealthy fixation with the female form in theDead or Alivegames. Initially, it seems like an awkward fit with a wealth of clumsily written, though admittedly beautiful, story sequences delving into the past of previously mute heroine, Samus Aran, and an unusual control method that forces players to alternate between holding the Wii remote horizontally and pointing it at the screen. If the latter merely takes a bit of getting used to, the dialogue remains risible throughout, recalling Harrison Ford's famous remark on theStar Warsscript: "George, you can type this shit, but you sure can't say it."Yet if demystifying one of gaming's strongest female protagonists is a mistake, handing the reins to a team well versed in fast-paced action certainly isn't. Samus is quicker and more athletic than ever: her sprints, dodges and leaps have a real sense of purpose, and surprisingly ferocious finishing moves see her wedge her arm cannon under alien carapaces before firing off matter-splattering blasts.The bottle ship she explores is as intricately designed as previous Metroid environments, thanks in part to the chameleonic, virtual-reality interiors, with clanking metal walkways transforming into ice floes, lava pits and dense, humid jungles at the touch of a computer terminal. Additional missiles and energy tanks are often so successfully squirrelled away that locating them is one of the game's most satisfying challenges.Sporadic interruptions from space-marine allies diminish the series's traditional sense of isolation, but Kuniaki Haishima's masterful ambient score expertly amplifies the tension during the exploratory sequences, while the smooth, detailed graphics and splendid monster design make this an uncommonly beautiful Wii game. The voiceovers may be a disappointment, yetOther Mis one of the most inventive entries in a flagship Nintendo franchise for years, accomplishing enough in its pleasingly brisk 12-hour runtime to suggest that even the biggest publishers can benefit from the influence of an outsider.
The buckyball was first discovered 25 years ago by a group of scientists at Sussex University in the south of England and Rice University, in Texas, and named after the architect Richard Buckminster Fuller, noted for popularising the geodesic dome.To mark the discovery of this specially shaped molecule composed entirely of carbon on 4 September 1985, Google has changed the second O in its logo to a manipulatable version of a buckyball for the day.Buckyball is the colloquial name used to describe a spherical fullerene – an abbreviation of the Buckminsterfullerene C60, its full name. For their discovery of fullerenes, Sir Harold Kroto of Sussex and Richard Smalley and Robert Curl of Rice were awarded theNobel prize for chemistry in 1996.There are a variety of different buckyballs depending on the structure – the most recognisable, and first discovered, being the Buckminsterfullerene C60. It shares the geodesic structure of a panelled football and is the smallest fullerene molecule in which no two pentagons share an edge – giving it structural strength [see footnote].The C60 is found in soot, though rarely occurs in nature. Other allotropes of carbon include diamond and graphite but the discovery of fullerenes greatly expanded this.The unusual spherical arrangement of the molecule led to the nickname buckyball. Scientists have since discovered buckytubes, nanotubes, megatubes and nano onions.The unique chemistry of the family of particles has been widely researched for use in electronics, nanotechnology and many other fields of science.Google has previously used its logo to mark other anniversaries and events. Earlier this year it marked30 years of Pac-Manby converting its name into a playable version of the game.• This article was amended on 7 September 2010. The original omitted to credit Sir Harold Kroto of Sussex University for his joint discovery of the C60. Regarding the above article's assertion that the C60 "is the smallest fullerene molecule in which no two pentagons share an edge", a reader says: "The smallest sphere whereby the pentagon edges do not touch each other is an icosa-dodecahedron, twelve pentagons surrounded by triangles."
Metroid: Other M, Nintendo WiiThe Metroid series is one of Nintendo's most enduring, with the first instalment released back in 1986. Starting as a side-on action game it later morphed into a first person shooter; Other M is both. Holding the Wii-remote on its side (mimicking Nintendo's first ever joypad), you run around its virtually 2D levels and can at any time point the remote at the screen, taking you into first person view to scan objects and fire missiles. It's a system that works perfectly, and along with instant refills for missiles and health, removes much of the fiddliness of recent incarnations. It also supplies considerably more of heroine Samus Aran's back story – she says more in the introductory sequence to this game than in the entire rest of the series combined. Staying true to its lineage of deep exploration of labyrinthine alien worlds, while paying homage to practically every element of the franchise, Other M is a classic addition to a series entirely justified in its renown.Nintendo, £39.99Mafia II, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Mafia II.Vito Scaletta, a Sicilian immigrant to Empire Bay, Mafia II's proxy for New York, arrives after the second world war for some old-school organised crime antics. That means slapping up those failing to pay their "taxes", the odd robbery and a fair few gunfights. It also means endless fun-sapping trips to and fro across the sprawling city, because while presumably historically accurate, the cars' appalling handling and the ease with which you can have fatal accidents – combined with the game's insistence on sending you on protracted wild goose chases – make driving a kind of control pad-inflicted Chinese water torture. It has good scripting and acting (even if the plot just sort of gives up in the latter stages of the game) and the city looks nice, although any attempt at exploration will soon uncover the lack of anything at all to do outside your next mission objective. Moments of genuine competence are undermined by its sadistic emphasis on driving and dull fighting mechanics.2K Games, £34.99-£49.99Heavy Mach 2: Battlefield Of Machines, iPadHeavy Mach 2: Battlefield Of Machines.Although the love of walking robot tanks was once a propensity reserved for the Japanese, their allure is starting to permeate the rest of the world, making them something of a videogame staple. Heavy Mach 2, originally released on iPhone, makes its way to iPad, where its role-playing game-lite mechanics can be more fully appreciated. Piloting around its levels involves drawing a line in front of your walking tank, Flight Control-style, before engaging enemies in mortal combat. There's little proper instruction, you often inadvertently complete future missions while wandering about and it features a levelling up process that makes no perceptible difference. However, despite these flaws, its five or six hours of mellow tanking remain oddly compelling.IndieApps, £1.79
SongzaThere's no end of ways to discover music these days, but this do-it-yourself jukebox radio site offers a new angle on the process. Build your station by choosing a few songs, then set your playlist free and anyone who signs up can decide which tracks get heavy rotation, what gets dumped and suggest new tunes to add. The potential for workplaces riven with arguments about which radio station or whose iPod to listen to is immense, as no single person's tastes dictate what you hear. A site that begins loaded with techno bangers could evolve into an easy listening channel if that's what your listeners decide. With eight million tracks to choose from, from Elvis to Arcade Fire, everyone's tastes are catered for. It's still at the beta stage, so have patience with the glitches.Fake ScienceFake Science.A magnificent site for "when the facts are too confusing", Fake Science presents a series of infographics on topics such as how solar power works, or why bacon tastes good. At first glance they look like the something from a 1950s issue of Popular Mechanics or last week's Daily Mail, but they are all brilliantly false. A graphic of "types of shark", for example, includes toothbrush-head shark, dancing shark and vegan shark. "Feel free to swim and bleed near this totally safe shark", it tells us. The site also brings us links between scientific legends such as Emile Berliner and contemporary geniuses such as Ke$ha and will also furnish you – completely free – with a bogus reference to impress future employees.Blog roll: AppleApps & Hats.CupidtinoA dating site where Apple fanboys and girls can share their love of all things Mac.Apps &amp; HatsChristine video reviews the latest weird iPhone apps while wearing a variety of period costumes for no discernible reason whatsoever.The Unofficial Apple WeblogPhone scavenger hunts, breaking news and Mac 101 tips.Cult Of MacThe world's first iPad travel alarm clock thing, game reviews and how to get a US iTunes account from anywhere in the world.MacgasmNews, giveaways, podcasts, apps and walkthroughs from geeks and experts.Apple SlashdotThe popular nerd news bible with all the irritating PC-based stories filtered out.iPhoneTinyTiny reviews for tiny apps – for iPads, iPhones and iTouches.What we learned on the web this weekBob Marley?It's so easyto confuse your music legendsThere are morewomen than men on TwitterNot all Japanesetechnology is successfulThey could tell usbut they'd have to kill usA home fortoy pianosHomer SimpsonisDarth VaderThe wonderful lifeof the double rainbow manA Spider-can doeswhatever a spider canWhat the wordfrutescent means
'At the roundabout take&nbsp;the second exit, and then..." says the&nbsp;satnav lady. And then&nbsp;what? But that's where she stops; and then nothing. Not only has she taken us a really stupid way from Abingdon to Thame, which means we're stuck on the Oxford bypass in the middle of rush hour, but she won't even finish her bloody sentences. "Bitch," says my girlfriend, who's already cross because we're going to be late&nbsp;for her granny. I hate satnavs at&nbsp;the best of times, but this one is unquestionably the worst, and the most irritating, I have ever used.And that's pretty much it for the negatives. Apart from that, there's not much wrong with this car. In many ways it's surprisingly good – surprisingly muscly for a two-litre diesel, surprisingly unthirsty, surprisingly unmurderous towards the planet. Good value, too. For the same price as a basicFord Kuga, you can have one of these with enough toys to keep you amused for hours. I've got a button I can press on the sly that heats up my girlfriend's arse (on the hottest day of the year so far) and makes her even more cross. Also amusing is the rear-view camera, which is really for parking but is also fun for a new game called How Fast Can You Reverse Down Your Street Without Looking Over Your Shoulder. And, as I eventually discovered after sitting for a while feeling very stupid, you start the engine by pressing a button. I didn't even realise how tedious it was to use a key, but now I never want to stick one in the ignition again. Ever.Buttons – they're the future. I've got one to cool down my girlfriend (and her arse), and another to fold away my heated wing mirrors. I've got cruise control, ESP, and rain sensor wipers. (Don't you hate that, when it starts to rain heavily, you forget to put the wipers on, so can't see a thing and you drive straight into a brick wall, tragically killing yourself and your entire family? Now it need never happen again).Seriously, though, this car really is pretty good, for what it is – which is a "crossover" vehicle. I've never really seen the point of crossovers. They're made to look as if they can get to places they can't (there is a&nbsp;4x4 version of this one, but no one would seriously take it off-road). They look a bit like 4x4s though, so there will be a certain amount of&nbsp;hate directed towards you (which&nbsp;is pretty much entirely unwarranted with the ix35). And  they don't handle as well as less high cars. But if you must have one, you could do a&nbsp;lot worse than this one. Just turn off the satnav. And&nbsp;then...Hyundai ix35 2.0 CRDi 2WDPrice£19,745Top speed113mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.4 secondsAverage consumption46.3mpgCO2 emissions147g/kmEco rating7/10Bound forSandbanksIn a wordShut up!
Mickey Mouse has been a surprisingly neglected character when it comes to the world of video games. A couple ofhalf decent 16-bit appearancesaside, the world's most recognisable cartoon mouse (sorry Jerry) has never really been given an outing that befits his iconic status.All that could well be about to change with the forthcoming release of Epic Mickey. By enlisting the help of gaming legend Warren Spector and adopting a darker, more adult tone, Disney has made a clear departure from Mickey's previous half-hearted and generic platformer outings.I attended a preview of the first couple of levels in the game a few weeks back, and it was looking very impressive. The game offers platform and RPG elements and a striking visual style, and gives a pleasingly sophisticated interpretation of the Disney universe.The game sees Mickey navigate a "Wasteland" where discarded characters are held in a sort of Buena Vista purgatory.  Allowing Spector to trawl the archives to recover genuine lost or forgotten-about Disney creations adds real value for fans and anyone who grew up with the films and cartoons. You meet the supporting cast of pirates from Peter Pan early on in the game, for example.We'll have to wait until we've played a bit more of the game before we get too excited, of course, but I for one am already dusting off my Wii in anticipation. If I haven't convinced you, hopefully this trailer will help whet your appetite.
Of course, the important question was always going to be, how does it play? Two nights ago, Treyarchrevealed some interesting detailsabout the Black Ops multiplayer offering, including new killstreaks, perks, equipment and progression systems, but has the developer captured and maintained the immensely popular 'feel' of the CoD online experience?The short answer is yes. At its multiplayer reveal event in LA, Treyarch unveiled four new deathmatch maps, and each of them is structured around the familiar components – lots of open areas for rapid-fire shoot-outs, all enclosed by built-up multilayered interiors, and overlooked by sniping cubby holes that are rarelyentirelysafe camping spots. This is CoD by the book (and design director David Vonderhaar told me that Treyarch actually does have a massive multiplayer design manual, explaining the architectural rules to its level creators) - but with a few intriguing new twists.'Cracked' will be instantly familiar to Modern Warfare fanatics. Like MW2's Invasion and Kerachi maps, it's an obliterated urban landscape, densely jammed with crumbling shops and homes, the roads pockmarked by burned-out vehicles. There are anarchy symbols spray-painted on walls, rusted corrugated iron roofs, haggard, shrapnel-scarred window openings, with narrow views over open areas. It's a classic street battle map, accompanied by plenty of higher-level walkways and rooms for snipers to get a good view on the action.In contrast, Summit is a remote mountain base, surrounded by sparse tundra. Howling winds send snow billowing through the buildings, and occasionally shattering large glass windows. There's a series of treacherous walkways hugging the mountains-sides – I found that chucking a flash-bang down here could lead to players accidentally running off the rickety planks into the abyss. Fun, but not particularly productive.'Radiation' looks to be a Soviet nuclear facility, all gargantuan military-industrial machinery and blasted concrete buildings. 'Launch' is another ruggedly metallic complex, overlooked by looming scaffolding-covered towers. Glance up and you'll see an enormous rocket, which will actually take off during a bout – and woe betide any player caught beneath it when it goes.These two levels also exhibit one of the new features Treyarch is toying with in this title: as Vonderhaar explains, "The innovation we're trying here – and this is something we've been wanting to do for several games and just haven't been able to get it done right – is adding a level of interactivity into the maps. In Radiation, for example, you can press a button and the blast doors open [these provide access to a subterranean area which leads into a tunnel system]. If you're playing team deathmatch you'll probably want to keep them open, if you're on CTF, you'll want them shut – we're doing this sort of thing selectively, we don't do it in every map, we do it if it makes sense."The new killstreaks are fun, adding new forms of air power in the shape of the attack helicopters and gunships, but also providing the surface-to-air missiles for a bit of protection. The RC-XD car is tricky to manoeuvre, and its blast distance is limited, but it's great fun, and being chased down an alley by one is a fraught experience, like being cornered by a charging facehugger. They're just as tricky to shoot, too. As for new weapons, I got a few round in with the crossbow, which you think will operate just like a sniper rifle, but is much more demanding – the bolts seem to shift in the wind, affecting accuracy, though this makes successful kills all the more satisfying.The Wager levels could prove to the truly addictive additions. Gun Game, in which you progressively work your way through each weapon type, levelling up with every kill, is just so demanding, engrossing and frenetic – and the betting element, in which you wager your CoD points on finishing in the top three, will really have you grimacing over every missed shooting opportunity.On the subject of CoD points, a few comments on my news piece yesterday asked why purchasable progression couldn't have been employed using XP points. So I put this question to Treyarch community manager Josh Olin, who told me, "we did think originally about just using XP, but it's not practical. I mean, if you lose XP, does the game de-level or downgrade you? Do you lose the items you just unlocked? What if you've just customised them? It would just be frustrating, it would really annoy players. That's why we integrated a currency system."So, a solid set of maps, exhibiting all the features we expect from a CoD multiplayer landscape, but with new stuff like interactive switches, and timed events. The killstreaks balance each other well – I didn't see the attack dogs, but apparently they're an imposing sight. There were no radical re-thinks of how a multiplayer map should look, but then this is probably a quarter of what we'll eventually see. From this evidence, the genetic throughline of the CoD multiplayer experience has been upheld.
They are reddish-brown, smaller than an apple seed, have a taste for human blood and when they bite they itch like hell. And now the onward march of the common bedbug has extended into cyberspace.The search engine giant Google confirmed today that its 9th Avenue offices in Manhattan have been infested with the bugs. Parts of the headquarters, a futuristic space renowned for having a Lego room and scooters for staff to move around, have been found to be harbouring the parasites, prompting the wags atGawker media group to wonder whether its possiblefor them to spread via the internet.Google is the latest victim of an epidemic that has been rampaging through New York over the summer and has the city that normally prides itself on its permanent state of cool in a veritable panic: the blood suckers have wreaked havoc  everywhere from the Empire State building to hospital wards, the prosecutor's office in Brooklyn and Time Warner's Manhattan headquarters.Nobody is immune to the threat, from theatre-goers to dwellers in posh Manhattan condominiums and shoppers. Hollister, the teen clothing store, had to close its flagship outlet in SoHo after employees complained they were being bitten.The outbreak at Google was disclosed by one of its marketing staff who posted the news on her Twitter feed. "Jeepers, I am not immune to the bedbug panic. Bedbugs have been found at work."The feed has now been taken down.Across the city, there has been a two-thirds increase in the number of bedbug cases reported over the past two years, with almost 13,000 calls to the city's helpline over the past 12 months. Last year, a survey suggested one in 15 New Yorkers had become victims, a proportion that is likely to have risen since. Experts put the spread down to the decline in use of the chemical DDT, which was banned in 1972. The US environmental protection agencywarned last month of an "alarming resurgence" of bed bugsthat was overwhelming public health authorities.The agency has promised to search for a new generation of safe pesticides strong enough to eradicate them.
If we're being honest, you probably already know if Dance on Broadway is for you. When you went to open this review you were almost certainly looking for one of two things: justification for a purchase already decided on (or perhaps already made), or justification for your disdain.Last November Ubisoft released Just Dance to underwhelming reviews but some of the best sales figures ever achieved by a third-party publisher for the Wii. With Just Dance 2 pencilled in for an October release, Dance on Broadway is a straightforward gap-filler – a quick and easy title certain to generate some revenue while also helping build anticipation for the main event.The gameplay is almost identical to Just Dance, with players mimicking the actions of on-screen dancers, while holding a Wiimote. Just as with the former title, this feels entirely inadequate. Good dancing requires the whole body to move in unison, yet the nature of the hardware means that Dance on Broadway can only ever judge your performance on the basis of one limb. Even this is not done well.At one point early on, while getting to grips with the concept, I found myself standing perfectly still, yet repeatedly being scored "great" for movements I hadn't even made. Knowing this, it was hard to shake the feeling that all subsequent successes or failures were rather arbitrary and at times it felt as though accidental motions were just as likely to be rewarded as intended ones.From a presentation standpoint the game looks fine, if hardly inspiring, though the silhouetted images that appear along the bottom of the screen to warn you what moves are coming up can be more confusing than helpful. In terms of depth, the game offers little – with 20 show tunes to choose from but no career mode and nothing to unlock.Yet this game will appeal to fans of Just Dance, of show tunes, and of games that provide an excuse to get up and throw yourself around your front room. Lyrics are displayed during the songs to allow players to sing along and as a party game it will provide plenty of cheap giggles. Some people will love it. And they knew they would from the moment they saw the title.
When We Sing hit the shelves last year we dismissed it – justifiably – as not being able to hold a note to its rivals. Ho ho, see what we did there?Nintendo's first foray into the lucrative home karaoke market was a very basic package indeed. A handful of songs, no downloadable content, a very forgiving scoring system … We Sing was, we suggested, one that would be played briefly over Christmas and stuck in a drawer by New Year.And now, to paraphrase Gloria Gaynor, it's back (and yes, that is on this disc). And it's undergone such a transformation that, instead of being eclipsed by the rival consoles' Lips and SingStar, it's threatening to leave them standing.The downside? There are still no downloadable songs so the 40 here – up from last year's 30 – are all you get. However, the songs featured cover a wide range of bases, from today's popular artistes like The Saturdays, N-Dubz, Florence &amp; The Machine, to the sort of crowdpleasers – Three Lions, I'm Gonna Be (500 Miles), I'm Too Sexy – that were notable by their absence first time out.All ages are covered, there are serious challenges for those eager to show off – Total Eclipse of the Heart, perhaps, or Mika's only-dogs-can-hear-the-chorus Grace Kelly – and, for those who care about such things, all the wallpapers and background music can be customised. There's also a four-player mode, which gives the game a distinct edge over other similar titles.That, however, is only scratching the surface. Modes include Group Battle, Pass The Mic, Party and Marathon, all of which pretty much do what they say on the tin. However, you can now rap and score points, should you want to. You can remove the original vocals and fly completely solo. You can set it up to act as a video jukebox (most of the songs feature the original videos). You can even replay your performance but, having tried that, I really wouldn't recommend it. Not in company, anyway.Best of all there are two additions that are so brilliantly obvious you wonder why it's taken this long to add them. Blind mode drops out lyrics at certain points in the song and expects you to fill in the gaps, in time and in tune. It's deceptively difficult, even on songs you would have sworn you could recite backwards. Finally, there are also 30 "singing lessons". These are set up as mini-games, but act as both instruction to maximise the enjoyment of the game and, remarkably, boost your general vocal skills.Not so much a sequel as a complete reboot, We Sing Encore is a massive improvement. With downloadable content to extend the fun this would probably be the best of its ilk.
The original HAWX was a modern combat flight game with the emphasis very much on arcade rather than simulation. The sequel is equally accessible, although this time you do get to actually land and take off. Only the latter will cause any problems, though, and even then help is at close hand. For the most part HAWX2 is a straight-up air combat blaster.As with most games in this genre, you seem to spend a lot of your time following an arrow and then aiming at a fast-moving dot. Yes, the missile-dodging can be exhilarating at times, but things get repetitive worryingly quickly. Luckily then some neat sections – scanning buildings or taking charge of a gun turret to fend off assailants below – add some much-needed variety. Fans of Modern Warfare 2 will get déjà vu when playing these, with plenty of homage to the airborne missions in that series. Likewise, the typically winding and militaristic Clancy plot – nukes, Russians, general cliche – will ring a few bells too, especially as you play as different characters through the game.When you get a chance to have a gander at the landscape, the game can look surprisingly pretty, with some occasionally gorgeous scenery roaring away miles below. But sadly, all too often you are flying over nondescript, albeit accurately depicted, deserts and mountains.The usual assortment of online modes is available but it is the co-op that really shines. This new four-player co-op option is very welcome. As always with the more strategy focused online games, however, you will get more fun with a team willing to put the organisational effort in.HAWX2, like its predecessor, is not one for the hardcore flight sim crowd. Even at its hardest level it is near impossible to stall. Don't be fooled, though, this isn't an easy game. From fairly early on you face a steady enemy onslaught – from ground and air – with luck as much skill often getting you through. If you persevere, you'll find a solid air combat game that will appeal to fans of Top Gun.
I'm about to reluctantly upgrade from my existing extremely old but dearly loved radio. I'm intending to spend as much as I can afford on a top range, high specification standalone DAB radio. You have in the past published many articles on the subject on the UK DAB radio format and how you consider this to be inferior to the European model being developed, and I don't really wish to make an error in my purchase when shopping around.Jon SawerYou can't really buy decent standalone radios any more, unless you want a portable of the sort often called a "kitchen radio". Above that are "tabletop radios" that usually include other functions. The main features are FM and DAB digital radios, a connection for an MP3 player (often an iPod dock), and internet or Wi-Fi radio. Some have CD players and some have hard drives for storing music files. Finally there are "lifestyle" or microsystems that are actually mini hi-fi units with separate speakers. You'll have to decide which kind of system best fits your needs, and your budget.This diversity reflects changes in the way people listen to music.Radio now comes from a variety of sources, including thousands of internet radio stations. Also, many people now listen to music files from their portable music players or PC hard drives, not just to CDs and cassette tapes. The most common factor is FM radio, because it's cheap and because FM radio's network coverage is still much better than DAB's.Portable DAB/FM radiostend to be mono and have "retro" (old fashioned) designs. The top-of-the-range model in this class is the Pure Digital Evoke-2S (from about £130), which has a smart veneered finish. It's also a proper stereo radio, although the speakers are too close together to create much of a stereo effect. It has the usual telescopic aerial but you can unscrew it and use something more capable if you live in a weak signal area.There's a very similar Pure Evoke-3 model (from £154), which can record to SD memory cards and also comes with a remote control. However, it doesn't say it's upgradeable to DAB+ (see below), so you'll need to check. A cheaper alternative is the "piano black" Roberts Sound 80 (£85), which has a downward-facing bass woofer of the sort more common on tabletop designs.Tabletop radiosare trending towards a boxy design exemplified by the Roberts MP43 Sound 43 (CD/DAB/FM/Dock, £180). The Monitor Audio AirStream 10 (£224) is a more stylish and distinctive unit that also includes Wi-Fi and Ethernet connections. Pure's challenger is the Avanti Flow Table-top Digital Music System (£228), which also has a downward facing 5.25 inch subwoofer. However, the one to beat is theaward-winningVita Audio R2i (Walnut finish, £280), which has a reputation for its sound quality.Microsystemsattempt to deliver hi-fi, or something close to hi-fi, without the overhead of having a large stack of units and speakers on stands. For a very long time, small silver Denon CD/radio receivers have been the ones to buy, though the line has been challenged by Onkyo and others in the value-for-money stakes. The Denon RCD M38 (up to £300) is the latest model, and it now supports USB playback and DAB+ as well as DAB and FM. It's also available for £200 without the two small SC-M37 speakers usually supplied. This allows you to spend a bit more on better speakers.There are dozens of small bookshelf speakers on the UK market including the Q Acoustics 2010 and 2020, Tannoy F1 Custom, Monitor Audio BR1 and Mordaunt Short Aviano. They are heavily discounted if you shop around, though in the long run, it's better to buy from a dealer who will let you listen to them first. Most sound much better on stands, but you can use four generous blobs of Blu-Tack to lift each speaker off a shelf.Sony also offers a lot of "mini hi-fi" systems at low prices. The Sony CMTBX77DBI (CD/DAB/FM/Dock, £130) provides the advantages of separate loudspeakers and room-filling sound for less than the cost of many portable radios.I've quoted current prices from Amazon.co.uk for convenience, and this is also a good site for checking star ratings and user reviews. You can also useTestSeek.co.ukto find magazine and website reviews of most products before shopping around.In terms of future-proofing your purchase, the main thing is to look for support for DAB+. This is the relatively new digital radio standard that is replacing the old and inefficient DAB system currently used in the UK. Of course, there are no plans to use DAB+ in the UK at the moment, and even DAB+ will never see the global adoption enjoyed by FM. However, it is painfully obvious that DAB is floundering in the UK, and DAB+ provides the chance to offer higher sound quality, more channels and lower transmission costs than DAB so ultimately it cannot be avoided.This doesn't mean DAB would be phased out immediately: DAB+ is backwards-compatible so the two would co-exist while 10m DAB sets drop out of use. Before there's a switchover from FM to DAB, digital radio listening must reach 50%, and national coverage has to match FM coverage. There is zero chance of digital radio listening reaching 50% by 2013, let alone that being DAB digital radio. Indeed, the number of FM radios is still growing much faster than the number of DAB radios, because FM is also appearing in mobile phones and MP3 players. There's also very little chance of DAB matching FM coverage in time: that would require the BBC to spend more than £100m on building out the network. (The government isn't going to pay for it directly, and commercial radio doesn't have the money.)But it may never happen. If the government thinks it can make perhaps 150m FM radios redundant then it's in for a very rude shock. (Technically, FM will never be switched off: the plan is to use it for "hyperlocal radio" – presumably schools, hospital radio, community stations etc.)However, as I've pointed outbefore, Lord Carter's Digital Britain report said: "To prepare for any such change or additional upgrade we will work to ensure that digital radio receivers sold in the UK are at least compliant with the WorldDMB receiver profile 1; which includes DAB+ and DMB-A." This prepares the way for moving beyond DAB, though I suspect it had more to do with the European Broadcasting Union's desire to find a standard that would actually work across Europe.You could, of course, wait for radios that support WorldDMB receiver profile 1(PDF), but don't hold your breath.
One of my bank holiday weekend projects, along with tackling the triffids in the garden, was upgrading my Exchange 2010 server to SP1,which Microsoft unleashed last week.I'm running Exchange at home, so obviously it's a lot easier for me to deploy as I only have a handful of users – myself and a couple of friends whose email I host – than it is for a corporate user.Having said that, it was a pretty painless process, bar a couple of annoyances. First, the update hasn't been pushed out to Windows Update –you have to download it as a standalone from here.More serious, though, is the fact that it requires a bunch of hotfixes and an update to the Exchange language pack, none of which are rolled up in the installer or available through Windows Update. I'd suggest doing them in advancevia the links hererather than waiting for the pre-flight checks that the installer runs to throw them up, as not all of the links it produces actually work properly. Also, each hotfix requires a server reboot, which adds significantly to the time it takes to do the upgrade, though you can do all the hotfixes and then do one final reboot.Once all those are in place, the installer runs smoothly. It took 40 minutes on my machine, which runs Windows Server 2008 R2 and has all the server and Exchange roles on the single box (as I say, I'm a geeky home user rather than a corporate). And to my surprise, it didn't require me to reboot the server when it was done.There area number of improvementsin SP1, ranging from compliance stuff to high availability and site resilience, as well as support forplaying nicely with Exchange Online– a Microsoft cloud-based service that it clearly sees as a significant revenue stream.However, your users will most appreciate the enhancements to Outlook Web Access, the webmail client. It looks much cleaner, with more elegant fonts; and it's much faster now that the client pre-fetches content. Users will also appreciate the ability to change the look of the client – it now includes 27 themes, which you as admin can either let your users pick and choose between or lock down as you see fit.  So no morebilious yellow– unless you want it, of course.Cross-browser support seems to have improved, too – you now get the full client in Chrome for Mac, though not yet in Safari for Windows. Though any server admin will tell you that adding Macs to Active Directory is probably more pain than it's worth.Also new is the ability to publish calendars to the wider internet, which streamlines meeting requests and suchlike – users are now able to look at the relevant calendar wherever they are without having to email back and forth about times, dates and availability.Barring the irritation with the pre-requisites, I think Microsoft has done a good job with SP1. Though when you look at how ragged OWA looks pre-SP1 compared with the much sleeker version now, you do wonder why it couldn't be that good first time round.Pros:Lots of admin-friendly improvements, vastly better OWA, easy to deployCons:Those wretched pre-requisiteshttp://www.microsoft.com/exchange/2010/en/us/default.aspx
Apple chief Steve Jobs's trumpeting of the 160 million credit card holders on iTunes was a siren call to spammers. As if they needed any invitation.The most common incidence of scamming on Apple's latest social venture, Ping, is the offering of free iPhones from a dodgy URL. These avatar-less lurkers are mostly hanging around Ping's more famous participants – Katy Perry, for instance.AsMacRumors points out, no credit card details are needed to sign up for an iTunes Store account – the requisite accreditation for joining Ping – which would appear the spammers' way in."[Ping] implements no spam or URL filtering,"says internet security firm Sophos, adding that the service is "drowning in scams and spams".And it appears that Ping has also received a touch of the early-day Twitter, musician Ben Foldslast night saying that an account had been created in his name. Verified accounts, Mr Jobs? (And are you sure those were Jack Johnson's tour photos? Was that really Coldplay's Chris Martin on stage on Wednesday?)Graham Clulely, senior technology consultant at Sophos, said: "We're used to survey scams like this being spread far and wide via sites like Facebook, but clearly the lack of filtering on Ping is making it a brand new playground for the bad guys to operate in."It's ironic that the most common scams on Ping right now revolve around Apple's own iPhone. It's safe to assume that Ping does incorporate some rudimentary filtering to prevent offensive messages from being posted, so hopefully Apple's security team can extend this to also block scam messages and malicious links. In the meantime, though, Ping users should be wary of believing what they read on the new service."Remember back in 2009 when Twitter was plagued by spammers? This is what happened when the siteannounced a declaration of war on spamin October last year:Amount of Twitter spam drops after site declares warSophos also say the iTunes 10 update fixes 13 "separate vulnerabilities" in the components used to render the iTunes interface.
Samsung is offering a €500,000 prize fund to European software developers who create better applications for internet-connected televisions.The South Korean electronics company hopes that the developer community can kick-start its ambitions of putting TVs at the heart of an intelligent home network. It launched an apps service earlier this year, which lets its larger TVs and Blu-ray players download applications from the web, and has just released a software development kit for it.Michael Zöller, Samsung's European marketing director for TV and audio-visual, said the company wants Europe's coders to create applications for their home markets."The outcome will be more localised applications to satisfy the demands of European consumers," Zöller said. "This is the beginning of a journey with developers that will change the lives of consumers."Samsung announced the initiative at the IFA show in Berlin, where it predicted a future where televisions, smartphones and laptops would seamlessly share video content. This would allow a football fan to start watching a game on the sofa, and finish the action in bed on their mobile, it suggested.TheSamsung Smart TV Challenge starts the end of September, but developers can register now.The goal of an integrated home as been a key theme at IFA this week.Sony announced plans for a cloud-based music and video service called Qriocity, which would link its PlayStation 3 with TVs, Blu-ray players and Vaio PCs.
Samsung's new Android-powered tablet computer, the Galaxy Tab, has been well-received by industry analysts – even though full pricing details have still not been released.The Tab, launched at the IFA show in Berlin, is expected to herald a charge against the early success of the Apple iPad. Consumers should benefit, with a price war predicted to kick off in 2011.Here's some of the early reaction.Ben Wood, director of research at CCS InsightApple has legitimised the tablet category with its iPad and the Samsung Galaxy Tab sees the tier-one brand go head-to-head with Steve Jobs' creation.Samsung is betting big on the tablet category with this device. It's the first major manufacturer to unveil a device targeting this segment but we expect a flurry of further announcement from an array of other players.The Galaxy Tab signals Samsung's understanding that it takes more than hardware to be successful. Allowing access to books, music and films is a major step forward as it ratchets up its competitive positioning against Apple.The 7in form-factor is very compelling. Rumours abound that Apple is evaluating a similar device footprint for future iterations of the iPad to sit alongside its 9.7in older brother.Success will depend on pricing. If positioned carefully, the Galaxy Tab could emerge as an operator-friendly alternative to Apple's iPad as it could be subsidised (with a contract) to extremely ultra low price points in the run up to the lucrative holiday sales season.This is the first of a torrent of Android tablets we expect to be launched in coming weeks. At the low end, it's going to be a complete bloodbath as no-name brands race to the bottom of the price curve.Carolina Milanesi, research vice-president at GartnerThe Galaxy Tab builds on the success that the Galaxy S [mobile phone] has been having since its launch in June. With a 7in display, front and back camera, 16GB and 32GB storage plus SD card and a price tag of around €600 (£500) before subsidy, the Galaxy Tab offers a good solution for those users that have been thinking about getting a tablet but were waiting for something more price competitive.Samsung will have about 200 apps at launch that will be dedicated to the Galaxy Tab. All apps in its Markets application store will, of course, run as well. But if the iPad experience is anything to go by, it will be dedicated apps that will make the difference. It will be also interesting to see what will be the consumers' response to the subsidised model. The flexibility that you can have with iPad – where, in the UK, I can buy a day pass for 3G, or a week or a month – has had a lot of success with consumers who do not feel they have signed up their life yet to another contract.All that said, the recent Ofcom report on the UK shows that the trend for the 24-month contract is growing. Subsidy on hardware is still what consumers see rather than total cost of ownership.
Tube train, on time. Photo byfabbioon Flickr.Some rights reservedWant to get the bus and underground timetables, in a zippy XML format? You can, right now,via the London Datastore.As the page explains, "The data available in the attached zip file consists of almost 800 xml files, with each relating to a particular service i.e. one per tube line, bus route, riverboat route, dlr route etc. Each xml file contains the following data elements: StopPoints; RouteSections; Routes; JourneyPatternSections; Operators; Services; VehicleJourneys."Getting this data out hasn't been a trivial task - and my understanding is that it's been down to persistent lobbying from the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, himself.This is another significant tranche of data to come out of TfL - an organisation that for years has been seen by developers and some within the Greater London Assembly as something of a black box; as one person put it to me, "you pour money in at one end and you get transport out at the other, but you're not allowed to see inside it." Previously, TfL released data about locations of bus stops, and then some real-time data about movements of tube trains - which led, you'll recall, toMatthew Somerville's live tube train map. (Unfortunately, the API for that has been suspended: it couldn't cope with 10m hits per week, and hasn't come back since June. Ahem, ahem, TfL.)You can seeall the London transport-related datasetsvia the London Datastore. With Johnson pushing it, though, light is starting to shine inside TfL.By far the most successful demonstration of the power of making data free though has come from theLondon Cycle Hire scheme- where you can now get real-time information about availability of bicycles for hire, by location, in apps forAndroidandiPhone.But if we can now add information about bus and tubes to apps like that, we're getting closer to the point where TfL really is being run for the citizens of London, rather than (as many bureaucracies are) for its staff. The distinction is a fine one - most organisations think of themselves as having their users' best interests at heart; the difference is that when you can get feedback, then the organisation may discover things about their users that they never knew.There's still some way to go with TfL: for example, it collects data about how many cars pass particular points (using induction loops in the road) which is used for traffic light timing; that's data that many developers would love to get their hands, or processors, on. You never know: if the pressure continues, it might come too.You might think that Boris Johnson's presence pushing this along is just a bit of grandstanding, but that wouldn't be correct. He's actually been in the vanguard of politicians introducing open data. If you have a long memory for public data-related stories, you'll recall that he did a rather neat end-run around the Labour administration's Home Office in 2008, when as part of his manifesto while running for the office of London mayor he declared that he would publish crime maps.We werea little scepticalon the Free Our Data blog, although theblocking attitude of the policeand theInformation Commissioner's Officedid nudge us towards Johnson's side.Johnson did go on to publish them, and London has been in the forefront of cities which have tried to do innovative things with the data that its local government and authorities collect. First came the London Datastore,launched in January. Then came the datasets. And that brings us to the present day. For the many who don't live in London, this might all seem academic - but really the Datastore, and the political impetus behind it, are examples for the rest of the country that making data open and reusable actually can have a benefit. Would the Bike Scheme be as useful if you couldn't find out availability easily? Probably not. And once the TfL timetables have been processed, someone is sure to have a smart use for them.Can't wait, personally. Overall, 2010 has already been a fantastic year - possibly the best ever - for making data free: first the London Datastore, then the Ordnance Survey OpenData release in April, and now the drive by central government to get both central and local government to publish data (soon to include the text of contracts) about spending. Results don't come much better than that.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Everything must go! Photo byAnd all that Malarkeyon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVox is closing September 30, 2010 &gt;&gt; Vox"Vox has been a fun place to explore, create and connect with your friends. But Vox is closing its doors on September 30, 2010."This doesn't mean you have to say goodbye to your blog. We want you to make sure you can keep the great content you've shared on Vox, and continue to have a home for your blog. To help you make the transition off of Vox, we've added new export features that make it easy to move your blog to a free TypePad account, and your photos &amp; videos to Flickr."My job was to game Digg using infographics, voting networks, and bait-and-switch &gt;&gt; RedditA Digg-gamer explains the how, why, and how much.Why Users Fill Out Forms Faster With Top Aligned Labels &gt;&gt; UXMovement.comBecause they don't have to move their eyes back and forth so much. Sounds obvious. Isn't.It's time for the baked-in Android UI to die &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsNot sure whether the mobile carriers are listening, but.. "Listen up, Android manufacturers: The time has come for your built-in Android user interface to go away. Call it Motoblur, call it Sense, call it whatever you want -- as long as it's coming preinstalled on Android phones, it's officially overstayed its welcome."Toshiba Folio 100 preview &gt;&gt; EngadgetFor &euro;399, you get.. "We just got to handle the Folio 100, after witnessing it bolted to a wall earlier, and we have to admit that it's lighter and thinner than it looks at first glance. Unfortunately, it still feels pretty cheap, and we're not sure how much we trust ourselves one-handing something this large and fragile seeming. Our brief glimpse of Toshiba's custom skin on here was most depressing -- it's not final, but we're not sure why Toshiba is even bothering showing anything in this abysmal state." Oh.Compromising Twitter's OAuth security system &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Sadly, Twitter's extremely poor implementation of the OAuth standard offers a textbook example of how to do it wrong. This article will explore some of the problems with Twitter's OAuth implementation and some potential pitfalls inherent to the standard. I will also show you how I managed to compromise the secret OAuth key in Twitter's very own official client application for Android."Reddit 'excited' about chance to eat Digg's lunch &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Reddit saw an uptick of about 30 percent in "self-serve" ad sales this week, and is seeing a strong rise in new subscriptions to it's 'Reddit Gold' program, (which gives users who pay a sneak peak at new features), according to Erik Martin, Reddit's community manager. "It's still going up. Our numbers have been going up significantly for the entire year, and in the last week or so with the refugees from Digg, a lot of people are hearing about us from friends or on Twitter. We're seeing a lot of new users.""TfL Timetable Listings &gt;&gt; London DataStore"The data available in the attached zip file consists of almost 800 xml files, with each relating to a particular service i.e. one per tube line, bus route, riverboat route, dlr route etc". Ooooh yeah.iPod nano (sixth generation) review: first look &gt;&gt; PC Pro blog"my overwhelming first impression is that the new nano is a miniaturisation too far."Essex Councty Council CIO on mysterious 'indefinite leave' &gt;&gt; ComputerWorld UKIn the midst of a major transformation programme with IBM, his leave only drew the comment from the council that "we use a leave of absence as part of our resolution procedures". Odd.Free Domain Reports with Safety Ratings &gt;&gt; AVG Threat LabsBasically, much like what other AV companies have been offering - a "safe surfing" method of checking sites. Not much use without an API, to be honest; but an API might be easily abused. Conundrum.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The summer of 2010 could well go down as the time when download gaming on the consoles finally came of age. Limbo, Deathspank, Lara Croft: Guardian of Light - the best games this summer have been released via download only. Put down Red Dead Redemption for a minute and think about it - download gaming has ruled this summer. The trend looks set to continue for a little longer too, with Outland unveiled for XBLA and PSN. IGN describe itin their preview:Outland can best be described as a cross between retro platformers like Prince of Persia or Out of This World and the color-switching of shoot 'em up Ikaruga. You control an acrobatic fellow as he explores a lush, dense jungle. It's a 2D game but there is a great sense of depth in the background with swaying branches and colorful wildlife. The animation for all the characters is really terrific.Interested? I certainly am, especially by the influence ofIkaruga. As the preview explains:Our hero can switch between light and dark forms, an ability he'll need to exploit in order to murder the local monsters and avoid sprays of bullets. Just like in Ikaruga, he'll take damage from opposite-colored bullets but will be impervious to those of the same polarity. So if there is a platform you want to get to but it's being blocked by a stream of white bullets, just change to white and you can pass through unharmed. There are instances where you must rapidly switch back and forth to move through multi-colored sprays of bullets, much like Ikaruga.Sounds good then.  But what do you think? Interested? And what about download-only games generally. Do you agree they have never been this good?
John Holmes, who has died aged 101, devised flush runway lights, first used in 1939, that made the night landing of commercial aircraft possible, and went on to work on the international standardisation of coloured safety signals. Without such innovations, the ability to travel at night by road, rail, sea or air in relative safety would not be possible.Holmes was born in Bradford, West Yorkshire, the son of a Methodist minister. He was educated at Burford grammar school and later at the Royal College of Science (RCS), London, where he graduated with a BSc in physics and a diploma in optics. After graduating, he went to work with Chance Brothers, in Birmingham, makers of optical and coloured glass, where he became involved in the development of many glass products, including lighthouse lanterns with Trinity House, as well as inventing an early form of double glazing. He excelled at making technical concepts understandable to those on the workshop floor and, in 1946, he moved to Holophane, a lighting manufacturer, where he became technical director. There his knowledge and skills were applied to lighting designs and equipment, including the plan and fittings used in Westminster Abbey for the 1953 coronation.Holmes is best known for his research on coloured glass and lighting. His early mentor at the RCS, David Wright, was concerned with systems of colour measurement and Holmes applied his research to glass and identified areas of the colour gamut that could safely be used for signal purposes. His findings had originally been submitted for a PhD, extraordinarily rejected "because it was not physics". That work nevertheless went on to establish his reputation as&nbsp;an&nbsp;international expert.In 1967 he initiated research on flashing light signals at Imperial College London, which culminated in an international symposium in 1970. That led to their adoption by British and many other national railways.He was much sought after to advise on international standardisation, where his tact and diplomacy in technical discussions were greatly valued. He made major contributions to the International Commission on Illumination and to international lighting vocabulary.Holmes retired in 1970 but remained active with committee, writing and consulting work. Aged 85, he assisted with the compilation of a lighting guide for communal residential buildings. In 1987, the Illuminating Engineering Society gave Holmes its inaugural lighting award and further accolades followed from the Physical Society Colour Group, of which he had been a&nbsp;founder, and from the YMCA, which awarded him the Golden Order of the Red Triangle in 1988. He also received the Queen's silver jubilee medal in 1977.Holmes is survived by Edna, his wife of 18 years. He had married Gwladus Eluned (known as Lyned), his first wife, in 1937 and they lived in Wimbledon, south-west London, and in Hampshire until her death in 1980.• John Guyscliffe Holmes, lighting engineer, born 31 May 1909; died 28 June 2010
Having cornered the MP3 player, mobile phone and computer tablet markets with the iPod, iPhone and iPad devices respectively, last night Apple announced its latest expansion – into social media – with Ping.Ping will be integrated into Apple's latest iTunes software update and will enable users, or "Pingers", to follow musicians, friends and others to see details including what music they're buying and what concerts they're attending.Steve Jobs, Apple's chairman and chief executive, said the information will arrive in a long stream of updates, similar to the way Facebook and Twitter work."Be as private or as public as you want. The privacy is super-easy to set up," he said adding that users can choose to automatically accept followers or decide on a follower-by-follower basis – similar sounding controls to those on Twitter.The service is available immediately to more than 160 million iTunes users, Jobs said, and will also be available across the iPhone and iPod Touch ranges.The feature is believed to have been based on the technology Apple acquired with the purchase of the former online music store Lala.com last year.The iTunes logo will no longer feature a CD – mirroring the change in the program's focus.Jobs unveiled a range of other upgrades to its products and services, including a new version of Apple TV – which will allow users to stream television programmes and films.The company is also releasing a revamped range of iPods, including an iPod touch with front- and rear-facing camera, Jobs told an assembled crowd of journalists, bloggers and analysts in California.Until now the Apple TV device was "never a huge hit", admitted Jobs.The box originally allowed users to buy films and television programmes, but the latest version, which is smaller and, at $99, much cheaper than its $229 predecessor, will only allow the renting, rather than purchasing, of content.Users will pay $4.99 for high-definition films on the day they come out on DVD, while the rent of high-definition TV shows will be $0.99, Apple announced."We've sold a lot of them, but it's never been a huge hit," Jobs said of Apple TV. The new version will be available within a month.Jobs also introduced a new design across the range of iPods, including the latest Nano, featuring a rotatable screen and a new Shuffle which sees the return of buttons – its predecessor was voice activated.The new iPod Touch will have front- and rear-facing cameras, the latter of which will be able to record HD video content, Jobs added.
Here's a question: why is the screen of Apple's iPad 9.7in across? Why that size? Why not bigger? Or smaller?If we examine this question, we may be able to figure out the answer to another question: how are the slew of tablets being released now (hello Samsung) going to fare in the market?Consider what the iPad was going up against when it was being designed: the range of Windows-based tablet computers, which would have had screens in the 12in to 13in range; the Amazon Kindle, a dedicated e-reader, with a 7in screen; and the Kindle DX, launched in May 2009,which has a 9.7in screen. (There was also, of course, the smaller range of machines, bottoming out at the iPod Touch, with its 3.5in screen.)Apple's engineering and design team will have played with all sorts of screen sizes, and they'll have compared the Kindle and Kindle DX screens to see which was the more satisfying in terms of user experience – because that's where Apple really sweats it, on the user experience. You can imagine Steve Jobs wandering around with prototypes with differently-sized screens, trying to figure out which was the ideal. Given a certain screen size, you get a certain battery life. Or vice-versa.Apple plumped for 9.7in, with 1024x768 pixels, andstuck in a huge battery too, which is what has given the iPad its (alleged) 10-hour battery life. Though for once, that claim seems to be backed up by anecdotal reports around the web: the iPad really does seem to last through the day. (Using 3G, Apple says you'll get a nine-hour battery life.)But that battery life is also the reason the iPad weighs more than other tablets: because it's got a big battery.Now we come to all the other tablets, which have been built and launched in the aftermath of Apple's January announcement – and may well have been designed since January too.Here comesSamsung; here too is Viewsonic, andArchos, and we even got an email from Binatone, one of the really old British consumer electronics names. It's offering the "HomeSurf" for£130: 7in screen, 800x480, resistive touch screen "with stylus", 2GB storage, Wi-Fi, Android (2.2 we assume, but it's not specified), MicroSD card slot, plays MP4, H.264, XVID. The claimed video playback time:3 hours. Plus there's an 8in version for£180: 800x600, touchscreen with stylus, 2GB storage, video playback MP4, H.264 (but not XVID, apparently), video playback time4 hours.Toshiba has also launched a tablet, with a 10.1in screen (interesting) with Froyo; apparently the 16GB version will cost about £399 – making it a challenge to Apple (the 16GB iPad is £429).Samsung, which has attracted a lot of attention with the announcement of its Galaxy Tab – whose specifications were well-known ahead of the launch, apart from the price, which then didn't get announced – might struggle to make a big impact. Why? Because of the price:Heise Online at IFA saysthat the price for the unlocked 16GB 7in Wi-Fi/3G Galaxy Tab will be about €800. And Expansys has (since this article went up) set theprice for the 16GB unlocked version at £680.Does that sound reasonable? Well, if you compare it to the 64GB Wi-Fi/3G iPad, which costsexactly the same amount in Euros, and only £19 more in the UK, then … no.The suggestion is that Samsung is actually letting the mobile carriers – which will be the only retail avenue – decide the price.Mobile carriers may be able to lower the up-front price through 3G contracts.Next, battery life: the Samsung will manage seven hours of video playback, it's claimed: we'll have to see whether that's the case. And you do get a camera on the front and back, plus other little extras.Tim Bray, formerly at Sun and now looking after various Android-y things at Google, hashad an early hands-on with the Galaxy Tab. "The world still isn't sure just where it is that tablets are the right tool for the job," he notes (which echoesmy own ponderings about the function of the iPad, before it was released).His other thoughts on the product:"It's got a phone but (at least on the pre-release model I used) you can't hold it up to your head, which is a good thing as that would look supremely dorky... Did I mention that the screen is beautiful? Also it feels really good in the hand and looks pretty nice, and is obviously in the first microsecond's glance not an iPad."So what will he do with it?"I know what I'll use the Galaxy Tab for: to show off Android. The big screen just makes everything easier to see and point at, and graphics look outstanding, and it passes from hand to hand easily. Showing off Android is part of my job and this will help me do my job better."That leads him onto his thoughts about what tablets are for:"Which leads to a general theory, reinforced by informal observation of hipsters with iPads in coffee shops: a tablet is, crucially, a more shareable computer. A laptop, with its fragile hinge-ware and space-gobbling keyboard, is just not comfy to share. A tablet is easier to bring to the café, easier to hand across the table or along the sofa, easier to seize in the heat of the moment, easier to hold up in triumph, easier to set aside when you need to meet someone's eyes."Key question:"How big a market is that? Anyone who says they know is lying."At which we turn to Ray Chen, the president of Compal, one of the big Taiwanese computer assembly companies – which builds tablets for companies including Dell, Acer and Lenovo. He thinks sales of non-Apple tabletswill "not exceed" 15m units in 2011, and that there will be a fearsome shakeout soon after as the market turns out to be tougher than expected. Compare that to Apple, which says that it sold 3.27m iPads in the three months since the device launched in April. Clearly, Apple works out as the biggest player in that market.But come around again to that question at the top: why is the iPad screen the size it is? If Apple thought that 7in was the sweet spot for this, it surely would have built it that size. Ignore the lack of features;remember the Slashdot observationwhen the first iPod came out: "No wireless. Less space than a [Creative Labs] Nomad. Lame." But what the iPod did have was size (the Nomad was a giant compared to it) and battery life.I think the same applies for tablets. The specs, and things like cameras, are all subsidiary to the main things that people want to do with tablets: browse on them and share them (perBray) and use them for long periods without having to hunt around for a power source. True, it would be nice if we could browse for hours on end on our laptops, but the choice there seems to be between netbooks offering long battery lives but pokey screens and keyboards, or nice big laptop screens but unsatisfactory battery life.And even for the former of those categories, things aren't going well:"Chen also noted that Wintel netbook sales have recently been devoured seriously by tablet PCs and if the two firms [presumably Microsoft and Intel] do not consider dropping prices or improve performance, sales will continue to drop."This chimes with somethingJack Schofield posted at ZDNet: while sales of desktop and laptop PCs are rising towards 1m per day, "Gartner also sees diminishing sales of netbooks, which it calls mini-notebooks. Netbooks accounted for 20% of mobile PC sales at the end of last year, but Gartner expects it to fall to around 10% by late 2014."Netbooks are even beginning to look like a brief spasm in personal computing's history; Apple's disdain for them, and its refusal to produce one in the face of analysts and press who thought it was cutting its own throat by not doing so, now looks well-placed. Certainly, better to be the leader in a sector like tablets than a follower in netbooks.But until more people have bought and tried out these tablets, we're not going to know if a 7in screen can do the job – or if, as one ever so slightly suspects, it's the 9.7in measurement that actually does the job best.Chen's forecast is definitely one to watch – and it will be interesting to see if tablets turn out to be a sort of computing flash in the pan, like netbooks are looking, or if they turn into the equivalent of the MP3 player, and carve out a whole new mode of use. And if the latter, the really interesting question will be: what's the best-selling screen size? And how long is "long enough" for the battery? And is there any other essential element to a tablet that guarantees sales?
Super Metroid remains one of the best ever Nintendo exclusives, so the franchise's first proper outing on Wii was always going to be highly anticipated. However, Other M is literally a game of two halves that will not appeal to everyone.Let's start with the most obvious and debatable design decision: the perspective. Most of MoM is played with a fixed 3D camera angle that tracks your progress from one location to another. These locations can be played in either first or third person perspective, and switching perspective merely involves pointing the wiimote at the screen. In FPS mode, your position is fixed and the game becomes a more House of the Dead style shooting gallery. In the default 2D mode, the action scrolls from left to right and the controller is held sideways, with D-pad for movement and A &amp; B buttons for all the weapons, jumps and defenses.All this is rendered and animated with due reverence to the SNES original, making the look of the game instantly familiar. However, this time the Samus must tell her own dull backstory through annoyingly long (and frustratingly unskippable) cut-scenes. Luckily, her sulky new voice has not diminshed her fighting skills, with many of her signature moves and weapons incorporated into the game, those familiar wall jumps and an all new dodge move.Moves and weapons are released to you throughout the game, which is par for the series and yet, compared to the balletic combat of previous games, MoM is a curiously disjointed affair. It's not just memorising all the button presses on a sideways-held controller (which is disorientating in itself) – it's being forced to switch perspectives at key points in the game just to survive. This is especially noticeable during boss battles that can't simply be dispatched by relying on Samus's auto-targeting system. Because you can't move or jump in FPS mode or fire missiles or scan the locations in the other, you're forced to shuffle between the two perspectives, usually getting pummeled while you decide whether to switch or not.Which begs the question of what was so wrong with the game's original two dimensions – not least when it delivered a superior game on vastly inferior hardware? Yes, 3D and talking heroines are what the market wants but an unashamedly mute, 2D Metroid for Wii was what true fans of the series wanted even more and I'm afraid I'm one of them.
Samsung made its eagerly awaited new entry into the mobile computing market today with the launch of the Galaxy Tab, and hinted that further versions will be unveiled next year.The 7in Android-based tablet computer with built-in phone capabilities is expected to challenge the Apple iPad.However, with pricing details still not available today, it is not clear quite how the Tab will compare with other products.Weighing in at just 380g, the Galaxy Tab is being pitched as a single portable device that can be used to browse the internet, make video calls, watch television or listen to music."This is not just another tablet. We call it a Smart Media device," Thomas Richter, Samsung's head of product portfolio, told a packed press conference at the at the IFA consumer electronics show in Berlin.Samsung executives said that the company will probably launch several more Tab models next year, possibly with different screen sizes, to target different audiences."Based on our research, customers have different needs ... next year you might see very different tablets coming out of our company," hinted DJ Lee, a senior Samsung executive.The Galaxy Tab has a 1024x600 TFT colour screen, which can flip between portrait and landscape view dependng how the user holds it. It will be sold with 16GB or 32GB of memory, expandable with another 32GB. It has two built-in cameras for and will be shipped with several applications from Google pre-installed, including Maps and Places.The Tab also supports a wide range of connectivity methods, including Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, HSDPA and HSUPA. and includes a GPS chip. It will also run HTML5 and Adobe Flash."At this size and weight, the Tab is just as portable as a mobile phone," Richter said. Samsung said that the Tab's battery would support seven hours of continuous video playback.The Tab will launch in Europe in October, and all the UK's mobile operators will offer the device. There was some disappointment at IFA that pricing details were not available. Samsung said this would ultimately be determined by operators."Because the Tab offers both voice and data, the operators will have a range of different subsidies they can offer," a Samsung spokesman said. "We're still working with operators on their tariff plans.""We will work very hard to deliver a very competitive price," said DJ Lee.Analysts at CSS Insight said that the Tab is likely to be positioned as an "operator-friendly alternative to iPad", but warned that pricing will be "crucial in the competitive tablet market."The ability to make voice and video calls over the Tab may be a key differentiator in the competitive tablet PC market. According to Richter, mobile operators who sell the Tab are likely to offer a "two Sim" solution, so that a customer could run the Tab and another mobile phone on the same phone number.The Tab runs the latest Google's Android mobile phone application, and will have full access to the Android Marketplace of applications. Lee said that "80% to 90%" of Android applications will work on the device, but he admitted that some of the most popular applications did not run well – probably due to its sreen size. He said Samsung had been working with Google and the developer community to fix this problem.Ebooks are also supported on the device. "We expect Tab to play an important role in the digitisation of printed media," said Richter.
Internet music service Spotify has joined forces with Sonos, adding to the multi-room player's roster of web-based music partnerships as part of an industry-wide drive to get more people to pay for music.Spotify's 500,000 paying customers - those on its £10-per-month "premium" service - will now be able to stream their digital library through a Sonos home entertainment system, provided they live in Finland, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden or the UK. Because Spotify is still not available in the US, due to licensing issues with record labels there, Sonos customers there - one of its biggest markets won't be able to get it yet.Sonos already has similar tieups with the international music service Napster, as well as Last.fm, Audble.com and Deezer.John MacFarlane, chief executive of the California-based company, says the latest move is a "complete reinvention of the home stereo system", adding that "Spotify on Sonos has been the number one request from our European customers and we're thrilled to deliver it.""It's great that people will be able to listen to Spotify whenever they want, wherever they want in their home," said Daniel Ek, Founder and CEO Spotify.Sonos and Spotify customers with a ZonePlayer, Sonos S5 music player and a Sonos Controller – available either as a separate controller, or as a free iPhone app and soon-to-be-launched iPad app – will be able to use the service from late September."No money changes hands in this deal," MacFarlane told the Guardian. "We have a very good business in all areas Spotify sells in so it makes sense for both companies to make each other better. Spotify do a nice job on focusing on user experience and it streams really well."He added: "The labels are putting more and more pressure on Spotify to move members to a paying service so that made more sense from their perspective. What's happening in the digital music landscape...the traditional players are now starting to embrace it and part of that is users paying for music. That's a trend that's only going to increase."Spotify has garnered momentum in Europe, despite still not launching in the US after four years. Although it has forged licensing deals with labels including Sony and EMI, some songwriters still appear disenchanted with the service's ability to generate income for artists.Patrick Rackow, chairman of the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors, told the BBC earlier this year: "At the moment, the amounts of money that are actually being received are tiny. That might be because there is no money there."The streaming space is looking increasingly complicated. Sony yesterday announcedits own move into the music streaming spacewith a subscription-based service centred around its Playstation 3 console.Speaking at Berlin's IFA fair, the electronics manufacturer said the new "cloud-based" service would allow customers to download songs and HD movies over the internet and watch them on other web-enabled Sony devices, including TVs, laptops and music players.&bull; Sonos is offering a free replacement to owners of its newer CR200 touch-screen controllers affected by manufacturing defects. Some owners of the CR200 have found that parts of the screen become unresponsive. The CR200 uses a capacitive touchscreen.In an email sent to owners, Sonos says:"We have recently discovered a potential issue with a small number of Sonos Controller 200s (CR200) manufactured within a specific period. As a registered owner of one of these controllers, we wanted to let you know right away and inform you of our decision to extend your warranty.""Specifically, a single area or areas of the touch screen may be unresponsive to normal touch usage. The reported failure rate, while low, does not meet Sonos quality standards. Therefore, Sonos is extending the product warranty for your Sonos Controller 200 for an additional year at no cost, in the event it fails in this manner."Customers who have had problems with the CR200 should contactSonos's support pagesto organise the replacement.
Apple has ditched the CD in the iTunes logo, upgraded its iPod range and revamped Apple TV, as welearned last night. Chief executive Steve Jobs also upped Apple's social media game with Ping – a music recommendation and sharing feature that has been added to the latest version of iTunes, iTunes 10.Users with an iTunes Store login (there are 160 million of those worldwide, and they are the engine behind Apple's money-making content machine) can now click the 'Ping' tab in iTunes, create a profile and begin following and being followed by like-minded music fans.However, initial reviews of Ping have not been flattering. No-one I follow had a good word to say about it:@Moleitau: OK, Ping is terrible so far *apart* from being able to follow Rick Rubin and find out he digs Arvo Pärt@Matt B: wow, Ping's personal artist follow recommendations are terrible.@scobleizer: "The Who." Fail. "Beatles." Fail. "Elton John." Fail. Just what kind of musician IS in Apple's iTunes Ping? @myspace wins.@DamoBiddlesjust downloaded iT 10 and 'ping' - monstrous. buggy. evil. Also seems weird being built into an application UI. not great so far.Photo bystriaticon Flickr.Some rights reserved.A music-orientated social network is a great idea because Apple has a captive and very active audience among its iTunes user base. Privacy settings are simple – share everything with anyone, share a bit with people you approve or don't share at all. Where Twitter is all things to all people, Ping could become the default network for music chatter – gig reviews, album recommendations and so on – one of those niche social networks we thought might take off a few years back.But there are problems, and not just that recommending Katy Perry and US to everyone isnota good idea. At startup, you can only pick three genres of favourite music; I picked singer-songwriters, blues and alternative. Where would you classify Katy Perry under those? Because that's what I was served up. Those of us used to Last.fm, among others, expect far more from music recommendation.It is a strange experience using a social network locked within a tab of an already-busy programme. If I wasn't already (occasionally) using iTunes for music there would be zero incentive for me to use Ping at all. And I use iTunes more for apps than music... where's the social network for apps?Apple's modus operandi seems fundamentally opposed to the nature of social networking, which is all about openness. Without importing existing networks from Twitter or Facebook (inviting friends through Apple Mail is not enough), there's a significant investment of time needed to set Ping up. Now social networking is more mature, there's less appetite for putting in that groundwork – and why should we have to when our networks already exist? Look at the success of Twitter, built on third-party development and off-site interaction. Ping could have pulled in existing intelligence about artists and public profiles of followers. It could have populated user profiles with your most listened-to tracks; a few album covers aren't enough for data-loving music fans. It could have thrown up the most listened to or downloaded tracks through iTunes in real-time. Buy Songkick or something, FFS. Where is everybody?It's static, detached, and outdated. Perhaps we'll revisit it when it grows up.A poor effort, Apple.
3D television has dominated the early agenda at IFA, Europe's largest consumer electronics show, with Panasonic and Sony both announcing flurries of new products and initiatives.Panasonic showed off what it claimed was the first genuine 3D consumer video camera, the HDC-SDT750. This will allow users to shoot their own footage in 3D. Makoto Nagura, director of Panasonic's video camera business unit, said this would put 3D firmly into the hands of consumers."There is still one thing missing [today]...That is to keep your precious moments in 3D," Nagura said.The SDT750 will go on sale in October. UK pricing was not available but it is expected to be priced at $1,399 (£908) in the US.Most of Panasonic's press conference in Berlin was devoted to 3D – one indication of how keen the electronics industry is to persuade consumers that they should embrace the new technology, and spend considerable sums of money upgrading their home electronics set-up.Alongside new 3D televisons and Blu-ray players, Panasonic also announced a new service to deliver 3D movies and films directly to users' living rooms. This could fix one of factors that is holding back 3D – a lack of content. Panasonic said that around 2,000 films would be available to be downloaded over a broadband connection to one of its TVs or Blu-ray players. News, sport and music channels would also be supported.Hirotoshi Uehara, who runs Panasonic's TV business, told IFA that this 3D IPTV service would help to propel 3D into the mass market.However, hefty price tags may continue to hold the technology back. One of the Panasonic TVs unveiled at IFA, the 42in TX-P42GT20, is available for pre-order at £1,499.Epson also cast a cloud over the 3D euphoria in Berlin when it failed to show off a 3D projector. It took a much more cautious line than Panasonic, saying that the technology was not yet ready for mass adoption."When the market is ready, when the content is ready and when the technology is ready we'll be there," Jean-Marie Lacroix, commerical director of Epson Europe, told journalists.Sony, though, took a very different view as it beat the 3D drum with considerable gusto. It claims to be the only end-to-end 3D provider, as it produces movies shot in 3D, the cameras that are used to film them, and TVs that people can watch them on.Unlike Epson, Sony did announce a 3D video projector. The WV-90 will let consumers project a 3D film onto a wall, which could give a cinema-style experience.The Japanese giant also had a prototype model of its first 3D-capable laptop, which chief executive Sir Howard Stringer said would be commercially available next year.Like Panasonic, Sony is trying to increase the amount of 3D content on the market with a new television service. Stringer, who cited James Cameron's Avatar as a crucial factor in driving 3D forward, cautioned that film-makers should not rely on 3D at the expense of storyline."A hit is still a hit, is still a hit, except that in 3D it's a bigger hit."Sony's entire press conference was filmed live in 3D and broadcast on a large screen. This, however, highlighted one of the other drawbacks to 3D broadcasting – that viewers need to wear special glasses.Stringer, who described Sony as the "biggest engine" in the 3D train, also argued that the technology could be about more than just films and sport, and demonstrated this with footage of a performance by Chinese pianist Lang Lang.Lang Lang himself then played live at IFA, telling the press conference that he was a fan of 3D as it let music lovers "get closer to us".
Last night, in a vast auditorium on the Los Angeles Exposition Park, Activision revealed all the details of theBlack Opsmultiplayer mode. For the latest title in the multi-million-selling Call of Duty series, developer Treyarch is mixing familiar elements of the Modern Warfare multiplayer set-up – ie. killstreaks, character progression, challenges, perks and classes – with some intriguing fresh additions.But sadly, there was no mention of zombies...The first newcomer to be announced was a multiplayer tutorial option entitled Combat Training. "We created the mode after we found out that some 30-40% of people who player single-player, never play multiplayer," says multiplayer design director David Vonderhaar, "Combat training is a complete stand alone experience with an independent ranking system. You can play it alone or with friends, you can use it to practise maps, or certain weapons or advanced tactics, and when you're ready you can enter a player match and test your skills against real opponents. It's our goal to introduce multiplayer to an entirely new audience who we feel are missing out."According to online director, Dan Bunting, Combat Training wasn't intended as design feature – it was originally a development tool. The team created a basic AI drone they named Larry who would just stand around on the map; when he was shot, the user got stats on the damage done, and his distance from the player – all useful information for balancing weapons and maps. However, the design team started to add more and more AI functionality to the character, finally spawning multiple versions on each map to add extra challenge. It was from here that Combat Training evolved.It's a basic tutorial concept then, but a nice way to get to grips with new maps and unfamiliar weapons without being continually shot in the face by a 12-year-old with a P90. Interestingly, it seems this mode will replace deathstreaks, the controversial power-ups awarded to struggling players in Modern Warfare 2, now removed from Black Ops.More significant, perhaps, is the addition of a new in-game currency, named CoD Points. These can be used to buy any weapons and equipment within your budget, regardless of what rank you're at. As Vonderhaar explains, "Every time you play, you earn CoD Points; and what you used to only unlock by levelling up, you can now buy. Black Ops is your game and you'll play it the way you want to."Treyarch has also introduced a range of new tasks allowing players to earn CoD Points more quickly. There are Contracts, which are time-limited challenges, based around key game skills. Mercenary contracts reward you for kills and killstreaks; Operation contracts are for effective team play; and Specialist contracts are, as Vonderhaar puts it, "unique or unusual tasks that require unique and unusual play styles." Some Contract challenges are available from the outset, others have to be bought with CoD Points. Interestingly, once completed, they will pay out in CoD Points, XP points or a mixture of both allowing players to fine-tune their own progression model.Another way of earning cash is through the potentially more tense and risky Wagers. These are self-contained multiplayer modes, in which all participants bet on their ability to finish a stage in the top three. There are four Wager options to pick from. In 'One in the Chamber' each player has a pistol with one bullet; if you shoot at someone and miss, you're down to melee combat. It's sort of a modern take on Goldeneye's Slaps-only mode. With 'Sticks and Stones', combatants get a crossbow and a tomahawk – if you manage to bury one of those bad boys in an opponent's back you bankrupt them. Then there's 'Gun Game' in which all the players start with pistols, but then progress to the next weapons level with each kill. There are 20 to work through, but it you manage to kill yourself, or get wiped out in any other humiliating way, you go back down a level. Finally, in 'Sharp Shooter', all the players start with the same randomly selected weapon, which they must use for a random amount of time, before they're all switched to another model. These look like fun little diversions, and may well get more players to start using different weapons and techniques in a way that the traditional challenges didn't.Elsewhere, the game now features three categories of gear – lethal (grenades, claymores, etc), tactical (smoke bombs and other diversionary items) and equipment. The latter is all the items that you plant in the world at a static location. Black Ops features a range of options including the Camera Spike, which provides a remote camera view of the place you plant it – handy to shove near a detonation device, or to use as a security camera while you're camping. There's also a motion sensor, which acts like a personal UAV, giving you red dots to reveal any enemies lurking in your immediate vicinity.As for killstreaks, we'll now get to enjoy nepalm Strikes, gunship attacks and exploding remote-controlled cars. You'll also be able to call in mortar teams to provide devastating longer range firepower, as well as place SAM turrets to bring down enemy aircraft. "When we were designing the game we decided we really like the idea of Killstreaks being more interactive. We wanted players to have more impact in how effective they are whether they're killing other players or acting more defensively," says Vonderhaar.Black Ops is also introducing a range of limited edition special weapons that'll turn up rather infrequently in care packages. The two they revealed yesterday were the Death Machine, which looks like a hefty multi-barrel mini-gun; and the Grim Reaper, a particularly messy rocket launcher. As for perks, there are lots of extra options, including the ability to convert enemy weapons, gear and equipment and use them as your own, and to sabotage enemy care packages. Some familiar classics have gone, however, inlcuding Stopping Power and Juggernaut.The 'Create a Class' mode has also been tuned. Now each 'tier one' perk, which sets the player's gameplay-style, has its own unique look in the game world. For example, the Scavenger, who's able to pick up ammo and equipment from fallen enemies, has a lot of visible gear and pockets, the Ghost (who's invisible to enemy radar in killstreaks) wears a big gillie suit, and the explosives expert has a flak jacket. It's a handy way of identifying absolutely everyone in the field of combat. As hinted at in the past, Treyarch has also added lots of visual customisation elements – players can choose from a vast range of camo patterns for their guns, as well as altering the red dot reticule with different shapes and colours. There's even a simple emblem editor, allowing you to recreate your clan logo, then stamp it all over your arsenal.And for wannabe film makers there's the Theatre option, which allows players to record, edit and repackage clips of in-game action. The idea is that fans will create their own machinima, highlight reels or just tactical studies of key multiplayer face-offs. A niche component, perhaps, but it should lead to some amusing YouTube videos.So that's it for Black Ops multiplayer. It's the solid CoD foundation we expect, with some additions, a couple of subtractions and a whole new way to attain cool gear. Amid the major new features, there were plenty of decent little tweaks, like a grid reference on the mini-map, which means you'll be able to, say, call out the precise coordinates of an enemy sniper to your team mates, and a few interactive map components, which will add new tactical dimensions – but more on them in our hands-on preview, tomorrow…For now, what do you think?Call of Duty: Black Ops will be released on DS, PC, PlayStation 3, Wii and Xbox 360 on November 9.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Cooked! Photo byDC Central Kitchenon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Phone 7 Is Released to Manufacturing &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"Microsoft's releasing Windows Phone 7 to manufacturing today—in other words, it's done. Final. Complete. Microsoft managed to add a few new bits before shrink-wrapping it, too."What RTM means is hardware makers and carriers can start finalizing their own plans for Windows Phone 7—tweaking drivers, preparing carrier-specific services for integration, that kind of thing. Gettings things ready to go. What that doesn't mean, however, is that Microsoft is telling us when Windows Phone 7 will actually land in our grippy hands. Octoberish, as previously rumored, still seems like the safe bet."Google now indexes SVG &gt;&gt; Google Webmaster Blog"We index SVG content whether it is in a standalone file or embedded directly in HTML. The web is big, so it may take some time before we crawl and index most SVG files, but as of today you may start seeing them in your search results. If you want to see it yourself, try searching for [sitemap site:fastsvg.com] or [HideShow site:svg-whiz.com]". HTML5 creeps further into everything...Don Draper Checks His iPhone &gt;&gt; GizmodoDon't worry - no plot spoiler involved. Don simply gets asked to create a phone that can connect to the radio around the world. No, come back!Yahoo Search Customer South Korea Naver Quits, Takes $600m Revenue &gt;&gt; Business Insider"More bad news for Yahoo--and for Microsoft, now that Yahoo's search business is Microsoft's search business."Yahoo's biggest search affiliate, Korea's NHN, is taking search in house.  NHN runs Naver, Korea's biggest search engine, which has a Google-like 65% share of the market."According to Doug Anmuth of Barclays, this will cost Yahoo an astounding 10% of gross revenue in 2011." Ouch.Microsoft ships 'Fix-It' for DLL load hijacking attack vector &gt;&gt; ZDNetGet downloading: "Microsoft has released a Fix-It tool to help mitigate the latest DLL load hijacking issue that exposes Windows users to remote code execution attacks."The flaw, publicly discussed by Metasploit's HD Moore and others, affects hundreds of Windows applications and require separate patches for each piece of affected software."Why Paul Allen doesn't want to be a troll &gt;&gt; FOSS Patents"They sue a number of large players over some patents, but there's some history there that sets them apart from other licensing (or "non-practicing") entities. Among 11 defendants, the lawsuit targets Google (as well as its YouTube subsidiary), and Google once gave credit to Interval Research."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Last week I took part in a discussion panel at the Edinburgh Festival entitled "Are games anti-story machines?" – based on aGuardian article in 2007that suggested games are the opposite of stories, and far less good for us as a  result. This sort of dichotomy is a fun way to get a debate going, but is often taken a bit too literally: not all stories are "good" for us, some games are and, anyway, there is no reason we should only do things that are good for us.But the question of how games create stories is interesting. As a games writer, I know there is a problem with creating stories within games. It's a  difficulty in motivating the main  character that boils down to: if you give the player autonomy, then, to some  extent, where your main character's motivations and thoughts should go is a white head labelled "your face here". It's the reason that player-characters often feel a bit empty, quiet or sometimes – in a game that involves a lot of shooting – puzzlingly brutal.Columnist and composerStephen Poolesays "games suffer from cinema envy" – they think they should be  Hollywood epics, when actually the  enjoyment of play is enough. But I was struck by anexcellent point by author Trevor Byrne: "When kids are playing cops and robbers, are they playing a game, or are they telling a story?" The obvious answer is that somehow, they're seamlessly doing both.Some of the best game stories I've taken part in have been tabletop role-playing games where, as in cops and robbers, you collaboratively create a story with the other players. So do games tell us stories, or should they be giving us a place to create stories of our own? Like most  dichotomies, the answer is probably: both.
3D films will soon be on show at more British cinemas following a deal announced today between Sony and Vue Entertainments.Vue has agreed in principle to install Sony's 3D projection system, called 4K, across all its 68 multiplexes in Britain. Vue runs 657 separate screens, around a sixth of the British total.Fujio Nishida, president of Sony Europe, said the agreement meant the number of 3D screens using Sony's technology across Europe would more than double.Sony has invested heavily in 3D, both in the cinema and for the home. Some experts question how successful the technology will be, arguing that there are a limited number of films or events that truly benefit from being seen on screen in three dimensions.Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's chief executive, insisted that 3D's moment had arrived after some recent blockbuster releases. "A year ago, many consumers and critics were sceptical about 3D. Now, though, Avatar has led a 3D theatrical renaissance."3D is popular with cinema owners partly because they can charge higher ticket prices. Rival cinema chain Cineworld reported last month that revenue rose despite a slump in customer numbers, thanks to 3D releases.http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2010/aug/19/cineworld-world-cup-slumpSeveral major films are due to be released in 3D this year, including the latest Harry Potter movie. But film buffs who recoil at having to wear special spectacles at the flicks need not worry, as Sony's 4K equipment can still show a 2D movie.
Sony has embarked on an ambitious challenge to Apple's iTunes, promising to launch a music and video streaming service in the UK by the end of this year.The subscription-based service is to be based around the PlayStation 3 console. Sony said that customers would be able to download high-definition movies and songs over the internet and watch them on other web-enabled Sony devices, including its TVs, laptops and digital music players.With Amazon also thought to be aggressively planning a web-based subscription service, which would stream old films and TV shows, the online TV-on-demand market is about to expand dramatically.The Japanese electronics giant revealed its plans in Berlin today at the start of IFA, Europe's biggest consumer electronics show, shortly before Apple was scheduled to make its own announcement in San Francisco.Fujio Nishida, Sony's president for Europe, said that the new "cloud-based" service would let consumers take their music wherever they went, from PS3 to PC to smartphone. He also indicated that the system would learn users' tastes and automatically find music they liked – something already provided by services including Last.fm.Sony's plan involves a major expansion of its Qriocity (pronounced "curiosity") service, which currently only offers video on demand in the US. Nishida said it would launch in the UK, France, Germany, Spain and Italy in the autumn.Music streaming will be added to Qriocity by the end of this year.Sony promised "millions of songs", but did not specify which record labels will be involved.The announcement was light on some key details – notably pricing. Full rollout will also take some time. Initially the service will just work on new network-enabled Bravia TVs, Sony Vaios and the PS3.Nishida also did not list which films and TV programmes will be available over Qriocity. According to one report, however, several Hollywood studios are already signed up, including 20th Century Fox, MGM, The Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros.Restricting the service to Sony products may damage take-up, and the company appeared to indicate that it will open it up over time."Eventually this will be open to third-parties who can deliver a variety of high-quality digital content to Sony customers and others,"Nishida said.There are about 54 million registered PS3s in use worldwide, giving Sony a sizeable target audience for its new service. But Apple has already built up a very strong position, with the 10 billionth song being downloaded from iTunes earlier this year.The move comes three years after Sony decided to abandon an earlier music streaming site, Connect Music. This, too, offered a wide selection of songs for downloading, but users were restricted to using Sony hardware and software to listen.Nishida also offered a cautiously upbeat view of Sony's current trading in Europe, saying he could see some green shoots despite the "challenges" facing the region."In Europe, we have just enjoyed our best three months for the last few years," he declared.
