A burst of 24 apps for your considerationFIFA SuperstarsEA has launched an iPhone version of its Facebook game FIFA Superstars, getting players to build a squad of top-tier football stars to take on the world.iPhoneLife is CrimeNew company Red Robot Labs is picking up lots of buzz in the US for its new Android location-based game Life is Crime. It's all about completing missions to loot virtual versions of real-life buildings, with players able to add their own to ensure their surroundings have stuff to do.AndroidR.E.M.R.E.M. have got an official app, filed under Entertainment rather than Music in the App Store, interestingly. It includes standard features like news, tour dates and audio clips of songs, throwing in full music videos for good measure. Meanwhile, fans are invited to upload their own photos and videos, from gigs or simply when listening to a favourite song.iPhoneJessie J – Mobile BackstageAt the time of writing, this official Jessie J app is only available for iPhone in the US – there's already an official app in the UK. What's new for American fans? It uses the Mobile Backstage community, so there is an emphasis on fans contributing their own comments, photos and videos.iPhoneMadden NFL 12EA has released its annual version of its Madden NFL American football game for iPhone (an iPad version is also available). Multiple modes, beefy graphics and impressive tactical depth are, as ever, on the menu.iPhone / iPadLittle Red Riding Hood by the Bean Bag KidsMuch-loved fairy tale gets a new iOS spin thanks to a troupe of bean-bag characters. Mumdomono's book-app uses a 3D game engine – something that's increasingly common in the new wave of book-apps.iPhone / iPadVogue FNO LondonVogue's Fashion's Night Out event has an official iPhone app, promising news on special events, exclusive products and discounts, and a map of participating stores in London.iPhoneAlex James Presents HarvestBassist, man about town, cheese farmer... Alex James of Blur has many strings to his bow, and the latest is hosting a music festival. The official app includes news on band-times and "chef demo" as well as special offers.iPhoneZeppelin AirHi-fi firm Bowers &amp; Wilkins is the latest to get its own iOS app, which in this case makes it easy for owners of its Zeppelin Air device to stream music from their iPhone via Apple's AirPlay technology. It will even work with non B&amp;W hi-fis too.iPhone / iPadTetris FreeCan even the most famous games in the world make money as paid titles on Android? EA's relaunch of Tetris as a free ad-supported game is a hint that the publisher thinks it can make more money from its famous falling-blocks licence without charging players.AndroidGuinness NavigatorDrinks brand Diageo has launched Guinness Navigator for Android, promising that it "immediately finds pubs that have good Guinness near where you are".AndroidSpotiseekSpotify-based music discovery site Spotiseek now has an iPhone app that recommends tracks on the streaming music service based on specific artists.iPhoneToshiba PlacesToshiba appears to have launched a music discovery app for Android, enabling users to browse genres and artists, listen to free preview clips and then choose from several stores to purchase and download them. Toshiba Places will also be available across tablets, laptops, TVs and other devices according to the Android Market description.AndroidOh Say Can You Say?The latest Dr. Seuss book-app for iOS and Android is Oh Say Can You Say? Expect potato chips / clipper ships tongue twisters aplenty, along with voice narration.iPhone / iPad / AndroidSamsung Mobile UnpackedJust in time for the IFA consumer electronics show, Samsung has an Android app previewing its key mobile announcements. Separate versions are available for its Android tablets too.AndroidYour Heineken Passport – New ZealandFans jetting off to New Zealand for the Rugby World Cup already have an official app, but now Heineken has launched its own for iPhone and Android. It includes a bar finder feature and social networking integration, along with tournament info and ticket competitions.iPhone / AndroidOfficial Dallas CowboysAmerican Football team the Dallas Cowboys have an app: free at its basic level for news, but charging $0.99 a month for advanced features including live and on-demand video, match-day scores and stats, and other exclusive content.iPhoneBreeders' Cup: Official 2011 AppThis year's Breeders' Cup horseracing event has a new iPhone app for news, past winners, live video and betting information.iPhoneSmithsonian MobileThe Smithsonian museum has launched its official iPhone app, promising a "digital mobile guide" to visiting, with comments, videos, audio tours and basic venue information.iPhonefunkypigeon.comFunkypigeon is an iPhone app that enables people to create personalised greetings cards using their own photos, and send them to friends from £1.79 a pop.iPhonePet FairPet Fair is the first iOS app from studio PlayCoMo, and is the latest freemium game to hit the App Store. And yes, it's all about building a funfair run by animals.iPhone / iPadFEMAJust in time for the landfall of Hurricane Irene, the US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) launched its official Android app with "preparedness information" for various disaster types.AndroidProject Runway RewindUS TV show Project Runway is getting with the second-screen mania, launching a free iPhone app with videos, blog posts, contestant statuses and extended judging sessions.iPhoneInstaGameAs its name implies, InstaGame turns Instagram pictures into a game: a sliding puzzle game to be specific.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Explorer gets ribbon &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsThe fascinating thing in this is how few commands are used most of the time, and the appalling user interface decisions made in the new ribbon: "people use lots of commands, so let's cram them all in there explicitly."An alternative view: keep the most used commands visible. Put the others in contextual menus. Simplify, don't complicate.Microsoft launches cloud CRM deal to compete with Salesforce, Oracle &gt;&gt; Techflash"Microsoft has rolled out a special deal (and new spoof video) for its cloud Customer Relationship Management (CRM) service, in an effort to draw customers away from from Salesforce.com, Oracle and SAP."The Redmond company will pay $150 in cash per user seat (minimum 50 seats per company; maximum 500) for customers that switch to its Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online service."However, to qualify for the service, businesses must be located in U.S. or Canada, subscribe to at least 50 Microsoft CRM Online licenses, and sign a 2-year licensing subscription for the service."Interesting how Microsoft's principal business is built around the idea that it's expensive to shift from its products to rivals'. How does it go when the boot's on the other foot?H-P's one-year self-destruct plan &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Let's say you were given a year to kill Hewlett-Packard. Here's how you do it."Witty.Women are from Amazon, Men are from Apple &gt;&gt; Business Insider Chart of the DayProbably the best title for the COTD ever. Now you'll have to click through to understand it.HTTP Strict Transport Security &gt;&gt; The Chromium Projects"One of the several new features in Chrome is the addition of HTTP Strict Transport Security. HSTS allows a site to request that it always be contacted over HTTPS. HSTS is supported in Google Chrome, Firefox 4, and the popular NoScript Firefox extension."The issue that HSTS addresses is that users tend to type http:// at best, and omit the scheme entirely most of the time. In the latter case, browsers will insert http:// for them."However, HTTP is insecure. An attacker can grab that connection, manipulate it and only the most eagle eyed users might notice that it redirected to https://www.bank0famerica.com or some such. From then on, the user is under the control of the attacker, who can intercept passwords etc at will."Chrome will start having a preloaded list of must-HSTS sites. Seems like other major browsers should do this too.Helping Toronto understand itself with freer, cleaner data | OpenFileA fun open data project in Toronto, Canada: "The City's controversial Core Service Review, a consultant-led examination of which municipal services might be cut or reduced for cost savings, involved public consultations in May and June. Those consultations generated over 13,000 responses from residents who either attended a consultation session, or filled out a form online."The City, being the City, crunched all that data into some black-and-white PDFs and posted it on an obscure section of its website. Brian Gilham had other ideas."What Toronto Said, a cleanly designed website that Gilham, a professional web designer, built over the course of three weeks in his spare time, provides a search-bar interface for the entire corpus of feedback data. It makes filtering the raw opinions of thousands of Torontonians about as simple as using Google to find a recipe for soup. It launches August 29."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Although generally well reviewed, the original Darksiders was bludgeoned senseless with comparisons to God of War – as a result, it possibly never attracted the audience it deserved. Sure, like Sony Santa Monica's trilogy, it's a gigantic fantasy hack-'n-slash thrill ride with endless enormo-baddies and swords the size of transit vans. It has upgrades and war gadgets, and it has an apocalyptic world in which the gods have gone mad and just want to wreck everything like vast omniscient toddlers.But Darksiders has quite a different feel to other generic hack-'em-ups; its vision of War, the apocalyptic horseman brought back after the end of the world to patch up a few cosmic issues, is confident and interesting, and its combat system is singularly engaging. It deserved a sequel - and now it's getting one.Interestingly, however, this is not a straightforward continuation. Darksiders 2 takes place at roughly the same time as the original game, but this time centres on another horseman, Death, whose task is to figure out how the apocalypse was triggered. Instead of wandering though a shattered Earth, Death's story takes place in the underworld. "Since we're not on Earth anymore, we don't have a scenery filled with broken buildings, " says Jay Fitzloff, studio marketing manager at developer, Vigil Games. "It's much more of a fantasy based-game so there's no limit to what we can do". And just to illustrate this he shows me a demo of the game in which a vast citadel is being dragged through the skies by giant flying serpents. Yep, that's realism out the window.Below it is Death astride his horse, despair. "In the first game, you didn't get your horse until about a third of the way through," says Fitzloff. "A lot of players were mad about that and we understand – I mean, you were ahorsemanof the apocalypse. So we give you the horse right away this time. And the game's bigger too, so you'll need it to explore."In the level I see, Death has to get into a throne room to see the Lord of Bones, effectively the administrator of the afterlife ("seven billion people have just died, so he's pretty busy"). But in order to gain an audience, death must travel to a gladiatorial arena and bring back the head of the champion. It sounds a little like something out of Monty Python and the Holy Grail, but what the heck, we'll go with it.Once again, the game is a combo of puzzle-solving, exploration and combat, and again, at every stage, a  new weapon or item is unlocked to introduce fresh slaughtering capabilities. One that Fitzloff shows me is a ghost hook that gouges into enemies and yanks them toward Death (although with larger foes, it'll pull Death towardthem); it also lets you grab stuff that was inaccessible earlier in the game, like treasure chests tucked away on higher platforms. All very Metroid.We walk through vast Cathedral-like buildings and brutal landscapes lined with dagger-like hills. We fight weird beetle enemies with giant iridescent wings. "Compared to War, Death is a lot faster in combat," explains Fitzloff. "His combat is quicker – if we explained them in terms of D&amp;D classes, War would be a warrior, Death is more of a rogue. He can't block, he only dodges attacks."A loot system has been added to the game. Most enemies will drop something when killed, the more powerful they are, the more valuable the item is likely to be. It'll be stuff like gold, armour, weapons and secondary weapons (of which there will be a far greater range this time round). There's also more of a story going on. "We joked that in the first game, War talked to three NPCs and he killed two of them," says Fitzloff. "This time we have more people to meet, there are side-quests and there are hub towns where you can sell extra items and buy upgrades. So in the last game, if you and I were four hours into the game our characters would look roughly the same. In Darksiders 2, there's no way. We'll have different equipment, different skills, we'll have gone in totally different directions."Our demo ends with a boss fight against a towering bone giant, who'll actually remove his own head to use as a pummelling weapon against you. But that ghost hook provides a handy way to rip those bones from him. As a fan of the first title, this looked like another joyously unselfconscious dungeon stalker, with plenty of epic locales and a good eye for ridiculously histrionic monster fights.On the subject of dungeons (we were never going to stray too far from them in this game), there will be more to explore, but they'll be smaller so gamers won't have as far to backtrack if they miss anything –  a welcome alteration. Darksiders 2 won't be winning any awards for stark originality, but it clearly has a dedicated team that knows its universe inside out and understands what fans want from it.I get the feeling that there will be plenty of crossover narrative moments between Death's story and what we saw happening in the first Darksiders. And I'm intrigued to see what the team at Vigil do with the other horsemen if this sequel is a success. I dread to think what special attacks Pestilence will inflict on his enemies.Darksiders 2 is set for release on PC, PS3, Wii U and Xbox 360 in spring 2012
It's Tuesday. How did everyone enjoy the bank holiday?
Security researchers are warning a web certificate is being used that could let hackers steal passwords and data from apparently secure connections to Google sites such as Gmail.Internet users in Iran are believed to be at particular risk from the rogue SSL certificate, which is used to digitally "sign" HTTPS connections to any google.com site and was issued by a Dutch company called DigiNotar on 10 July. In particular, dissidents who trust Google's systems for their security may have been targeted in the attack.DigiNotar – which does not have any direct business relationship with Google – has not said who the certificate was issued to, but the effect would be that someone could think they were logged securely into a site and that their communication would be encrypted; but instead attackers controlling the network could eavesdrop on all their keystrokes, including passwords. This is known as a "man in the middle", or "MITM", attack.The first person to have noticed the rogue certificate appears to be an Iranian user, whoposted about it on a Google support forum, asking whether it was an MITM attack. The problem was observed on multiple internet service providers, leading to concerns the government there might be using it to monitor dissidents and steal login details.The user also noted that connections to google.com seemed to take a longer path than connections to youtube.com, yahoo.com and bing.com. The certificate did not seem to be in constant use: "I see this fake certificate only 30 minutes or one hour per day maybe they just test how sniff their users!", wrote the discoverer.Microsoft on Monday night removed the certificatefrom its list of allowed certificates with its browsers. That should mean users would get an "invalid certificate" warning if they try to log in to a Google site that presents the rogue certificate, in which case they should reject the connection.The discovery marks the second time in five months that rogue SSL certificates have been discovered circulating in the wild. InMarch, hackers cracked the systems used bythe web certification company RSA and created a number of new, valid certificates for Google and for six other domains through a certification company called Comodo. The rogue certificates were in use for eight days before being revoked from major browsers, and longer for email programs.Both incidents have created growing concern among security researchers about the levels of trust that can be placed in SSL certification, which is used to create a "web of trust" in which certification companies can authorise multiple sites so that users can trust that their communications are untapped. The March hack against Comodo is thought to have been carried out by an Iranian team.The key weakness in the web certification system is that any company authorised to issue certificates can issue one that almost every browser will trust as being valid against any web property. Thus a DigiNotar certificate for google.com would be trusted by almost every browser, even if a hacking attack meant it had been issued to someone who was not working for Google."How many more DigiNotar-issued fake certificates are out there that nobody has noticed?" said Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at the Finnish security company F-Secure.Users of the latest version of Google's Chrome browser would have been safe from the attack in the past month because it uses a system called "pinning", in which it rejects certificates from all but a limited number of companies, which does not include DigiNotar. However, the DigiNotar certificate was issued on 10 July, and the version of Chrome that would reject its certificate did not appear until 10 August, leaving a crucial window during which users have been vulnerable to attack.TheElectronic Frontier Foundation said: "The certificate authority system was created decades ago in an era when the biggest online security concern was thought to be protecting users from having their credit card numbers intercepted by petty criminals. Today, internet users rely on this system to protect their privacy against nation states. We doubt it can bear this burden."The EFF says certification authorities "have been caught issuing fraudulent certificates in at least half a dozen high-profile cases in the past two years" but that the concern over the latest is that it might have been used to spy on any number of Iranian users.
It was good to note Eric Schmidt's tribute to the British pioneers of computing in his McTaggart lecture (Report, 27 August), and the background piece  on the role played by the catering firm J Lyons in the "invention" of business computing (How Lyons teashops powered computers, 27 August). An important aspect of the story which should be noted is that the idea came from two other Lyons executives, Oliver Standingford and Thomas Raymond Thompson, who visited the US in 1947, on behalf of the Lyons Controller, John Simmons, to discover if there had been any significant progress in business processes which could be useful for Lyons.Illustration:Gary KempstonThey found little to interest them except digital computers used for technical calculations. It was they who immediately saw that the ability to do repetitive calculations automatically could be used for business processes. They even sketched the way a computer could be used for calculating the complex Lyons payroll. They wrote a report in their visit recommending Lyons to explore further the possibility of designing and using a computer for business data processing.Simmons, himself recruited from Cambridge as a Wrangler (top mathematician),&nbsp;endorsed the report and sent it to the board of directors who accepted the recommendation and subsequently collaborated with Maurice Wilkes at Cambridge University in the design of the Leo (Lyons Electronic Office) computer.&nbsp;Thompson led the project and became CEO of Leo Computers Limited.Frank LandLeo Computer Society• I run a professional development course for academics at the University of East Anglia and have a decade's experience observing how new lecturers are responding to technology. Over that period I have noticed significant changes in attitude and experience on both sides of the supposed "divide". Ten years ago humanities lectures were more resistant to using technology in teaching, while science and technology teachers were reluctant to consider any approaches to teaching that originated outside their discipline. Those attitudes are now almost unknown. Increasingly, humanities academics are using technology in their teaching, and science and technology academics are using a much wider ranger of teaching techniques. Academics are also working across disciplinary divide in our course, with scientists and humanities lecturers working together and advising each other.So from my (admittedly narrow) perspective the arts and humanities divide that Eric Schmidt refers to has long gone.Natasha CursonNorwich• In drawing naive conclusions as to what needs to change in schools, Eric Schmidt is guilty of misleading precisely those policymakers he seeks to&nbsp;challenge. When Schmidt "was flabbergasted to learn that today computer science isn't even taught as standard in UK schools", he might have checked whether it was taught as standard in most US school districts. And when he discovered (as one suspects he would) that the answer is "no", he might then have gone&nbsp;back and asked himself why&nbsp;not. His article contains part of the&nbsp;explanation.The official school curriculum should&nbsp;control only part of the school day, but should focus on "generic" disciplines (like maths), not on particular applications (like computer science). Where one tries to invent artificial "subjects" such as ICT, one can&nbsp;expect to see precisely the degeneration Schmidt observes about the UK: "teaching how to use software … [with] no insight into how the software is made". We need more teachers to&nbsp;engage students in "how software is made" – but please, not as part of some centrally imposed curriculum.&nbsp;Dr Tony Gardiner&nbsp;Birmingham• Eric Schmidt is right. People can write poetry and build bridges. Let us remember that engineering (defined as "turning ideas into reality" by our political leaders) is an art and a science.Professor emeritus David BlockleySchool of engineering, University of Bristol• Google earned more than £2.15bn UK revenues last year but it uses a corporate&nbsp;tax avoidance scheme known as the&nbsp;"Dutch sandwich" to pay an overall tax rate of 2.4% on non-US earnings. The&nbsp;UK corporate tax rate is 28%. Google &nbsp;shouldn't weep crocodile tears&nbsp;if British kids aren't educated to its&nbsp;standards.&nbsp;Dr John AG BremnerEdinburgh
Daniel McCracken, who has died of cancer aged 81, was computing's most successful textbook author. In the 1960s, when computers were beginning to take off, tens of thousands of programmers were urgently needed. Most of them came from other professions and they often learned their new trade using one of McCracken's textbooks. He was a born educator, and his books were peppered with practical examples and exercises that made them good for both private study and university courses. As new techniques arrived, for 20 years McCracken usually had the first textbook on the market. He sold 1.6m books and the royalties brought him the wealth and independence that made him rethink his life.McCracken was born in Hughesville, Montana, and raised in Ellensburg, Washington, the youngest of six children of a mining engineer and his schoolteacher wife. He did well at school and attended Central Washington College of Education, intending to become a science teacher. However, atomic power seemed to be the new frontier and in 1951 he took a job at General Electric's atomic products division in Hanford, Washington. There he got his first taste of computing, and he was hooked. For the next few years he gained experience in General Electric's various computer centres, in Cincinnati, Phoenix and New York.He was encouraged by his manager to write his first textbook, Digital Computer Programming, which appeared in 1957. It sold modestly by later standards, but it did well enough for him to leave General Electric and take a low-paying programming job at New York University and study for a PhD in mathematics at the university's Courant Institute. While he was there, computer programming was being revolutionised by the Fortran language, which came to dominate scientific programming for decades. His Guide to Fortran Programming appeared in 1961. It sold 300,000 copies and made McCracken quite famous in the small world of computing. He decided to abandon his PhD and become a full-time writer and consultant. He toured the country as a lecturer, promoting his books and meeting his constituency of buyers. His next big success came in 1963 with A Guide to Cobol Programming, which sold in vast numbers, and, although he never had a literary agent, McCracken managed to negotiate an unprecedented 25% royalty rate.In 1965 he received a cheque from his publishers for over $100,000 which represented just six months' royalties. It was more money than he had ever imagined possible and he was guilt-stricken. He came from a liberal-minded, religious background and he decided to invest the money in changing his career and giving it back to society through doing good works. He trained to become a Unitarian minister at the Union Theological Seminary, New York. He never served as a minister, but instead became active in the politics of the computer profession.In 1965 he founded Computer Professionals Against the ABM to campaign against a US anti-ballistic missile system. For this, he won the Norbert Wiener award in 1989. He became chairman of the Scientists' Institute for Public Information and in 1971 jointly edited the book To Love or to Perish: The Technological Crisis and the Churches, the report of a taskforce looking into technology and society which also included the anthropologist Margaret Mead. He became a leading light in the Association for Computing Machinery, America's learned society for the computer profession. He served as its president from 1978 until 1980 and took a special interest in computer-science education and literature.For all his prominence, McCracken felt himself to be a simple teacher. In 1981 he settled down to become a full-time professor of computer science at the City College of New York. There he had what even then was an unusual privilege – he was allowed to teach and write textbooks, with no requirement to undertake research. He liked nothing better than getting to know undergraduates, and he continued to work until the last weeks of his life.He is survived by his second wife, Helen; and two sons, Charles and Thomas, and five daughters, Judith, Virginia, Cynthia, Rachel and Aliza, from his first marriage, which ended in divorce.• Daniel Delbert McCracken, computer scientist, born 23 July 1930; died 30 July 2011
A burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple hires 19-year-old jailbreaking iPhone hacker Nicholas Allegra &gt;&gt; Naked Security"Nicholas Allegra, better known as 'comex', the creator of the JailBreakMe website which made it child's play for iPhone owners to jailbreak their devices, has been given an internship at Apple.&#10;"The 19-year-old from Chappaqua, New York posted the news of his new position on Twitter."As Eric Schmidt says, we need to up our game. Where are the British 19-year-olds getting hired (rather than, say, arrested and charged) for their hacking skills?Google+ introduces new "ignore" and "block functions &gt;&gt; Google+"We want to make sure you can represent your real-life relationships on Google+ -- whether you want to connect with someone or not :-) So starting today, we're rolling out a new option to Ignore people, in addition to the existing (and stronger) option to Block them."Now, where have we heard of that before?Researchers Discover File Used to Hack RSA &gt;&gt; threatpost"Researchers at anti-malware company F-Secure say they have found the actual infected Excel file that was used in the attack on RSA earlier this year, eventually forcing the company to replace millions of its SecurID tokens. The Outlook email message containing the malicious file apparently was uploaded to Virustotal in March and the researchers dug it out this week."An Excel file with Flash content which Excel executes. As the researchers say, why does Excel need to execute Flash content? Ever?What Steve Jobs' change of job tells us about Microsoft &gt;&gt; Computer Weekly Editor's BlogGood points. It's been clear for years that Steve Ballmer is not a visionary. But does Microsoft need one?Bootstrap, from Twitter"Bootstrap is a toolkit from Twitter designed to kickstart development of webapps and sites. It includes base CSS and HTML for typography, forms, buttons, tables, grids, navigation, and more."Er.. thanks.The 14 fastest-failing tech products &gt;&gt; ComputerWeekly.comSome surprises among there, including one which lasted a glorious minus one days.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Just in case you're stuck indoors with nothing to do today, why not chat about the games you've been playing over the weekend? If you've boughtDeus Ex: Human Revolution, what do you make of Square Enix's new intepretation of the Warren Spector classic?Or are you catching up with titles you haven't had chance to enjoy yet? I'm playing a fare bit of Lego Star Wars with my sons, but will also be grabbing a fewQuarrel Deluxesessions.Anyway, over to you!
Switzerland could become the first country to outlaw PowerPoint presentations if a new party runs in the October parliamentary elections. Matthias Poehm, founder of the Anti-PowerPoint Party, claims that €350bn could be saved globally each year by ditching the scourge of public speaking. Poehm believes that the software takes people away from their work and teaches them little. "There is a solution," he says.  "A flipchart."On leaving academia seven years ago I vowed that I would never use PowerPoint again. I still speak at conferences, though, and have been known to rant at organisers when asked in advance for my PPT presentation. I inform them that I will be turning up with a set of index cards on which I have jotted down key points, but will not be boring my audience to tears with fiddly slides consisting of flying text, fussy fonts or photo montages.Call me old-fashioned, but I believe in having a real discussion about ideas as opposed to force-feeding an increasingly sleepy crowd with numerous graphs and bullet points projected on to the nearest wall. Sometimes I wonder why we even bother showing up to hear a colleague elucidate on their thesis, when we are helpfully posted an advance printout of the presentation. As the speaker is building to a crucial statistic, delegates have long finished and are doing the crossword instead.If Poehm gains 10,000 signatures his party is free to run candidates in the election. So far fewer than 300 people have put their names to the cause. Unfortunately I don't think a move to Switzerland is on the cards for me.
Spotify, the digital jukebox, is forecast to report a profit for the first time when it publishes its 2010 results later this year, in the biggest indication yet that a business model is emerging that could stem the millions lost to music piracy.Already ahead of iTunes as the biggest digital music retailer in Sweden and Norway,Spotifynow has 1.9 million paying subscribers in the US and Europe, although most of its 6&nbsp;million active users still use its song library for nothing.The music streaming service lost nearly £17m in the UK alone last year. But industry expert Martin Scott at Analysys Mason forecasts that the company will report revenues of €59m (£52m) for the year to December 2010, compared to just under €13m in 2009.Spotify paid €45m in royalties to record labels during that time, and is thought to have spent about €10m on staff, offices and marketing costs. Which could leave a profit of €5m or less. "I think we are talking about a modest profit of a few million euros," said Scott. "It's down to the fact that they have successfully managed to convert a double digit [percentage] of their customers to the paid-for service."In July, Spotify launched in the US, where it has 200,000 paying customers. Later this year Virgin Media will start offering its 5&nbsp;million UK customers a Spotify subscription to download songs on TV sets and computers.Spotify makes three-quarters of its money from subscriptions and a quarter from advertising. Scott estimates that in 2010 an average of 450,000 customers paid €8 a month, generating €45m, to which can be added just over €13m in advertising revenues. Spotify declined to comment.Well over a million people stopped using Spotify in April, when it tightened the restrictions on its free service, but the number prepared to pay – £4.99 for the basic service and £9.99 for the premium service – soared, and between April and May, more than 500,000 subscribers were added. It had taken Spotify from launch in October 2008 until March 2011 to reach 1m subscribers.Founded by Swedish entrepreneur Daniel Ek, Spotify's popularity in Scandinavia is partly down to its deals with the internet service provider Telia. Customers get Spotify's music service bundled with their TV and broadband in Sweden and Finland. International expansion was helped by a fresh round of fundraising in February, when Russian technology investor Yuri Milner, leda $100m financingthat saw the company valued at $1bn.
With admirable aplomb, if not grammar, Michael Dell, the chief executive and founder of Dell Inc,tweeted last week: "Like Mark Twain, the reports of PC's death have been greatly exaggerated." His point (once you got past the dangling participle) being that he thinks the PC business is still alive and kicking.The trigger for his comment wasHewlett-Packard's announcement that it would explore "alternatives" for its Personal Systems Group division, which is the world's biggest seller of PCs. According to Léo Apotheker, the chief executive since September, the PSG chunk might be spun off, sold off, or (perhaps) just kept inside HP.In a follow-up interview, Dell crowed at the prospect of HP shedding its PC business, as he thinks that will lead to more business for him in the pricier server business (which HP is hanging on to), just as happened after IBM sold its PC business to Lenovo in&nbsp;2004.For Dell, focused on selling PCs and "big iron", the billions in revenues to be soaked up from HP's likely exit from the PC business look appetising. But that doesn't alter the suspicion that Dell is looking in the wrong direction if what he's after is profitable growth.The trouble with the Windows PC business is that while it might be growing, just (at about 2% this year), it's become commodified. Even HP can only wring $40 of profit from each $800 (on average) PC it sells. Microsoft makes about the same profit per Windows licence – ie, per PC. The Windows division is the second-most profitable in Microsoft (after the one that sells Office); PSG is HP's least profitable division.But you don't have to sell PCs. A fascinating story last week detailed how United and Continental Airlines, the US's biggest, isreplacing heavy bags full of flight plans with Apple iPads: a special app will hold the charts, and be updated wirelessly with new information. As well as the saving in weight, they're more convenient, and with a long enough battery life, they'll last all but the longest flights without charging. "The paperless flight deck represents the next generation of flying," said United's senior vice-president of flight operations, Captain Fred Abbott. Computing is becoming something that just gets done where it's needed, not in the temple of a device with a physical keyboard, Intel chip and 12-inch screen perched on a table or lap.Look further afield, and you see more examples of how computing is no longer tied to being on a PC: smartphone sales are still growing at 50% annually (and app downloads with them); since the fourth quarter of last year they have outsold PCs every quarter. The potential market there is billions of people, and manufacturers in China are taking advantage of it: ZTE is building a $150 smartphone which, says Richard Windsor, business analyst at the stockbrokers Nomura, is "the sweet spot" for China's potentially enormous market. Presently around 60 million people there have such a device, but by 2015 that's expected to hit 112 million – out of 800 million mobile users. (For contrast, by the end of 2012 Nomura reckons the EU will have 108 million smartphone users – representing 48% penetration – and the US 157 million, or 67%.)And in Africa there's similar growth: Safaricom, an internet service provider (ISP) in Kenya, is getting into low-end smartphones costing about $50 (nothing to you, but a princely sum there – but still substantially below that for a PC). So far it has sold 350,000, indicating how far the market has to go there too. But you can see the potential. Why buy a PC when you can get something that can do computing for a tenth of the price, and lasts all day on a single charge?If you were looking around for markets to conquer, then you'd certainly think that smartphones in the emerging nations, or tablets and smartphones in the developed world, looked like the better bet; the PC by contrast just looks like a commodity that has reached its end state. Worst of all for the makers, PCs have essentially become fungible commodities, like wheat or oil: any one is interchangeable, and buyers are led by price. Dell's problem is that it hasn't managed to make any impact at all in smartphones or tablets. So obviously its chief insists that the PC isn't dead. But it's hard not to think that it's answering the door with a bleary expression, still wearing its pyjamas and slippers at midday, while computing becomes something everyone can do everywhere.
Increasingly expansive, last week's Gamescom, the annual video games expo in Cologne that welcomes both the industry and the public, now features audience numbers that rival the size of the world's biggest music festivals. It also shares their bewildering choice, stands spewing noise and neon competing for the attention of 275,000 attendees and creating an atmosphere where only the finest titles stand out.Quality hands-on time did reveal the show's highlights, however, one of which was the Vita, the new hand-held from Sony. As more titles are confirmed for the device – which is to play host toResistance: Burning Skies,Call of Duty,BioShock,Fifaand many other giants of mainstream gaming culture – it looks more exciting by the day.At the booth of publisher 2K,Borderlands 2andBioShock Infinitepresented some of the most visually splendid games of the show, while at NintendoLegend of Zelda: Skyward Swordwas looking like it might actually live up to the hype.Gamescom also offered a stage for less high-profile games, the best of which included indie-developed Hollywood stuntman gameJoe Danger: The Movie, and the European edition of superb Japanese arcade 2D shooterDodonpachi Resurrection; both look like they are not to be missed.There was also space for mobile and iPad games, the best of which was Chillingo's esoteric iPhone puzzle releaseContre Jour– a good example of the vast range on offer here in Cologne and indicative that Gamescom is coming to rival the size and scope of the mighty US trade show, E3.
As a comparatively fledgling medium, videogames are only now beginning to come to terms with their past, and to embrace it. Audiences are responding positively to remakes and revamps, whether they were there for the originals or not.Pac-Man &amp; Galaga Dimensionssees Namco attempt to introduce two of its oldest brands to new consumers, though this compendium works best when remixing past ideas with modern sensibilities.Galaga OriginalandClassic Pac-Man, therefore, feel slightly irrelevant in the company of recent updatesPac-Man Championship EditionandGalaga Legions, two Xbox Live Arcade titles making their 3DS debuts. Neither benefits significantly from the 3D effect, but both thrillingly rework the mechanics of their predecessors into faster-paced and more satisfying high-score challenges. Indeed,Legions, underrated upon its digital launch in 2008, is perhaps the highlight of the whole package.By comparison,Pac-Man TiltandGalaga 3D Impactseem to have entirely misunderstood the appeal of their respective franchises. The former is an unconvincing platformer that uses the console's accelerometer for movement, whileImpact's title is a complete misnomer, this forgettable on-rails shooter offering garish visuals and little else of note. Rounding out this uneven compilation is a short 3D movie, the sole saving grace of which is its brevity.
Released at the fag-end of the 90s, a decade in which Capcom had taken the fighting game to a mass market and then, with countless iterations, relegated it to the doldrums,Third Strikewas largely overlooked. With the fighting genre reborn, it seems an appropriate time for its return.While the publisher's last downloadable remake,Super Street Fighter II Turbo HD Remix, was given a thorough overhaul, with re-drawn sprites and some balance tweaks, it has leftThird Strikeintact. An array of graphical filters and screen settings mean the game can be given an HD sheen, or remain true to the original arcade cabinet – scanlines, curved screen and all.Online play is offered in lobbies of up to eight players, a host of tournament options, and the ability to upload saved match replays directly to YouTube, while, offline, a set of challenges and trials provide an exacting test of your ability to perform combos and the game's signature mechanic, the parry, but there's little here for newcomers. This was always a hard game and, in the context of its modern counterpart's relaxed input windows and comeback mechanics, it is harder than ever, but those prepared for a challenge will findThird Strikeone of the most rewarding titles of its kind.
Fans of rugby games, rather like fans of the All Blacks, have had a long wait. Although the four-year delay since the last oval ball-based offering from the gaming industry is hardly in the same league as the 24-year wait New Zealand have had to endure since they last won the World Cup (not that they're chokers or anything…), it still feels like a very long time. Factor in that the last game in question was EA Sports' lacklustreRugby 08, a hasty remake ofRugby 06rushed out to cash in on the 2007 tournament, and the hold-up is even harder to bear.Unfortunately, playingRWC2011only forces one to question what the game's developers, HB Studios, have been doing in this intervening period, since it does not appear to have included much time working on this title. However, fans of the old EA SportsRugbyseries may well love it, if only because, despite the gap in time, there are so many parallels between them.Anyone concerned, for example, about new controls need not worry – they are more or less exactly the same as they were inRugby 08, a comprehensive first-match win proving their familiarity. Admittedly, there was not much wrong with the old control system, but it still seems lazy not to even try to innovate. Even the old bug of having "punt" and "dive for a try" linked to the same button remains, leading to some embarrassing incidents of a player hoofing the ball into the stands rather than diving for the line. However, the rucking system has been tweaked slightly for the better, with excessive button bashing resulting in the referee reaching for his whistle, and possibly even a card, if you get carried away.While the gameplay remains solid without being spectacular and the graphics nice but nothing special for a next-gen console, even if played on HD, perhaps the most noticeable let-down is the lack of two specific team licences. For an official World Cup game not to have real player names for Australia and New Zealand is very disappointing, and undermines the effort that has been put into rendering the stadiums so accurately. The paltry selection of available sides also seems conservative, with only the 20 World Cup qualifiers included. Too little, too late and too average – a poor reward for those who have bided their time patiently since 2007.
Back to school time and  millions of British kids are heading back to classrooms to embark on the national curriculum so beloved of busybody ministers. One item in particular on that curriculum will bemuse the youngsters. It goes by the initials ICT, short for information and communication technology. If they are in primary school, they will have to get through key stages 1 and 2. Secondary pupils have to get through stages 3 and 4 which, the soon-to-be-abolished Qualifications and Curriculum Development Agency tells us, "have been developed to enable schools to raise standards and help all their learners meet the challenges of life in our fast-changing world".Michael Gove, the government's education supremo, has set in train a root-and-branch overhaul of the national curriculum, but for the time being our kids are stuck with the current&nbsp;version.Reading through it, one is struck by its quaint, well-intentioned style. The key ICT concepts at stage 3, for example, are "capability", "communication and collaboration", "exploring ideas and manipulating information", as well as "the impact of technology" and "critical evaluation". Drilling down from these broad headings, one finds that, say, "communication and collaboration" involves getting pupils to explore "the ways that ICT can be used to communicate, collaborate and share ideas on a global scale, allowing people to work together in new ways and changing the way in which knowledge is created". All of which is fine and dandy, but some conceptual distance away from the use of BlackBerry Messenger to coordinate looting.What do you do if you're a teacher of this stuff? Easy: you reach for some pre-cooked lesson plans. Here's a nice set (available in booklet, CD or download formats) for £25.One of the lessons in the package"familiarises students with some of the screen messages they may encounter in Word and teaches them appropriate responses".Another takes students through converting their paper-based designs for data entry forms and invoices into "the real thing", using "a spreadsheet program". Guess which spreadsheet program? If you answered Microsoft Excel, go to the top of the class, because that's what the vast majority of British schools have.What is happening is that the national curriculum's worthy aspirations toeducatepupils about ICT are transmuted at the chalkface into teaching kids to use Microsoft software. Our children are mostly getting ICT training rather than ICT&nbsp;education.And if you can't see the difference, try this simple thought-experiment: replace "ICT" with "sex" and see which you'd prefer in that context: education or training?How we got to this ridiculous state of affairs is a long story. It's partly about how education departments, like generals, are always preparing for the last war. Thus, while we're moving into a post-PC age, our ICT curriculum is firmly rooted in the desktop computer running Microsoft Windows. It's also partly about the technophobia of teachers, local councillors and officials. But it's mainly about the chronic mismatch between the glacial pace of curriculum change in a print-based culture, and the rate of change in the&nbsp;technology.There might have been a time when computers and networking were so exotic that ICT deserved a special roped-off space in the curriculum. But those days are long gone. Retaining it nowadays as a discrete subject is as absurd as it would be to have "books" as a special component of the national curriculum – a point nicely made by the educational research groupAlt-C in its recent submission to Michael&nbsp;Gove.For complicated reasons, therefore, our ICT curriculum has become dysfunctional. This raises two questions: does it matter? And what might we do about it?The answer to the first question is simple: it really does matter. The current curriculum undermines the authority of the education system by revealing to tech-savvy children how antediluvian it is.But, more importantly, the curriculum is disabling rather than enabling for most kids, because it is preparing them for a technological world that is vanishing before their eyes. Training children to use Microsoft Office is the contemporary equivalent of the touch-typing courses that secretarial colleges used to run for girls in the 1940s and 1950s – useful for a limited role in the workplace, perhaps, but not much good for life in the modern world.The worse thing about the ICT curriculum, however, is its implicit assumption about our relationship to the technology. "Look," it says seductively, "using a computer is like driving a car: you don't need to know how the thing works – you just need to know how to drive it."Of course, this is, broadly speaking, true for cars, because few of us are going to go into the car-making (or even car-repairing) business. But computers are not like cars. They are machines driven by software, and software is pure "thought-stuff", in other words, something that is accessible to anyone with the requisite curiosity, intelligence and talent. So while teenagers might not be able to make cars, they can certainly get into the software business, because the entry barrier is so low. All you need is imagination, talent, time and persistence. But it really helps if you're schooled in an environment that encourages tinkering and experimentation, rather than one which just preaches utilitarian use of information appliances with "no user-serviceable parts", as the saying goes.As it happens, Britain knows more about this than most countries because in the 1980s it witnessed an explosion of creativity unleashed by a philosophy that was the polar opposite of the spirit underpinning the national curriculum. At the core of the phenomenon was a small home computer – the BBC Micro – launched as part of a nationwide campaign by the national broadcaster to awaken interest in the possibilities of computing in school and the home.The BBC machine was made by Acorn, a Cambridge-based start-up, and it was an open-architecture, extensible machine based on the MOS 6502 processor that powered the Apple II (among other devices). The story of the BBC Micro has been beautifully told by the writer Francis Spufford in his bookBackroom Boys(Faber, 2003).The machine came with no software other than its built-in operating system and a Basic interpreter. In order to make it do anything, you had to write a program. However, because it came with the imprimatur of the BBC, it found its way into many homes and most schools and universities, where it had an astonishing impact. I've lost count of the number of successful computer and software engineers I've met who attributed their choice of career to getting their hands on a BBC machine when they were teenagers.In addition to launching a thousand careers, the little machine spawned two significant industrial developments. The first was computer gaming, a business in which Britain still punches way above its weight. The seed from which that grew was Elite, an astonishing 3D game created for the BBC Micro by two Cambridge undergraduates, David Braben and Ian Bell. They were fed up with the naff, packaged gaming products then available for the machine, so they wrote their own – and changed the world. The second was ARM, a world-beating semiconductor and software giant which morphed out of Acorn, the company that built the BBC Micro.ARM's chip designs are the processors that power most of the world's smartphones and many of its portable computing devices. But what's really intriguing is that this remote descendant of the BBC Micro is also one of the forces powering a movement that's sprung up to resist the utilitarian, no-tinkering philosophy of the national&nbsp;curriculum.This autumn, for example, we will see the first production prototypes of a fully operational Linux computer the size of a credit card. It's a creation of Raspberry Pi, a charitable foundation set up by a gifted Cambridge-based engineer, Eben Upton. Earlier this month, thefirst (alpha) prototypes of the device were unveiled. As with most first-draft hardware devices, it's physically bigger than the eventual product will be, but the technology works. At one end is a USB port for a keyboard or other input device; at the other is an HDMI port to hook up to a domestic television – just like the BBC Micro of old. The aim is to make a powerful little computer that will cost around £15 (and is therefore cheap enough to give to every child), run sophisticated software such as Firefox and yet be completely programmable so that kids who want to write code for it will be able to do so. But the best thing about the Raspberry Pi is that the processor that powers it is made by ARM. And one of the trustees of the foundation that has created it is David Braben, one of the two teenage hackers who created Elite all those years ago.A key driver of this new tech resistance movement is a desire to rescue kids from the fate that the Department of Education has in mind for them, namely as passive consumers of information appliances and services created by giant foreign corporations. Where governments dream up projects like the European Computer Driving Licence (ECDL), the resistance seeks to grant kids a "Licence to Tinker" – to demystify the technology by providing tools and ideas that enable them to understand how modern networked devices work.CueArduino, a fascinating Italian-based project that has created an open-source electronics prototyping platform based on flexible, easy-to-use hardware and software.Arduino kit is aimed at anyone who is interested in creating interactive objects or environments. It can monitor its environment by receiving input from sensors, and can affect its surroundings by controlling lights, motors, and other actuators. The project has its own programming language and its own development environment – both of which are free. Devices built with Arduino boards can be stand-alone or can communicate with software running on "ordinary" computers. And like the predecessors of the BBC Micro, Arduino stuff can be built by hand or purchased preassembled. It's like a chemistry set for geeks, complete with mind-blowing explosives.What the tech resistance movement shows is that thereisan alternative to the national curriculum in ICT. Instead of laying the dead hand of key stages 1-4 on our children, we could be opening their minds to the disruptive and creative possibilities of computing and networking, reversing the decline in entrants to computer science departments and – who knows? – even seeding the development of the ARMs of the future.The only question is whether Michael Gove is up for it? Sadly, you only have to ask the question to know the answer.
Steve Jobs's resignation was the most discussed in corporate history. Because his illness has been public knowledge for so long, and because Wall Street and the commentariat viewed his health as being synonymous with that of his company, for years Apple share prices have fluctuated with its CEO's temperature. If all the "Whither Apple without Jobs?" articles were laid end to end, they would cover quite a distance – but they never reached a conclusion.Still, you could understand the hysteria. After all, he's the man who rescued Apple from the near-death experience it underwent in the mid-1990s. When he came back in 1996, the company seemed headed for oblivion. Granted, it was a distinctive, quirky outfit, but one that had been run into the ground by mediocre executives who had no vision, no strategy – and no operating system to power its products into the future.Jobs came back because Apple bought NeXT, the computer workstation company he had started after being ousted by the Apple board in 1985. By acquiring NeXT, Apple got two things: the operating system that became OS X, the software that underpinned everything Apple has made since; and Jobs as "interim CEO" at a salary of $1 a year. But it was still a corporate minnow: a BMW to Microsoft's Ford. Fifteen years later, Apple had become the most valuable company in the world.It was the greatest comeback since Lazarus. Because only an obsessive, authoritarian, visionary genius could have achieved such a transformation, it's easy to see why Wall Street has had difficulty imagining Apple without Jobs. He was, after all, the only CEO in the world with rock star status. And Apple is a corporate extension of his remarkable personality, much as Microsoft was of Bill Gates's. But Jobs has something Gates never had – a reputation so powerful as to create a reality distortion field around him.This field has blinded people to some under-appreciated facts. While it is true, for example, that Apple – under Jobs's influence – is probably the world's best industrial design outfit, it is also a phenomenally well-run company. Proof of that comes from various sources. For example, not only does it regularly dream up beautiful, functional and fantastically complex products, but it gets them to market in working order, on time and to budget; and it has continually done so despite exploding demand. Compare that with slow-motion car crashes such as Hewlett Packard's Touchpad, RIM's BlackBerry Playbook or Microsoft's Vista operating system.Then there's the way that Apple – in the teeth of industry scepticism – made such an astonishing success of bricks-and-mortar retailing with its high-street stores. Or ponder the fact that it became the world's most valuable corporation without incurring a single cent of debt. Instead, it sits atop a $78bn (£48bn) cash mountain: enough to buy TescoandBT and still have loose change. Compare that with the casino capitalism practised by so many MBA-educated company leaders in the US. And finally there is the stranglehold Apple now has on a number of crucial modern markets – computers, online music, mobile devices and smartphones.If you ask people what Steve Jobs is best remembered for, most will name a particular product. If they're from my (baby boomer) generation, it will probably be the Apple Macintosh, a computer that changed many of our lives in the 1980s. Younger generations will credit him with the iMac, iTunes and the iPod. Today's teenagers will revere him for the iPhone. But there's a good argument that Jobs's greatest creation is Apple itself in its post-1996 incarnation. If that's true, the great test of his career legacy is whether the organisation he built around his values will endure and remain faithful to them.What are those values? He usually expressed them as aphorisms and, as news of his resignation spread , people began raking through them for clues. Many focused on what he said to John Sculley, CEO of Pepsi, when he was trying to persuade him to run Apple."Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugar water," he asked, "or do you want to change the world?" (Sculley accepted the invitation, then presided over Jobs's expulsion.) But for Jobs it was a serious question. What he was asking, as the bloggerUmair Haque put it, was: "Do you really want to spend your days slaving over work that fails to inspire, on stuff that fails to count, for reasons that fail to touch the soul of anyone?"Jobs is famously fanatical about design. In part this is about how things look (though for him it also involves simplicity of use). When the rest of the industry was building computers as grey, rectangular metal boxes, for example, he was prowling department stores and streets looking for design metaphors. For a time he thought the Mac should be like a Porsche. At another stage he wanted it to be like the Cuisinart food-processor. When the machine finally appeared in 1984, Jack Tramiel, the grizzled macho-boss of Commodore, thought it looked like a girly device that would be best sold in boutiques. What Tramiel did not realise – and Jobs did – was that ultimately computers would be consumer products and people would pay a huge premium for classy design.In that sense he is the polar opposite of the MBA-trained, bean-counting executive. "The cure for Apple is not cost-cutting," he said in 1996, when the company was on the rocks. "The cure for Apple is to innovate its way out of its current predicament." At another point he said: "When you're a carpenter making a beautiful chest of drawers, you're not going to use a piece of plywood on the back, even though it faces the wall and nobody will ever see it."This delight in elegant work has always been the most striking aspect of Jobs's celebrated speeches introducing new Apple products in San Francisco. As he cooed over the iMac or the iPhone or the iPad, words like "beautiful", "amazing" and "awesome" tumbled out. For once they didn't sound like cynical, manipulative corporation-speak. He spoke from the heart.It goes without saying that he is impossible to work with; most geniuses are. Yet he has built – and retained the respect of – the most remarkable design team in living memory, a group that has been responsible for more innovation than the rest of the computer industry put together. For that reason, when the time comes to sum up Jobs's achievements, most will portray him as a seminal figure in the computing industry. But Jobs is bigger than that.To understand why, you have to look at the major communications industries of the 20th century – the telephone, radio and movies. As Tim Wu chronicles it in his remarkable book,The Master Switch, each of these industries started out as an open, irrationally exuberant, chaotic muddle of incompatible standards, crummy technology and chancers. The pivotal moment in the evolution of each industry came when a charismatic entrepreneur arrived to offer consumers better quality, higher production values and greater ease of use.With the telephone it was Theodore Vail of AT&amp;T, offering a unified nationwide network and a guarantee that when you picked up the phone you always got a dial tone. With radio it was David Sarnoff, who founded RCA. With movies it was Adolph Zukor, who created the Hollywood studio system.Jobs is from the same mould. He believes that using a computer should be delightful, not painful; that it should be easy to seamlessly transfer music from a CD on to a hard drive and thence to an elegant portable player; that mobile phones should be powerful handheld computers that happen to make voice calls; and that a tablet computer is the device that is ushering us into a post-PC world. He has offered consumers a better proposition than the rest of the industry could – and they jumped at it. That's how he built Apple into the world's most valuable company. And it's why he is really the last of the media moguls.
Contrary to the nostalgic images of strong tea and sponge cake, Woodbine smoke and the Blitz spirit, the Lyons teashop chain was at the cutting edge of computing 60 years ago.It was Lyons' money – and the brilliance of the computing pioneers Sir Maurice Wilkes, John Pinkerton and David Caminer – that gave the world its first business computer. Wilkes, a Cambridge scientist, had spearheaded the development of the Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator (Edsac), which caught the eye of the people at Lyons who were always on the lookout for faster, better ways to run their business.In the late 1940s the chain agreed to underwrite some of Edsac's development in return for the Cambridge boffins' help in devising a computer that could process business information.By late 1951, the Lyons Electronic Office (Leo) I computer, designed by Pinkerton and Caminer, was being used for bakery valuation calculations. Three years later, it was preparing the payslips of the 1,700 weekly-paid employees at the Lyons bakery near Olympia, west London.Leo Computers Ltd was founded to sell the Leo and its successors, Leo II and Leo III, to other businesses. Customers included the GPO, Customs and Excise, the Ministry of Pensions and the Ford motor company. The machines were also sold to Australia, South Africa, the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia. The company became part of English Electric and then ICL – the Labour government's attempt to expand the British computer industry into the global market in the late 1960s – before the latter was taken over by Fujitsu in 1990.But although it is seldom remembered today, the achievements of Leo and the team behind it remain as remarkable as they are undeniable.As New Scientist put it a decade ago: "In today's terms it would be like hearing that Pizza Hut had developed a new generation of microprocessor, or McDonald's had invented the internet."
The chairman of Google has delivered a devastating critique of the UK's education system and said the country had failed to capitalise on its record of innovation in science and engineering.Delivering the annual MacTaggart lecture in Edinburgh, Eric Schmidt criticised "a drift to the humanities" and attacked the emergence of two educational camps, each of which "denigrate the other. To use what I'm told is the local vernacular, you're either a luvvy or a boffin," he said.Schmidt also hit out at Lord Sugar, the Labour peer and star of the hit BBC programme The Apprentice, who recently claimed on the show that "engineers are no good at business".Schmidt told the MediaGuardian Edinburgh international TV festival: "Over the past century, the UK has stopped nurturing its polymaths. You need to bring art and science back together."The technology veteran, who joined Google a decade ago to help founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin build the company, said Britain should look to the "glory days" of the Victorian era for reminders of how the two disciplines can work together."It was a time when the same people wrote poetry and built bridges," he said.  "Lewis Carroll didn't just write one of the classic fairytales of all time. He was also a mathematics tutor at Oxford. James Clerk Maxwell was described by Einstein as among the best physicists since Newton – but was also a published poet."Schmidt's comments echoed sentiments expressed by Steve Jobs, the chief executive of Apple, who revealed this week that he was stepping down. "The Macintosh turned out so well because the people working on it were musicians, artists, poets and historians – who also happened to be excellent computer scientists," Jobs once told the New York Times.Schmidt paid tribute to Britain's record of innovation, saying the UK had "invented computers in both concept and practice" before highlighting that the world's first office computer "was built in 1951 by the Lyons chain of teashops".However, he said the UK had failed to build industry-leading positions or successfully transfer ideas from the drawing board to the boardroom."The UK is the home of so many media-related inventions. You invented photography. You invented TV," he said. "Yet today, none of the world's leading exponents in these fields are from the UK."  He added: "Thank you for your innovation, thank you for your brilliant ideas. You're not taking advantage of them on a global scale."He said British startups tended to sell out to overseas companies once they had reached a certain size, and that this trend needed to be reversed. "The UK does a great job of backing small firms and cottage industries, but there's little point getting a thousand seeds to sprout if they are then left to wither or transplanted overseas. UK businesses need championing to help them grow into global powerhouses, without having to sell out to foreign-owned companies. If you don't address this, then the UK will continue to be where inventions are born, but not bred for long-term success."Schmidt said the country that invented the computer was "throwing away your great computer heritage" by failing to teach programming in schools. "I was flabbergasted to learn that today computer science isn't even taught as standard in UK schools," he said. "Your IT curriculum focuses on teaching how to use software, but gives no insight into how it's made."Barack Obama announced in June that the US would train an extra 10,000 engineers a year. "I hope that others will follow suit – the world needs more engineers. I saw the other day that on The Apprentice Alan Sugar said engineers are no good at business," he said."If the UK's creative businesses want to thrive in the digital future, you need people who understand all facets of it integrated from the very beginning. Take a lead from the Victorians and ignore Lord Sugar: bring engineers into your company at all levels, including the top."Schmidt also announced that Google TV, which allows users to search the internet on their TV sets, would be launched in Europe early next year, with the UK "among the top priorities". The product is already available in America, although sales have been disappointing.Schmidt said Google TV did not threaten broadcasters and would enable them to experiment with new formats online. He defended the company's contribution to the TV industry, pointing out that it had invested billions of dollars in IT infrastructure that media companies use.Google also announced it would fund a new course in online production and distribution at the National Film &amp; Television School in London for three years.
The announcement by Leo Apotheker that HP is "exploring options" around its Personal Systems Group (PSG) - might keep it, might spin it off, might sell it - has naturally got people wondering why the world's biggest seller of Windows PCs would want to get out of a market when it's leading it.The answer's simple, once you delve into HP's financials, which I've examined going back to the November 2004-January 2005 period (officlally, the first quarter of its 2005 financial year). PSG is the worst-performing division in terms of profit margin. It's dragging the rest of the business down.You can see it here with three graphs. First, here's HP's revenues by division:HP revenue by division, Q105-Q311: PSG is the green chunk. Amounts in millions..PSG looks pretty good - in fact, by revenue, it's the biggest, with only Services (the blue chunk) coming close.But now we turn to profits. Here are the profits, in monetary terms (ie millions of dollars):HP profits by division in monetary terms. Services in blue, Imaging in purple, PSG in green. Amounts in millions..Suddenly it's clear that while PSG generates lots of revenue, it doesn't do the same when it comes to profits. (My calculation is that it sells about 48m PCs per year for an average of $800, on which it makes $40 profit each.) By contrast Services and Imaging &amp; Printing (blue and purple respectively) generate much more profit per dollar of revenue. Perhaps not surprising, because both rely a lot on HP's own in-house expertise - unlike the Windows PCs, which use someone else's software (mostly) and hardware that is commoditised.The picture becomes even clearer once you look at the percentage profitability of each division - its profit as a percentage of revenue. Now, PSG is not the biggest, but the smallest; an average, over the period, of just 4.6%, compared to 12% for Services and over 15% for Imaging &amp; Printing.HP divisional profits as percentage of revenue. Services blue, Imaging & Printing purple, PSG green..The upshot of all this is that if HP were to ditch PSG without having any effect on its other divisions (a big proviso, since arguably PCs are sometimes useful to win Services contracts) then its profit margin would improve overall from an average over those 27 quarters of 10.1% to 12.7%.Doesn't sound much - but when you're a company doing $30bn per quarter, these things add up. True, HP would only be a $21bn per quarter company if it dumped PSG – but it would have better earnings per share, which would mean better dividends, and the stock price would rise. Which is what chief executives are meant to make happen, aren't they? (Ignoring for a moment whether it makes sense.)No doubt people inside HP know these graphs just as well - and they know how much benefit the PSG brings, or doesn't bring, to other divisions. The motive for sticking with PSG may be there. Perhaps there's a brilliant plan internally to boost the margins from PSG. (Run WebOS instead of Windows?)But for now, those graphs tell the tale. Even for the biggest PC seller in the world, personal computers aren't a great business.
Samsung has been banned from selling its Galaxy Tab tablet computers in Germany until at least 9 September following a successful injunction claim by Apple. The decision leaves the South Korean electronics giant in limbo during the giant IFA consumer electronics fair in Berlin next week.A German court said on Thursday it would deliver its ruling on that date, two days after the end of IFA, after hearing arguments from Samsung and iPad maker Apple, which had argued that the Galaxy Tabs "slavishly" copied its design.Samsung had asked for a decision before IFA. In his response, the judge said there were "overarching similarities" between Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, which run Google's Android operating system, and Apple's iPad.It was not clear at the time of publication whether the terms of the injunction prohibit Samsung from displaying the Galaxy Tab at IFA.Earlier this week Apple also won an injuction against Samsung's Galaxy S, Galaxy SII and Ace smartphones, prohibiting their import into Europe through the Netherlands – Samsung's principal import point for the EU. Although the Korean company could get around that injunction by importing into a different country, it would have to reorganise its logistics system to cope with it.Such methods have beenused by companies including Sony to get around similar injunctions.But the decision in Germany did not all go Apple's way, as the injunction was not enforced by the German court against Samsung throughout Europe.Florian Müller, who follows the patent battles between technology companies closely,provided an English translation of the court ruling on his Fosspatents blog, which includes a passage noting that "the… design presented by Apple has to be considered valid and is infringed by Samsung. That said, the court reaffirmed doubts about having cross-border jurisdiction over a company domiciled outside the European Union with respect to Europe-wide injunctions. Therefore, the court has indicated that, after the consultation that took place before the hearing, it tends to uphold the preliminary injunction against Samsung Germany to its full extent and to lift it with respect to Samsung's Korean parent company with respect to markets outside of the Federal Republic of Germany."Richard Windsor, an analyst at stockbrokers Nomura, observed: "The problem Samsung has here is precedent. If it loses the court ruling on 9 September, Apple will be able to take that ruling and apply for a ban in other EU countries as the design rights that Apple has on this are enforceable throughout the EU."Patent lawsuits are becoming increasingly common between wireless industry players, as established companies seek to protect their markets from newcomers such as Google. Google agreed last weekto buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5bn, largely for its vast portfolio of mobile patents. It will be the company's largest-ever acquisition.Windsor added: "While this is a short-term negative for Samsung, once it has access to the MMI [Motorola] patents via the Google acquisition, we think it should be in a much better position to fight back against Apple. By any stretch of the imagination, Samsung's [present] intellectual property position is weak, giving it little with which to fight back against the predations of Apple."The battle over the Galaxy Tab in Germany is one of19 lawsuits going on between Apple and Samsung in 12 courts in 9 countries on 4 continents, says Müller: those include the US, where Apple claims infringement of a number of patents relating to its iPhone and iPad.
With thousands of new apps released every week, there is a real needle/haystack feel to finding the good ones. Here is the latest crop of apps that we've been testing.Eurostar TrainsiPhone / Android, freeExcept for a few brave souls who regularly commute from London to Paris or Brussels (or vice versa), most of us take the Eurostar train relatively infrequently – so why get an app to book tickets rather than do it online? Actually, the killer feature for Eurostar's new app is the mobile ticketing. You can book tickets to the main Eurostar destinations, review bookings and check on your loyalty points, but also receive a QR code to actually check in. While that feature isn't exclusive to bookings made through the app, it's good to have it all in one place. Meanwhile, the app itself is very slick and usable, and the fact that it's launching on Android as well as iPhone is to Eurostar's credit.Official Rugby World Cup 2011iPhone / iPad / Android / Windows Phone / BlackBerry, freeThe International Rugby Board's official World Cup app makes an even better showing when it comes to looking beyond iOS, with four different versions available. Obviously, we can't reach a definitive verdict until we see how it performs during the actual tournament, but all the ingredients seem to be in place for an efficient way to get scores, stats and video highlights during the World Cup. There are additional features for anyone actually attending the tournament, too: seating plans and other information about the various stadia and hosting cities.Spy MouseiPhone, £0.69Spy Mouse is one of the more anticipated iPhone games this year, since it's the latest from Australian studio Firemint: the company behind the Flight Control and Real Racing games. Spy Mouse is just as impressive and addictive as those games, with an initially-simple gameplay mechanic: you trace a line on-screen to guide your mouse to the exit via lumps of cheese, while avoiding cats. It soon throws in power-ups and gadgets to complicate the action, as the cats ramp up the pressure. If you're struggling, there's a "Kiska" power-up purchasable for 69p to help you through levels, much like the Mighty Eagle in Angry Birds. The gameplay is finely tuned, and the production values are top-notch.Seatwave TicketsiPhone, freeTicketing service Seatwave is the latest company looking to take on Songkick for the wallets of iPhone-owning music fans. Like that app, it recommends you gigs based on the bands you own and your location, with tickets purchasable on the iPhone. An extra touch are the seating maps enabling you to choose where you sit in larger venues. One thing to bear in mind is that Seatwave is a ticket exchange, so tickets will have a range of prices including many that cost more than the standard price. Even so, it's a good fallback when tickets are sold out, meaning it may be worth a space on your homescreen alongside Songkick.Peter Dickson's Pocket AnnounceriPhone / Android, £1.49Heard of Peter Dickson? There's a good chance you've heard him: he's the voiceover chap responsible for the booming contestant and guest star intros during X Factor. Now he's got his own app, which is partly a soundboard of Peter shouting set comedy phrases. So far, so novelty. But you can also use the sentence-creator mode to build your own Dickson announcements, with a decent selection of names, actions and other things for him to shout about. Admittedly, still novelty, but if the ability to have the UK's leading prime-time announcer roar quips about friends and armadillos appeals, this app is good fun. Possibly a niche, yes.Bug VillageiPhone / Android, freeMobile games publisher Glu Mobile has been picking up quite a fanbase for its freemium games in recent months, with Gun Bros the pick of the bunch. For anyone who wants something a bit less... gunny, Bug Village offers a cutesy resource-management game that involves building a colony of ants and bees. The influence of animated films like A Bug's Life and Antz lurks in the background, but the game is fun and accessible. As with Glu's other games, you can play for free, but paying for virtual coins and items speeds up your progress – although it's weighted about right not to feel like too much of a hard sell. It feels like a game for younger players more than adults, but is nevertheless polished and playable.
The lead character of Deus Ex Revolution is a mechanically augmented cyborg whose many cybernetic additions give him a range of super human (or should that be post-human) powers. But how likely are we to see such bodily augmentation by the year of the game's setting, 2027?To find out, the game's publisher, Square Enix commissioned Canadian filmmaker Rob Spence to explore the current state of physical augmentation and augmented reality displays. Spence lost an eye in a shooting accident as a teenager and has since had a wireless video camera built into his eye socket, allowing him to record everything he sees.During the course of this fascinating ten minute film he meets several people who have benefited from cutting edge augmentation technologies, as well as firefighters testing a new AR suit that provides them with information about their environment, including the presence of dangerous chemicals, when fighting fires.Anyway, it's a little more interesting than the usual promo trailer – although, if you're squeamish, watch out as there are brief scenes of medical operations.
The ludicrously overstocked shelves of the App Store are groaning under the weight of word games and simple strategy sims, so it takes something special to grab the attention of jaded app shoppers. I think Quarrel Deluxe should do it. Developed by Dundee-based Denki Games, creator of the seminal pre-iPhone puzzler, Denki Blocks, it is an elegantly designed combination of Scrabble and Risk, in which the player must gain control of all the squares on a series of environments by beating AI opponents at a word creation game.Each side starts out with a small army of tribesmen and a set number of squares. Players then take it in turns to try to overtake the territories nearest their own, by starting 'quarrels' with the tribesmen of other players. These quarrels are essentially Scrabble word creation tests – you get a selection of letters, each assigned a score, and you have to create the best word possible. You're limited, however, by the number of tribesmen you have on your square; if you take four men into the fight, you can only create a word up to four letters long. If you manage to defeat a square that has a greater number of enemy tribesmen on it, you get to take one of theirs as a prisoner, and he fights with your men.You need to occupy every tile on the map to win, but beware of leaving squares poorly defended.When you gain a new square, you move several of your people on to it, but you need to divide your armies so that you don't leave any areas of your territory poorly defended. The skill of the game is knowing how far to push your territory in a single turn – try to take too much land in one go and you end up with several squares defended by just one lonely solder – they're asking to be attacked. At the end of each turn, the game sends in a set number of reinforcements to each team, and you can also gain extra men by filing a gauge that counts up your word scores. Meanwhile, when AI players are challenging each other, the player gets to take part in a bonus challenge which involves making the best word possible with the letters that your opponents are fighting with; the better your word, the most points are added to your gauge.It has to be said, this is not a light puzzler in the Popcap ilk. The rules take a little time and effort to appreciate, and the richness of the territorial strategy only becomes evident after several games. Luckily, there's a really nice tutorial mode that guides you through the basics. Once you've got to grips with everything, you have a beautifully presented, enormously deep strategy word game, that's lovingly filled with compelling subsidiary features (like dictionary definitions of all the words you create). You fight on a variety of landscapes, each with strategic quirks, and all the AI opponents have different styles, some brilliant at word play but lousy at territorial strategy, others masters of both.The downside is the lack of a multiplayer component. The game was designed (and originally demoed) as an Xbox Live title and playing it against friends on the sofa will surely be the optimum experience. Multiplayer is certain to be added to the smartphone version of the title in future iterations, and I'm hopeful an XBLA version will still arrive at some point.Coming up with a high-scoring word is just as satisfying here as it is in Scrabble.As it stands now, and for £2.99 (though there is a limited free edition to try too), Quarrel Deluxe is a must buy for Scrabble and Words With Friends fanatics who want to try a whole different type of lexicological challenge. There is great satisfaction to be had in turning the course of a war with one or two tactically brilliant land grabs and a few clever words; I've been down to my last land tile and somehow fought back to victory. And when you have enough tribesmen on a tile, there's a chance to multiply your score by solving the eight-letter anagram that accompanies every quarrel, so you even get to feel like a Countdown contestant.Quarrel is just a lovely, skilfully-crafted joy. Denki's genius is in making you feel that hours in the game's company have been educational rather than a time-killing indulgence. That is the loftiest aim of all word games. Few really achieve it.• Quarrel Deluxe was reviewed on iPhone 4
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHigh Fashion, Low Security Part Duex! &gt;&gt; Down South HackingShowing you how SQL injection is spotted and what tools are used to get it done. The lack of response from the fashion site is concerning, though: this is someone who tried to do all the right things (no customer data leak, advising the site privately).Overshadowed Stories of the Day &gt;&gt; Ranieri Communications | Consumer Technology PR Specialists"Mr Jobs has been described in the past as Apple's best marketing tool. Today's announcement shows that he hasn't lost his ability to steal the headlines."Here are some of the stories which would have been interesting news today, if Stevey J hadn't sent that letter to the Apple board."Your catchup-on-the-catchup service.Youth cybercrime linked to friends' influence &gt;&gt; Michigan State UniversityLinked by Oxblood Ruffin (see link lower): "Peer influence and low self-control appear to be the major factors fueling juvenile cybercrime such as computer hacking and online bullying, according to a new study led by a Michigan State University criminologist."Thomas Holt, assistant professor of criminal justice, said the findings reinforce the need for parents to be more aware of their children's friends and Internet activities."Next-gen Windows slate device revealed at TechEd 2011 NZ &gt;&gt; Smarter GeekQuad-core! Great. We think there may be more unreleased Windows slates than ones actually on the market.Rob "CmdrTaco" Malda resigns from Slashdot &gt;&gt; Slashdot"After 14 years and over 15,000 stories posted, it's finally time for me to say Good-Bye to Slashdot. I created this place with my best friends in a run down house while still in college. Since then it has grown to be read by more than a million people, and has served Billions and Billions of Pages (yes, in my head I hear the voice). During my tenure I have done my best to keep Slashdot firmly grounded in its origins, but now it's time for someone else to come aboard and find the 'future'."Crap. Steve Jobs, OK, but CmrdTaco? (Still, outlasted Digg in usefulness, huh, Rob?)New Apple CEO Tim Cook: 'I'm thinking printers' &gt;&gt; The OnionNote source. But - sharp as a knife.Oxblood Ruffin: The changing landscape of hacktivism &gt;&gt; TechRadar UK"Data theft is arguably the game changer."DDoSing or web defacements are one thing. Breaking into government and commercial networks is another. Already the clouds are forming. The Danish police wish to ban all anonymous use of the internet. The Indian Government wants real-time monitoring of Twitter, Facebook, and Skype. The OECD is seeking tighter regulatory control of the internet. And the United Kingdom is seeking stricter laws to deal with cybercrime."While it would be unfair to say that Anonymous is completely responsible for these reactions, it's certainly part of the problem. And when the whip comes down - and come down it will - Anonymous will have to accept part of the blame when online privacy rights are scaled back even further."Hacktivism, real hacktivism, has always managed to get things done without upsetting the apple cart. And even though Anonymous is more decentralised than traditional hacktivist models there's no reason why it can't muster more discipline."Timeline: Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; FT.comIn 1972, Jobs offered the first Apple prototype PC to HP. In a rainy August 39 years later...Steve Jobs's Patents &gt;&gt; Interactive Feature NYTimes.comBeatiful, timeless interactive of Steve Jobs' technical legacy at one of the world's most valuable companies by market cap.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationDropTunesiCloud? DropTunes wants to take on Apple's upcoming cloud music service by letting people play music stored in their DropBox accounts. Playlist features and background audio are both included.iPhoneEarly BirdBooyah made its name with innovative social location games like MyTown, but its latest release is a more traditional game. Early Bird features a flying bluebird controlled by flicks and swipes, and is hoping to nab some of the same audience as iOS hit Tiny Wings.iPhoneA Dirry of Fighting Against HemorrhoidsYes, that's a typo in the title, which we assume will be fixed quickly on the App Store. But you get the general tone. This is, we can safely say, the best Japanese manga comic app for iOS about piles. Author Ken Shimada wants to demystify the disease – anal fistula operations and all – to ensure people don't ignore symptoms out of embarrassment.iPhone / iPadBestival 2011UK music festival Bestival is taking place in September, but its official app is out now. The £2.99 app is on iPhone and Android, with a mixture of festival info, maps and vouchers to get cheap deals from on-site retailers and stalls.iPhone / AndroidMeet GatsbyiPhone app Meet Gatsby has already got a fair amount of buzz before its release. It asks users to sign in with Foursquare or Facebook, then lets them know when someone is nearby with similar interests.iPhoneWhoSayWhoSay is a service for celebrities, athletes and musicians to manage their social media. This official Android app helps them do it on the go.AndroidTweetBookTweetBook is the latest Twitter app for the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, offering a mixture of basic and advanced features, as well as a Twitter-esque multi-pane design.BlackBerry PlayBookLloyd's ListLloyd's list is the world's longest-published newspaper, and now it's one of the latest apps. The maritime-focused publication provides news, analysis and data, with the app published by Informa UK.iPhoneStella Artois 9 Step Pouring RitualThere's a pouring ritual for a pint of Stella? Apparently so. This iPhone app aims to teach it, from purification and sacrifice through to beheading, judgement, bestowal and cleansing. Which sounds like a night on the Stella to us.iPhoneLike Us!This is an interesting idea: an iOS app designed for businesses, as a way to get customers to Like them on Facebook when physically at the company. "Lily owns a hairdresser salon and after she has finished cutting or styling each customers hair whist they are paying for her service she simply whips out her iPad and presents the customers with a big like us button," is the example given.iPhone / iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Friday at last! Tell us what you're playing this weekend!
Your life achievements haven't properly been recognised until they've been rendered into faintly dodgy CGI by the Taiwanese outfit NMA. (Tiger Woods, you were sohonoured.)But we're happy to say that Steve Jobs, who resigned as chief executive of Apple on Wednesday, has been duly recognised. (In fact it's come up so fast that we suspect they might even have had thisprepared, which we didn't think they were allowed to do under their "make it look as weird as possible" conditions. To say that it's a figurative - nay, symbolic - rather than literal representation only begins to scratch the surface.AsBitterwalletpoints out, "Obviously, it covers all the key points in the life of Jobs – the LSD-fuelled epiphany, that time he gave birth to a computer, the vicious lightsaber fight with Bill 'Darth Vader' Gates and his subsequent bout with the Grim Reaper. It's all there – a fitting tribute if ever we saw one."To which we'd add that it also has the time he fought off an attack of killer Android bots in his boardroom, upon which he was helped by someone who we can't actually recognise but seems to be wearing a rainbow flowerpot on his head. Mark Zuckerberg? Honestly, it's like Madame Tussauds in there. Anyway, enjoy.It's like Picasso was writing and reporting the news, isn't it?
Dictator. Tyrant. Genius: Steve Jobs's ferocious perfectionism is the stuff of Silicon Valley legend. Very much the entrepreneur's entrepreneur, the charismatic, ruthlessly ambitious former Apple CEO has built a legion of devotees who worship Apple with nothing less than religious devotion – from fanboy geeks to design obsessives and business graduates and, more recently, an increasingly mainstream customer base.Apple is the exception to every business rule. Where the trend is openness and collaboration, Apple is more proprietorial and closed than ever. Where tech businesses fail if they expand into content, Apple has come to redefine music and is a major player in digital books, TV and publishing. And where it is seen as far too risky for a business to depend on one all-powerful CEO, Jobs (left) has been that person for Apple, a company defined by his personality and vision. Dan Crow, who spent four years as Apple's senior engineering manager, saw the transformation after Jobs rejoined the company in 1996."Within 18 months he'd completely transformed Apple both internally and externally and it was really the force of his personality that did that."Rivals pore over Apple's methods – from tiny product groups and strictly enforced secrecy to an internal "university" where company successes are analysed and the strategy reinforced by an academic. And behind all this is Jobs. As Wired's Frank Rose once wrote, he was "far more compelling and ultimately more successful than the string of glossy-tongued managers"."Can anyone tell me whatMobileMeis meant to do?" Jobs barked at a meeting in 2008. "So why the fuck doesn't it do that?" he went on, beginning a 30-minute tirade detailed by Fortune magazine. "You've tarnished Apple's reputation. You should hate each other for having let each other down."In 2000, a meeting between Jobs and an education firm ended with Jobs screeching across the table: "You're shit! Your company's shit! It's nothing compared to mine!" his spittle flecking the table, according to theBoing Boingwebsite.Crow saw the infamous tyranny firsthand, working on development of the Quicktime video software where Jobs managed "every last pixel of the interface". His particular talents for marketing and his instinct for creating desirable products also come with an intimidating management style. "He's a perfectionist micromanager and will accept absolutely no compromise to his vision," Crow said."The flipside is that you end up building something extraordinary – our team ended up building elegant and refined software we didn't believe we were capable of building. Being part of that was career defining – he brings out the best in people."Jobs began his second period of health-related medical leave more than 18 months ago, since when he has looked increasingly gaunt during select public appearances. Though doubtless a reflection of his tenacity and commitment to Apple, this carefully graduated exit has minimised any sudden dive in Apple's stock value and prepared shareholders for a succession. Even his departure has been micromanaged. Is Apple's future really entwined with Jobs's personality?"Even when Steve isn't personally involved in a product, his philosophy is so well understood in the company that it pervades everything Apple does," said Crow."It's hard to see how that influence can remain at the level it is now because Steve is such a personality, and his influence is a very powerful tool in the company that is used to maintain standards."Although he's surrounded by very smart people from Tim Cook down, that influence will fade over time. Apple is a company founded in his image."
Apple's new chief executive Tim Cook vowed to stick to Apple's "unique principles and values" as investors marked his first day as successor to founder Steve Jobs by selling shares and marking the company's value down by more than 5%, or about £10bn.In taking over from Jobs, widely regarded as a genius for giving the world such groundbreaking products as the iPod and iPhone, Cook faces one of the toughest challenges in corporate history as he strives to maintain Apple's position as the world's foremost technology firm. Earlier this month Apple briefly passed the oil behemoth Exxon to become the world's most valuable company just 14 years after flirting with bankruptcy.In a company-wide email on Thursday, Cook, who has been at Apple for 13 years, told staff: "I want you to be confident that Apple is not going to change. I cherish and celebrate Apple's unique principles and values. Steve built a company and culture that is unlike any other in the world and we are going to stay true to that – it is in our DNA. We are going to continue to make the best products in the world that delight our customers and make our employees incredibly proud of what they do."The first challenge for Cook's reign will be the expected unveiling of the next versions of the iPhone, widely anticipated within the next six weeks as Apple aims to capitalise on its leadership of the mobile phone industry, where it has risen from nothing to having the largest revenue and profits in just under five years. In the computer market, its small sales have still grown faster than the rest of the Windows-based market for 20 successive quarters. And its iPad tablet still dominates the fast-growing market, despite competition from dozens of rivals using Google's free Android operating system.Reports said that Jobs spent his final day as chief executive at the Apple campus in Cupertino, California, where he worked a full day, and that he intended to be an "active" chairman of the company.Although he gave no reason for his departure, announced late on Wednesday, medical observers believe it is linked to the rare neuroendocrine cancer for which he was treated in 2004, and the liver transplant he received in April 2009.Cook, 50, was until Wednesday the company's chief operating officer, and had been acting CEO since January. He has long been seen as the natural successor.But even as investors were selling the stock – it later recovered to be down only 1.1% – business analysts were insisting that Cook would have at least two years in which to rely on products that Apple will already have under development.The departure of Jobs, the visionary who has set out Apple's philosophy for decades – first between 1975 and 1985, and then from 1997 to this year – had been seen by some investors as cause for alarm at the company, which is now more valuable than rivals such as Microsoft, Dell and Intel.But Gartner Research analyst Michael Gartenberg suggested that customers would continue to be loyal to the brand. Without Jobs, he believes the company's challenge will be the same as it was with him: continuing to find ways to raise the bar with its consumer electronics."Yes, this is quite some transition… but it doesn't mean Apple itself will fundamentally change," he said. "Certainly Apple's competition would be foolish to think this is a situation they could somehow capitalise on."Richard Windsor at Nomura said: "By its own admission, Apple's pipeline is several years long, so if innovation were to stop dead overnight it would still be some time before the effect was felt. That said, the launch of the next iPhone already delayed from the anticipated July launch will be even more important now than it already was. If the hardware is not impressive ... then the company may be seen to be losing momentum."Richard Gardner at Citigroup advised investors to buy the stock if it drops, saying Jobs had laid a strong foundation, and that he expected it to gain market share for years. "In our view, [Cook] is a tough but well-regarded leader who will continue to hold Apple employees to an extremely high standard of performance," he wrote."The quiet man with similar goalsSteve Jobs is famous for his temper, while Tim Cook is described as soft-spoken. Jobs is a Californian known for his new age interest in vegetarianism and spirituality, but Cook, who is from Alabama, loves American football. And while Jobs enjoyed rockstar-like fame, the intensely private Cook toiled for years in obscurity, an operations wonk who made the proverbial trains run on time.But now it may be the things that Cook shares with Jobs that will matter most as he takes over as boss of one of the world's coolest companies. One of those characteristics is said to be sheer competitiveness. "He's not in it for the fame or the ego or the money. He's in it to win," said Greg Petsch, his boss at Compaq Computer during the late 90s."The guy is just a phenomenal operating executive," said Mark Briggs, who was Cook's boss at Intelligent Electronics from 1994 to 1997. Briggs remembers a highly analytical executive, focused on metrics, who overhauled the company's supply chain. "He just works all the time, that's his life."Cook has a strong record as a stand-in. When Jobs was first ill in 2004 Cook took charge and things went so well he was made chief operating officer. In his second stint, Apple's stock rose 62%.Charles Arthur and agencies
Steve Jobs's resignation as Apple chief executive has wiped billions of dollars off its stock market value as traders fret over the company's long-term future without its visionary leader.The news of Jobs's departuresent Apple shares falling nearly 3% at the start of trading on Wall Street, knocking around $10bn (£6.1bn) off the company's value. The fall was slightly better than the 5% decline predicted before trading began, and meant Apple shares were changing hands for $365 each. They rose above $370 by late morning and were trading just 0.6% down in mid-afternoon.Apple stock has enjoyed a stellar run under Jobs – just two weeks agoApple briefly became the world's most valuable company,The shares had hit a low of $3.19 in July 1997, a few months after Jobs rejoined the company he had co-founded in 1976. They climbed steadily to almost $200 by the end of 2007 thanks to the success of the iPod and the iPhone, and resurgent demand for Apple's desktop and laptop computers.Apple stock fell back below $90 in early 2009, as shares slumped around the world, but quadrupled after that – thanks to a stream of record-breaking profits and impressive new launches, notably the iPad.Shares in some of Apple's rivals rose in Asia overnight, as investors anticipated that Apple might stumble. Samsung Electronics, which isembroiled in a legal battle with Apple over its tablet computer, gained 2.4%, while smartphone maker HTC closed 1.35% higher.Jobs's departure has been anticipated for some time, and his successor Tim Cook is highly respected. Many analysts believe Apple remains in safe hands, especially asCook has been running Apple since the start of 2011, when Jobs tookhis third period of medical leavesince being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 2004."While this marks the end of an era for Apple, it's important to remember the there's more to Apple than any one person, even Steve Jobs," said Michael Gartenberg, research director at Gartner. "Continuing as chairman, Mr Jobs will continue to leave his mark on both the company and products even as he transfers the reins to Mr Cook."Ovum chief analyst Jan Dawson believes it would be illogical for Apple's value to fall immediately."The short-term selloff of Apple shares immediately after the announcement is driven by fears that Apple will not continue to perform as it has, once Steve Jobs leaves the CEO role. However, these fears appear relatively unfounded at least in the short term. Tim Cook, formerly COO [chief operating officer] and now CEO, has been in day-to-day charge of Apple not only since January, but during two previous periods when Steve Jobs's health prompted extended absences. On all three occasions, Steve Jobs was nevertheless involved in major decisions and continued to set strategy for the company. His new role as chairman suggests this will continue to be the case even if he does not sit at a desk in Cupertino for eight hours every day."Dawson acknowledged, though, that Jobs's move has long-term ramifications for the company."Steve Jobs has provided both strategic vision and personal leadership at the top of the company, as arguably the most visible and well-known CEO of any technology company today. Tim Cook will not step easily into either of these roles, as a safe pair of hands but hardly a visionary or a charismatic figure."
A British student was charged on Thursday following a police investigation into online attacks in January on sites including Mastercard and PayPal by the international hacking collective Anonymous.Peter David Gibson, from Hartlepool, will appear before magistrates at Westminster magistrates court in London on 7 September, accused of conspiracy to do an unauthorised act in relation to a computer, Scotland Yard said.The 22-year-old was arrested and granted bail in April as part of the force's investigation into a string of high-profile attacks on companies that Anonymous had allegedly targeted because they stopped forwarding donation payments to WikiLeaks.Gibson has been charged with conspiracy to "do an unauthorised act in relation to a computer, with intent to impair the operation of any computer or prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in a computer or to impair the operation of any such program or the reliability of such data," said the Metropolitan police. That is contrary to Section 1(1) of the Criminal Law Act 1977. The police did not cite the Computer Misuse Act, which is more usually applied in cases relating to computing.Other sites targeted in the attack in January included Amazon and Bank of America. Members of Anonymous used a piece of open source software called LOIC – for Low Orbit Ion Cannon, a joking reference to its ability to "obliterate" sites – to create "distributed denial of service" (DDOS) attacks to make the sites inaccessible.The UK police arrested six people in their probe into what Anonymous dubbed "Operation Avenge Assange". The five other UK-based men – aged, 15, 16, 19, 20 and 26 – were arrested, following coordinated police raids in the West Midlands, Northants, Herts, Surrey and London, under the Computer Misuse Act in January this year.In the US, 16 people were arrested in July following the January attacks. The FBI is reportedly working through a list of around 1,000 internet IP addresses that were identified by PayPal as sources of the DDOS attacks in the same operation.
Tim Cook has wasted no time in his first day as chief executive of Apple, sending out an email to all staff which indicates his desire to keep the company on track in the future.Team:I am looking forward to the amazing opportunity of serving as CEO of the most innovative company in the world. Joining Apple was the best decision I've ever made and it's been the privilege of a lifetime to work for Apple and Steve for over 13 years. I share Steve's optimism for Apple's bright future.Steve has been an incredible leader and mentor to me, as well as to the entire executive team and our amazing employees. We are really looking forward to Steve's ongoing guidance and inspiration as our Chairman.I want you to be confident that Apple is not going to change. I cherish and celebrate Apple's unique principles and values. Steve built a company and culture that is unlike any other in the world and we are going to stay true to that—it is in our DNA. We are going to continue to make the best products in the world that delight our customers and make our employees incredibly proud of what they do.I love Apple and I am looking forward to diving into my new role. All of the incredible support from the Board, the executive team and many of you has been inspiring. I am confident our best years lie ahead of us and that together we will continue to make Apple the magical place that it is.Tim
HP's UK head of the Personal Systems Group – that's the part of HP that Leo Apotheker put on the block last week – has sent around a message for clients and customers, which we'll reproduce here, with our own comments.A message from Paul Hunter, head of HP PSG UK and Ireland.There's no denying that it's been a strange week at HP. I've spent 16 years with HP in the UK and I certainly can't remember a time like it. But change happens, and I fundamentally believe that HP and PSG are stronger following the announcements surrounding webOS and PSG.I'd like to firstly clear up any misunderstanding that has arisen from the earnings announcement around the future of the Personal Systems Group. There have been a number of incorrect stories saying that HP is quitting the PC business.Let me be absolutely clear in saying that at no stage has HP said it is quitting the PC business. Three options are being investigated, and whether the company is spun off, sold or kept in the HP portfolio, the team in the UK remains committed to creating and supporting great products and services.Two out of the three options offered there involve HP quitting the PC business (because it wouldn't have a PC business in-house any more). And HP's overall profit margins would improve by about 2%, from 10% to 12%, if it got rid of PSG. Overall, PSG is the least profitable division, in percentage terms (ie profits/revenues) of HP by a substantial margin: its average profitability is about half that of the next-worst division, HP Financial (which does leasing, and is tiny).Getting rid of PSG would raise the margin, which would raise profitability, which would raise the earnings per share, which would raise HP's share price. "Adding value for stockholders" is how companies are meant to work. Absent a long-term plan for transforming the PSG business (perhaps with tablets? Oh, perhaps not) it's hard to see the justification for keeping it in purely fiscal terms. There could be other justifications - that the experience in designing software or hardware feeds back into other parts of the company, or that winning PC business leads to more profitable services contracts - but the numbers themselves don't speak well.Hunter continues:I'd also like to reaffirm our commitment to our UK customers regarding both PC products and those that bought webOS devices. HP is the world's largest PC manufacturer. We are the number one PC manufacturer in UK and Ireland. HP PSG UK is only going in one direction, forwards and that means customers can have confidence that existing HP products will be supported under the terms of their warranties as will any future purchases. Likewise, all webOS products will be supported and HP fully intends to support the future development of the webOS platform, though again how that will be managed is still under discussion.Clear as mud on WebOS. You can see that HP would be very worried that customers and potential customers might be deserting. I'd be astonished if Dell's sales force weren't on the phones all this weekObviously the announcement has raised a number of questions outside those mentioned above. We are still working through some of these, but I wanted to try and address as many as I could.Regarding PSG activity in the UK, it's very much business as usual. Actually, it's more than business as usual. PSG is a $40B annual business. We operate in 170 countries and have more than 180,000 channel partners. Whatever the future strategy, we have a mission and responsibility to all of our employees, customers and partners to continue to deliver fantastic products. To that end, you will see a ramping up of marketing and advertising activity in the UK as we look to raise awareness of our great products ranges like ENVY and TouchSmart for consumer and Elite and ProBooks for business users.That's PCs, which have an uncertain future.Another obvious question is why has HP decided to stop supporting webOS hardware devices. Due to market dynamics, significant competition and a rapidly changing environment, continuing to execute our former device approach was not in the best interest of HP and HP shareholders. HP is fully committed to the ongoing support and service of customers who purchased webOS devices.We hear: for some reason the iPad didn't roll over at the approach of the TouchPad, even though ours was the same price, just slower and with fewer apps. Quite what the "rapidly changing environment" was, we don't know, and HP hasn't elucidated.I know that questions will remain, and I will do my very best to answer these as and when they arise. I apologize that we have been slow to answer some of the questions around webOS. The sheer scale of interest in the discounted products took us a little by surprise. We are now working on ensuring everyone that owns a webOS device has a positive experience.Translation: we're waiting for the rest of the stock, which was meant to last until Christmas but sell at a profit, to arrive so we can sell it at a loss. HP management wants this to happen.And that is my focus now; to ensure each and every interaction with the PSG UK business, be that from a customer, reseller, partner or journalist is a positive one. These are changing but exciting times. My UK team and I are fully committed to leading this world class business to a new and prosperous future.We're sure he is, and we wish him the best. It's just going to be tricky, that's all.
In a special programme we discuss the career of Apple guru Steve Jobs as he steps down from his role as chief executive. Jemima Kiss, Charles Arthur and Dan Crow of UK startup Songkick share their thoughts on the effect Jobs has on computing and the company that just two weeks ago became the world's biggest (by market capitalisation).Dan, who worked with Jobs on his return to the company in the mid-90s suggests that Steve may be the greatest marketer of our time, because of his ability to understand products and what people find exciting in them.Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak also shares a story from a turning point during the early years of the company – the launch of the Mac – and how Jobs's tyrannical reputation was evident even then.We also discuss Apple's new chief executive Tim Cook, and ask what the future now holds for Apple.
The entrepreneur's entrepreneur, Steve Jobs has fascinated and mystified the tech business community for more than a decade steering Apple from near-bankruptcy to become the most valuable company in the world.Under Jobs, Apple has become the exception to every business rule, expanding into markets that might have seemed outside Apple's core strengths – not least music, with the iPod and iTunes, and mobile phones, with the iPhone. Its expertise, though, was in understanding and creating consumer electronics in whatever form.Co-founder Steve Wozniak,speaking to Bloomberg, last night defined Apple's success as being about the way products are developed as much as the products themselves. "Steve had been very disciplined and forthcoming in reasons for running things certain ways. At Apple great products are not the important thing – it's where those products come from and so much of that was down to the way of thinking of Steve Jobs," said Wozniak."The people around somebody who thinks in great ways like that and thinks ahead – they admire that and what to be like that … Apple is not going to change drastically or suddenly hit the tubes … I just hope that Steve is happy and feels that apple is in the best possible place for the future. His goal is not money. His personal goal is to be the implementer of technology that would improve people's lives – that's what he was born for, he told me once."TechCrunch's Saul Hanselldescribed Jobs as "the patron saint of perfectionists"."We all know lots of people who are nice. We know many people who are smart. We've seen a bunch of corporate leaders who have the rare combination of skills to surf the waves spawned by Moore's Law," wrote Hansell."But it's hard to think of anyone besides Steve Jobs who through the sheer force of will, self-confidence, vision and perfectionism could upend the powerful forces of technology to make so many products that delighted so many people precisely because they were improbable."For those wondering why so much attention has been paid to the departure of one chief executive, veteranWall Street Journal reporter Walt Mossbergexplains:"Most people are lucky if they can change the world in one important way, but Jobs, in multiple stages of his business career, changed global technology, media and lifestyles in multiple ways on multiple occasions," wrote Mossberg."He did it because he was willing to take big risks on new ideas, and not be satisfied with small innovations fed by market research. He also insisted on high quality and had the guts to leave out features others found essential and to kill technologies, like the floppy drive and the removable battery, he decided were no longer needed. And he has been a brilliant marketer, personally passionate about his products."Ovuum chief analyst Jan Dawson noted that Steve Jobs has been the architect of major shifts in music, mobile phones and personal computer markets, yet also generated resentment and criticism over Apple's proprietary and closed approach."The short-term sell-off of Apple shares immediately after the announcement is driven by fears that Apple will not continue to perform as it has, once Steve Jobs leaves the CEO role. However, these fears appear relatively unfounded at least in the short-term … his new role as chairman suggests this will continue to be the case even if he does not sit at a desk in Cupertino for eight hours every day."Longer term, however, if Steve Jobs's health is indeed behind his resignation, as many have speculated, and his condition worsens to the point that he can no longer be involved in even occasional decision making at the company, there are reasons to fear that the company will struggle to emulate its recent success. Steve Jobs has provided both strategic vision and personal leadership at the top of the company, as arguably the most visible and well-known CEO of any technology company today. Tim Cook will not step easily into either of these roles, as a safe pair of hands but hardly a visionary or a charismatic figure."At Gartner, research director Michael Gartenberg said that despite Jobs's influence,Apple is much morethan a one-man company. "While this marks the end of an era for Apple, it's important to remember the there's more to Apple than any one person, even Steve Jobs. Continuing as chairman Mr Jobs will continue to leave his mark on both the company and products even as he transfers the reigns to Mr Cook."Perhaps a hint of Jobs's announcement came last week, technology writerBob Cringely suggested, when the publication date for the much-anticipated authorised Jobs biography by Walter Isaacson was moved forward from March 2012 to 21 November."We know there is such a plan – there has to be, Apple's moves have been too deliberate, if inscrutable, to be some executive random walk. But nobody near the top has ever tried to explain where the company is going, preferring to be mysterious instead. Bill Gates had Nathan Myhrvold write his book for him, but Steve is classier than Bill. I believe Walter Isaacson's book will also function as Steve's technology manifesto, part of his legacy."Once we have the grand plan, then it may make more sense just who should lead that plan's execution during what will clearly be Apple's best quarter in its 34-year history."Steve Jobs is setting up this (and us) for another grand reveal … just one more thing."
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion is to launch a music subscription service, BBM Music.BBM Music went on trial on Thursday in the UK, US and Canada, and is expected to roll out to 18 countries later this year. For $4.99 a month – UK prices have yet to be confirmed – BBM users will have access to 50 songs.Users can build up their playlist by sharing with friends, and have access to all 50 songs on a friend's profile. Once a month, customers can change 25 of the songs on their list.The service was built by British music services company Omnifone, which has licensed 10m tracks across all music genres from classical to contemporary rock and pop, with new music generally available on the day of release.The range of music is designed to appeal to RIM's 45m BlackBerry Messenger users worldwide, who range from older corporate customers to teenagers and students.The music, licensed from Universal Music Group, Sony, Warner Music Group and EMI, is essentially rented – it can be downloaded onto phones and listened to when the handset is offline, but cannot be transferred to other devices."A major component of online music continues to be about community, and the ability to discover new artists and music through word of mouth," said Universal executive Rob Wells. "BBM Music dynamically and elegantly integrates the excitement of this social music discovery process with a high-quality music service."It is understood that RIM will offer a free trial period in certain markets. Once users have built up their circle of friends, charging will begin.Omnifone, based in London, last year signed a deal to provide a music subscription service to Sony, which will come pre-installed on 350m Sony games consoles, televisions and other devices over the next few years. It has built similar services for Hewlett-Packard. Takeup is estimated to be low at under 1m paying subscribers worldwide, but the company is hoping its deal with RIM will boost user numbers.Digital music subscription has yet to make a significant return for record companies. Spotify is currently the world's largest and fastest growing subscriber service.Leaked numbers from the recording industry suggest it has 4.67m European users in total, but only 1.54m of those are paying customers – its basic service is free.Spotify is pushing for more paying customers – a subscription costs from £4.99 a month, in return for which access to songs is unlimited and there are no advertisements. It added half a million subscribers this spring after limiting the amount of music available for free, but saw overall user numbers fall by around 1m.Spotify launched in the US in mid-July and estimates put its paying users at 175,000, with a total of 1.4m users. Its most established US rival, Rhapsody, has more than 800,000 paying customers, but took several years to achieve that number."More than 45 million customers already love the social communication benefits delivered through BBM and we are thrilled to be extending the experience into a uniquely social and interactive music service," said the RIM co-chief executive, Mike Lazaridis.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Now that HP has decided to exit the PC business, to which retailers should we look to pick up bargain-priced HP stock? What usually happens to inventory when tech companies exit a market?EdwardHewlett-Packard has not exited the PC business, yet, just the mobile phone and media tablet hardware businesses. In the UK, it knocked out TouchPad stocks via Currys, PC World and Dixons.co.uk. The 16GB version went for £89 (down from £349.99) and the 32GB model for £115 (down from £429.99). Those prices reflected the fact that there isn't very much software for the TouchPad's WebOS operating system, and it's not clear whether more apps will be launched. Also, if a TouchPad breaks or its battery fails out of warranty, could it be repaired?Exiting the PC business could easily take HP 12-18 months, if it ever happens. HP's Personal Systems Group has an annual turnover of $40.7bn (£24.8bn) and must have manufacturing contracts for the production of tens of millions of HP and Compaq computers. HP is now considering whether to spin PSG off as a separate company, or try to sell all or part of the business to someone else. Either way, PSG is expected to continue trading as normal. Buyers might put a lower value on HP's products, but there is not much chance of a TouchPad-style clearout.Even if PSG has to dispose of a few million PCs at reduced prices, this might not have a big impact. Most of HP's PCs have well-known Intel or AMD processors and standard screens and hard drives. They also run Microsoft Windows 7 and will run Windows 8, which is intended to require fewer resources. (Windows 8 will also appear on less powerful ARM processors so it will need to be efficient.)HP's "overstocks" will not be orphans. They will run millions of Windows programs, they will work with all popular websites, and they will be repairable by independent service companies. Buyers will still expect these laptops to last for three or four years, or longer, so they probably won't be offered at fire-sale prices.Also, HP is a tier-one brand. It can drop its prices slightly and shift the problem to suppliers of second-tier and no-name laptops that sell mainly on price.Acer, the giant Taiwanese PC supplier, has a problem with unsold stock, havingdiscovered"abnormalities in terms of channel inventory stored in freight forwarders' warehouses, and in the accounts receivables from channels in Spain," and is taking a $150m write-off. Some other companies may also have unsold stock because, according to Gartner research, UK sales of PCs fell by 15% in this year's second quarter to 2,462,000 units. It's a good time to look for bargains but you may not see significant reductions until just after Christmas, when Intel releases new chips.Sometimes suppliers want to shift a load of PCs quickly, either because they're discontinuing a particular model or because they are bringing out a new range. However, they usually don't want to sell them via their usual outlets (Currys, PC World etc) because that would upset everybody's idea of orderly pricing. These are good candidates for discount websites, or they can be sold as "supermarket specials".Over the years, I've seen great deals in a variety of places including Aldi, Morrisons, Argos and Staples. These are not places I'd normally look for a new PC.Of course, buying a laptop that really is a special offer means you won't get much choice of specification or brand.There are plenty of websites where you can hunt for laptop bargains including Amazon.co.uk,Laptopsdirect,Save On Laptops,Laptopshop.co.uk,ebuyer.com,Misco, andTesco Direct. Compare prices to make sure the savings are real and, as usual,caveat emptor.Many online stores sell "open box" products, which means the original customer returned it, possibly because he "changed his mind". There are also "Grade B" products, which means there can be cosmetic damage on a new PC, such as minor scratches. Finally, some sites sell refurbished laptops, which may have been heavily used.The Laptop Centre,Student ComputersandPortable Universehave lots of refurbished laptops, as do many other sites.Dell Outletsells returned and refurbished Dell PCs, while Apple UK sellsApple Certified Refurbishedmachines.When new laptops cost £1,500 to £2,000, there was plenty of incentive for bargain hunting or buying refurbished PCs. Now that you can get a netbook for £200-£250 or a decent laptop for £350-£500, the potential savings are much smaller. If you save £100, that's only £25 per year for four years, or 50p a week. If it means buying a laptop you'll hate rather than one you'd like, it might not be such a good deal.
You have to feel for Research In Motion. After months of near-constant negative headlines around the company's BlackBerry devices, it has just unveiled a genuinely innovative new music service built on top of its crown jewel: the BBM messaging app. And yet the unveiling happened just as Apple CEO Steve Jobs resigned, sucking the blogosphere's attention and energy away from any other technology story.BBM Musicdeserves to regain some of that attention though: it has plenty of potential, and is far from a me-too rival to popular music services like iTunes, Spotify and Pandora.Powered by British music services firm Omnifone, it has licences from all four major labels in the bag in time for the launch today of its closed beta in the UK, US and Canada, with a global rollout to follow later this year in those countries plus Australia, Columbia, France, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Thailand, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates.The basic facts: BBM Music will be a subscription service costing $4.99 a month in the US, although how that converts elsewhere in the world has yet to be announced. Users will choose 50 songs from the BBM Music catalogue for their profiles, which can be used to create playlists, and cached locally on their BlackBerry smartphone for offline listening.50 songs? That's not much, but this is where the BBM angle kicks in. Users will also be able to access the 50 songs of any of their BBM contacts who subscribe to the service. That means a theoretical choice of 100 songs if one friend signs up, 200 songs if three do, and 2,000 songs if 39 do. And so on.RIM has not given details of any upper limit, but in aninterview with BerryReview, senior project manager Nick Patsiopoulos says "during the beta the BBM Music connections is limited to 140 BBM Music contacts until launch but it can scale past there". Licensing agreements are likely to be the key factor in whatever ceiling is eventually set.The BBM Music app itself is built around an activity stream of the songs friends are adding to their profiles, as well as the friends they are sharing those tracks with, and the playlists they are creating. Users can comment on one another's songs, and fire up full BBM chats from within the application.The app also ties into Amazon's MP3 music store to buy and download tracks beyond the 50-song limit, with the choice of partner being slightly surprising, given RIM's previously close relationship with British firm 7Digital.BBM Music is interesting and genuinely disruptive in the wider scheme of music services. An addressable user base of 45 million BBM users is a strong base to start from, although BBM Music is more likely to appeal to BlackBerry's younger customers rather than its business users.There are some pitfalls in store. First: will those younger users be willing to pay for a subscription music service, even if it is tied into BBM? Second: how will it stack up to competition from other streaming services which offer desktop as well as mobile access, with no 50-song limit? RIM's launch of its BBM Social API means those services can build BBM into their own BlackBerry apps, after all.Perhaps most importantly, BBM Music's success will be tied to the overall performance of RIM itself. It's a bold and innovative move, but its long-term prospects will depend on the success of the current wave of BlackBerry 7 OS handsets, but more importantly on how next year's new generation of devices running RIM's QNX software perform.RIM's challenge remains proving that it can halt its sliding market share against fierce competition from iPhone and Android, but at least BBM Music shows its strategy is not just about playing catch-up.
Steve Jobs may effectively be gone from Apple, but he is far from forgotten by those who worked inside and outside with him. His style in dealing with customers could be astonishingly blunt, yet never what you would call directly rude. His email address became known around the web, and people would contact him through it. Those emails began to be collected by various blogs.And while Jobs might have been known as a great communicator when up on a stage in front of an audience, when dealing through email, "terse" barely begins to describe it. Here's a selection:September 2010:Customer: "Steve, Enjoyed the presentation today. But … this new iTunes logo really sucks. You're taking 10+ years of instant product recognition and replacing it with an unknown. Let's both cross our fingers on this…."Jobs: We disagree.June 2010:Customer: "Any reason battery performance on a 3GS running iOS4 should be worse than it was running OS3?"Jobs: Nope.June 2010:Customer: "Mr Jobs, Newsweek just ran an 'obituary' for the Mac saying the mac has been 'relegated to the steaming dung heap of the past'. I hope he's wrong. I believe and hope that the Mac will remain a vibrant, vital part of Apple's future and one of its (admittedly many) product lines. So, as you view it, does the mac have a long and important history ahead of it?"Jobs: Completely Wrong. Just wait.May 2010:Customer: "Do you hate Adobe and their products (Photoshop, Illustrator, etc) or do you just hate their view on Flash?"Jobs: I respect and admire Adobe. We just chose to not have Flash on our devices.May 2010:Customer: "Why no printing on the iPad? What gives?"Jobs: It will come.And then there was theentire thread between Jobs and Ryan Tate of Gawkerin May 2010, in which Jobs suggested that the iPad and Apple Store combination offered "freedom from porn". (Context: Gawker's parent company faced legal charges over its display of the then-unreleased iPhone 4 prototype, and there had been some police presence at a Gawker writer's house in California.)Here's how it went. Tate began:"If [Bob] Dylan was 20 today, how would he feel about your company? Would he think the iPad had the faintest thing to do with 'revolution'? Revolutions are about freedom," Tate wrote after seeing an iPad advert.Three hours later, Jobs replied:"Yep, freedom from programs that steal your private data. Freedom from programs that trash your battery. Freedom from porn. Yep, freedom. The times they are a changin', and some traditional PC folks feel like their world is slipping away. It is."There follow an argument about Flash, batteries, Objective-C, porn ("you might care more [about not having it] when you have kids", remarks Jobs), whether Apple has a private police force that kicked in a Gawker person's doors ("You are so misinformed,"Jobs retorts."No one kicked in any doors. You're believing a lot of erroneous blogger reports").Jobs concludes:"Microsoft had (has) every right to enforce whatever rules for their platform that they want. If people don't like it, they can write for another platform, which some did. Or they can buy another platform, which some did."As for us, we're just doing what we can to try and make (and preserve) the user experience we envision. You can disagree with us, but our motives are pure."And then a final, very Jobs-ish little parting shot:"By the way, what have you done that's so great? Do you create anything, or just criticise others [sic] work and belittle their motivations?"Yet Tate himself said that "came away from the exchange impressed with his willingness to engage". Tersely, of course.
A burst of 15 apps for your considerationSpy MouseAs intro lines go for an App Store game, "Danger. Intrigue. Stealth. Cheese." has to be applauded. This is the new game from Firemint, the studio behind Flight Control and Real Racing. It builds on the line-drawing mechanic from the former, but with a madcap tale of cats'n'mouse to puzzle through.iPhonePeggle HDPopCap Games took its time taking its addictive Peggle game to iPad, but the results look worth the wait. It offers 55 levels of ball-dropping fun, with the additional Peggle Nights add-on available as an in-app purchase.iPadRestaurant City: Gourmet EditionSocial games developer Playfish – an EA subsidiary these days – has brought its popular Facebook game Restaurant City to iPhone and iPad. As with rival Zynga's CityVille hometown, this is a new version for iOS, but the original game's mixture of cooking, customising and sharing remains intact.iPhone / iPadSomeone Once Told MeIf you buy one app from this roundup, make it Someone Once Told Me. Based on the photo-blog of the same name, it lets you take a photo of yourself with a space to write in a piece of advice or a comment that someone once told you, and submit it to the site. More importantly, 70% of the £1.49 price will go to charity Operation Smile, which helps children with cleft lip and palate facial deformities. Great site, great app, great cause.iPhoneHD WidgetsCloud.tv has launched its HD Widgets app for Android Honeycomb tablets, which it claims offers widgets that are "far and away more detailed and attractive than first-gen widgets and are sure to make even iPad users a little envious". Expect plenty of homescreen customisation with 12 widget types to install.AndroidHector: EP2Love graphical adventures like the Monkey Island series, but want something all-new? The Hector series should be your first stop. Subtitled "Senseless Acts of Justice", this second Hector game for iOS promises "lewd, crude and gritty law-enforcement". Expect plenty of belly laughs, judging by the first game.iPhone / iPadSprinkleSprinkle is hoping to be the next big casual hit for iPhone and iPad, getting players to douse fires with a water cannon mounted on a crane. Obstacles, spin-wheels and traps make that more complicated than it sounds in this clever physics-puzzler.iPhone / iPadAupeo Personal RadioPersonal radio service Aupeo already has an iPhone app, but now it has a native iPad version too: one of the first streaming music services to do that in Europe. Users can listen to more than 100 customised stations, or create their own based on individual artists.iPadEdge ExtendedMobigame's Edge was critically acclaimed, but also the subject of a controversial trademark lawsuit after its original release. With that settled, Edge Extended is a sequel, with more levels, music and a new 3D graphics engine.iPhone / iPadJohnny English Reborn Mobile Spy KitRowan Atkinson is starring in an upcoming revival of his Johnny English spy character, and there's an app out on iPhone in advance of the movie's October debut. The app includes various pseudo-spy features: voice disguiser, lie detector, intruder alarm and night vision camera. Content from the film is unlockable too.iPhoneContre JourChillingo's latest iPhone game claims to be "blurring the lines between games and interactive art": players use their fingers to control the landscape rather than the game's hero Petit. Strange but rather wonderful-looking.iPhoneThe Moron Test HDDistinctDev's popular Moron Test iPhone game has been ported to iPad, with a similar mixture of puzzles and mini-games.iPadMy 1st JCBAimed at 1-5 year-olds, this iPhone app offers all manner of cartoon diggers and dumpers, with a mix of mini-games and creative activities based on the children's toy brand of the same name.iPhoneCaring - André FrançoisCaring is an app based on photographer André François' journey around Brazil taking shots of humane medical care. The book was published in 2006, but has now been turned into a free iPad app.iPadKazaaRemember Kazaa? Its days as a filesharing villain for the music industry are long gone: it's a licensed music subscription service now. And there's an app for that, albeit only in the US. The Kazaa iPhone app offers streaming songs and offline cacheing, artist radio and playlist creation. A $9.99 monthly subscription is required.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
It's Thursday. Deus Ex: Human Revolution is out tomorrow! Make sure you readmy feature on the gameand its hints at the future of open world design.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSteve Jobs's Best Quotes &gt; WSJNice collection.Essay: Jobs's Departure Is the End of an Extraordinary Era &gt;&gt; Walt Mossberg AllThingsD"Steve Jobs's resignation as chief executive officer of Apple is the end of an extraordinary era, not just for Apple, but for the global technology industry in general. Jobs is a historic business figure whose impact was deeply felt far beyond the company's Cupertino, Calif., headquarters, and who was widely emulated at other companies."Resigned &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber: "Apple's products are replete with Apple-like features and details, embedded in Apple-like apps, running on Apple-like devices, which come packaged in Apple-like boxes, are promoted in Apple-like ads, and sold in Apple-like stores. The company is a fractal design. ... The same thought, care, and painstaking attention to detail that Steve Jobs brought to questions like "How should a computer work?", "How should a phone work?", "How should we buy music and apps in the digital age?" he also brought to the most important question: "How should a company that creates such things function?""Jobs's greatest creation isn't any Apple product. It is Apple itself."Hybrid Hydras and Green Stealing Machines &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security"The public release of the source code for the infamous ZeuS Trojan earlier this year is spawning novel attack tools. And just as hybrid cars hold the promise of greater fuel efficiency, these nascent threats show the potential of the ZeuS source code leak for morphing ordinary, run-of-the-mill malware into far more efficient data-stealing machines."Software 'journalists' pump out stories in seconds &gt;&gt; New Scientist"The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) receives thousands of financial documents every day detailing the ins and outs of various publicly traded companies and publishes them on its website. Financial reporters who trawl through these SEC filings can often land a scoop, but it's a tedious and time-consuming task. Now, MarketBrief, a new start-up based in Mountain View, California, promises to publish over 1000 stories per day thanks to its software journalists."It's easier than it sounds."Philip K Dick must be laughing somewhere; he coined the "homeopapes", self-driven journalist robots, which would do the interviews by doorstepping people too.iPad will reign supreme through 2013 &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Apple's iPad will retain its dominance of the tablet market through at least 2013, research firm IHS iSuppli said today."El Segundo, Calif.-based iSuppli upped its iPad sales forecast for 2011 from an earlier estimate of 43.7m to 44.2m, citing Apple's ability to solve its supply issues and the blunders by rivals, including Hewlett-Packard."'Apple has resolved the iPad supply issues,' said Rhoda Alexander, senior manager of tablet and monitor research in an interview today. 'It was never a demand problem.'"In the first two quarters of 2011 Apple sold about 12m iPads, so this would indicate a huge ramp in sales.Five reasons Google+'s name policy fails &gt;&gt; InformationweekThere's the feeling of an idealistic thread of thinking running up against Google's deep need to be able to mine personal data in this debate.Browser fountain &gt;&gt; HTML5 Demo StudioNice animation by @codepo8. HTML5 is coming along.When hackers become The Man &gt;&gt; CNET NewsInteresting take from the DefCon conference about how hacking has been forced to grow up - sort of - and the troubles around Anonymous.It's not just animated GIF pie charts that I hate &gt;&gt; 2toriaSome so-called infographics actually obscure more than they inform.OS X 10.7 Lion is more painful than Vista &gt;&gt; ZDNetAdi Kingsley-Hughes isn't enjoying. (We haven't upgraded from Snow Leopard yet, so can't comment.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Steve Jobs has resigned as chief executive of Apple, to be replaced by its chief operating officer, Tim Cook, in a surprise move that may signal that the 56-year-old co-founder of the company is losing his battle with cancer.The announcement was made at about 4pm Pacific time in a statement from Apple following a letter from Jobs, who said: "I have always said if there ever came a day when I could no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple's CEO, I would be the first to let you know. Unfortunately, that day has come."He added: "I hereby resign as CEO of Apple. I would like to serve, if the Board sees fit, as chairman of the board, director and Apple employee. As far as my successor goes, I strongly recommend that we execute our succession plan and name Tim Cook as CEO of Apple."I believe Apple's brightest and most innovative days are ahead of it. And I look forward to watching and contributing to its success in a new role. I have made some of the best friends of my life at Apple, and I thank you all for the many years of being able to work alongside you."In a statement on Wednesday night, Apple said that it had appointed Cook, who was recruited to the company by Jobs in 1998, and had elected Jobs chairman of the board.Apple's shares fell by 7% in after-hours trading, as market digested the impact of Apple losing its charismatic leader, who had led it back from near-bankruptcy after rejoining in 1996 to become the world's most valuable company by market value earlier in August. "Steve Jobs is not your typical CEO. He is both a visionary from a technology industry perspective as well as a micro-manager," said Ashok Kumar, an analyst at Rodman and Renshaw. "To say that he is instrumental or key in the turnaround of Apple's fortunes would be a gross understatement."Fred Wilson, a venture capitalist, said: "I'm sad. He's the greatest entrepreneur ever."No reason was given for the resignation, but Jobs has been battling medical problems for the past seven years. He was diagnosed with neuroendocrine cancer of the pancreas in 2003 and operated on in July 2004. Although he returned to work within a few months, in April 2009 he received a liver transplant. Medical observers suggested that the long-term effects of the required autoimmune drugs could mean that the cancer would return.Jobs made a small number of public appearances in 2011, launching a new version of Apple's iPad tablet, attending a dinner with US president Barack Obama and other technology chiefs, fronting the launch of new software from Apple in June and presenting plans to the Cupertino council the next day. But he looked increasingly frail and thin, which looked increasingly like the effects of a spread of the initial cancer."Steve's extraordinary vision and leadership saved Apple and guided it to its position as the world's most innovative and valuable technology company," said Art Levinson, chairman of Genentech and a member of Apple's board. "Steve has made countless contributions to Apple's success, and he has attracted and inspired Apple's immensely creative employees and world class executive team. In his new role as Chairman of the Board, Steve will continue to serve Apple with his unique insights, creativity and inspiration."Analysts – who had previously pressed Apple to publicise its CEO succession plan, without success – said that Cook was a safe pair of hands, but wondered whether the company would have the same drive. "[Tim Cook] is very highly regarded internally at Apple. From a succession perspective they could not possibly identify a better candidate. He has a track record to back it up," said Kumar. "What Steve Jobs leaves behind is a very deep and a broad bench and so they will continue in his footsteps."Shannon Cross of Cross Research said: "It won't affect next the iPad or next iPhone. Apple's product line-up is well set. Steve, keep in mind, has been training people at Apple and there is a culture at Apple that is very strong."The digital pioneerBorn and raised in San Francisco, Steve Jobs' career has charted – and often ­defined – the rise of the digital era.He co-founded Apple in 1976 with Steve Wozniak and the company revolutionised computing. In 1985, after a sales slump, and Jobs' clashes with management, he was ousted. He went on to turn Pixar into one of the world's most famous animation studios.He returned to Apple in 1996 and what followed was the iMac, the iPod, the iPhone and the iPad, redefining not only computing but telecoms and the music industry.Dominic Rushe
Steve Jobs has resigned as chief executive of Apple.Here is the statement that he sent to Apple:To the Apple Board of Directors and the Apple Community:I have always said if there ever came a day when I could no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple's CEO, I would be the first to let you know. Unfortunately, that day has come.I hereby resign as CEO of Apple. I would like to serve, if the Board sees fit, as Chairman of the Board, director and Apple employee.As far as my successor goes, I strongly recommend that we execute our succession plan and name Tim Cook as CEO of Apple.I believe Apple's brightest and most innovative days are ahead of it. And I look forward to watching and contributing to its success in a new role.I have made some of the best friends of my life at Apple, and I thank you all for the many years of being able to work alongside you.SteveApple made a followup statement:Apple's Board of Directors today announced that Steve Jobs has resigned as Chief Executive Officer, and the Board has named Tim Cook, previously Apple's Chief Operating Officer, as the company's new CEO. Jobs has been elected Chairman of the Board and Cook will join the Board, effective immediately."Steve's extraordinary vision and leadership saved Apple and guided it to its position as the world's most innovative and valuable technology company," said Art Levinson, Chairman of Genentech, on behalf of Apple's Board. "Steve has made countless contributions to Apple's success, and he has attracted and inspired Apple's immensely creative employees and world class executive team. In his new role as Chairman of the Board, Steve will continue to serve Apple with his unique insights, creativity and inspiration.""The Board has complete confidence that Tim is the right person to be our next CEO," added Levinson. "Tim's 13 years of service to Apple have been marked by outstanding performance, and he has demonstrated remarkable talent and sound judgment in everything he does."Jobs submitted his resignation to the Board today and strongly recommended that the Board implement its succession plan and name Tim Cook as CEO.
Steve Jobs, the chief executive officer of Apple, has resigned from his position at the technology giant he co-founded in a garage.The 55-year-old Apple co-founder and pancreatic cancer survivor has been on medical leave for an undisclosed condition since 17 January.In a statement, Apple said that Jobs had been elected chairman and that Tim Cook had been elected CEO.In his resignation letter, Jobs said: "I have always said if there ever came a day when I could no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple's CEO, I would be the first to let you know. Unfortunately, that day has come."I hereby resign as CEO of Apple. I would like to serve, if the board sees fit, as chairman of the board, director and Apple employee."As far as my successor goes, I strongly recommend that we execute our succession plan and name Tim Cook as CEO of Apple."I believe Apple's brightest and most innovative days are ahead of it. And I look forward to watching and contributing to its success in a new role."I have made some of the best friends of my life at Apple, and I thank you all for the many years of being able to work alongside you – Steve."Jeffrey Fidacaro of the Susquehanna financial group said: "It's a prudent move to name a successor that is Tim Cook."I don't think Wall Street will find that unexpected. It's nice to get a succession plan in place with Steve Jobs still at the helm of the board and guiding Tim Cook."Trading of Apple shares on Wall Street was halted after hours following the announcement. In regular trading, Apple had gained 0.7% to close at $376.18.
The next time you are ill, spare a thought for Brian Evans of Devon. His attempts to make an appointment at his local eye infirmary were thwarted by the hospital's automated phone service. Unable to recognise a Devon accent, Evans spent 20 minutes being bumped from one department to another.To share his pain, G2 tested the voice recognition systems of some of the nation's services. (And their ability to see through ridiculous comedy accents.)Lambeth Borough CouncilClipped AfrikaansAfter failing to recognise the request "I want to pay ma fokken pokkin' fine mun!" twice, the telephone robot re-routes us to a human operator, the little coward. The phone rings for ages before being answered, but we're not here to expose that.OrangeHardcore Black CountryCited by many as the ultimate in unhelpful automated systems, we are disappointed when our malfunctioning dongle query is  brushed aside and we are speaking to a human after 80 seconds. We never even get to say "Oi'm not sure where oi shud stick me dongle!" like Noddy Holder might.Vue CinemasDour ScottishA warning to Scottish readers in the Islington area: if you fancy tickets for the late afternoon showing of The Inbetweeners, you're in for a rough ride. After the Vue booking line fails several times to recognise the word "Ahslahngton", it seems to audibly lose patience and almost snaps: "Just say the name of the cinema you want." Even so, early teething troubles soon give way to icy competence – it even recognises "aye!" as an alternative affirmative response. Four minutes later our booking is complete.TrainTrackerLisping posh blokeWe want to travel from Seven Sisters to St Albans, but our plummy tone and nightmarish sibilance practically gives TrainTracker an aneurysm. We are offered trips to Somerset and Bristol, and are repeatedly ordered to switch to the keypad. It then mistakes "seven" for "three", which is unacceptable. Six minutes in, and St Albans still seems a very long way away.@tweetcashmore
Hackerspaces are the digital-age equivalent of English Enlightenment coffee houses. They are&nbsp;places open to all, indifferent to social status, and where ideas and knowledge hold primary value. In 17th-century England, the social equality and merit-ocracy of coffee houses was so deeply troubling to those in power that King Charles II tried to suppress them for being "places where the disaffected met, and spread scandalous reports concerning the conduct of His Majesty and his Ministers". It was in the coffee houses that information previously held in secret and by elites was shared with an emerging middle class. They&nbsp;were held responsible for many&nbsp;of the social reforms of the 18th&nbsp;century, when English public life was transformed.Hackerspaces could prove to be as important for reform in the digital age. While collectives of rogue hackers such&nbsp;asAnonymousandLulzsechave grabbed headlines with their mischievous hacks of personal information from Sony, News International and governments, hackerspaces have quietly focused on creating alternatives to the&nbsp;things they see wrong in society: secretive government, unfettered corporate power, invasion of privacy.Bradley Manning, the US Army intelligence analyst accused of leaking files to WikiLeaks, attended the launch of BUILDS, a hackerspace at Boston University last year. In Sweden the hacker collectiveTelecomixhas been&nbsp;involved in keeping lines of communication open in middle eastern countries when political leaders shut down networks.As part of the research for my book,The Revolution Will Be Digitised, I travelled to Berlin to meet the group of hackers known as theChaos Computer Club(CCC). The Club was so named not because it set out to cause chaos but rather because one of the founders, Wau Holland, felt chaos theory offered the best explanation for how the world actually worked. Dutch hacker and entrepreneurRop Gonggrijpsays the club is about "adapting to a world which is (and always has been) much more chaotic and non-deterministic than is often believed".In Berlin, just after Christmas last year, more than 2,000 hackers and information activists gathered at the CCC's annual conference to discuss technology and the future. Gonggrijp gave the keynote speech, which was startlingly prescient in light of subsequent uprisings, revolutions and riots. "Most of today's politicians realise that nobody in their ministries, or any of their expensive consultants, can tell them what is going on any more. They have a steering wheel in their hands without a clue what – if anything – it is connected to. Our leaders are reassuring us that the ship will certainly survive the growing storm. But on closer inspection they are either quietly pocketing the silverware or discreetly making their way to the lifeboats."The hacker community may be small but it possesses the skills that are driving the global economies of the future. So what is a hacker? Hackers often describe what they do as playfully creative problem solving. It's much easier to attack than to defend a system, so the best hackers are those who build things. The ones who break them are known as "crackers". The world wide web, and free software operating systems such as theGNU Projectand theLinux kernel, could all be considered hacker creations. Even Facebook began as a hack. That is not to say hackers don't attack systems and take things apart. They do, with a compulsive glee, and the more adolescent hackers use their skills as much to show off to each other and rebel against authority than for any greater good. There are good hackers and bad hackers. Some of the best hackers say the line between hacker/cracker or white hat/black hat (ie, good/bad) is of little relevance. Some are amoral, interested only in the intellectual challenge, while others think the ethics behind hacking are all-important. A hacker could use his skill to protect a system he knows is used to track down and kill protesters. He's&nbsp;not "cracking" but how can he be considered a white-hat hacker? The ethics of hacking, like life, are slightly more complicated than a 1950s western movie.Some who have hacking skills want nothing to do with a community they see as comprised of "alpha geeks" – macho, misogynistic thugs and vandals. "A lot of them are just selfish teenage assholes," says Benjamin Mako Hill, a student at MIT's media lab specialising in sociology and online communities. "Most grow out of&nbsp;it, others go on to do computer security." Certainly that is the impression one gets from reading the chat logs of some Anonymous members. Even within the hacker scene there are divisions. An older hacker known as Virus recently described the younger hackers of Anonymous as"nothing but&nbsp;a bunch of fat, pimply basement dwelling losers who masturbate 3+&nbsp;times a day".If Anonymous and Lulzsec are the id of hacking, then physical hackerspaces are the heart of the higher-minded hacking ideals: freedom of information, meritocracy of ideas, a joy of learning and anti-authoritarianism. The CCC is Europe's largest hacker organisation and also one of the oldest worldwide, having been set up in 1981 by Wau Holland and others who predicted the rising importance digital technology would have in people's lives. CCC's hackers are often older and run their own businesses. They hold conferences and even consult with the German government. The CCC is famous for exposing the security flaws of major technologies, from chip and PIN to smartphones. Want to know how to listen in on GSM mobile phone traffic? Here's the place to learn (within legal constraints, of course). Among some of their more noteworthy "hacks" is pulling the fingerprints of the German interior minister from a water glass and putting them on a transparent film that could be used to fool fingerprint readers. The Club also worked with activists for voting transparency to expose flaws in computerised voting machines. These were later ruled unconstitutional in Germany and abolished in Holland.The CCC isn't just about technical hacking, it is a hub of political activism based around a few common goals: transparency of governments, privacy for private people and the removal of excessive restrictions on sharing information. Many of these hacks are demonstrated at the annual conference at the Berlin Congress Centre, and it was here thatJulian AssangepresentedWikiLeaksto an enthusiastic crowd in&nbsp;2008.The CCC has its own permanent base on Marienstraße in Berlin. It's not&nbsp;a secret and you'll find "Chaos Computer Club" listed on the bell push of the neo-classical building. You pass through a stone walkway to an inner courtyard and on the far right side is the entrance to the CCC. Inside, there's a collection of desks pushed together, well-worn office chairs and sofas and coils of wires strewn across most surfaces. Crates of Club-Mate, a soft drink beloved by hackers for its high caffeine content, are piled at the back and dispensed from a defaced Coke machine. Someone has drawn a noughts and crosses board in the dusty screen of an old video game, Ideal Twinline, and underneath, the words, "How about a nice game of chess?" There are posters on the walls: "Liberty waits on your fingers" and "Keep on blogging".Hackerspaces aren't just about hacking with computers. The ideals can be applied to every aspect of life including politics – which is considered just another "system" by which humans live together. Like any other system, it&nbsp;can therefore be hacked and these spaces offer a real-time experiment in political hacking. They often contain power tools, industrial cutting machines, sewing machines and sometimes even kitchens for "culinary hacking". At the tiny hackerspace HACK (the Hungarian Autonomous Center for Knowledge) in Budapest, members have built an electronic plantwatering system, and at Sprout in Cambridge, Massachusetts, I saw an MIT student building a jet propeller. In large spaces such asNoisebridgein San Francisco members have created an active space-exploration programme sending weather-balloon probes up to 70,000ft in the sky to collect images and data using GPS smartphones and digital cameras. Access to and membership of the spaces is usually governed by commonly agreed norms, but notably there is a lack of formal rules. Asking permission is frowned upon as it implies a power imbalance. The chosen way is to observe the culture and then seek agreement."What we've done at Noisebridge is not to say how bad everything is but to create a viable alternative," says Jacob Appelbaum, one of its founders. "I&nbsp;wanted a space where we could make things come true. Almost like a magical environment where we could decide one day we wanted to have a space programme and then ... we did. That's not going to happen in a cafe. There currently isn't a public place where you can have a lathe or a table saw or computer access or couches where you can sit, where no one feels&nbsp;entitled to throw you out. The closest thing is the university lab where I work now but there we're beholden to university administrators. In this place we are beholden to no one but ourselves."I caught up with Appelbaum in Seattle, where he's now a staff research scientist at the University of Washington. He explained that the political ideology of the hackerspace is probably nearest to libertarian, "in the liberty sense". Anyone who wants to contribute something, whether time, money or ideas, is welcome. The ability to do things is dependent on being accepted by the group, and that comes when one's actions have merit. Appelbaum says that Noisebridge is run along anarchist principles of mutual aid, solidarity and respect. He is keen to stress that this is not anarchy in the sense of chaos but as author Emma Goldman describes it: the liberation of&nbsp;the human mind from religion, property and government, "a social order based on the free grouping of individuals for the purpose of producing real social wealth".The group makes decisions based on consensus. "It can take a while," he admits, but the advantages outweigh the costs. "In our society people don't have a lot of agency to change things. And when I say 'our society' I mean 'the world'. Sometimes in our discussions it will be the first time that someone has ever felt listened to in their entire lives. That's actually incredibly sad but I'm happy we can give them that opportunity. I think there are a lot of us&nbsp;who don't think the world is as we would like to see it. And anyone who is not a utopianist is a schmuck."Even in the world of hackers and web revolutionaries, Appelbaum's dedication to the internet is startling (it is "the only reason I'm alive today", he once told Rolling Stone magazine). He found in computers an escape from a chaotic upbringing and credits his skill in technology for moving him out of America's underclass and into the middle class. As well as working at the university he is also a spokesman for Tor, a free internet-anonymising software that helps people defend themselves against surveillance, and he is spent five years teaching activists how to install and use the service to avoid being monitored by repressive governments. Now he himself is frequently targeted by the US government as a result of his relationship with WikiLeaks, which used Tor software.Sometimes, though, hackers don't realise they are no longer outsiders but&nbsp;have their hands on the levers of power. Tech writer Danny O'Brien points to Bill Gates, who continued to believe right up until the anti-trust lawsuits of the 1990s that Microsoft would be destroyed by big powerful companies such as IBM – despite the fact that he was, by then, one of the world's richest men and Microsoft the world's biggest IT company. Furthermore, it can prove difficult to reconcile the subversive hacker mindset with the demands of running a multinational firm. A robust disregard for intellectual property in youth, for example, is often replaced with a cadre of lawyers enforcing draconian copyright law once the requisite information has been hacked, the product built and the company made profitable.O'Brien is himself an embodiment of the transformation. This once-shabby Londoner, who wrote a tech newsletter called Need To Know, meets me in a swish cocktail bar in Palo Alto, California. "When we wrote [NTK] originally, geeks&nbsp;were under-represented; an unconnected group of outsiders who were excited about technology. But now the story is how much ridiculous power we have and how we're misusing that power or unaware of it."• The Revolution Will Be Digitised is published by Heinemann at £12.99. To order a copy for £10.39 with free UK p&amp;p go to guardian.co.uk/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846.
