The internet has come of age. In the past 48 hours three giant web-only corporations barely 10 years old - Google, eBay and Yahoo! - have posted booming profits at a time when high street shops are feeling the pinch. All have one thing in common. They do not produce any goods: they trade in the ones and zeros of computer code whether dressed up as emails, chat rooms, digital music or, in Google's case, pure knowledge.True, eBay, the global flea market, involves the exchange of goods, but it is all done outside its own virtual walled garden of software. One does not dirty one's hands in this business. And there is no sign it will stop: eBay has just bought Skype for $4bn, promising to give the world free telephone calls on the net, while Yahoo! is expanding everywhere including search and photo-blogging. Google is trying to scan almost every book in the world to build a virtual Library of Alexandria wherein anyone, anywhere, can obtain knowledge about anything. The companies are not doing this for charity. It is just that you rarely see the money - which mainly comes from a boom in internet adverts, especially those linked to the context of words on the screen.So far these internet businesses have managed to be popular companies though, as Yahoo's accommodation with Chinese censorship shows, the corporate halos could become tarnished. For the moment they have squared the circle by being very profitable and very popular at the same time.
Notorious publicity-seeking, anti-games attorney Jack Thompson has escalated his fight to stop American youth being polluted by the psychological threat that is video games. Initially riled by Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto series, one of a number of "murder simulators" which he claims incites violent behaviour in young people, he is now offering to give $10,000 to charity if any developer will make a game based on his pitch. Far from offering educational benefits or helping rehabilitate, his outline involves a crude tale of murder of games publishers using all manner of improvised and store-bought weaponry, which includes the immortal phrase "as he urinates onto the severed brain stems of the Eibel family victims". Those looking for intelligent discourse on the subject of interactive media's influence might just as well approach a rabid dog in the final throes of hydrophobic rage.
Serious Sam IIPC, XBOXPlaying as red sneaker-wearing "Serious" Sam Stone, your job is to collect parts of a special medallion in order to restore... actually, nobody cares. In common with its prequel, Serious Sam II is about slaughtering vast swathes of cartoonish beasts that converge on you from all directions. Clearly benefiting from a slightly bigger budget than its predecessor, self-referential comedy abounds in the form of gruff one-liners and entertaining cut scenes that even on a charitable day you'd be pushed to call a plot. Its silky smooth learning curve, plentiful ammunition and steadily crazier onslaughts of assorted beasts descending on you ready for detonation, make this a joyous non-stop adrenaline bath.&#183;2K Games, &pound;30-&pound;40Burnout LegendsPSPIf you've been living at the bottom of a well with your eyes shut and pillows pressed over both ears, you may have missed the sensational rise of the Burnout series. Taking races away from boring tracks and placing them in packed city streets with lorries, oncoming traffic and aggressive fellow racers made for an entirely more intense driving experience, with points and nitrous oxide awarded for dangerous driving and demolishing competitors. Legends brings together the best bits of Burnouts 1-3 with the usual mix of races, crash events and destruction, which looks as beautiful as ever on PSP. Unseating Ridge Racer as the system's best racer, this will be another pre-Christmas strain on the wallets of PSP owners.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;35
The best thing about Manolo's Shoe Blog (Shoeblogs.com) is how the author constantly refers to himself as "the Manolo". There are lots of other great fashion blogs out there. We likeNot Now I'm Shoppingand its spin-off dedicated to bags (Thebaglady.tv).Meanwhile, the person behindWafflesandfashion.blogspot.comwould never be seen wearing sunglasses indoors but is fond of saying things like "my shit is bananas" andConversationsfamouspeople.blogspot.commajors in analysis of Madonna's hemlines and Ben Affleck's open-neck shirt fetish. The chap from Savile Row who writesEnglishcut.comwould heartily disapprove.Finally there is the greatness that isThreadbared.coma study of knitting pattern photography from the era when families wore matching cardigans - it is godlike.Email your favourite sites totheguideinternet@gmail.com
Flockis a version of Firefox that incorporates Delicious and Flickr. There'sa FAQ here. However, this is aimed at hackers and developers. The site says:This preview ain't for the faint of heart! If you're the bleeding-edge type and don't mind a few scrapes and busted knees from time to time, feel free to give it a whirl.
MondayThe animals are crossTuesdayBeing serious about gamesMicrosoft sets out its Arcade stallSing synth starThe revolution will be mind-blowingWednesdayFootball CrazyThey want to get into your headJobs for the (white) boysThursdayLive ChangePSP goes GigaBBC gets gameFridayPSP ships ten millionPES 5 stuff
Am going online with PES 5 (Xbox) tonight for the first time - hoping they have sorted the lag issues that marred Pro Evo 4. Post any impressions here and I'll post some thoughts on Monday. In the meantime here are some tips from theofficial guideto Pro Evolution Soccer 5. Not sure if they'll help, but from my experience with the PS2 version the old "hold x down whilst not in possesssion" trick is no longer as effective.Shooting If a player has his back to his opponent's goal, the precision and pace of shots is vastly reduced. As in real life, the difficulty of twisting to shoot from oblique angles – even at close range – means that the quality of contact will be lower, with the ball more likely to be scuffed harmlessly into a grateful keeper's hands. Players with the Scoring special ability star are much, much better at turning to drill the ball into either corner, but only inside the penalty area. Unless you're deep inside your opponent's 18-yard box, a shot made while facing away from goal will be a waste of possession.Free Kicks For shots on goal, Free Kick Accuracy, Shot Power and Curling are essential abilities. For those that assume that Curling is more of a luxury attribute that is good to have but not exactly vital, series producer Shingo "Seabass" Takatsuka has what may be a surprising revelation for some. "Unless a player can curve the ball, he cannot make the ball drop," he explains. "Right footers can usually curve the ball to the left side, counter clockwise. Left footers do the opposite. An exception is, for example, Roberto Carlos – he can kick and curve both ways. This applies not only to Roberto Carlos, but also to other players who have the Roberto Carlos free kick type. Right footers and left footers can also shoot in the other direction, of course, albeit without or with very little curling. But the players with high Curling ability are the only ones who can drop the ball after it has passed the wall."Corners Corners are a ready source of goals, especially if you have centre-forwards that are good in the air. Your kicker should be the player in your team with the highest Free Kick Accuracy, Long Pass Accuracy, Long Pass Speed and Curling stats, and will always kick with his dominant foot. This, naturally, has a bearing on the degree of curl you can apply to the ball. Right-footed players are generally better at curling the ball to the left; the opposite applies for left-footed players. You should bear this in mind before attempting an inswinging or outswinging corner.Crossing We suggest that you try to get into the habit of always crossing with L1 Button held and switch to the Type 4 Long Pass Mode (or Type 5 if you prefer) as soon as possible. Sometimes, a long pass is a much better method of reaching a player in the penalty area, but it's a move that you won't be able to perform deep in your opponent's half with Circle Button unless you deactivate automatic crossing. It's not an issue you should worry about if you are new to PES5, but it's definitely something you should consider as your skills improve.Tackling While we grudgingly acknowledge that it might still be useful for beginners during their first games, holding X Button to automatically pressure and tackle opponents is now very much a bad habit. It's far less effective for a variety of reasons. Its principle weakness in PES5 is that it will lead you to concede far too many fouls. The dogged AI "homing" code that once reliably harried and harassed opposing players is now ill-suited to PES5's overhauled tackling system.Slide Tackles When you perform a slide tackle, you commit a player not just to the actual challenge, but the variable delay that follows as he returns to a standing position (and, therefore, active control). The higher a player's Defence ability is, the shorter this delay will be. An additional advantage conferred by a high Defence rating is that the actual tackle will be faster, which reduces the possibility of a player moving before your man connects with the ball.The most profoundly beneficial attribute that a player can have while performing such challenges, though, is the Sliding Tackle special ability. With this star to his name, a player will be far more precise when sliding, hitting the ball on a higher number of occasions. This increased accuracy also reduces the likelihood of bookings and dismissals: although the referee may blow his whistle, the better technique of your player will often work in his favour, with the match official being less likely to reach for a card. A player with the Sliding Tackle ability will even be able to make precise sliding challenges from behind an opponent, which is something that most other players simply cannot do.Goalkeeper Control When your defensive line is in an advanced position – either as a strategic choice, or when the opposing team makes a quick counter-attack – your goal custodian isn't merely a goalkeeper, as he can also act as a makeshift sweeper when the situation demands it. Knowing when to send him forward to intercept through-balls (especially those outside the 18-yard box) is a talent that can't be coached. It's a visceral reaction, a split-second reading of a situation that can only be improved through extensive play. It helps to know how fast your goalkeeper is, of course: the better his Top Speed and Acceleration stats, the more likely he is to reach the ball before an opponent does.When an opposing player runs clear of your back line, instructing your keeper to rush out to meet him is a calculated gamble. There are many circumstances when, no matter the relative skill of your man between the posts, not using Triangle Button would be positively foolish. In more risky circumstances, you need to take your goalkeeper's abilities into account: his speed, Goalkeeping Ability, Response and, if late in the match, his current stamina level. The most beneficial attribute a keeper can have in such situations, though, is the 1-On-1 Stopper special ability. This greatly increases his chances of getting a part of his body to shots made at close range.Player Abilities To get the most out of your team, it's critical that you learn each player's strengths and weaknesses. If you only have a very cursory appreciation of each team member's attributes – say, that player X is fast, player Y is good in the air, and player Z can dribble the ball well – you put yourself at a huge disadvantage. Player abilities and the special ability stars play a massive part in every match – as the following explanation [one of dozens in the full guide] illustrates."If a normal player takes about ten animation phases, players with high Agility might only take eight or six in order to cover the same move," reveals Seabass. "It's a matter of what he can do in a smaller amount of time. If the Agility is higher, a player will be able to kick the ball faster than a normal player, who must take a step and then kick. The higher Agility player can just kick the ball immediately. If a player's Agility is very high but his Dribble Accuracy is very low, that player would not be good at dribbling, but he would be very good in performing quick kicks. So: when he dribbles, both abilities really matter."Master League: Team Management In the Master League, PES5's stamina and fatigue systems will soon become a constant source of irritation unless you learn to appreciate the benefits of a sensible squad rotation policy. High stamina loss during matches leads to the growth of a "fatigue bar". The higher this becomes, the lower a player's initial stamina will be at the start of a match – and, therefore, the more likely that player is to be even more tired at the end of the next game. Injuries are an additional complication: greater fatigue levels make players more susceptible to various cuts, sprains, twists and breakages.The only solution is full rest, giving the affected player an entire week off to recuperate. Depending on how tired a player is, his recovery may even take two weeks and, in extreme circumstances, even three. However, it's important that you remember that while fatigue is accumulated on a match-by-match basis, it is only reduced by the week. When there are more than two matches in a week, you will need to leave a player out of your squad for both fixtures to rest him – not simply the first.Master League: Transfers On difficulty levels between one and four stars, you can view a Negotiation Difficulty rating by pressing right on the Directional Pad while examining transfer targets in the Search menus. This indicates how interested a player will be in moving to your club, as Master League producer Toshiyuki Terada explains. "If you have two stars, you should consider that you have a 50 per cent chance. If you have three stars, you are likely to get that player 90 per cent of the time, but there's a 10 per cent chance you might fail. If you have one star, this is not 0 per cent, but maybe 15-20 per cent, very low. And if you have no stars, it means it's under 15-20 per cent. However, it's never 0 per cent."
Not all technology has to be super duper hi-tech whizz-bang stuff. Last night I went to have a look around theBetfair.com British Invention Show, which is being held at Alexandra Palace here in London for the next three days.It's not a huge affair, but there are more than 200 individual inventions on show, and they ranged from the sublime to the ridiculous. One of the most interesting was aportable medical systemcreated by medical technician Alexander Bushell and consultant Dr Seyi Oyesola, who both work at Medway Maritime Hospital in Gillingham. They think it could be exactly what is required to help provide relief in inaccessible areas, and they could be right.Weighing in at around 150lbs, the unit is light enough to be dropped by helicopter into stricken areas, but contains anaesthetic equipment, a defibrillator, a burns unit, plaster-making facilities, surgical equipment and a built-in operating table. It even comes with its own tent to create an ad hoc field hospital.I spoke to Kane Kramer, a former British inventor of the year and the organiser of the show, about why he started it. "As a lone inventor it's very difficult to make products on your own," he said. "We provide a platform for inventors and scientists to launch and find a marketplace for their innovations."Other items on show include an easy-to-use ergonomic design for saucepan handles which has already drawn interest from large companies, and a teabag which helps regulate the blood sugar level of people with diabetes. The Welsh Innovation Network - out in force - is displaying an anti-tamper device which prevents bottled drinks being spiked with dangerous drugs, while a stamp to help children cut soldiers to dip in their boiled eggs has created bit of a stir."When you see the good inventions and you know that people need the product, it's great," said Kramer. "Some of these are about to be huge businesses, and create a lot of jobs."
"The new version of the OpenOffice productivity suite is now officially released. The open source suite now sports a more professional looking user interface and a brand new database module. It also features the ace-in-the-hole - the Open Document file format based on the open-standard OASIS format for office applications," reportsPC Pro."Where OpenOffice.org hopes to score with version 2.0 is that it is the first open source office suite to offer full support for the OpenDocument format. Open Document is an XML file format specification for the full range of office productivity applications including text, spreadsheets, charts, and graphical documents. Already many government and public organisations are looking at OpenDocument compatibility as a way of adding competition to the Microsoft hegemony."Comment:Available for Windows and Linux but not for the Mac, yet.
Are there any sources of information about what all the background tasks are doing on a PC? I presume any spyware must be running as a background task.... Phil MinnisYes. In Windows XP, the Task Manager (invoked by Ctrl-Alt-Del) shows which applications and processes are running in the background. You can also use my favourite, the free Process Explorer. But identifying rogue processes can be a bit tricky, so there are a few things to do before you get to that stage.First, run some anti-virus and adware checking software such as Avast, AVG, Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and, online, Housecall. (All these are free for personal use.)Second, run one or more programs that tell you which programs are started or run when you boot Windows. I use Startup Inspector for Windows and HiJackThis. These should enable you to track down any nasties that might have slipped past the malware checkers.And finally, to get to your question, go to theWinTasks Process Library. This starts, very usefully, with a list of the top security risks. However, be careful, as some malware uses names that are extremely similar or even idenitical to legitimate parts of Windows.I have previously recommended theBlack Vipersite for lists of services. This isn't available at the moment (see below) but MajorGeeks hasa mirror of the Black Viper information.* The site said: "I will be shutting down the web site again on September 21, 2005 while I get ready to move to Northern California. The domain will be up again as soon as possible."
Over at the San Francisco Chronicle, Mark Morford has written the column every male thought about when the iPod With Video was announced:Porn on the go.This is the biggest selling point of all: infinite portability, combined with near-perfect privacy. It will be the businessman's friend. The traveler's dream. The college student's beloved late-night study pal. Take it camping. Take it to the office restroom. Watch it on awkward family vacations, in the airplane bathroom, in church. No longer are you saddled with a TV or PC. No longer must you fuss with DVDs and bulky porno-riffic gear. Rejoice.Oh, do not mention screen size. Do not dare suggest that men will balk at watching hot sex on such a tiny display. It has been proved over 5 million years of intensive study that men can become aroused at sexual images the size of a speck of dust from 50 feet away. You know it's true.
Well, the header pretty much says it all - Sony has announced today that it has shipped ten million PSPs worldwide, as of October 31. This, according to the press release, is "the fastest penetration speed" in PlayStation history. Please stop giggling at the back there.Also from the release:"On the software side, PSP Game software shipment has reached 19.6 million units and 183 titles have become available worldwide as of September 2005. Market for the UMD Video software titles have been expanding and cumulative production shipment has exceeded over 15 million units as of September 2005. More new and attractive titles are expected to be released from content developers and publishers for the holiday season."Up to date figures are not available from Nintendo, but the companyclaimedto have hit the five million mark for DS shipments back in March.
We haven't had a new buzzword for days, but maybe tumblelogs will make it. AsKottke explains:A tumblelog is a quick and dirty stream of consciousness, a bit like a remaindered links style linklog but with more than just links. They remind me of an older style of blogging, back when people did sites by hand, before Movable Type made post titles all but mandatory, blog entries turned into short magazine articles, and posts belonged to a conversation distributed throughout the entire blogosphere. Robot Wisdom and Bifurcated Rivets are two older style weblogs that feel very much like these tumblelogs with minimal commentary, little cross-blog chatter, the barest whiff of a finished published work, almost pure editing...really just a way to quickly publish the "stuff" that you run across every day on the web.Kottke's examples include "Anarchaia(which seems to have been the first one),Church Burning[and]Mikael's Tumblelog".Tracking back a bit, however, there'sa Marcus Vorwaller post from September 11:Here's something to keep an eye on - Tumblelogs. Basically a blog with quick posts consisting of pictures, quotes, links and whatever else is on the mind of the author. Tumblelogging is bound to grow–as of today there are 540 Google results for "tumblelog." I predict 10,000 within 6 months. I'm not sure of the origin of the word, but the best I can tell it was coinedhere. The best example (by far) is the gorgeousProjectionistwebsite… a site that has forever changed the way I think about blogging. Amazing.Seems we're already up to the 17,000 mark....
"As big and as important as Microsoft is, the coverage of the company is quite mediocre. This is particularly true in the mainstream press. The reason for this is that today's newspaper and magazine tech writers know little about computers and are all Mac users. It's a fact," reportsJohn Dvorak."This is why when Microsoft actually does have a good idea, people look to trash it out of hand. With 90% of the mainstream writers being Mac users, what would you expect? The top columnists in the news and business magazines fit this model too. The technology writers fit this model. The tech writers and tech columnists for the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Newsweek, and Fortune are all Mac users. I could list them by name, but I'd hate to leave one out. Maybe I'll blog them by name. I could list 50. Readers should thus not be surprised by the overcoverage of Apple Computer. Every time Steve Jobs sneezes there is a collective chorus of 'Gesundheit' from tech writers pounding away on their Macs."
Fed up with your bank and want to try something different? Lots of people think about it and some flirt with alternatives - such as internet banking - but mostly we stay with the same boring one we have always had because of inertia and a gut feeling that they are all the same anyway.Not any more. Last week I experimented with Zopa ("zone of possible agreement"), a London-based start-up, barely eight months old. It aims to cut out the middlemen and bureaucracy of banking by lining up lenders and borrowers in an online market place, a kind of eBay of banking. It is easy to dismiss such a grandiose idea on the grounds that if it were possible, someone in Silicon Valley would surely have done it already. But business doesn't always work like that.The attraction is that cutting out the banking system's huge bureaucracy and branch networks makes it possible to reduce fixed costs and offer more competitive rates of interest. The downside is that without the banks' compensation scheme, which guarantees 90% of the value of personal deposits up to &pound;33,000, it is quite a bit riskier. Zopa counters this by having rigid credit checks on lenders and borrowers, adding a default risk premium to its interest rates, and having a scheme to rescue lenders in the hopefully unlikely event of a start-up going belly-up. (It has happened before.) Zopa has impressive blue-chip backing and although it won't say how much, claims it has enough capital until it breaks even.Logging on was easy even though it took 10 days for money to be transferred to my Zopa account from my bank through PayPal, the online bank owned by eBay, which has a relationship with Zopa. After you have typed in personal details, Zopa gives you a number to indicate your creditworthiness - it is worth going this far for that alone - based on ratings by specialist agencies and its own criteria.Lenders are faced with two choices, the relatively clear Lend Now or the more complicated Custom Lend. I opted for the former, which explains how loans (minimum &pound;500) are packaged into &pound;10 bundles and then distributed among 50 borrowers to spread the risk. You can browse dizzy arrays of data, giving you all the lending and borrowing rates on offer.The lowest rate was 1%, which turned out to be something of an "amuse bouche" by someone who had sussed out how to be ahead of the queue for a higher rate once electronic sorting was done. The highest rate was 12.9%, with an average of 5.9%. What should I offer to lend at? I noted that Lloyds' online savings account was offering 3.4%, and the Coop Smart Saver 3.75% - or 4% with its Smile online current account. To test whether Zopa could do better than the banks I put an interest rate of 5% on my proffered loan (to which 0.5% was added to cover possible default risk).At 7am the next day I looked at my screen to find no one had taken up my offer. And four days later only four units of &pound;10 had been taken up. How could they! I scoured the last 20 loans available (this place is a bit like banking in a goldfish bowl as you can see all the other loans on offer) to find there were 965 offers to lend. Among recent ones were 12 month loans at 7.5% and 8.5%. Hadn't they seen my offer for only 5.5%? Someone else, however, was offering &pound;500 at only 2.5%. I was beginning to realise why it is called "zone of possible agreement". It is up to individuals to make their own bargains - just like a street market.I don't know if Zopa will succeed. It says it has had no defaults, but because of the risk involved, until it has established a track record it should be used by those with surplus funds rather than widows and orphans. I wish it well. It has already spawned other peer-to-peer lending schemes and there are plans to expand in the US next year. One thing is sure: it is more fun than dealing with a high street bank.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
This is more Aleks' territory than mine, but as she's away at the moment, I'll step in... BBC Scotland has commissioned a new videogame show, entitled videoGaiden. Created by the people behind downloadable video 'zineConsolevaniathe programme will begin a tentative six-week run from November 4 on BBC2 Scotland. Viewers in the rest of Britain will be able to catch it on satelite and cable.So what can we expect from this latest attempt to translate the joy of videogaming to the small screen? The press release says:"Ditching the ground trod before, videoGaiden will be a perfect fusion of sketch and review, and will do for videogames what Top Gear does for cars – even if you hate the whole gaming world, you'll still find it funny and engaging. And therefore, keep watching.Aimed at the 15+ market, each show will feature reviews, news items and a variety of sketches. The sketches are set in and around the gaming world, providing character comedy and pastiche, with the humour being available to all – but the gamer will get a bigger laugh than the layman. This is a show that's serious about its subject, yet still manages to keep its tongue wedged firmly in its cheek."As usual it's been given that difficult 'yoof TV' slot - 11pm on a Friday night - when those target 15+ year-olds are down the pub or hanging around outside the 24hour garage.
This week's Technology supplement is out, and on the web. It leads with a rabble-rousing call fromSteven Johnson, who thinks games don't get the wide coverage they deserve.The economic strength of the gaming industry, the complexity of the games themselves, and their growing relevance as a platform for social commentary adds up to one inevitable conclusion: ignoring games means ignoring one of the most interesting and innovative cultural forms of our time - not unlike writing off Hollywood in the era of Citizen Kane.Read the resthere.As always, we're trying to change that perception inGames- this time with a round-up ofthe best PSP games, Kieron Gillen's opinion on some of thebig seasonal releaseswe should watch out far and a column fromGamesbloggerKeith Stuart, who wonders what the deluge ofretro mobile gamestells us about the industry.Elsewhere we wonder why on earth people want to spend their cash on trinkets like a£50,000 mobile phone, and David McCandless plans to be more productive thanks tothe art of Getting Things Done.OurInnovationspage takes a look at the tiny Flybook notebook computer, and inOpinion, Victor Keegan tries new online bankZopa.We also interview home office ministerPaul Gogginsabout the government's plans to crack down on digital freedoms, and find out why the developing world has much to gain frommobile phones and open source.As always, that's not all.Click herefor the complete contents.
"As part of an upgraded Power Mac G5 lineup, Apple will offer a new Power Mac G5 Quad that provides quad-core processing with two 2.5 GHz dual-core PowerPC G5 processors. All Power Mac G5 models now feature dual-core processors, a new PCI Express architecture and higher performance graphics options including NVIDIA's Quadro FX 4500," reportsGX.Apple also introduced Aperture, "the first all-in-one post production tool that provides everything photographers need after the shoot," reportsLetsGoDigital.Aperture offers an advanced and incredibly fast RAW workflow that makes working with a camera's RAW images as easy as JPEG. Built from the ground up for pros, Aperture features powerful compare and select tools, nondestructive image processing, color managed printing and custom web and book publishing. "Aperture is to professional photography what Final Cut Pro is to filmmaking," said Rob Schoeben, Apple's vice president of Applications Marketing. "Finally, an innovative post production tool that revolutionizes the pro photo workflow from compare and select to retouching to output."According to Apple, the Power Mac G5 Quad, with a suggested retail price of £2,299 (inc VAT), includes:• two dual-core 2.5GHz PowerPC G5 processors; • 512MB of 533 MHz DDR2 SDRAM expandable up to 16GB; • 250GB Serial ATA hard drive running at 7200 rpm; • NVIDIA GeForce 6600 with 256MB of GDDR SDRAM • three open PCI Express expansion slots: two 4-lane slots and one 8-lane slot; • dual Gigabit Ethernet ports; • 16x SuperDrive with double-layer support (DVD+R DL/DVD±RW/CD-RW); and • ships with Mighty Mouse and Apple Keyboard.Comment:Not sure why Apple includes 512MB of RAM. Might as well ship it with none, so you can just buy the couple of gigs you need from (probably) Crucial.
It is grey and it is ugly, but I love it. My new Bisley four-drawer filing cabinet dominates the corner of my all-new home office. It is the centrepiece of a new organisational system that has rejuvenated my perspective and changed my life - it is all I can do not to stroke it.Just four weeks ago, my desk was a shrine to disorder. It was cluttered with letters, takeaway menus, MiniDiscs and dead batteries, while stacks of printouts lay everywhere. A skyscraper of stuff towered in my inbox, untouched for months.Now it is pristine. My intray is empty. My desk is clear. A smile is on my lips and I am getting things done. All thanks to one book.David Allen's Getting Things Done is a best-selling time-management manual that advocates a highly structured workflow and a very specific office/desk design that must include a filing cabinet (or portable digital equivalent).Information flowAdherents of the book learn how to filter the "stuff" in their lives - information, ideas, emails, projects and even people - into a sensible, meaningful system. Then they are shown how to relentlessly process these "open loops" to a conclusion.The results, if you can stick to it, are a streamlined information flow, a welter of projects completed on time without stress, and a brain state known as "mind like water", free from unconscious worrying. It's the kind of thing that appeals to those familiar with relentless busyness, a sense of being "bogged down".After four years in the Amazon Top 100, the techniques outlined in Getting Things Done have spilled out across the net and into the mainstream. For information-overloaded workers like me, drenched by a daily deluge of emails, phonecalls, texts and papers, it has never seemed so relevant or necessary. So, stressed and dogged by a slew of never-completed projects, unpaid bills and forgotten friends, I finally gave the book a test run.Implementing the system has been a struggle. As a "creative person", I recoil from order. My feeling - and my conceit - is that being organised is somehow opposite to being creative. Those unanswered emails and teetering skyscrapers of old copies of Wired and NMEs from 1987 define me somehow, and give me my creative edge.File it, trash it, or act on itIn my life, however, there is one puzzling exception to this. While my office looks freshly burgled, my computer remains a pristine monument to organisation. Everything on there is in a precise hierarchy of folders."You did it organically because you cared about the results of having an organised computer," says Allen. When you trust and care about the system, organisation comes naturally, he maintains.But it takes some serious "front-end decision making" to get started. Those who undertake initiation must dedicate at least two full days to constructing the system and the collecting and processing of stuff.In Allen's world, "stuff" is things in your environment - or in your head - that requires resolution. That resolution may be filing it, trashing it or acting upon it.All must be corralled in one place and then processed using Allen's core mantra of "Do it, delegate it, defer it". If the action takes less than two minutes, do it there and then. If longer, you either hand off to someone else or defer it into your pending tray. Otherwise it is trashed or filed. The in-tray thereby becomes sacrosanct. You never put stuff back into "In". Never.My stuff occupied the floor space of my study (with spillage into the hall) and took three days to process. It was mind-pounding but surprisingly enjoyable. It reminded me of similar personal pogroms I had undertaken in the past. When chaos had reached an intensity even I couldn't bear, I would break. An insane night of purging would follow. Armed with a bottle of Jack Daniel's and often wearing just a string vest, I would reorganise and tidy wildly until dawn.The problem was, I realise now, that I would simply rebuild a system that never worked in the first place. I would be clean for a few days, weeks, then steadily, inevitably, the descent into chaos would begin again.Once you are up and running with a good system, it holds and you can feel the effects instantaneously, says Allen. "When the brain is free from the responsibility of thinking about stuff, it can move on to what it actually does much better: making intuitive, creative choices about the options. It also releases a lot of energy. When we coach people they are often bouncing off the walls."It sounds like marketing. Allen is rapidly becoming the Dr Atkins of the information-slimming world. Book sales, and regular coaching sessions for Microsoft and the US military have made him very rich. But something about the book seems to be effective for a broad range of people - especially geeks.Life hacksOn the web, for example, Getting Things Done (GTD) has gone supernova. Web and IT professionals have taken Allen's core ideas and refined them into ever more effective tips called "life hacks". Adherents swap these across a broad network of blogs, wikis and websites such as43Folders.com- all amid a considerable amount of one-upmanship over who has the biggest and best system."As lovers of systems and frameworks, geeks take to GTD easily," says Merlin Mann, a writer from San Francisco who runs 43Folders.com. "They hate boredom so they are often jumping around, multitasking and trying to keep a dozen balls in the air.""Life hacks are really a superset of GTD - basically any kind of trick you can devise that makes it hard to screw up," says Mann. "Most often this involves taking some problem or hangup out of your head and getting it grounded in the physical world. Remember how your teacher would pin a note on your shirt whenever she wanted your parents to see something? Same thing."He outlines others. "Always forgetting your glasses for night driving? Hook your car keys on the clip on the eyeglasses case. Want to keeping meetings short and on topic? Write an agenda and make sure everyone drinks a litre of water at the beginning."In the meantime, a slew of software tools and widgets - from workflow programs to email filters - have been written to help geeks implement the system. Offshoot sites such as43Things.comand43Places.comeven use it as a backbone for social networking and finding like-minded dates in foreign cities.Feeling smugA month down the line and I am feeling pretty smug with my new life.Take this week: I have submitted a book proposal, written two articles, met an old friend, posted three packages, finished my tax return, arranged to have my broken car removed, recycled old technology, played tennis, and written 412 emails. I even trimmed the number of backed-up texts on my phone from 774 to five - by using downtime on public transport more effectively. That's a quantum leap for me.There is something of the cult about it and I am definitely an acolyte. I find myself surveying the desks of others with a critical eye. Phrases such as "defined outcomes" and "actionable items" have crept into my vocabulary.It is enjoyable. I feel lighter, and less preoccupied. It could be the placebo effect, but I feel like I am finally "in the driver's seat", as Allen puts it. That is even though I have 162 projects active in my life (the average is 150).Actually, there is one I can cross off now. "Write a story about my experience of Getting Things Done." Done.Next.&#183;Getting Things Done by David Allen is published by Piatkus, priced &pound;10.99. To order a copy with free UK p&amp;p, call the Guardian book service on 0870 836 0875 or go toguardian.co.uk/bookshop&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google today faced a new legal challenge to its plans to digitise library books, as major publishers sought to block it from scanning copyrighted works.Five publishing houses - McGraw-Hill, Pearson Education and Penguin Group (USA), Simon &amp; Schuster and John Wiley &amp; Sons - filed a suit in New York yesterday, claiming that Google's plans would infringe their copyrights."If Google can make ... copies, then anyone can," Patricia Schroeder, president of the Association of American Publishers, told Reuters. "Anybody could go into a library and start making digital copies of anything."Describing the publishers' action as "short-sighted", Google's attorney David Drummond said the move "works counter to the interests of not just the world's readers, but also the world's authors and publishers."This is the second legal challenge Google has faced on its proposal to digitise library books. In September, the Authors Guild (the US's oldest and largest professional society of published authors) joined with three US writers - Herbert Mitgang, Betty Miles and Daniel Hoffman - to file a similar lawsuit. The Authors Guild filing was a class-action lawsuit that seeks damages, however, while the publishers' suit seeks a declaration that Google is committing copyright infringement by scanning books.Google, which is working with five of the world's great libraries (Stanford, Harvard and Michigan university libraries, the New York Public Library and the Bodleian library in Oxford) to digitise their collections, stopped scanning copyrighted books in August after protests from publishers. However, it intends to resume its work next month.Google Print, launched last October, will enable people to search the contents of books online and, according to Google, make it easier to track down relevant books. It consists of a publisher programme which encourages book firms to make their titles searchable online, and the Google Print Library Project, a scheme to upload books at a number of major libraries.According to Ms Schroeder - a former Democratic presidential candidate - the publishers' legal action aims to keep Google from setting a precedent that would open the door for anyone to digitally duplicate books and use them as they please. She argued that Google's plan to have libraries scan the full text of books goes far beyond the analogy of creating a digital version of a card catalogue, pointing out that "If Google wants a card catalogue they can scan the book's front page for full bibliographic data."Supporters of the Google Print project claim, however, that the scanning of the full text of the books is necessary to create a searchable catalogue of the books located within the five libraries' collections. Google says it has no plans to make full copies of copyrighted works available without their owners' permission.Legal experts believe the dispute between Google and the publishing industry is shaping up as a new front in the battle over digital duplication of media, including music, movies and now books.
"Australian production company, Film Headquarters has made an innovative music video for the Presidents of the United States of America, for their Australian single Some Postman. This is the first music video in the world to be shot using mobile phones," explainsPUSA's website."Some Postman" is currently on Australia's Channel V (as Clip of the Week last week), ABC, Rage, Video Hits, VH1 and national and regional radio networks as the band prepare to launch their album "Love Everybody" in Australia in October, backed up by an Australian tour.The music video was filmed in Seattle in just one day using a plethora of Sony Ericsson mobile video phones. The content was then blue–toothed to a Mac and composed like a jigsaw puzzle to form the basis of the edit.
"Just weeks after a leading authors' organization sued Google for copyright infringement, the Association of American Publishers has also filed suit against the search engine giant's plans to scan and index books for the internet," reportsAP."In papers filed Wednesday in the US District Court in Manhattan, the publishers association sought a permanent injunction and cited the 'continuing, irreparable and imminent harm publishers are suffering ... due to Google's willful (copyright) infringement to further its own commercial purposes.' The suit was filed on behalf of five publishers: McGraw-Hill, Pearson Education, Penguin Group USA, Simon &amp; Schuster and John Wiley &amp; Sons."Meanwhile, Google's chief executive Eric Schmidt has written a piece for The Wall Street Journal putting the company's point of view re Google Print. You can read it on theOfficial Google Blog.
Sony has announced a brand new limited edition PSP Giga pack, due for release on November 21 - hey, just in time for Christmas! Containing PSP, 1GB Memory Stick PRO Duo, battery pack, AC Adaptor, USB cable and a PSP stand ("for easy hands-free viewing"), the package will retail for £214.99. The one gig stick will certainly be useful for storing all those Xmas DVDs you'll convert for handheld viewing - oh and LIberty City Story saves, of course.
Goodnewsfor any online gamers who play on Xbox Live. With the 360 you'll be able to change yourgamertagwhilst retaining all your previous stats and details. The tag is what you are known as on Live and is vital to the whole thing. Invites, friends - your tag is your identity when it comes to Xbox gaming. Anyone who has regretted their hasty choice of name - and my experience suggests there must be about 34,892 who do - then you'll be able to rectify the situation when 360 launches. It will be interesting to see if Microsoft's aim to pull in the casual gamers via Live Arcade and the like has any impact on the quality of tags, which currently reflect the relatively youthful age of most Live players.
This summer, eagle-eyed Dubliners might have spotted a gang of feral dogs sniffing their way through the streets of the Irish capital. The pack, which is now on its way to London, crawled at ankle height on a mission to sniff out dangerous pollutants. But these dogs are not trained bloodhounds: in fact, they are not even flesh and blood.The robotic canines were constructed by Irish teenagers under the eye of their inventor, Natalie Jeremijenko. They began life as toy robots with names such as Tekno, I-Cybie and Megabyte 1 and 2, but were moved into the workshops of Jeremijenko, an Australian who is now a professor at University of California, San Diego.Under her guidance, children dismantle and rebuild these toys to function far beyond their makers' intent. The dogs' centre of gravity is lowered and wheels are attached for easier manoeuvring. Pollution sensors are added, as is circuitry that allows them to act autonomously.For Jeremijenko, it's an opportunity to get people thinking about what makes technology and how it relates to the wider world. Robotic dogs are the expression of 50 years of artificial intelligence research and technology manufacturing - a dirty industry.Jeremijenko and the children let the robot dogs out into the wild, near sites suspected of being polluted, and their sensors draw them to the very same chemicals created by the process of manufacturing hi-tech toys. "These dogs are kind of sniffing their own bums," she explains.Dublin-based children's museum ARK sponsored and hosted the recent exercise, as children between the ages of eight and 14 created feral robotic dogs and released them around Dublin to highlight the environmental problems that the Irish technology boom has brought to the country.Other groups of robotic dog creators have sprung up around the US and Europe. London has one, and next month, Jeremijenko will run a workshop for local residents and users of Hackney's London Fields.
The run-up to Christmas often seems to be the only time that matters to the games industry. In the gamble for a seasonal payout, the sudden concentration of big games in the autumn can overwhelm. But if you are trying to see where the industry's at, even a cursory look across the release schedule can reveal its dominating trends.First, there are the wannabes looking to muscle in on Grand Theft Auto's turf, usually propped up by a mixture of cross-media licences and an inching-up of exploitative violence. Since we can't deprive these unimaginative developers of oxygen, let's deprive them of publicity, but make an exception for Gun.While it takes from Rockstar's free-roaming structure, it has the brains to completely change the setting. As a western with an aggressive tone reminiscent of Deadwood, it will hopefully show the GTA copycats that you can take inspiration without just stealing from it.Gun also features in the lineup of games for the main seasonal event, the launch of Microsoft's Xbox 360 console. The initial games can profoundly influence a console's success. Last time around, Microsoft had the instant classic Halo, so this time a lot is riding on Rare's first-person-shooter Perfect Dark Zero. Other commercial highlights will include the dramatic second world war shooter Call of Duty 2 and another spin around the increasingly sumptuous city circuits of Project Gotham Racing 3.However, if you are of a betting persuasion and want to put money on a sleeper hit, look no further than the fantasy role-playing game Elder-Scrolls IV: Oblivion, which will hopefully sneak out before Christmas.Other Christmas perennials are games with a large number after their title. This year, on the PC alone, we get to see Age of Empires III, Quake 4 and Civilization 4 looking to reaffirm their critical and commercial reputations. Also interesting is Lionhead's The Movies. The studio of British superstar developer Peter Molyneux has had a few shaky releases, but it is hoped that with this "you-run-Hollywood" game, it will return to glory.And there is always seasonal disappointment, with at least one big game being released abroad but being left over for next year in poor, ignored Europe. This year it is the rapturously received sequel to Ico, Shadow of the Colossus.Christmas can't come soon enough. At the very least, it means we will get to spring sooner.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The mobile games industry is clearly run by jokers. I don't mean that as an insult - it makes a refreshing change from the desperate-to-be-cool moguls who plot the predictable course of the console games industry.But something strange has to be up when Namco's mobile division announces it will bring Snoopy to Java handsets. While fans of the publisher may have been expecting conversions of Soul Calibre or the cult Japanese hit We Love Katamari, Namco serves up a game in which you guide a cartoon hound through the skies in his biplane as he tries to capture the enemy flag. Or, in this case, a security blanket of Linus's.The ironic retro licence has become something of a staple for the industry. American company Jamdat announced last month it would bring darts quiz Bullseye to the mobile, complete with Jim Bowen doing voice-overs. Even more amusing was In-Fusio's recent capture of the enduring drawing toy Etch-A-Sketch. But these are all comparative amateurs in the realm of ironic licensing. Last year, Manchester publisher iFone went on a shopping spree, buying up the rights to franchises such as Casper the Friendly Ghost, Rocky and Bullwinkle, the Lone Ranger, Roger Ramjet ... and Lassie.I imagine iFone executives at the end of the day, rummaging through their purchases like tired shoppers after the January sales, thinking "Oh God, what did we buy that for?"In fact, the company's translation of Casper was pretty good. And with Nintendogs fever still raging, now would be a good time to get that Lassie conversion out. Imagine being able to train your virtual puppy not only to sit, stay and beg, but also to save children from abandoned mine shafts. Meanwhile, iFone has developed a mobile translation of 1970s electronic toy Simon, and is putting the finishing touches to Game of Life, the boardgame classic. The smart money must be on Kerr-Plunk, Buckaroo and Mousetrap to follow.Irony is a great fit for the mobile format. While most nostalgic thirtysomethings would balk at handing over &pound;30 for a PlayStation 2 conversion of Roger Ramjet, a fiver to see the cartoon hero on your Nokia seems a fair deal - even if you delete it after 10 minutes.Such games may also develop a social element - they exist so you can thrust your mobile under the noses of your mates and shout, "Have you seen this?". At least that way you don't have to suffer the inconvenience of playing them: the bad thing about retro licences is that they are usually turned into very poor games.Although, let's face it - disposable, shallow, sardonic: they could prove the pinnacle of postmodern entertainment.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) has had a fantastically successful launch in the UK - 185,000 units sold on the first weekend, and six weeks on it is still hard to find. Its status as a super-sexy gadget is well documented, but just how good are its games?Sony is asking itself the same question. Phil Harrison, a vice president of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, said as much during his address last month at the Game Developers Conference Europe in London."Don't judge the life of the format on the first games that come out for it," he said. "Remember we launched PlayStation 2 with Fantavision. When a format comes out, the games you make are the games you know how to make, because you only have a limited amount of time to make them. Then the next games to come out on the platform are where the innovation starts to happen."This doesn't bode well. Harrison can be commended for his honesty, as the vast majority of launch PSP games - 25 out of 32, by our reckoning - were versions of games that have already appeared on the PlayStation 2. But, having carefully reviewed the launch portfolio, we have picked out our top five as well as a few crocks that should be avoided.Burnout Legends - Electronic ArtsThe PSP version of the arcade-style street-racer is an amalgam of the best bits of previous versions, boasting all the incredible smoothness and speed we demand from Burnout games. Multiplayer action is decent, with an impressive coat of EA's trademark gloss. It is as thrillingly hooliganistic as its console predecessors. Discerning gamers will ensure this is the first title they buy to play on their PSPs.TOCA Race Driver 2 - CodemastersThis underrated title disappeared without a trace on the consoles, but was designed to delight petrolheads, since it forces you to race wildly differing saloons, racers, classic cars and trucks. It is virtually indistinguishable from the PS2 version, but the cars' rigorous handling and the sumptuous feel you get through the tiny analogue joystick make it the best racing simulator for the PSP.Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2006 - EA SportsFor me, golf holds as much appeal as being slapped with a wet fish, so it is a notable achievement that EA Sports' expensively licensed golf game hooks so many players. It's tough to play at first, with a control system that uses the analogue joystick to ape a golf swing, but you soon get to grips with it. That is when you begin to appreciate its superb graphics and absorbing challenges, like taking on a young Arnold Palmer. The ability to play at your own pace is ideally suited to a handheld, but those who fancy more could try Everybody's Golf - another above-par title.Archer Maclean's Mercury - IgnitionThis puzzle game has a deceptively simple premise: it is a virtual reconstruction of the sealed maze toys containing a blob of mercury that were popular in the past. It is not long, but features some imaginative bells and whistles, such as coloured blobs of mercury that must be combined to pass through gates. It is that rare item: an original game for the PSP.Tony Hawk's Underground 2 Remix - ActivisionIts format is identical to console versions, but Activision has extensively redesigned the levels, so it has plenty to offer fans. In general, it looks great, although restricting movement control to the D-pad rather than the analogue joystick renders some things unnecessarily tricky. Another game you can play in 10-minute bursts, so it suits the PSP.And the rest ...Several other titles deserve an honourable mention. Sega's World Snooker Challenge is an utterly efficient game that manages to make a great game out of one of the dullest sports. WipEout Pure brings Sony's much-loved hover-racing franchise to the PSP intact, though it remains something of an acquired taste. Konami has come up trumps with two titles: Metal Gear Acid, a turn-based game with great graphics, and Coded Arms, a fairly basic Doom-meets-Tron first-person shooter that is surprisingly enjoyable to play.Elsewhere, Sega's Virtua Tennis looks great, and is swift and responsive, although tricky to master. Codemasters' Colin McRae Rally has translated well, and Sony's F1 Grand Prix, EA Sports' Fifa 06 and Activision's Spider-Man 2 are similar to their console counterparts. Sony's Untold Legends offers hack'n'slash role-playing action, and its MediEvil Resurrection is not bad.Ubisoft's Lumines has sold well overseas, but is disappointing - a Tetris clone that rewards the assembling of square blocks. Despite its trendy graphics, it is inferior to Meteos for Nintendo's DS, although it will please die-hard Tetris fans.However, there are plenty of games you should avoid, including some huge sellers. Most notable is Ridge Racer, the ultimate triumph of style over substance. Sony's World Tour Soccer, meanwhile, is so dire that you should ostracise anyone who owns a copy. EA's Need For Speed Underground Rivals has jerky, over-ambitious graphics, while Rockstar Games' Midnight Club 3: Dub Edition is just dull.By Christmas, the PSP should have a much high quality library of games: titles such as Pro Evolution Soccer 5 (due next month) and a version of the Grand Theft Auto franchise. But in the meantime, as long as you are not too picky about originality, there are enough decent PSP games to keep you occupied.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Here's a heartwarming story of an unloved orphan finding a new foster home. The orphan is the national police website. For the past three years, it has been walking a lonely beat atwww.police.uk, providing a single point of contact to 53 UK police forces - 45 local forces and eight non-geographical agencies such as the British Transport Police.E-government enthusiasts get excited about the police portal because it is one of only a very few in the world allowing citizens to report crimes online from anywhere in the country.But everyone apart from the wonks ignores it. Chief constables have a cultural aversion to anything labelled "national police" and prefer to invest in their local websites. Politicians are jittery about the statistical effect of making it too easy to report crimes.The portal is run by the Police IT Organisation (Pito), a classic example of a central IT agency that everyone on the front line loves to slag off, while simultaneously obstructing any moves to make it more effective.The organisation recently awarded a new contract to replace and upgrade the portal. QinetiQ, which we hope learned valuable lessons about resilience from its work on the 1901 census website, takes over the brief from BT. The new site, due to go up in April, will be more friendly to disabled users, allow citizens to pinpoint the location of crimes on a digital map and - importantly - automatically prioritise information received from the public.The new contract should secure the portal's future while Pito is absorbed into the new National Policing Improvement Agency. It is just one example of a flurry of recent activity aimed at clearing up the gruesome mess that is criminal justice IT.In another deal announced recently, Fujitsu Services and Steria won contracts to develop and operate a digital hub to the criminal justice system. The Criminal Justice Exchange is supposed to route information securely between different agencies such as prosecutors, courts and prison services. The aim is to save money and reduce the toll of trials that "crack" because the right combination of accused, witnesses, paperwork and jury fails to show up.Meanwhile, the Courts Agency is replacing its own primordial soup of courtroom IT with a new suite of systems in a &pound;1bn procurement called Disc (development, innovation and support contracts).Eight IT firms have been shortlisted for two sets of contracts. One of the systems being replaced is the Libra magistrates court system, memorably labelled by the House of Commons public accounts committee as the worst PFI contract to come to its attention.Disc is the first big procurement to happen entirely on the watch of Ian Watmore, the government's chief information officer. It incorporates all the latest belt-and-braces safeguards against government IT programmes. Notably, it was subject to a "concept viability" consultation with the industry, after which it was split into two components, infrastructure and applications. One bidder who didn't make the shortlist last week commended the Courts Agency for doing things right.The downside, of course, is that if Disc does run late or fail to work, government IT really is in trouble. Elsewhere, there are even some signs of movement over the failings of police IT exposed by the inquiry into the Soham murders. A new "national nominal index" will next year allow police forces to gather intelligence attached to any individual's name.Even if all this works, much more remains to be done. There is a notable gulf between IT systems supporting criminal justice and those in operational policing. In one view, this gap reflects a healthy separation of powers. Judging by his recent conference speech, the prime minister has other ideas. The National Police Portal has the potential to be used for much more than reporting vandalised bus shelters.
It all began over dinner a year ago, says police officer Tony Neate. With colleagues at the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU), he was debating how to tackle the explosion in spam, scams and worse - virtual criminal activity - disfiguring the internet.With regulators and the law limping behind, he knew there needed to be a high-profile prevention campaign to educate surfers in the home as much as small businesses.This was codenamed Project Endurance, a signal of how tough the challenge was and how low was public understanding of the dangers. Renamed Get Safe Online, this month sees the launch of a website that promises to be a helpful "one-stop shop", spelling out solutions to problems such as finding out whether spyware has been installed on your PC.Neate is editing the site to ensure it has plenty of contacts and links. The aim is to make it the UK's "recognised source for online security and protection". He hopes it will be permanent, and it is to be backed up by a big publicity campaign.Roger Darlington, chairman of the Internet Watch Foundation, believes the scope of the campaign needs to be widened further, and reinforced with a national call line, as with NHS Direct. "There needs to be a place anyone can go and get user-friendly and free advice."Get Safe Online has drawn together 10 sponsors in a public/private partnership: the Home Office, Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), NHTCU, Dell, eBay, HBSC, Lloyds TSB, Message Labs, Microsoft, Securetrading and Yell.com.Misuse of the internet is alarming people in all walks of British life, from the individual trading on eBay to banks, the Confederation of British Industry and the Inland Revenue. It undermines confidence, deterring the 40% who are not online from joining up. The aim of the campaign, however, is to educate, rather than scaremonger.Much government business is migrating online. With online banking transactions costing seven pence compared with &pound;3 if you go into a branch, the benefits of safe trading online are obvious.Jean-Jacques Sahel, the head of international communications at the department, says 67% of emails are spam - unsolicited information that ranges from the tiresome to the fraudulent, with some carrying viruses and others "phishing" for an individual's bank account details.Companies estimate that deleting junk mail costs them the equivalent of &pound;460 per employee a year. Also, 90% of viruses are carried by email. One in 10 UK companies say online fraud is a major issue: a survey by the CBI of 300 members saw information security as a problem.At a Westminster eForum seminar last month, suggested solutions to dealing with fraud included a stronger personal identity certificate, which always remains encrypted.Richard Cox, chief information officer for Spamhaus, which pursues spammers, said internet service providers needed to be more vigilant: they were hosting fake domains with names such as "bank" that were set up to carry out phishing. Other redresses include updating the 1990 Computer Misuse Act and raising fines.One problem is knowing who you should contact for help. ISPs often prove hard to contact and are singled out for providing poor customer service.For the police, it is a crisis, with criminals rapidly changing countries and using "zombie" computers to steal personal IDs. The NHTCU has an officer permanently in Russia. Neate says: "This is different from the old organised crime of East End gangs, we now see virtual crime groups that are transnational, they may never meet."Yet as Neate himself says, sometimes it can be difficult to tell whether some emails are authentic. His unit recently had to rule on an email requesting reconfirmation of personal bank details. He thought it was fraudulent, as did a colleague. However, it was genuine: it was from an online-only bank that did not communicate by letter.Microsoft UK's chief security advisor, Ed Gibson, spoke of his basic fear. "In five years' time, if we do not make a concerted effort to make it more secure, then what we call the world wide web or the internet will not be as it is today. This is an area the law enforcement side can't tackle alone."We're at a stage where, as individuals and as consumers, we must be aware we can no longer treat computers as toasters. We have to do a much better job to get the message out, that as soon as you log on the internet, whether you are a four-year-old, or a 94-year-old, you have opened up every window in the universe to your home."
Diamonds are forever, but mobile phones are not designed to last quite so long. Unless you are a lucky recipient of a jewel-encrusted mobile this Christmas, that is. Vertu, a subsidiary of Nokia, is producing 200 mobile phones decorated with diamonds. The most expensive of the range are believed to be the first mobile handsets to cost in the region of &pound;50,000.The company, which sells the mobiles through expensive jewellers and department stores such as Harrods, plans to ship the first of the diamond handsets next week. The phones are handmade at the company's headquarters near Hook in Hampshire, and are already pre-sold. But don't worry if a Vertu phone is on your Chrismas wish list. The company produces a range of "cheaper" handsets, which start at around &pound;3,000, and these are still available.So what do you get for your 50 grand? Down the side of the phone is something called a pave, jewellers' parlance for a "carpet" of tiny diamonds. The keypads of the most expensive handsets are made up of eight carats' worth of diamonds. The keypad itself is housed in a body of white gold (or platinum), underpinned with ruby bearings and furnished with the same ceramic material that was initially manufactured for the space shuttle.Objects of desire"Luxury isn't about need, it is about want," explains Chris Harris, the company's UK sales director. "We all have our areas where we spend beyond reason because we get a buzz from it. Owners of Vertu know they are buying an object that only a few people can own." Indeed, consumer technology has long had a luxury market that, at its peak, is often indistinguishable from jewellery. The humble timepiece can cost &pound;10, but it can also cost &pound;10,000 and do its job little better. But to the owner, that's not the point. You only have to look at the Persian wealth currently on show at the British Museum to see that everyday objects have long been status symbols.Surprisingly, the &pound;50,000 phone comes with just a single year's warranty, doesn't have a camera and there are no promises to retrofit the handsets if the current GSM technology, which it relies on, is ever replaced.Even a &pound;50,000 phone has a finite lifespan as a working model. But then again, it is easy to be snotty about such success. What Vertu is doing, after all, is establishing a luxury brand that is becoming synonymous with hi-tech phones - just as Switzerland is with high-end watches. And you can admire a Vertu almost like a Faberg&eacute; egg. The engineering is technically excellent and the aforementioned ruby bearings are designed to perform millions of actuations over the handset's life cycle, for example. The phones are far more durable than regular brands and are expected to last up to 20 years if looked after properly.It is tempting to think of such glittering objects as future antiques, bought as an investment, and Vertu says that a number of its phones are bought by collectors, especially in the far east. So could we expect to see a Vertu handset pop up on Antiques Roadshow in 50 years' time?"That's just silly," says a spokeswoman with the auction house Christie's. "The jewels will have an inherent value," she says, "but it is impossible to know what they will sell for in the future. What gives an antique its value is a combination of rarity, quality and provenance. Just because a rich person owns it doesn't give it value."But if a famous person owns it, then it is a different story. David Beckham, Gwyneth Paltrow and Brad Pitt all own Vertu phones, as do members of the Saudi royal family. And Vertu is not the only firm making phones that go bling, bling.Motorola is rumoured to be producing a limited edition, solid gold version of its superslim clamshell, the V3. Last month, Samsung, one of the biggest "non-luxury" phones manufacturers, announced a partnership with Bang &amp; Olufsen, the Danish makers of sleekly futuristic audio equipment. The resulting lovechild is the Serene, a very odd mobile handset. It features a "dial" keypad, doesn't play music and is expected to cost around &pound;700 when it goes on sale in the UK next month."The intention is to provide an alternative for those customers who demand the highest quality," reads a statement from the company, "for whom simplicity and quality are important factors, and for whom less can be more. It is a phone you want to keep. It is timeless in use, in design, and in technology, freed from unnecessary functions and instructions." The phone is, therefore, the polar opposite of the Vertu handset. But then again, when have the rich ever agreed on what makes style?A girl's best friendBut blinging up your phone is no longer the preserve of the super-rich. Jewellery makers such as Boodle already supply a range of accessories to glam up the most mundane of mobiles, and Swarovski, the makers of high-quality crystal products, manufacture special cases and holders for mobile phones that sell for several hundred pounds each.But adding a bit of glitz to your phone doesn't have to be so expensive. Last week, Siemens unveiled its first piece of mobile jewellery. Inspired by the Japanese practice of accessorising handsets with bits of pendants, lucky charms and ribbon, the Gharani Strok charm will be available for &pound;39.99 from the Siemens website."We found that women are left cold by the square masculine designs of most mobile phones," says Louise Forbes, the company's head of marketing. "They want their phones to be feminine - a fashion accessory rather than a functional tool."Conspicuous consumption, as defined by the Norwegian-American philosopher Thorstein Veblen, describes the flaunting of prosperity, power or prestige, and it can take the form of a Rolex watch, a Rolls Royce or the ownership of a football club. With consumer technology so important to so many people, it has become another obvious choice.There is even a 24-carat gold holder for Sony's PlayStation Portable on sale at Harrods this Christmas. Produced by Simmons the jeweller, the &pound;20,000 Baby Phat is made using a pound of gold, with yellow and black diamonds on the front and "croc finishing" on the back.But with mobile phone theft rife, you can't help but wonder about the wisdom of such purchases."If you can afford to buy one, you can afford to lose one," says the cabbie on the way to the Vertu factory.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The recent announcement by MIT Media Laboratories of a $100 laptop design for developing countries highlights a sticky problem for some western firms. The laptop, which uses stripped-down Linux software and a dirt-cheap display, is scheduled to arrive late next year, and will include a windup handle providing 10 minutes of power for every minute of cranking. It will be aimed at schoolchildren in developing markets such as Brazil.It's no surprise that technology companies are eyeing such markets. Professor CK Prahalad, from the University of Michigan, identifies in his book The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid, a global market of 4 billion people with incomes of less than $1,500 per annum. That market has remained largely untended because multinationals in developed countries have business models tailored to more affluent consumers, he says.But with consumer electronics traditionally targeting rich customers in developed areas, how can hi-tech firms prise open this new market? The GSM Association, a trade group for mobile phone producers, is trying to crack the problem. Its Emerging Market Handset programme is attempting to drive down the cost of handsets for people in emerging economies. Last week, the organisation awarded a contract to Motorola to produce handsets costing less than $30.Ben Soppitt, director of strategic initiatives at the association, believes that mobiles are more relevant to those 4 billion people than computers - partly because of cost. "By the end of next year, mobile handsets will be $20-25: a year ago they were $60. That's something that computing simply can't complete with."Reducing handset costs is only one part of the problem, however. Creating new business models to make handsets available to more people is another. If you are one of the 1 billion people earning $1 per day or less, a $30 handset is still out of reach.GrameenPhone, a Bangladeshi company operated by Norwegian telco Telenor and local firm Grameen Telecom, is tackling the problem with its village phone model. Under the scheme, a villager buys a handset with a small loan requiring no collateral from the non-profit Grameen Bank. They then rent them on a per-minute basis to other villagers to repay the loan. This relies on what Gib Bulloch, director of Accenture's development partnerships operations, describes as an emphasis on access, rather than ownership.Erik Aas, the chief executive of Grameen Phone, argues that it would be easier if the government didn't tax mobile users so heavily. At $18, the government's connection tax for new subscribers makes up over half the cost of the low-cost handsets. "In Bangladesh there are 6 million people out of a population of 140 million connected to mobile phones," says Aas. He says the government could make more money from VAT on phone services if it lowered taxes to stimulate growth.The hope is that in time, data communications will be able to provide more than mere voice to these villages. Grameen Phone recently launched data services that Aas believes will be used by villagers to surf the net from more sophisticated handsets. In the meantime, rural health centres in India are connecting to hospitals for distance healthcare applications using a Linux router and Wi-Fi links specially adapted to transmit across tens of kilometres.Regardless of whether a PC or a mobile phone lies at the end of such links, companies such as Microsoft should be worried. Linux may find it hard to overcome Microsoft's dominance in developed markets, but emerging markets have no such baggage. Open source is much cheaper than proprietary Windows software, andgovernments in Brazil, India and China are all outspokenly in favour of open source."Brazil is probably the clearest example of where we have some work to do," admits Microsoft chief executive officer Steve Ballmer. Microsoft has tried to solve the problem with a stripped-down version of Windows for developing markets, but there are limitations to the system.Adapting to local conditions is a challenge facing all western companies. Revamped PC designs and cheap mobiles will probably have a place, but some business models and software brands may be better placed to adapt than others.
Nokia's new E61 mobile phone looks familiar. It has a huge screen with an array of tiny buttons below that form a keypad for the thumbs, and it is designed for email as much as voice. Yes, the E61 looks uncannily like a BlackBerry, the weapon of choice for email warriors on the road.The bright and sharp screen makes reading emails a pleasure, and it will also display attachments. The thumbpad allows rapid replies, and you can compose documents, work on spreadsheets and edit slide shows. An extra row of keys brings frequently used symbols such as @ directly under your thumbs.If you use a Bluetooth headset, you can receive emails while talking, like you would sitting at your desk.The E61 connects to email services and the web through cellular networks or by Wi-Fi, which also enables fast web surfing when close to a hotspot. The phone even supports internet telephony.A professional tool, the E61 is stylish enough to slip into the tailored pockets of the most senior executives. It should have Research In Motion, makers of the BlackBerry, seriously worried. RIM dominates mobile business email by offering instant delivery. Other users have to download emails periodically.But a crowd of new contenders in "push" email, including Visto, DataViz, Intellisync, Seven, Good Technologies and Nokia's own Nokia Business Centre software, is threatening RIM's dominance. The E61 receives email from them all, as well as BlackBerry servers.The upstarts are offering many new features in a bid to supplant the BlackBerry. Visto, for example, enables users to reply to emails with a voice message, recorded in MP3 form and sent as an attachment. Visto also has a cost advantage over the BlackBerry service, which has to be carried on a dedicated, and therefore expensive, computer server. And Microsoft recently enabled push email on its widely used Exchange email system.RIM makes up to 75% of its revenue on sales of handsets, say analysts, so competition from other push email handsets could hit profits hard. However, RIM does earn a licence fee for use of the BlackBerry software.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dialogue Technologies' Flybook is a beautifully packaged machine. It's a solid Windows XP convertible - it works both as a conventional notebook and as a stylus-operated tablet PC - and at 235 x 155mm, its top is only a little larger than a large paperback book and just 3cm deep. It is available in a range of bright colours that will appeal to people in the creative industries, and you can easily imagine a model or actor sitting down to a latte and tugging this 1.2kg ultraportable out of a handbag.It's great for email on the move, having built-in 802.11b wireless, Ethernet port, modem, Bluetooth, and a slot for your SIM card for GSM and GPRS. If all else fails, there's a PC Card slot for all sorts of add-ons. And while it doesn't have a built-in CD or DVD drive, it has two USB and two FireWire ports, so almost any external drive will do the job.Then, of course, you turn it on, and up comes Windows. My factory-fresh Flybook A33i had XP Home instead of the special Tablet PC version, and it didn't have Service Pack 2 installed - so no security centre, and no firewall turned on. Extra software has been provided to handle the Bluetooth and mobile phone connections, the wireless networking, and the RitePen stylus, but some other useful software is lacking.Still, the handwriting recognition worked brilliantly writing straight into WordPad, which I used because the keyboard was too small for my fingers. The trackpoint system also works well: it has been moved to the top right of the body, where you use a thumb to steer it.Performance was fine for word processing and web browsing; the Flybook uses a 1GHz Transmeta processor with 512MB of memory. The 8.9in touch-screen is driven by an ATI Mobility Radeon with only 16MB of memory, but you can connect it up to a larger external display if you need to.In sum, the Flybook appeals to people who don't like computers, but it still takes a geek half a day to get everything set up to the point where a non-geek could really enjoy using it. It's innovative but ultimately disappointing - and at around &pound;1,400 you pay a premium for size.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The villagers are restless. I think of them often through the day, during the quiet moments, as I'm walking back from dropping my son off at school, or waiting in line for coffee. I am thinking about their needs: some of them are hungry, and require fresh supplies of grain; some have grown tired of sleeping without a roof over their heads.I'm thinking, too, of their ambitions: to someday build a great temple in their midst, or a broad stone wall around the village centre to protect it from invading hordes. I am thinking of their demographics: right now, there aren't enough children to sustain the kind of population growth I have envisaged for them. And I am thinking of their devotion - to me. Because I am their god.I should say at the outset that these are the kinds of thoughts that make me relieved there aren't mind-readers standing next to me at Starbucks. There is something slightly mad trying to figure out how to fortify your worshippers against invaders while simultaneously trying to decide between having a venti or a grande Frappuccino. But it is a madness that any regular videogamer will instantly recognise. Because, of course, my worshippers are virtual ones.I have been playing Black &amp; White 2, the new game from acclaimed designer Peter Molyneux, in which the player is cast in the role of a deity. The goal, ultimately, is to build your flock: converting whole cities into believers, either through wrath or beneficence, by conquering or clothing them. Or usually, in my case at least, a little of both.If you are not a gamer, you may be surprised how many otherwise normal-looking adults around you are harbouring comparable thoughts. In the US, the game industry now brings in as much money as Hollywood, and the average gamer is roughly 30 years old. We are fast approaching the point where an ordinary gamer is more likely to have had a child than be one. Since Tetris at the very least, and probably all the way back to Pong, digital games have been lodging themselves in the back of our consciousness, prodding us to think through their puzzles just one more time before going to sleep.Tricky businessI would submit that the primary reason for that mental screenburn is this genuinely unsung fact: today's games are exceptionally difficult. They tax the mind in ways that would amaze anyone who last played a game in the age of Pac-Man. In Black &amp; White, for instance, the player must simultaneously track hundreds of shifting and interconnected variables. Some of these are emotional and metabolic in nature: each worshipper - and there can be thousands of them - has a distinct set of needs you must satisfy or risk losing their devotion. Some are militaristic: other villages, worshipping rival gods, may be building armies to attack your strongholds. Some needs are environmental: build too many villas for your population and you will burn through the supply of forests surrounding your growing town.Crucially, each of these elements connects with the others: protect your forests by building fewer houses, and your villagers won't reproduce at the same clip, thereby limiting the size of the army you can build.Black &amp; White is a relatively highbrow game, of course - but only in subject matter, not complexity. There are moral values explicitly addressed by the game: you can choose wrath or kindness, swords or ploughshares, to win over your disciplines: hence the title. But the mental challenges involved in Black &amp; White are positively routine.The best-selling PC game of all time, The Sims, involves an equally complex tableau of variables to track, while the ever-popular sports simulations force you to run an entire organisation - making trades, balancing budgets, soothing egos, as well as calling the plays from the sidelines. Even the controversial hit game Grand Theft Auto maps a staggeringly large and complex world: one players' guide to all the variables involved in the game clocked in at 53,000 words, the length of a short book.But does this complexity, on its own, necessarily mean we should take games seriously as works of culture? That they should be reviewed and dissected alongside books, film and ballet? After all, crossword puzzles are mentally challenging, but we don't generally run reviews of them in the culture pages.System addictsI think the answer to that question is a decisive yes, but doing so requires that we develop new aesthetic criteria that are appropriate to the medium. Many games take the player through some kind of narrative arc, but I think, in general, storytelling is one of the least interesting things about gaming. Where psychological depth is concerned, most games are laughably simple. The great majority of gamers, I suspect, don't engage with games because they want to find out what happens, or because they care about the characters. They engage because they want to figure out how the system of the game works, or because they want to explore the space the game represents.Banal narratives and one-dimensional characters sounds like a critique, but only if you are starting with the criteria we use for novels or films. But if you think about games as closer to architecture or environmental art, then it doesn't seem like such a failing. We don't look down on buildings because they don't have strong narrative threads or well-developed characters. The same should be true of games. They are - first and foremost - environments and systems, not stories. The art of making a great game lies in making spaces that are interesting to explore, and systems that are interesting to tinker with - like those teeming villagers in Black &amp; White, with their multiple, interconnected needs.Game of lifeBut if games tend to lack storytelling prowess, it doesn't necessarily follow that they lack social relevance. All the complex simulation games on the market - from The Sims, to Civilization, to SimCity, to Black &amp; White - are, in effect, animated theories of how a given society works, whether it is ancient Rome or a modern metropolis. You learn the theory by playing. One of the defining attributes of Grand Theft Auto that has been chronically ignored by critics is how explicitly the game plays as a satire of American inner-city culture - or, more precisely, suburban America's nightmare of inner- city culture. But that satire emerges as much out of the environment of the game - the hilarious radio pseudo-soundtrack, the snippets of dialogue you overhear in the world - as it does from the story that unfolds as you play.All of this - the economic strength of the gaming industry, the complexity of the games themselves, and their growing relevance as a platform for social commentary - adds up to one inevitable conclusion: ignoring games means ignoring one of the most interesting and innovative cultural forms of our time - not unlike writing off Hollywood in the era of Citizen Kane and Gilda.In fact, there is more to be said about the connection between early film criticism and the contemporary assessment of gaming. But it will have to wait for another day. I have a flock to tend to right now.&#183;Steven Johnson is distinguished writer in residence at NYU's department of journalism, and the author of Everything Bad is Good for You, published by Allen Lane. To order a copy for &#163;10 with free UK p&amp;p, call the Guardian book service on 0870 836 0875 or go toguardian.co.uk/bookshopstevenberlinjohnson.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One minute I was quietly grazing eBay, then a warning flashed on to the screen. Address Error: Restart. I obediently pushed Enter, but instead of the usual startup sequence, the screen showed me a tiny face alternating with a question mark. The face wore a knowing smile. Fearing the worst, I bundled the machine, an indigo G3 iMac, into the car and rushed round to my local Mac expert, who assured me that 90% of ailing computers could be fixed easily. He phoned later. Mine was one of the unlucky 10%. The machine was dead.With my history of failed MOTs and dodgy appliances I should have expected it, but computers aren't supposed to die like that. It's very unusual, the Mac guy said. Great. So it's unusual to lose your accounts, the text of numerous articles and most of a novel I had never backed up. That makes it much easier.I rallied. I convinced myself a clean slate was just what I needed. I trotted down to the library for my half-hour internet session. But when I got home and took out a notebook and pen, and started work on ideas for Christmas-related articles, I discovered a new loss: my mental powers. No ideas came. No thoughts. My mind spun like the iMac's defunct hard drive. As I gripped the pen in clumsy fingers I reminded myself that a pencil and paper had been my medium of choice for years. I had written fabulously incisive undergraduate essays with nothing more advanced than a ballpoint pen, and had moved on to a typewriter when most people were shelling out fortunes for early PCs. As a journalist I used the library and the phone. Not any more.Without my computer I couldn't function. Telling myself that Shakespeare wrote with a feather made no difference. My brain craved its connection to the computer's architecture of files and documents. My fingers ached for a keyboard. I couldn't remember how to research a story without Googling, and communication without constant access to email was impossible. I'd become so used to having a thought, and in the same instant writing it down and sending it somewhere, that email itself was now an integral part of the thought process. My brain had become tangled up in the world wide web. By myself, I didn't really exist.At this point I should have done the sensible thing and moved to a smallholding in Devon. Instead, I borrowed a laptop from a friend, and as I try to work out how much processing power I need in my new computer, I'm gradually making friends with it. I always hit the wrong keys, and the landscape of a new operating system takes getting used to. But my Hotmail window is always open and my brain is working again.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
BBC podcasting has a long way to goBobbie Johnson (A word in your ear, October 13) says the BBC makes many radio shows available as podcasts. This is an exaggeration, as a glance at the BBC website will confirm: it currently makes 18 programmes available as podcasts, of which only four are from Radio 4. It does offer many shows as "Listen again" streamed audio, but that is not the same as podcasting and requires the installation of ghastly RealPlayer software.Allan JonesNorthamptonshireAn unlikely fuelJustin McCurry (Innovations, October 13) mistakenly equated liquid methane and methanol: two very different chemicals. The gadgets are using methanol, a kind of alcohol that can be found in badly distilled "moonshine" alcoholic drinks, and causes blindness. Methane, being gaseous and really hard to liquefy, isn't likely to be used for portable gadget fuel cells anytime soon.Name and address withheldUS blocking sitesIf we had one internet for the rest of us, would the US interfere with legitimate web requests? I wanted details of Oman's culture and history. I followed links to one website, but found the US Department of State prevented me from seeing it. Is this blocking legal? Is it a terrorist site? Is someone trying to make the US look authoritarian?Dr D HawthornNottinghamFeeling vulnerableI concur with Kieren McCarthy's comments on software vulnerabilities (Technobile, October 13), and resent the patching and upgrade treadmill foisted on consumers, much to the glee of software manufacturers. However, he seems to underestimate the very real threats posed to unprotected computers, and needs to appreciate the way hi-tech criminals work. They do not need to trawl the net looking for vulnerable computers to hack - automated software does the job for them, ably assisted by users who download remote access trojans and keystroke loggers, often without even opening an email.Tony TroyTool of the tradeI am a teacher of 44 years and there is a whiteboard in my classroom (Chalk one up to the whiteboard, October 6). It is a tool and nothing more. It enables the teacher to do things that were unthinkable when I began teaching high school in 1962. There are limits - but all educational institutions have a responsibility to stay abreast of developments in the field.JD MurrayPennsylvania, USMy daughter is teaching at a school that has been equipped throughout with whiteboard technology. She is reasonably computer-literate but finds it very frustrating when, having prepared a lesson for this system, the equipment does not work when required. Failure occurs too frequently and for a variey of reasons.Colin KillickStevenageBlogBackDo we trust the United Nations to run the internet, considering that the internet has actually done more to promote peace, tolerance and human rights by giving people a chance to communicate than the UN?floodcontrol.blogspot.comTechnology blog says Microsoft is deciding how to signify RSS feeds. This is quite big because whatever Microsoft decides on will become the standard for many. It is right to use an icon, but the problem with RSS is that it has a silly name. "RSS" or "feed" means nothing to most people.www.doctorvee.co.ukReading the Guardian's Gamesblog, I came across an article about Facade, a "one-act interactive drama" where the player engages with a virtual married couple while they argue in their apartment. It's a simple premise, but one that really engages you in a unique experience.idccday.blogspot.com
Earlier this year, Samsung unveiled the SCH-V770, the first cameraphone to capture seven megapixel images. The prototype feels more like a camera with a phone bolted on, but it would be no surprise if a camera manufacturer launched a similar hybrid soon - giving photographers the ability to send large images without a PC.Kodak's EasyShare One, a four-megapixel camera that retails for around &pound;400, can be used with a wireless hotspot or network, enabling the user to send images via email or upload them to Kodak's EasyShare Gallery.Nikon's Coolpix P2, which has just been launched, has more modest ambitions. Its wireless facilities mean images can be wirelessly transfered to a PC's hard drive, saving the hassle of connecting USB cables. It won't work in public Wi-Fi hotspots, though.The camera takes five-megapixel images, and comes with a 3.5x optical zoom and a variety of exposure options. It also features two Nikon staples: a very easy-to-negotiate menu and excellent battery life. Images are displayed on a reasonable 2.5in screen. In terms of picture quality, there is little to fault the Nikon P2. The snaps are rich in colour and detail, and are the equal of other five-megapixel models.The wireless system works reasonably well. It is simple to set up, providing you know the details of your wireless system, and it also has some neat tricks, such as the way images can be sent to a PC's hard drive straight after they have been taken. Add an adaptor and it also sends images wirelessly to PictBridge printers.At &pound;280, it is about &pound;30 to &pound;50 more than similar non-wireless models. The extra money you spend is for the luxury of not having to worry about where the USB cables are. It is nice touch, but a fuller implementation of wireless facilities, especially the option of emailing from any hotspot, would have made it a significantly more attractive proposition.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You may no longer need to traipse round shops buying cheesy postcards and hunting for stamps and postboxes on holiday: a mobile phone service makes it possible to choose, write and send all your postcards without leaving your sun lounger.All that is needed to use the Mobycard service is a cameraphone with picture messaging capabilities. To send a postcard, you simply take a snap and send it to Mobycard's UK number, with an address and holiday greeting in the text part of the message. The picture is printed on to a postcard, the address and message is printed on the other side, and the completed postcard is stamped and put in the mail to arrive - with luck - before you return. Similar services already exist, but they involve more steps, and sometimes need web access, too. Mobycard's service, detailed at mobycards.com, costs &pound;1.50 a time, plus network charges.It capitalises on the fact that the old-fashioned postcard remains as popular as ever - this summer alone, Royal Mail delivered an estimated 134m of them, and 65% of people prefer a physical memento even if they have email or text.There is one drawback to the service, however. Mobycard's research found that most holiday makers are willing to lie about the weather to make friends jealous. This could prove tricky if it hasn't stopped raining since you arrived.Far from spelling the end for postcards, technology such as picture messaging may give them a new lease of life. But as it is awkward and fiddly to send a lot of text from a mobile, postcards full of tiny handwriting could end up being replaced with basic text greetings such as "wthr 1derful. Wsh U wr here".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Transfer market for cassette tapesI have a lot of cassette tapes. Is there any way I can transfer them to CD?Martin KingJack Schofield replies:Transferring cassette tapes to CD is basically the same as transferring vinyl to CD, or reel-to-reel tapes, or whatever. The first step is to connect your tape recorder or hi-fi to the PC's sound card. The second step is to play the tape and run software to capture the sound. The third step is to edit or clean up the sound, if necessary, and convert it to the format you want. The fourth and final step is to burn the resulting files to a CD-R disc. Packard Bell offers a simple, pictorial guide to the whole process in its CD Writing section athttp://www.packardbell.co.uk"Ripping" a tape takes a lot of time and effort, since it involves playing the original cassette or LP in "real time" - a 90-minute tape takes at least 90 minutes to record. Also, since cassette tape is an inherently flaky medium, the results can be variable. It's a much better idea to rip a CD, which music playing software can now handle with little or no user input.If you decide to go ahead, you need a cable to connect your audio output to your PC input. Often this will be a Y-connector with two RCA phono plugs at one end and a stereo mini-jack at the other end. These are available in high street stores or by mail order. However, a Griffin iMic USB external audio interface should provide better results than using a built-in sound card.Dozens of applications will capture, convert and even burn the sound files. You may have a version of Roxio's Easy CD Creator or Nero that will do the job. However, for best results, many users tackle these separately. I have recommended CoolEdit and Goldwave for capturing and editing sound files, but Audacity (http://audacity.sourceforge.net) is one of the best free programs. It is available for Windows, Mac OS X and GNU/Linux.Usually it is best to rip to the WAV format, but this needs a lot of hard drive space: typically 10 megabytes per minute of sound. If you allow a gigabyte per tape, remember you'll need at least another gigabyte of free space to edit it. It is also possible to capture audio and save it in MP3 or another compressed format, which takes up less space. However, if you burn the WAV files, you won't have to rip the tapes all over again - a problem many users now face, if they ripped their audio to a low-quality format.CD Wave (www.milosoftware.com/cdwave) will split WAV files into tracks. Wave Repair (www.delback.co.uk/wavrep/) is designed for restoring WAV files made from vinyl LPs but can help with cassette files.Bad driversI have a Mustek scanner, but Windows XP warns me that the company/creator of the program is not known and downloading could change/damage settings. Mustek tells me to ignore Windows.John RobbJS Microsoft had a problem because so many badly written third-party device drivers were causing Windows to malfunction or crash. It therefore introduced a "driver signing programme" to test and certify third party drivers. Signed drivers are generally safer than unsigned drivers. However, it takes time to get drivers certified, and they have to be recertified every time they are changed, so many companies still have unsigned drivers at least some of the time. Trusting an unsigned driver means trusting the company. You have already trusted Mustek to the extent of buying its scanner, so you may as well give its driver a go.Secure itI have my laptop with Windows XP Professional protected with a clever password. Yet with a "live CD" that loads Linux, I can bypass Windows and see and download anything in the Windows partition. How can I protect it?David HoughJS You can protect your files partly by setting a password in the BIOS, and by encrypting individual files or directories. Windows XP Pro (but not XP Home) has a built-in Encrypting File System (EFS) that works with NTFS (but not DOS). Practical PC has published a five-part beginners guide that explains how to use it (http://www.practicalpc.co.uk). However, if you maintain your own PC, I'd suggest using a separate encryption utility, though it is hard to know which to choose. Tucows (The Ultimate Collection of Winsock Software) lists 140 titles athttp://www.tucows.com/downloads/, but is incomplete. If you want a freeware program, have a look at Cryptainer LE Encryption Software v5.0.3 (www.cypherix.co.uk/cryptainerle) and ZeroFootprint encryption v4.03.04a (www.baroufasoft.net). If you are willing to pay, there are trial versions of Encrypted Magic Folders,www.pc-magic.com/des.htm#emf), which costs $59.95, and Kryptel (www.filecryption.com/products/kryptel), which costs $29.95.Backchat&#183;David Grinly wanted to rotate short MPeg movies taken with a digital camera, and I suggested VideoMach. Jeff Gibbon and Derek Facey point out that this can be done using the video effects option in Microsoft's free Movie Maker 2. There are options to rotate by 90, 180 and 270 degrees (www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/downloads).
Eight years ago, when Paul Goggins was first elected to parliament, the dotcom boom was in full swing, and the internet was widely seen as a source of opportunity. These days, Goggins looks at the web differently. Now the Home Office minister responsible for internet crime, he is among those in charge of the government's plans to further limit use of the net.Over tea in Brighton's Grand Hotel, he explains that the threat of terrorism is a crucial justification for the proposals. It is an apt venue: in a bomb attack on this hotel 21 years ago, the IRA killed five people.The source of the threat has changed, but after July's bomb attacks in London, the terrorist threat seems stronger than ever. Following the London bombings, the UK proposed that European telecoms and internet service providers should be forced to keep logs of customer activity for up to three years - much longer than is currently the case. "Charles &#91;Clarke&#93; wants to get a more uniform, coherent approach across Europe," says Goggins. "Terrorist activity doesn't just happen overnight, or in a space of weeks. It's often planned over a long, long period of time, and that's why we are laying emphasis on the need to extend the period."Paying for protectionThe proposal covers the basics of communications data - information on telephone bills and what websites are visited and when - but excludes the contents. But the government is not finding it easy to force change across Europe before the end of its EU presidency. Countries such as Germany have stronger privacy cultures than the UK, and the European parliament has already voted against retaining data for more than a year. "We hope to reach a consensus," says Goggins.There is also the matter of cost. "ISPs shouldn't have to pay for it," says a spokesperson for the Internet Service Providers' Association, which is concerned that data retention will push up prices."The costs have been exaggerated," argues Goggins, adding that the costs of a terrorist bombing are very high.Britain might be planning to negotiate over data retention, but elsewhere it plans to pioneer limits. The Home Office has published plans to make possession of extreme pornography illegal. That will make any web viewing of serious sexual violence, necrophilia or bestiality an offence punishable by up to three years in prison. It has long been illegal to publish such material in the UK: this made it difficult to obtain, but the internet changed that."The starting point for this is to look at what we've done in relation to child abuse images, where there's been clarity in the law," says Goggins. "In 1997, 17% of all child abuse images available in the UK were based on UK websites. Now that figure is virtually nil, less than 1%, and that's because we've policed it very effectively."The Home Office believes the UK would be the first western jurisdiction to ban possession of extreme adult material. International cooperation has been vital in tracking those in the UK downloading obscene images of children, as well as identifying victims and perpetrators. "We're nowhere near as well advanced in terms of adult material," concedes Goggins, though he thinks a UK law may encourage others."Even if it is only the UK that outlaws these extreme images, then at least we would be able to deal more effectively with individuals who access them," he says. But he admits this case is not watertight. "Just because somebody sees an extreme image, doesn't guarantee they will behave in a certain way. There is a wider issue about how sexualised our society has become ... but I think the job of government is at least to set a boundary."Despite attempts to strongarm companies into retaining data, he does not want to force ISPs into blocking sites containing extreme material. Instead, he supports those voluntarily trying to block access to child pornography. "I think the self-regulation route is working," he says.Taking libertiesThe Home Office is proposing further restrictions and monitoring of internet use. Such restraints on freedom of speech and privacy are condemned when carried out by governments such as China's - and although those transgressions are on a greater scale, why are they now justifiable in Britain?"Freedom of speech is important. It's enshrined in our culture and is something we guard fiercely. But the right to life is the most fundamental human right. What we need to do is balance other rights and freedoms against that central freedom."Not everybody agrees the government's way is the best solution, or that the balance is right. And many believe that the manner in which legislation is proposed means that - in popular culture, at least - the internet has become a source of danger, rather than a land of opportunity."We've grown used to the internet," Goggins replies. "We know we can't just say 'there's nothing we can do about it, it's the internet and it's just got to carry on'. We know we have to find ways of placing limits on the use of the internet for criminal purposes, and then be able to police it."
Asurveycarried out by the International Game Developers Association has discovered that 88.5% of development staff are male, and that 83.5% are white. Apparently the survey was completed by almost 6,500 people, and although the questionnaire was made available to the worldwide development community, the IGDA admits that the results are heavily biased toward North American opinions. In other words, it seems that very few developers in, say, Japan took part.Even as a study of Western development these figures are significant. I just wonder if the content of games, and maybe even the audience, would be different if just one of those percentages were lower?There's more to come: here's a quick rundown of all the key findings:Male = 88.5%, Female = 11.5%White = 83.3%, Black = 2.0%, Hispanic/Latino = 2.5%, Asian = 7.5%, Other = 4.7%Heterosexual = 92%, Lesbian/Gay = 2.7%, Bisexual = 2.7%Average age = 31 yearsAverage years in the industry = 5.4 yearsPercentage of people with disabilities = 13% (e.g., cognitive, mobility, sight, etc)More than 80% have a university level education or greaterMore than 60% of studios claim that obtaining diverse applicants is challengingThe latter is perhaps the most important finding. Can the white male majority really be blamed on the fact that no one else actually wants to work in the industry?ViaLudology
Jottings.com has published a list of the100 oldest .com domainsthat are still currently registered. Symbolics was first, on March15,1985, followed by BBN and Think on April 24. There are some great old names on the list, including Amdahl, Convergent, DEC, Prime, Pyramid and Unisys. What's even more amazing is that the 100th domain on the list was registered on November30,1987 -- two and a half years after the first one.It takes a while for these things to get around. In fact, Jottings.com published the list onNovember 30 last year!
I just spent rather more on a spiffy pair of wheels for my racing bike than most people would think of spending on an entire new bicycle. (Oh, the wicked temptation of 0% finance, with its deliciously emollient way of turning an indigestibly large three- figure number into more palatable bite-sized monthly chunks.)For anyone who went to this weekend's Cycle Show in east London, this may not be surprising. As you would have discovered if you had visited the cavernous halls of the ExCel exhibition centre beside the Royal Docks, it is quite possible to dispose of several thousand pounds on a bike. You could buy a car for that. And funnily enough, one choice item was a titanium, carbon and aluminium racing bike manufactured by specialist Dutch firm Spyker - better known for making a low-slung, sculpted sports car that leaves car-mag types slack-jawed and salivating helplessly. The bike's price tag? 10,000 euros. We are talking bike bling here, big time.But for even the most ardent cycle fetishist - and since I own, at the last count, six bikes, I'd probably have to put my hand up - there is something queasy about all this lustrous stuff. It's not just the kid-in-the-chocolate- factory syndrome that you can have too much of a good thing; it is also that, deep down, you feel that cycling should be about something different from the world of conspicuous consumption - this reckless merry-go-round of marketing not to our needs, but our lusts.How do you square saving the planet with satisfying your desire for a bike whose performance would be more than adequate for Lance Armstrong (which means, bluntly, it's too good for you)?I've thought long and hard about this. Finally, I realised that we need bike bling. Imagine the poverty of life without glitzy cycle shows and &pound;6,000 bikes. If it is ever to shake off the image of scruffy eccentricity and its third-class-passenger status, cycling must have this sort of investment and glamour. We'll never save the planet with bicycle clips alone. Convinced? Me neither.
Another week goes by, and another gadget is "girlified" with the release of a pink version. This time it's Motorola's super-slim Razr handset that's got the spray treatment, with a new pink model that's set to retail at Carphone Warehouse stores from the beginning of next month.Here's some guff from the press release. Bear with me on this one.The ultimate fashion accessory - the Pink Razr will definitely make you stand out in a crowd. Sleek and sophisticated, this hot new phone will be ... the perfect Christmas gift for girlfriends, sisters and all fashion followers. Mirroring the sharp aesthetic design of the best seller Motorola Razr, the Pink Razr is set to be on every young lady's Christmas wish list!Is this actually what women want in terms of gadgets? Is the human race so simple that men opt for sleek silver or ballsy black, while the female population puts its money into pulsatings pinks and ravishing roses?While I find it hard to believe that it's enough to release a pink product to draw in the harder-to-reach demographics, there's a part of me that realises that pink gadgets must actually have some purchase in the market, or nobody would bother.Is this all women are worth?
I own various vinyl LPs and would like to have the music available digitally to listen to on my iPod. I could set up a system to transfer them to my hard drive from a turntable, but it would be a lot easier to just download the same tracks using P2P file sharing. As I own the tracks anyway, and would only be making the copies for my personal use, would this second option be illegal? David FardonIANAL (I am not a lawyer), so anyone with a legal background is welcome to comment. However, as far as I can see, it's probably illegal everywhere. Whoever uploaded the music from the original CD has broken the copyright, unless they have permission to redistribute the content. It can't be legal to download an illegal copy, even if you have the right to make your own copy.If you could get a jury trial, the "I own the vinyl" argument might appeal, but I wouldn't expect a British judge to show any sympathy. Does anyone know of any UK case law?The What's the Download campaign has aFAQthat seems to put the US music industry position pretty well....
Big Mac munchers will also be able to play Nintendo. Photograph: Dan ChungNintendo of America is hooking up with McDonald's to provide free Wi-Fi access in fast food outlets for Nintendo DS players. Here's theNYT:McDonald's offers wireless Internet, or Wi-Fi, access to laptop users for a fee in 6,000 restaurants nationwide, but the free Nintendo arrangement will permit the DS machines to play without a laptop."This is such an interesting direction for McDonald's," said Anita Frazier, an entertainment industry analyst with the NPD Group, a research firm. "This could encourage kids to go to McDonald's to play games. It is like the kids' version of Starbucks' wireless hot spots." As with the toys that have long been packaged with McDonald's food, the relationship will help draw customers to the restaurants, she said.Apparently they're expecting to roll it out to 7,000 restaurants by the middle of next year. It brought to mind the interview withNolan Bushnellin this month's Wired. Bushnell was the man behind Atari, Pong and the Chuck E Cheese chain of pizza arcades, and he's got a plan for a new chain of gaming restaurants.Makes sense for all parties, and it's everything kids love... but I can hear the uproar from outraged press who fear that not only are kids eating lard burgers, but they're playing video games at the same time. Naieee!
"Google has backed down in a trademark dispute over its new email service, forcing it to rebrand its UK service as Google Mail. The internet giant said it had refused to bow to "exorbitant" demands - believed to be around $50m - from a British company that has applied for the Gmail trademark and would rename its UK service from this morning," reportsThe Guardian."The move is the second European setback for Google's email service. ... Last year the US online giant was forced to switch its German service to the Googlemail name, after a court ruled that another company had already registered the Gmail name."
"Walid Elias Kai, a PhD in search engine marketing, is, it must be said, an avid fan of our company. Dr Kai, who is Lebanese, and his Swedish wife Carol live in Kalmar, Sweden, where their son was born on September 12. His name? Oliver Google Kai," saysGoogle's blog.More pictures onthe kid's Web site.Comment:still, when he grows up, he may be glad his father wasn't a Hotmail fan....
Both IDC and Gartner have published their estimates of personal computer sales in the third quarter, which reveals "remarkable" growth for such a mature industry. Dell was top of the pile again.IDG Newsreports:IDC figures show Dell with global shipments of nearly 9.5 million for the quarter, and with US shipments of 5.6 million. In percentage terms, those figures gave Dell 18% market share globally and 33% in the US, both of which were up slightly over the same period of last year. Year-on-year, Dell had 17.8% growth internationally and 12.2% growth in the US.Dell is still selling more PCs per quarter than Apple is selling iPods, or Sony is selling PSPs, or Nintendo is selling DS handhelds. That's particularly impressive when you consider most Dell PCs are built locally, with benefits in jobs and taxes, rather than knocked out in China or Taiwan.Again, Acer of Taiwan is continuing its spectacular growth:Internationally, Acer Inc was fourth in shipments with nearly 2.5 million for a 4.7% market share, up 53.7% year-on-year, according to IDC, and had 2.4 million shipments and 4.4% of the market by Gartner's reckoning.
