Tablets, Spotify, social apps and casual games loom large in the latest report from consultancy firm Deloitte.Media Consumer 2014: The Digital Divideis the latest in a series of annual surveys, quizzing 2,000 Brits about their media habits.It estimates that the average UK household spends around £900 a year on all forms of media, from music and TV to newspapers and books. Here are 10 of the other findings that stood out from the report:1. More of us live in &apos;mass-geek&apos; householdsMass-geek? Deloitte says that 49% of UK households now own at least one smartphone, tablet and computer, but that these households are 12 times more likely to own six or more computing devices than what the firm calls &quot;non-geek&quot; households.The report suggests that these people are relatively better off – 72% of them fall into the ABC1 demographic category. The research also suggests that tablet ownership took a big leap in the last year, with nearly 60% of households now owning at least one.The 49% and 60% stats don&apos;t seem to square, but I suspect Deloitte means 49% own at least one smartphone, tabletandcomputer (not or). I&apos;ve contacted the company to clarify this.Update:Yes, that&apos;s exactly the case, and has been amended accordingly above.2. Brits like to binge... on TVWell, among other things. 24% of people surveyed for the report said they prefer to watch &quot;several episodes of their favourite show in succession rather than wait for the weekly broadcast&quot;. Binge-viewing is higher among 25-35 year-olds – just over 35% – than any other age group.&quot;Half as many 25-34 year olds as over 65 year olds we surveyed said they preferred to watch their favourite shows when they were broadcast as it gave them something to look forward to,&quot; explains the report.Sharing a house seems to spur the habit: 30% of people in shared houses said they binge-view, versus 19% of people who live alone. And – no surprises here – bingeing is more common if you pay for a subscription TV service, with 4.5% of respondents binge-viewing on Netflix.3. 50+ channels but there&apos;s nothing on...Well, nothing on many of them that we want to watch, individually. Deloitte notes that while all TV households now have access to at least 50 channels, 72% of people it surveyed said they only regularly watch 10 or fewer channels.The report also talks about a &quot;fattening cord&quot; for TV viewing where, rather than ditching pay-TV subscriptions for services like Netflix, we&apos;re more likely to add them on top. &quot;Pay TV subscribers are 50 per cent more likely than free-to-air only homes to subscribe to an additional TV streaming service,&quot; it claims. &quot;Far from thinning or cutting the cord, demand for new content suppliers is thickening it.&quot;One problem here may be that no one TV streaming service has a comprehensive catalogue of shows to watch on-demand, with exclusive deals still leaving yawning gaps on Netflix, LoveFilm and their rivals. Let&apos;s see if this cord continues to fatten if and when that problem eases.Source: Deloitte. Base: all respondents who read at least one newspaper.4. The trust gap has narrowed between print and online news80% of Brits read a newspaper online or in print, although only 51% pay for it themselves. Deloitte says publishers continue to work hard to make more money from their digital arms – digital ad revenues were up 18% for the industry in 2013, while mobile and tablet revenues grew by 80%, albeit from a small base.There are some interesting findings on trust, though: Deloitte says that 34% of respondents trust print news to be accurate, versus 29% who trust online outlets. Yet for under-35s, those percentages are 39% and 35% respectively. &quot;People who trust one source tend to also trust the other,&quot; suggests the report.5. Young social habits: Facebook, Twitter, then SnapchatNo surprises in Facebook being the UK&apos;s most popular social network: 67% of Brits have a profile, with just over half of them active. A third of respondents said they have a Twitter account, with two thirds of those people using it regularly. And despite regular questions about whether teens are ditching Facebook, 16-24 year-olds are actually the age group least likely to have stopped using it.Deloitte breaks the social networking usage for under-24s out in a separate graph in the report: Facebook and Twitter are the most popular in the UK, followed by Snapchat, Instagram and Tumblr. Note Snapchat beating Instagram – the reverse is true in the US – with around 30% and 20% penetration respectively among British under-24s.6. It costs £3m to build even a small cinemaAccording to Deloitte, 27 out of London&apos;s 73 constituencies don&apos;t have a cinema at all. That&apos;s less surprising when you read the report&apos;s claim that it now costs around £3m to build even a small, two-screen cinema. &quot;It is therefore little surprise that large cinemas are being placed close to the richer audiences that guarantee returns,&quot; claims the report.Even so, 53% of Brits say they go to the cinema at least once every six months, and 22% once a month or more. The number of cinemagoers has been in &quot;gradual decline&quot; since 2009, but Deloitte points to a bright spot in the growth of &quot;specialised&quot; cinemas – art-house being the example cited – across the country.7. &apos;Gaming shame&apos; is a thing of the pastIn 2014, do we still need to talk about gaming as a leisure activity while using imagery of geeky teenage boys hunched over their games consoles? Deloitte&apos;s report tries to dispatch it once and for all: &quot;While the average console gamer is a 16-24 year old male, the average casual gamer (playing on tablets, smartphones and social networks) is a 25-34 year old woman.&quot;Stats abound on this shift: a third of British smartphone owners say they play games on their phones; 10% of over-55s are playing casual games; and half the people surveyed said they think games can be used as an educational tool. That&apos;s interesting: think about the average age of teachers who are now in a position of responsibility for taking decisions about resources and technology within schools, and it&apos;s highly likely that many grew up with games in some form.8. There&apos;s still a sizeable market for consolesAre smartphones and tablets killing the traditional console gaming market? Well, no – more massively increasing the overall number of people playing games on any device. How is the next-generation console world shaping up? Deloitte claims 6% of gaming households have a PlayStation 4, Xbox One or Wii U, while 10% of all respondents to its survey said they are considering buying one in 2014.There&apos;s a warning too: &quot;With roughly 40 per cent of console gamers buying only one cinematic (otherwise known as AAA) game such as Call of Duty a year, it is clear why smaller studios are struggling to compete with major games franchises,&quot; suggests the report.&quot;The first showing of major software franchises like Metal Gear Solid, Halo and Final Fantasy on next generation platforms will be vital in persuading consumers to spend on that new hardware. Only with consoles in a sufficient number of homes can the future of the console, and therefore the AAA games industry as a whole, be determined.&quot;Source: Deloitte. Base: all respondents (2013: 2,085, 2014: 2,000). Photograph: /PR9. Streaming music subscribers doubled in the last year...If you&apos;ve been following the digital music world, this finding won&apos;t be a huge shock: in January, music body the BPI said that Brits streamed 7.4bn songs in 2013, double their total in 2012. But Deloitte&apos;s research suggests that we&apos;re now also much more likely to be paying for Spotify, Deezer, Napster, Google Play or one of their rivals.&quot;11 per cent of under-35s and eight per cent of 34-44 year olds pay to stream music online and take-up across all ages has doubled since the previous year,&quot; claims the report. It also notes that mobile phones are now the preferred music listening devices for 16-24 year-olds.10. ...but radio is still importantStreaming music isn&apos;t killing off traditional radio. Two thirds of respondents said they listen to radio at least every day: &quot;It is still a more popular method to find out about new bands and music than Spotify and iTunes combined,&quot; notes Deloitte.This corresponds to figures released earlier this month by radio body RAJAR, which claimed that 48.1m Brits – 90% of the adult population – listen to radio every week, averaging around 21.5 hours a week. The appeal of streaming services offering us 25m+ songs to play on demand is growing, but the pleasure of having a human being play us songs over the airwaves isn&apos;t going away just yet.One thing Deloitte&apos;s report doesn&apos;t touch on is the crossover between radio and streaming. The BBC&apos;s Playlister service helps people turn its DJ&apos;s picks into playlists for Spotify, Deezer and YouTube, for example, while carefully-curated (or &quot;programmed&quot;, to use radio lingo) playlists are increasingly prominent on the streaming services.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's eye doctor admits Glass can cause pain, explains how &gt;&gt; BetabeatJack Smith:At first, Google tried putting it straight ahead of the eye, and then below the eye — the first and second most comfortable places."The only people who look up a lot are some professionals like electricians and painters," Dr [Eli] Peli [of Harvard University, an optometrist whom Google consulted over eye discomfort] told Betabeat. "Most of us look either straight or down. It's well known that up is less comfortable."When Google placed the display ahead of or below the eye, it obstructed the user's line of vision. To keep the user's head up, they placed it to the upper-right. While this positioning can keep the user from crashing into things, it can also cause sharp eye pain.This is because usually, when we look to the left or right, our eye is only glancing for a quick moment before our head catches up — a second at most, Dr. Peli said. We almost never actually look to the side with just our eyes for long periods of time."You're on one leg [or the other] as you walk, but try to stand on one leg for a long time and you'll feel tension, because you're not using it how it's normally used," Dr. Peli said. "If you're looking at the Glass for a minute, you're holding it there for sixty times longer than normal."The shame of being an early mobile wallet user &gt;&gt; PaymentsSourceDaniel Wolfe:It's the same problem that arose back when banks introduced contactless cards. Years ago, after tapping my card to pay for a McDonald's meal, a cashier started screaming at me, insisting that I had to swipe my card or it wouldn't be valid. And years later, using a mobile wallet at Duane Reade — a store that has signs encouraging shoppers to tap their phones to pay — a similar event unfolded.If I had just swiped my card to pay, I would have left the store without shame. But because I chose a mobile wallet, I had to first unlock my phone by typing a PIN, then open my wallet app and unlock that with a separate PIN.(I'll leave it to the reader to decide whether this was Isis or Google Wallet. It doesn't matter; both apps follow the same process.)To me, this was merely tedious. To the cashier, it looked like I was some jerk holding up the line by playing Candy Crush on my phone when I should have been swiping my card.Tackling the limits of touch screens &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com…typing on a flat surface with no physical keys to guide the fingers requires heightened visual attention to avoid typos, draining concentration from the thoughts being expressed.Companies are trying to address these problems with new tools adapted from the analog world of three-dimensional typewriter keys, tactile paper pages, and pop quizzes on the blackboard.Tactus Technology of Fremont, Calif., is developing a keyboard with shape-shifting keys that pop up from the screen's surface when needed, then recede so that the screen is flat and featureless again, said Craig Ciesla, co-founder. Fluid in tiny microchannels raises the keys up and later recedes, making it appear that the keys have melted away.The technology will be offered later this year as an accessory to the iPad Mini, for $80 to $100, Mr. Ciesla said. Next year it will be included in many touchscreens produced for tablets and smartphones.Included in "many" touchscreens?One small chip - one giant leap forward for early cancer detection &gt;&gt; EurekalertToday, the majority of cancers are detected on the macroscopic level, when the tumour is already composed of millions of cancer cells and the disease is starting to advance into a more mature phase. But what if we could diagnose cancer before it took hold- while it was still only affecting a few localised cells? It would be like putting a fire out while it was still just a few sparks versus after having already caught on and spread to many areas of the house.An international team of researchers, led by ICFO- Institute of Photonic Sciences in Castelldefels, announce the successful development of a "lab-on-a-chip" platform capable of detecting protein cancer markers in the blood using the very latest advances in plasmonics, nanofabrication, microfluids and surface chemistry. The device is able to detect very low concentrations of protein cancer markers in blood, enabling diagnoses of the disease in its earliest stages. The detection of cancer in its very early stages is seen as key to the successful diagnosis and treatment of this disease.Telenav Scout for iOS now powered by OpenStreetMap &gt;&gt; TUAW"As a mapping platform, OSM is a credible alternative to proprietary solutions, with the added advantage of instant updates, resulting in a more accurate and up-to-date map," said Steve Coast, founder of OpenStreetMap and Telenav's head of OSM. "Roads change, subdivisions are built, and freeways expand so, just like all other maps, it needs updates on an ongoing basis. Today's launch has effectively added millions of editors to the OSM global community, breathing even more life into an already exploding free and open-sourced project." Scout was a US-only navigation app, but with OSM Scout will now be able to compete globally.The new street maps add even more to what is already a popular free navigation solution. Scout offers turn-by-turn voice directions, traffic reports, the ability to download regional maps to cut your data usage, and a Glympse-like feature that lets you show your position and arrival times to friends.Voice control too.Think local, act global &gt;&gt; AsymcoGoogle's US revenue percentage did drop from 47% to 43% but it's worth noting that not only is the drop slower than Apple's, the overall dependency of Google on the US for revenues is higher than Apple's.A surprising observation as Apple's concentration of users, measured as market share for various products, is likely to be higher in the US than Google's distribution of users.Put another way, Google is broadly popular worldwide (except for search in China, Korea and Russia) but its customers and hence profitability are highly concentrated.Google's customers, of course, are advertisers. Do they just pay a lot more in the US to reach its relatively fewer users (only about 300m, compared to aninternet populationexcluding China of over 2bn) or is there some other effect?Conversnitch turns covert surveillance into an art form &gt;&gt; theguardian.comICYMI, because this deserves to be read:In his new book, Nowhere to Hide, the journalist Glenn Greenwald explains how he and the NSA contractor turned whistleblower put their phones in a freezer with the batteries disconnected to thwart spooks' ability to operate phones remotely as microphones. But what would happen if the fridge itself was listening to your words?Two American artists are now taking that concept to a logical conclusion. Using only a credit card-sized Raspberry Pi computer, a microphone and a Wi-Fi card hacked into a lightbulb fitting, and a piece of open source software hosted at Github, they have installed a listening device at an undisclosed spot in Manhattan, New York, and connected it to a Twitter feed.The biggest filer of copyright lawsuits? This erotica web site &gt;&gt; The New YorkerHaving found a niche in the crowded world of online pornography, X-art.com still had tens of thousands of fans shelling out money for its movies. Quietly, the Fields were also making some extra money in another way: by becoming the biggest filer of copyright-infringement lawsuits in the nation. In the past year, their company Malibu Media LLC has filed more than thirteen hundred copyright-infringement lawsuits—more of these cases than anyone else, accounting for a third of all U.S. copyright litigation during that time, according to the federal-litigation database Pacer—against people that they accuse of stealing their films on the Internet.Today, they average more than three suits a day, and defendants have included elderly women, a former lieutenant governor, and countless others.You might be able to guess where this is going.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Bethesda; PS3/Xbox/360/PS4/Xbox One/PC; £39.99; 18+For decades, games developers have tried to make interactive movies – generally with disappointing results. Half an hour at the controls of Wolfenstein: The New Order is all it takes to highlight the folly of their approach: they should have been trying to make interactiveB-movies. In future, all developers with Hollywood-busting aspirations should be encouraged to deliberately aim low.That’s because, in its context, Wolfenstein: The New Order is a resounding success. It’s a joyous, preposterous romp which sucks you in and takes you on a thoroughly enjoyable, surprisingly well-paced journey. Along the way, it even manages to hammer home the big advantage games have over films: that they can take “What if?” scenarios and explore them over a considerably longer period of time than two piffling hours.You can dual-wield any weapons you find apart from turret-gunsGamers of a certain age will be well aware of the mythology surrounding the Wolfenstein brand: 1992’s Wolfenstein 3D was the original first-person shooter, so the genealogy of all your CoDs and Titanfalls can be traced straight back to it. Famously, the game&apos;s developer id Software decided to populate it with Nazis, because it didn’t want you identifying with your adversaries. Now Wolfenstein: The New Order imagines what would have happened if the Nazis had won World War II.As ever in a Wolfenstein game, you play BJ Blaskowicz, a rather meat-headed, gung-ho US Marine type. The action starts in 1946, with the Allies on the brink of defeat, with Blaskowicz and various American and British colleagues launching a last-gasp raid on the stronghold of General Wilhelm “Deathshead” Strasse. It all goes horribly awry, leaving Blaskowicz with a terrible moral dilemma and a head full of shrapnel. Fast-forward to 1960, when Blaskowicz regains consciousness in a Polish insane asylum, to find a world thoroughly cowed by the Nazis.He sets about redressing the balance through the only means he knows – mass slaughter via heavy weaponry. Gameplay-wise, there are countless references to the original Wolfenstein 3D: difficulty levels (there are five) are cranked up, and you need to collect every unfired bullet and scrap of armour from dead enemies in order to survive.Surprisingly, you soon discover a decent stealth engine hidden amid the blood-splattered chaos. It&apos;s possible, for example, to take a strategic approach by eliminating commanders first so that nobody will call for reinforcements – a familiar, but still compelling AI convention. A Perks system rewards you for playing in certain ways (it’s well worth investigating what you need to do to earn them), and exploration is rewarded with weapons upgrades. The legendary long-range shotguns are present and correct, but an extremely handy laser, which doubles as a puzzle-solving tool, takes over from the Railgun.Developer MachineGames has all sorts of fun with the imagined general depravity of triumphant Nazis as well as the technology they would have had at their command by the 1960s. It&apos;s more sophisticated than you might imagine, thanks to a dubious plot device, so you get genetically enhanced, massively armoured super-soldiers, giant dog-like robots and huge multistorey mechs (a Wolfenstein game needs boss-battles).Wolfenstein: The New OrderBut whereas this could all have degenerated into Michael Bay-style hyper-action at the expense of all else, Wolfenstein: The New Order somehow manages to retain a narrative flow with peaks and troughs, which keeps you involved and interested until the end, despite the manifest preposterousness.The lack of multiplayer makes it look decidedly old-fashioned – but, if you&apos;re feeling charitable, you could argue that the OTT weaponry could be incompatible with online modes. The moral dilemma in the prologue level at least gives you two alternative time-lines, so there is a decent amount of replay value. Indeed, the generous length of the story makes a mockery of modern shooters like CoD. It’s decent graphically, but doesn’t really have that ground-breaking, next-gen feel that we’re still waiting for.However, despite its nods to the oldest first-person shooter of all, it does feel thoroughly honed and reasonably modern. It isn’t the future of first-person shooters, but it does rank among the best single-player examples.
A special post-budget Q&amp;A on Monday night saw Joe Hockey inundated with questions from worried residents of western Sydney. Tweets using the #qanda hashtag broke records, according to the ABC, and resulted in servers crashing and the disappearance of curated tweets from the TV screen.The mood in the studio audience was incredulous and dismissive to begin with, and only got angrier from there. The host, Tony Jones, pre-empted any repeat of the student protests on Q&amp;A this month by warning the audience to behave.Online, the treasurer drew some respect for his willingness to appear solo and to answer people’s concerns about the cuts announced last week, but despite his answers and assurances about Medicare co-payments, rising university fees and changes to Newstart and the pension, a sense remained among watchers that the treasurer was out of touch with ordinary Australians.“You are here to listen” says Tony Jones as he hosts a show called Question and Answer#qanda&mdash; James Clark (@_spock)May 19, 2014$50bn in infrastructure? Where&#39;s that? Answer, nowhere in the budget. Sorry#qanda&mdash; Katharine Murphy (@murpharoo)May 19, 2014#qandapic.twitter.com/BLqomLULl2&mdash; Dame Barbara Wodecki (@barbwodecki)May 19, 2014Seriously, give this man a medal.#QandApic.twitter.com/fnqJkYZKHN&mdash; Robin (@ArtisticRobin)May 19, 2014I suspect Joe Hockey is now wondering whether he can deploy the Joint Strike Fighters on the Q&amp;A audience.#qanda&mdash; Joe Hildebrand (@Joe_Hildebrand)May 19, 2014Literally believes there’s no such thing as an unemployed person with a degree. Holy shit.#qanda&mdash; Bondles (@Bondles)May 19, 2014Joe Hockey &quot;I plead guilty&quot; to broken promise on ABC. *Tony Jones leans in*&mdash; Samantha  Maiden (@samanthamaiden)May 19, 2014&quot;I don&#39;t accept that there are university graduates that are out of work&quot;. Seriously? Hockey doesn&#39;t accept reality#qanda&mdash; PM ☁ (@biscuitdigital)May 19, 2014Joe trying to laugh it off. No Joe, this is a serious matter - people&#39;s jobs, health and lives are on the line#QandA&mdash; Doc (@Doclach)May 19, 2014Are you telling me I&#39;m going to be an intern until I&#39;m 70?! Shiiiiiiiiiiit.#qanda&mdash; ABC News Intern (@ABCnewsIntern)May 19, 2014Australians do not go to the doctor 11 times a year. They go 5.59 times a year.#qanda&mdash; Jenna Price (@JennaPrice)May 19, 2014Why is it okay for university students to get into ridiculous debt, with huge interest repayments but Australia&#39;s debt is a crisis??#qanda&mdash; Willisa Hogarth (@WillisaH)May 19, 2014I take your real world problem, sir, &amp; I respond with talking points#qanda&mdash; glenroiheights (@glenroiheights)May 19, 2014All I&#39;m hearing is government doesn&#39;t understand the people they work for.#qanda&mdash; Amy (@sailormucaip)May 19, 2014Compelling#qandatonight but disappointed Hockey failed to address the problems the budget will create in people&#39;s lives.&mdash; Nic Heath (@nicoheath)May 19, 2014@JoeHockeyBloody brilliant tonight Joe. Think you put a lot of people&#39;s minds at rest and showed up Labor&#39;s lies. Thanks legend!#QandA&mdash; InfidelShani (@SharonUren)May 19, 2014I like tonight&#39;s questions. Shows voters aren&#39;t idiots despite best efforts from politicians to treat them like they are#qanda#auspol&mdash; Bevan Shields (@bevanshields85)May 19, 2014Our apologies for losing onscreen tweets. It seems we smashed the#QandAtweeting record and our servers with over 65,000 tweets tonight&mdash; ABC Q&amp;A (@QandA)May 19, 2014Coalition governments cuts to ABC already hurting -#qandaTwitter monitors have been let go.&mdash; Osman Faruqi (@oz_f)May 19, 2014
Twitter is reportedly considering a deal to acquire Soundcloud, the Berlin-based audio and music-sharing firm.With Soundcloud valued at $700m, the buyout would be Twitter&apos;s largestsince it acquired mobile ad company MoPubin September 2013. A Soundcloud spokeswoman told the Guardian that &quot;we don&apos;t comment on rumour or speculation&quot;.According to Recode&apos;s Peter Kafka,who first broke news of the possible purchase, &quot;a SoundCloud deal would give Twitter a way to expand its reach independent of its core service&quot;. In doing so, it could offer a way out of the company&apos;s disappointing slump in growth.Twitter has experimented with music services before. In April 2013,it launched a music-focused appwhich it claimed would &quot;change the way people find music&quot;. The app floundered and was unceremoniously killed in March 2014,after it fell as low as 1,486th in the music charts on iTunes.SoundCloud is popular with bands and podcasters as a cheap and easy way of hosting short audio clips. But it&apos;s had trouble of its own: like any service which lets users upload media, there&apos;s no small amount of unlicensed material hosted on their service.•Twitter&apos;s last foray into music earned four stars from Stuart Dredge
The US Department of Justiceindictment against a number of alleged Chinese military hackersgoes back a long way, to 2006, and raises the question: why did it take them so long to take action?In February 2013, a US security company called Mandiantreleased a reportwhich said the Chinese army had launched hundreds of cyber-attacks against western companies and defence groups. It said that the attacks emanated from a building that housed a group called Unit 61398 –the same number that appears in the DOJ indictment.If the DOJ indictments are correct, then Mandiant&apos;s report appears to have been accurate in its description of what was happening. But that&apos;s worrying, too: it described a decade-long series of attacks on US infrastructure, gave precise details, and even the location of the building from which it reckoned the attacks were being made.If Mandiant, a private company, can come up with that sort of detail, what exactly has the US government been doing, with what must be better access to information? The DOJ indictment says that the investigation was carried out by the FBI – though it is hard not to think that there must have been some evidence supplied by other agencies such as the National Security Agency (NSA).It&apos;s not as though the US government and its spy agencies have been unaware of the ambitions of what are believed to be Chinese state-sponsored hackers. In 2006, thenew indictmentalleges, Huang Zhenyu began &quot;to perform programming work for SOE-2, including the creation of a “secret” database designed to hold corporate &apos;intelligence&apos; about the iron and steel industries, including information about American companies.&quot;But 2006 was notable for other events in the hacking realm. The US Pentagon and UK secret services had noticed Chinese computers accessing data on the Pentagon and the House of Commons, in an attack codenamed &quot;Titan Rain&quot;, of which a specialist said the people behind it were &quot;very clever programmers&quot;.Titan Rain was only the start. According to security experts, state-sponsored individuals in China were hacking into systems belonging to all the biggest factories and companies, seeking industrial data and intellectual property. The difficulty with confirming the stories was that the companies were rarely willing to be named, and even if they were, they declined to discuss what might have been copied and spirited away.In August 2010, the security company McAfeesaidthat it had found evidence of a five-year hacking campaign it called &quot;Shady Rat&quot; targeting more than 70 government institutions, corporations and thinktanks. In February, it claimed that hackers in China had stolen information from oil companies in the US, Greece, Taiwan and Kazakhstan about bidding, financing and operations relating to oil fields.In November 2011, allegations surfaced from the security company Symantec that Chinese hackers hadtargeted about 50 chemical- and military-linked companiesbetween July and September 2010. It said &quot;multiple&quot; Fortune 100 companies were targeted – but, typically, was not allowed to name them.The war of words between China and the US intensified; China has repeatedly insisted that hacking attacks are transnational, and the suggestion that just because a computer accesses another from China, that doesn&apos;t mean that the original attack comes from China, or that it is state-sponsored.But in early 2013, after Facebook, Twitter, the New York Times, the Washington Post and the Wall Street Journal all said that they had been the targets of &quot;highly sophisticated&quot; attacks – in some cases focussing on correspondents writing about China – the temperature rose. (Google, the obvious big name missing from that set, had already suffered its own China-based hacking attack in December 2009; those hackers accessed its email system and tried to gain access to master passwords across the system. Google has never made clear quite how far they got, and it does not appear in the DOJ indictment as a cited victim.)The DoJ indictment names Westinghouse Electric, SolarWorld, US Steel, Allegheny Technologies, and the US Service Workers union as victims of the hacking.But China is not the only participant in state-sponsored hacking. As the Snowden revelations have made abundantly clear, the US and UK are active participants in the subversion of internet systems; the Stuxnet virus, which affected Iran&apos;s nuclear reprocessing facility, and the Flame virus, which used &quot;world-class&quot; cryptography methods, were both reckoned to have been the work of the US and at least one other nation.The outstanding question is how the US will make the indictment enforceable. There is no extradition treaty between the US and China that would allow one of China&apos;s citizens to be remitted to the US for trial. Instead, the DoJ action may have opened a new form of cold war in which the two governments accuse each other of actions, which are denied, while both continue carrying them out against each other, and many more.
To chat with Yancey Strickler is to undergo a sustained exercise in envy control. Less then a decade ago, 35-year-old Strickler was a music journalist, scratching out a living by reviewing indie bands forPitchforkandthe Village Voice. Now he's the boss of Kickstarter – the crowdfunding site that has helped to get everything fromboundary-pushing technologytoOscar-nominated moviesoff the ground. His site has raised over a billion dollars in the last five years, of which Kickstarter took a 5% commission. Strickler describes it as a public trust; last year Kickstarter funded more artists in the US than the National Endowment for the Arts, a federal body set up to support artists.Anyway, I'm a current journalist turned nothing at all. Perhaps he's  on to something. Perhaps journalism definitely is dead and it's time to jump ship. If that's the case, this is the time for me to follow his lead. Not by starting a wildly successful startup of my own – that sounds like quite a lot of a faff – but by launching a Kickstarter project. And so, offered an interview with Strickler, I did what anyone with some nous and self-respect would do: I pitched him my ideas.SH:Idea one: a T-shirt with a load of monkey puns on it.YS: That's pretty strong. Do you have any pun examples?I've got three. First: Mo monkey, mo problems.Yeah! Ha ha!Second: Goodyear Chimp.Yeah ...I pretty much ran out after two. The third one is Landscape Marmoset, but I'm not sure that works.I don't understand.It's a play on Landscape Architect. It probably needs more work.Right. I don't know about that last one. Maybe, like, some landscape architects would be super into that. You could hit those landscape architect mailing lists really hard. You know, I did a T-shirt project. It was based on Fugazi. They refused to sell T-shirts, so people made their own with "This is not a Fugazi shirt" on them, because Fugazi rejected all merchandise. So my project was called"This is not a Kickstarter shirt", and the idea was that the only thing on the shirt would be the stats from the project. There's one person in London who I saw in the street with one once. But T-shirts are a good idea.Idea two: artisan food is big on Kickstarter. How about a food truck where all the meat is guaranteed to come from an animal that's been brought up with a human name?So you could meet the pig whose random parts you're eating?Yeah. You'd hand over a hotdog and say: "This was Kevin. His life was short but he wanted for nothing."Right. Right. I think you could probably do well for that. I wonder if … [glances over at our photographer,  who looks appalled]. You look  terrified. But we might have reached peak food truck. We might be post-food truck now. I don't know. A food  bicycle, maybe? Perhaps a traditional restaurant? I just backed a burger joint in Shoreditch. I backed that for about 10 quid or something, so I'm owed a burger and fries. Certainly your idea seems very farm-to-table.Idea three: just a load of crap that  doubles as a bottle opener.Yes! Yeah! You know, there's something interesting in this. One of the strangest, most prevalent things on Kickstarter are slim wallets. We have lot of those. A lot of wallet projects. And we started to look into it, and found that a wallet is actually a training wheel for a product designer. It's one of the easiest things to manufacture and produce. It  teaches you the supply chain and how to produce something. You have to deal with manufacturers, but the product itself is very simple. We've seen a few people start with a slim wallet and then go on to something else because they've got a sense of how it worked. So I have a sense that a bottle opener might be in a similar vein. It might be a seemingly cheap tchotchke sort of thing, but it might also be an educational tool for someone to learn how to make something. My own wallet is a Kickstarter wallet, in fact.What percentage of everything you own came from a Kickstarter project?Quite a lot. It'd be funny to try to live for a year on only Kickstarter products. It'd be like "I need someone to launch a project for water today, I'm kinda thirsty." We'd need Kickstarter plumbing, a Kickstarter house …What about a tracksuit that closely  resembles formalwear?That's very shrewd. Generally, anything to conceal human laziness will be pretty strong. Sweatbands, sweatpants, sweatshirts; I think you could do pretty well. There'sthe 10-year hoodie, which I think is our biggest fashion project, or close to it. A formal sweat? You know, Kanye's got his leather jogging pants, so you could be in a similar school, maybe.Next: a song about me believing in my dreams, accompanied by a video of me dancing on a cloud.I think you would get probably no backers, but you could easily launch that.There are lots of music projects on Kickstarter, though.Music does really well. Music has one of the highest success rates.So what you're basically saying is that the only thing wrong with this idea is me as a person.I don't know. It depends on what you want. How much money would you want to raise for it?I dunno. Ten grand?Ten grand to record one song? Yeah, I think this would be a no-go for ever. Strike that one out.Finally, a version of Kickstarter that only charges 4% commission.It only charges 4%? You know, you could do that. Certainly we get a lot of competition, with people doing the exact same thing as us.And I could fund it through you?Uh, soon you could. I think. I don't know. I'm not sure what my answer to this one is. It's currently prohibited. Not because it's direct competition, but because we don't fund software businesses. I think that's gonna change at some point. Things change, you know?OK. So which of these ideas is the strongest?I guess the T-shirts.Great. So, in terms of rewards and  incentives, what should I offer my loyal backers?You should do offer the T-shirt for something like 15 or 20 bucks,  something like that. I wouldn't  offer too many colours. With my T-shirt project I made the mistake of offering eight different colours and it got complicated with the T-shirt vendors. Pick one or two colours and make your life much easier. Maybe I would consider offering a T-shirt for a higher amount, where you would add your picture to it, so you are the monkey – not you the creator, but the backer – that'd be a good gag gift for mum and dad.I'm going to be rich!Another thing I would do is ... I don't know whether you saw thePlanet Money T-shirt projectfrom anNational Public Radiojournalist in New York? They made the T-shirt through Kickstarter, but used the project to tell the story of how the T-shirt was made. So they went to the factory in Malaysia. They went to New Zealand, I think, to see where the sheep was raised and see where the wool came from,  they tracked the entire product from them raising the money on Kickstarter to the shirts arriving at people's doors. That actually ended up being really fascinating. For you, I would suggest documenting as much as possible how you did this.A Planet Monkey T-shirt.Well, maybe just document the 30  terrible designs you came up with  before you found the one that  was good. I think that stuff's always entertaining. Humanising it might be quite fun.Finally, how I can promote my project?A lot of tweeting. You're gonna want to make a video that's very strong and cross-post it on YouTube. Look for your audience. Maybe there are some monkey-related messageboards that you could be a part of. Is there a London zoo? Are there monkeys at London zoo? Maybe people outside London zoo are your core audience. You could just try to wear the first version of the T-shirt very proudly and hope that someone asks you how they can get one. Every day you should wear that shirt.What if I committed a horrible crime while wearing the T-shirt?Would that work?In the monkey T-shirt! Yes! Get arrested in the monkey T-shirt!
More than 100 people worldwide have been arrested following an FBI-led crackdown on hackers linked to a &quot;remote administration tool&quot; called Blackshades.Raids took place in more than a dozen countries,according to officials who spoke to Time magazine, and involved law enforcement agencies in Europe, Asia, Australia and North America. According to the UK&apos;s National Crime Agency, 17 of those arrested were based in Britain.The charges are still sealed, but US prosectors are expected to announce some of the results at a press conference midday in New York.Known as a RAT or backdoor, Blackshades and other software like it allows attackers to remotely seize control of a users&apos; computer, turning on webcams, stealing passwords and personal information, and launching further attacks on other computers. The software itself is not illegal, and can be bought for as little as $40, but installing it on a victim&apos;s computer without their knowledge is against the law in most countries.In 2012, an FBI stingresulted in the arrestof more than 20 people involved with the programme, including Michael Hogue, allegedly the software&apos;s lead coder under the name xVisceral. Despite the arrest,researchers from Symantecsaw a rise in infections over the second half of 2013.Troy Gill, senior security analyst at AppRiver, thinks that these arrests are linked to Hogue&apos;s. &quot;Even though these busts have come a little later than might be expected,&quot; he says, &quot;it is not inconceivable to think that information or access gleaned in the author&apos;s arrest could have been instrumental in facilitating this coordinated effort.&quot;•Is Elderwood the digital arms dealer that fuelled attacks on Google?
Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro-gaming: 'This isn't a niche movement any more'Google isreportedly negotiating the acquisition of Twitch.tv, thelive-video streaming servicewith 45 million users every month. Targeted at gamers, Twitch&apos;s audience has doubled in one year - and represents a healthy chunk of a very dedicated audience that Google could weave into YouTube.The name Twitch is drawn from gamer phraseology – which says everything about its specific appeal. A twitch game is one that requires instant reactions, the player&apos;s fingers jerking across the controller as though in the midst of involuntary spasms. Twitch means hardcore, it means total investment in the moment.There are around 900,000 channels broadcasting on Twitch every month. Some are operated by major media outlets, most are just kids sitting in their bedrooms, but they all have one thing in common: they are broadcasting about games to a hugely invested audience.E-sports for everyoneIn some ways, Twitch is that classic tech success story: it was in the right place at the right time with a reasonably good platform. The fans did the rest. Set up in 2011 by live-streaming specialist Justin.TV, the service provided a slick method of streaming game footage just as the concept of professional gaming – or esports – was really taking off. Team games such as League of Legends and Dota 2, as well as first-person shooters like Call of Duty, were beginning to attract vast global audiences, and Twitch provided a way for gamers everywhere to watch and share the excitement of championship events, wherever they were taking place. Last year&apos;s League of Legends world final drew 32 million online viewers.At the same time, a growing generation of game content broadcasters were evolving from making pre-recorded &quot;Let&apos;s Play&quot; videos on YouTube, to making livestreams of themselves playing the latest titles. Often, skilled gamers will stream &quot;how to&quot; guides on new releases, providing hints and tips on beating missions or surviving in multiplayer fights; or they&apos;ll just effectively review a title while playing it, providing a consumer service to viewers who no longer buy video game magazines or even visit the big sites such as IGN or Gamespot.Twitch&apos;s value is a dedicated gamer communityWhy do they come to Twitch rather than some other streaming service? Success on digital platforms is all about community. For broadcasters, it&apos;s about generating a lot of content, very regularly, and then interacting with viewers. Twitch not only offers an easy and intuitive way to broadcast yourself playing a game live, it&apos;s also within a space absolutely dedicated to games, and where interaction between presenters and fans is made very easy. Every Twitch broadcast has a chat window, allowing viewers to interact with each other and even the presenter, making the experience very immersive and inclusive.Over time, Twitch Chat has developed its own in-jokes and catchphrases, its own coded use of emoticons. It has even managed to produced its own mass gaming phenomenon, Twitch Plays Pokemon, which had many thousands of viewers attempting to complete the original Pokemon game through the text chat interface. The bizarre cooperative gaming experiment is now continuing on to subsequent Pokemon titles and it drew so many participants, and so much media interest, several game developers are exploring the possibility of developing titlesspecifically for the format.Twitch is the new arcadeThis is how games have always been: public, collaborative, social. At the height of the arcade scene in the eighties, players met up, challenged each other, stood around coin-op cabinets gawping at the best Pac-Man and Defender players; they shared tips and tactics, they justconsumedgames together.But in the digital era, a lot of that companionship was lost. Playing a first-person shooter on a public server is about stark competition, there&apos;s very little conversation beyond shouted taunts and put-downs. Twitch replicates the community feel of the arcade, while also fulfilling the roles of the &quot;traditional&quot; video game media, providing news, reviews and opinions on new releases. It&apos;s a place for like-minded fans – a home base – rather than a huge monolithic video service like YouTube. This is why both Sony and Microsoft leapt in to secure Twitch compatibility for their PlayStation 4 and Xbox One content sharing services. You go where the fans are.And while YouTube does now have livestreaming and chat elements, they don&apos;t work as well. &quot;There&apos;s a standard lag that makes it hard to communicate properly with your audience,&quot; says Matt Lees a video game journalist who regularly uses Twitch to stream game play. &quot;The chat is always at least half a minute behind what&apos;s happening in the video, which makes it fairly useless unless you&apos;re purely using the live-stream to broadcast one way.&quot;YouTube has struggled with live streamingIn any case, both Google and Facebook know that people don&apos;t always gravitate to the biggest services online – they often like quirky alternatives that fit more with their own tastes and lifestyles. Facebook bought Instagram and WhatsApp, not just because of their tech offerings, but because they boasted engaged communities that identified with the services. It&apos;s the same with Twitch. It&apos;s an efficient streaming platform, but it&apos;s also an efficient streaming platform that 45m people identify with on a personal level. While YouTube is there for casual viewing of short gaming videos, Twitch is there for the in-depth stuff.&quot;[A purchase would] make a great deal of sense from YouTube’s point of view as it has obviously struggled to get any traction with live streaming and is in danger of being left behind what is a growing and exciting market,&quot; says Rich Keith, business manager at Yogcast, a major YouTube gaming channel, which has just signed a content deal with Twitch. &quot;At the same time there is a clear synergy and potential advertising win in the sense that it’s gaming video with very little real overlap on the type of content that’s being created on YouTube. YouTube works best with short-form edited content while Twitch is unstructured, long-from and live.&quot;Audience of hard-to-reach young menThe huge value that Twitch represents to advertisers is of course a key driver for Google. Twitch getsbetter peak time viewing figures than MTV or TNT, it hasmore viewers than HBO Go– these are all channels targeted by corporations for their specific demographic reaches. The people who watch Twitch – mostly young men in their teens and twenties, are really hard to reach these days. They don&apos;t watch traditional sport as much, they don&apos;t watch MTV. They watch and participate in games. And it&apos;s Twitch they&apos;re using.&quot;It is a defensive move,&quot; says Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV, on the purchase speculation. &quot;Video gaming is the second most popular category on YouTube and is a major area of growth for the video website. Yet Twitch is growing at a faster rate, is fully integrated into most video games platforms – including mobile – and is a genuine threat to YouTube&apos;s dominance. Twitch has some great technology and to acquire that would be of huge benefit to Google.&quot;How does Google retain the community?A major challenge for Google is going to be in retaining that community feel; that sense of ownership and identification. Just as WhatsApp saw an exodus of users after the Facebook purchase, Twitch may loose its edgy appeal if it exists within the Google framework. Google may kill the thing it coverts. Plus, the unique qualities of the service itself may suffer.&quot;Twitch is much less restrictive, and smoother,&quot; says Lees. &quot;YouTube&apos;s content ID system automatically scans footage for copyrighted material and either removes it from the service outright or hands full ownership of the video&apos;s royalties to those who the system believes &apos;owns&apos; that content. YouTube&apos;s shift towards legitimacy has pleased traditional brands and old-media, but frustrated many who actually use the service.&quot;Twitch remains a lot more &apos;wild west&apos;, with streamers often playing music in the background without thinking too much about copyright law. There&apos;s a concern that using the same algorithms on Twitch would cause even more problems due to the unedited nature of streams.&quot;Lees also worries about the fundamental user support issues too. &quot;What will happen to Twitch&apos;s relationship with users?&quot; he asks. &quot;In the past they&apos;ve been excellent at directly dealing with those who use their service, while Google are seen as enigmatic at best. Getting issues solved is incredibly difficult, and most users have no clear way of contacting YouTube if they have a problem.&quot;Combined with the frequent interface updates which often remove functionality and obfuscate important tools, YouTube is usually regarded as a frustrating service that we&apos;re simply stuck with. Twitch&apos;s simplicity and clarity were an antidote to that, leading many to worry about the two being merged.&quot;Keith, meanwhile, is wary of the commercial and practical implications of a Google takeover. &quot;There could be potential dangers for content creators from having YouTube own the entire playing field,&quot; he says. &quot;If one company owns the dominant platforms, they can dictate everything from the revenue you get to the service you provide.&quot;In the wrong hands, Twitch could be smotheredTwitch is more than a place to stream live video of games. It is a culture. Its developers understand the needs of Dota and League of Legends fans, and they understand that the relationship between broadcasters and viewers in the digital age is not one of passive consumption – it is one of communication. Why do people want to watch other people playing games? Myriad reasons, from simple companionship, to entertainment, to insight. Why are they watching on Twitch rather than YouTube? Because Twitch got in first with a service that understood both the mass appeal of live esports coverage and the more intimate draw of a funny, charming presenter working their way through a popular new game.In old media terms, YouTube is a tabloid, Twitch is a hobbyist magazine – and continued success in the digital media age will be about understanding the differences between those two user-bases. Twitch grew super-fast, but the wrong hands could smother it. This isn&apos;t an audience that hangs around; it reacts quickly and decisively. The clue is in the name.•Google reportedly acquiring live games video site Twitch for $1bn•What is Twitch, and why does Google want it?•Twitch Plays Pokémon: live gaming&apos;s latest big hit
A Californian woman has filed a class action against Apple after switching to an Android phone and finding that text messages sent by friends with iPhones didn&apos;t reach her.The reason for the non-delivery was that her phone number was still linked to an iPhone in Apple&apos;s system, and so it tried to deliver the texts using its proprietary data-channel &quot;iMessage&quot;, which gets around the 160-character limits of standard SMS messages.Adrienne Moore filed a complaint in San Jose, California, on 15 May, alleging that people who replace Apple devices with non-Apple phones or tablets are &quot;penalised and unable to obtain the full benefits of their wireless-services contracts&quot;. She is seeking damages of up to $5m. That could be increased if other complainants join the action and it is successful.Moore complained that Apple retains the text messages sent from other iPhone users to her and won&apos;t deliver them to the Samsung Galaxy S5 that she now uses. She complains in the suit that Apple failed to disclose that switching to a device other than one running its own software would cause the interference with delivery, and that this therefore constitutes interference with her contract with her mobile carrier, and unfair competition.Apple&apos;s iMessage, introduced in October 2011 at the same time as its iPhone 4S phone, is an opt-in service provided on iPhones, iPads, iPods and Apple computers which lets users link a particular email address or phone number to the service. It lets them send messages of arbitrary sizes to other users of the iMessage service. It has become widely used by Apple device owners, with more than 450bn iMessages being sent by April 2013, and more than 2bn messages being sent daily at that time.But some iPhone users who have switched to other platforms have discovered that friends who remain on Apple&apos;s platform keep sending them iMessages, but that they never arrive.This is because when iMessage is activated on an iPhone, it associates the phone number with the service. If the user retains their phone number but switches to a different platform such as Google&apos;s Android or Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone, Apple&apos;s system tries to deliver the message to the phone number, but the software on the other platforms cannot accept the message.Apple also seems to keep iMessage active and associated with a phone number if it is being used with other Apple devices.Moore used an iPhone 4 until 16 April, when she switched to the Galaxy S5 on Verizon&apos;s service. The carrier told her that in order to receive messages as before she should turn off iMessage on the old phone - but she says that even after doing so she still doesn&apos;t receive all messages sent to her from other iPhones.Moore complains that Apple&apos;s suggested fixes – that people using older versions of iOS to contact her should update, and that people using iPhones should delete and re-add her as a contact – were either impractical or didn&apos;t work.According to Patently Apple, whichhas a copy of the complaint, Moore says that &quot;Had Plaintiff and the class members been informed by Apple that iMessage would work in such a fashion so as to prevent them from receiving text messages, once they switched their Apple devices to non-Apple devices, Plaintiff and the putative class members would not have downloaded the iMessage and Messages service and application, or would not have purchased an iPhone or other Apple device in the first instance.&quot;Apple declined to comment on the lawsuit.• Apple provides an advice page for people who are moving to other platforms abouthow to deactivate iMessage.• Samsung also provides an advice page for people who are moving away from the iPhone abouthow to turn off iMessagebefore switching to their new device.• Adam Pash, who says he is in &quot;iMessage purgatory&quot; in the same fashion as Moore claims to be in the lawsuit,saysthat one fix is for would-be senders of messages to people who were using iPhones to turn off iMessage, send a text to the former iPhone user&apos;s number, and then turn iMessage back on. That seems to break the association between iMessage and the former user&apos;s number in Apple&apos;s system.•Secure text message service Silent Circle revamps iOS app
British music startup LoveLive has launched a connected-TV app to stream video of concerts by artists including Katy Perry, Disclosure, Kendrick Lamar and Ellie Goulding.The LoveLive TV app, which for now is only available on LG&apos;s range of connected TVs, will stream a mixture of full-length gigs, festival interviews and sessions, and backstage footage from participating artists.Some concerts will be streamed live later in 2014. LoveLive is also planning to sell ads and sponsorships within the app, while also launching it on the devices of other connected-TV manufacturers.&quot;For us, it&apos;s the culmination of our ambition to create the ultimate home viewing experience for live music,&quot; LoveLive chief executive Richard Cohen told The Guardian.&quot;We&apos;re placing live music in the centre of people&apos;s living rooms, on the biggest screen in the house. It&apos;s never going to replace going to a gig, but for us it&apos;s the next best way to capture the thrill and excitement of that live experience.&quot;Cohen said that LoveLive is now filming around 500 live performances a year, which are distributed through the company&apos;sYouTube channel, the new TV app, and the &quot;L-Platform&quot; service itlaunched earlier in 2014, which embeds concerts on partner sites including The Guardian, Time Out and Q.&quot;L-Player will go into Xbox, Roku, Apple TV, and possibly even Netflix or LoveFilm. There&apos;s such a demand for this stuff,&quot; said Cohen. &quot;Ultimately, the app will be regularly updated with the new content from our catalogue, as well as stuff from our label partners.&quot;LoveLive TV is the brand for the company&apos;s TV app and its YouTube channel alike, with the latter having signed up more than 147,000 subscribers and generated 14.9m video views since its launch in 2012. LoveLive alsoruns the Transmitter YouTube channellaunched by music industry body the BPI last October.Cohen said LoveLive is also about to kick off its first round of institutional funding, seeking between $20m and $25m to continue expanding its business.&quot;Our ambition is to establish the world-leading marketplace for premium live-music video online,&quot; said Cohen. &quot;Think what Getty Images have managed to do globally for stills.&quot;•From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing TV in 2014
Facebook is working on a video chat app to rival the popular Snapchat ephemeral messaging app, according to reports.Known internally as Slingshot,according to the Financial Times, the app has been under development for the last couple of months and could be launched as soon as this month.Facebook attempted to acquire Snapchat for $3bn in November last year butwas rejected by the startup, which at the time was registering 5 million new users daily.A suite of separate mobile appsSlingshot would sit along side Facebook’s other separate mobile apps that are not directly connected to the primary Facebook experience, including the social network’s text messaging app,Facebook Messengerand the photo-sharing service Instagram.Facebook declined to comment.Facebook chiefs may still decide to abandon the new app, which is still under development, but this is not the company&apos;s first attempt to challenge Snapchat. Facebook’s Poke app launched in 2012 but was discontinued this month along with the company’s Facebook Camera app.&apos;Disappear forever&apos; or notSnapchat updated its app to include text messaging and video calling alongside its short video messages and photos; all are only viewable for up to 10 seconds before disappearing from the recipient’s app.US regulator the Federal Trade Commissionrecently reprimanded Snapchatover false claims that messages would “disappear forever”, but could in fact be kept by recipients through third-party applications or taking an undetectable screenshot of the image.Facebook recently bought messaging app WhatsApp for $19bn in February as part of its mission to reach and connect more users, people who have also flocked to Snapchat and risk ditching or at least reducing their interactions with a traditional Facebook experience.WhatsApp announced in February, after its acquisition by Facebook, that itwould launch voice calling, allowing users to make calls and send text messages over data, rather than traditional phone networks voice and SMS services. The voice calling feature has yet to arrive.•Snapchat ranks the lowest for protecting user data from the government, according to US pressure group the EFF
It was on a very hot day in July 2012 that the Winklevoss twins discovered bitcoin, while partying in Ibiza. At 32 years old, the enviably athletic pair have both Harvard and Oxford on their CVs, and seem predestined for success. They famously won a $65m settlement from Facebook after claiming Mark Zuckerberg had stolen their idea for a Harvard social network, and rowed in the 2008 Olympics.Yet their chance encounter with bitcoin in the Mediterranean was rather more serendipitous. “We were on vacation, and happened to bump into a guy who is mutual friend and he started to tell us about bitcoin,&quot; Tyler Winklevoss explains. “We were fascinated from day one,&quot; he says, hinting that having just abandoned five years of chasing Facebook through the courts, the time was right to start something new. &quot;At the time we were just re-immersing ourselves inside the tech world, getting into the trenches again.”Facebook&apos;s soaring value has been good news for the Winklevoss brothers and their investment business, and the pair are now two of the most influential players in a new generation of investors. Yet bitcoin, Winklevoss insists, has the potential to be even bigger than Facebook – currently riding a market value of $151bn.&quot;Bitcoin potentially could be more impactful because being able to donate 50 cents to someone across the world has more impact than potentially sharing a picture,&quot; he explains. “But they&apos;re very different. Facebook is like the internet – a large company and an application.&quot;Bitcoin is a protocol for decentralisation, so you could build a decentralised company on top of it, a stock market. It&apos;s an internet of ownership, so it&apos;s not quite a direct comparison.&quot; In the same way Facebook encouraged us to be socially open, bitcoin encourages us to be financially open, he argues. The Winklevoss vision is of a kind of decentralised financial utopia, where payments cannot be intercepted by middlemen and where developing countries have an equal stab at the global markets.Winklevoss twins own 1% of $5.7bn marketBitcoin already has a market capitalisation equivalent to $5.7bn – the approximate total of all bitcoin in existence – and feels far more than a novelty. The Winklevoss twins own an estimated 1% of all bitcoin, so have a real interest in making sure bitcoin is explored, exploited - and that it succeeds.But Tyler&apos;s glowing optimism about Bitcoin&apos;s prospects is not shared by all in Silicon Valley. Veteran investor Marc Andreessen might be one of them, but Goldman Sachs recently reported that Bitcoin was too volatile to be viable.“Calling bitcoin volatile – it&apos;s a non-statement. Unregulated assets with unclear regulatory landscapes are always going to be volatile. That&apos;s what unregulated assets do,&quot; said Winklevoss. “I can make the same argument about the internet in the early days. But sure enough, technologists came and worked hard at the problem, and it’s getting better.”For Tyler, the bitcoin critics can be divided into two categories; those like the kind of Luddite who protested against new labour-saving machinery from 1811 to 1817, and today&apos;s teenagers who don’t have the ability to imagine the early days of the internet. “Bitcoin is going through growing pains,&quot; he says.As we spoke, I came to discover that Tyler spends most of his time preaching the gospel of bitcoin, including at Oxford University this year. &quot;It’s the only thing people want to know. The promise of the internet is being held back by Visa, Master Card, American Express,&quot; he explains. &quot;You can’t buy stuff in the majority of the world - the majority of the world doesn’t have the financial inclusion we take for granted, which is a bank account and a way to save money.”Mt Gox failed because of poor serviceBut if that&apos;s the case, what happened with MtGox? At one point it was the largest bitcoin exchange, but lost half a billion dollars to by hackers and was forced to close.&quot;Everybody was shocked at the magnitude of loss, but when you look, the writing was really on the wall for a long time”. Tyler and other active investors avoided the whole mess altogether, he explains, because they stopped using Gox when it became too slow to withdraw money.He describes the loss as &quot;painful&quot;, yet says ultimately the untimely death of Gox had been good for bitcoin. &quot;Gox was a pattern of poor operations, poor customer service, poor PR. You can’t just take bitcoin and hide.” He&apos;s promoting his new venture - the bitcoin exchange Winxdex. “Right now bitcoin is priced differently depending on where you look, depending on what exchange, depending on who&apos;s trading, he says. “We essentially came up with a method which we think is the most accurate way to price bitcoin at that moment in time, and we’ll use that price to help create price discovery and stability in the bitcoin ecosystem.”This year, the Winklevoss twins predict, will be the year that Wall Street will get involved. &quot;If a new technology comes out and the incumbent doesn’t evolve, then they generally lose,&quot; he says, comparing bitcoin with the internet in 1994. He thinks he knows how this will end. &quot;When it gets to tipping point it’s usually not a long fight. It’s a category killer.”•The Winklevoss twins and what you need to know about them
Reports this weekend claimed that YouTube is on the verge of buying games streaming service Twitch for $1bn – a deal not a million miles away from the $1.65bn that Google paid for YouTube back in 2006.Twitch is well known to tens of millions of gamers, but still somewhat under the radar for everyone else. So what is the company, how popular is it, and why might YouTube want to buy it? Here&apos;s a primer.What is Twitch?It’s essentially the YouTube for live gaming: people broadcast themselves playing and/or talking about games while other people watch them (either live or via archived footage) while chatting about it.Is it popular?Very. Last year, Twitch more than doubled its monthly audience from 20m people at the end of 2012 to 45m at the end of 2013. Those viewers were watching 106 minutes a day on average, with 6m videos broadcast on the site every month by 900,000 unique broadcasters.In February this year, a study by internet infrastructure company Deep Field claimed that in primetime hours in the US,Twitch was the fourth largest source of network traffic, behind only Netflix, Google and Apple.Meanwhile, last October&apos;s League of Legends Season 3 World Championship eventattracted 32m viewers in a single day, with 8.5m watching simultaneously at its peak.Where did Twitch come from?Twitch was a spin-off from Justin.tv, one of the first big livestreaming-video sites online. Itlaunched in June 2011billed as “the largest competitive video gaming broadcast network in the world”, with an emphasis on e-sports (competitive gaming). Since then, the company has raised $35m in funding from various venture capital firms in two rounds.Who’s on it and what are they watching?In itsreportat the end of 2013, Twitch said that 76% of its users are aged between 18 and 49; that 68% are watching less TV in order to focus on “game entertainment”; and that 58% spend more than 20 hours a week on Twitch.Around 99% of users watch live streams of games, while 38% watch video highlights, 61% chat with other Twitch users and 25% broadcast their own gameplay.Broadcasters include games firms (Mojang, 2k and League of Legends creator Riotgames), media sites (Destructoid, Machinima and TouchArcade) and essentially lots of people who arereallygood at games.&quot;When video game historians look back on gaming a decade from now, 2013 will be the year they cite as the tipping point of streaming,&quot; its vice president of marketing Matthew DiPietro told Forbes earlier this year.&quot;Every major event, publisher, developer, and media outlet in the gaming industry had a presence on Twitch, and streaming became an ever-present piece of the gaming experience. And it’s only going to get bigger.&quot;And then there’s Pokémon…Pokémon?Yep. Twitch&apos;s biggest recent headlines were made by an inventive experiment on the network whereup to 150,000 people at once crowdplayed vintage Game Boy game Pokémon Redon Twitch by typing in text commands, which were passed on to the emulator running the game – which tried to process them all.It sounded (and often looked like) a recipe for digital chaos, but the playerscompleted the game at the start of March, quickly moving on to try to crack Pokémon Crystal. It was fun rather than a serious glimpse at the future for Twitch as a gaming platform, but it helped a new wave of people learn about the site.How does Twitch fit in with games consoles?Twitch’s biggest recent moves have been integration into Sony’s PlayStation 4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One consoles, which both enable people to livestream video of their gaming exploits. Within a month of the PS4’s release in mid-November, 100,000 new broadcasters had signed up.Twitch also hasan app for Amazon&apos;s recently-launched Fire TVset top box-cum-console. Where it&apos;s not so big – yet – is in mobile gaming. There areTwitch apps for iOS and Android, but they&apos;re purely for watching and chatting about videos, rather than broadcasting them from within games on those devices.Why is YouTube interested?YouTube and Twitch are both benefiting from the same trend: people going online to watch other people playing games – an artform that traditional television has usually struggled (in the west, at least) to make compelling viewing.Gaming channels like PewDiePie, Stampy, The Diamond Minecart, Vanoss Gaming, Yogscast, Sky Does Minecraft and others are hugely popular on YouTube: PewDiePie is the most popular channel on the service with 26.4m subscribers, andnearly 300m video views in April alone.Gaming is thus one of YouTube&apos;s biggest genres alongside music. Buying Twitch would shore up that status, making YouTube the number one platform for e-sports as well as&quot;Let&apos;s Play&quot; videos. Oh, and the huge and engaged audience to show ads to is obviously part of the appeal too.The two companies also have similar approaches: for example, YouTube&apos;s partner program for its creators is matched by Twitch&apos;s Twitch Partner Program, which had 5,100 members at the end of 2013.•Google reportedly acquiring live games video site Twitch for $1bn
Google is reported to be in talks to acquire video game streaming service Twitch for $1bn.The deal,reported by Variety, would be the biggest for YouTube since its purchase by Google in 2006 for $1.65bn. Twitch reportedly chose Google over multiple other offers including one from Microsoft, according to sources talking totechnology site the Verge, although the talks are still at an early stageaccording the Wall Street Journal.San Francisco-based Twitch allows users to stream live gameplay videos from desktop computers, as well as Microsoft Xbox One and Sony’s PlayStation 4, which both allow players to upload their own videos direct from the living room.Launched in June 2011, Twitch has quickly become a destination for broadcasting gaming videos and popular “Let’s Play” videos, claiming more than 45 million monthly users and 1 million users who upload their own videos each month.Twitch has already surpassed Facebook, Amazon and US TV streaming service Hulu in peak traffic, according toinfrastructure firm DeepField. It has secured itself as the place to watch major e-sports tournaments, where video games are played competitively for cash prizes.The startup raised $20m from investors in 2013, including game publisher Take-Two Interactive, which publishes the Grand Theft Auto series of games among others.YouTube has made efforts in the past to attract game players to upload their videos to the service, introducing a new platform for gaming video streaming at the annual Game Developers Conference in 2013.Let’s Play videos have become increasingly popular on YouTube, with some YouTube personalities such as the Brighton-based Swede PewDiePie generating 296.6m video views from 26.4m subscribers, making him thebiggest star on YouTube in Aprilbeating traditional celebrities and brands like Katy Perry, Justin Bieber and Disney.Google’s purchase of Twitch would enable it to tap into the rapidly rising trend of video game streaming and videos around video games, which have become a phenomenon in the last couple of years.Google said it had no comment on the reports.• Let&apos;s Play - the phenomenon that&apos;s bigger than One Direction
Secure communications provider Silent Circle has launched a new version of its Silent Text messaging app for iPhone and iPad:Silent Text 2.Released as a separate app rather than an update to the existing version, it’s a free download from Apple’s App Store, although a subscription to Silent Circle’s wider service – starting at $9.99 a month – is required.“Our release of Silent Text 2.0 (ST-2) is a major rewrite of our previous product and harbinger of some of the technology that Silent Circle will be using to improve the security and refine the user experience of our customers,”explained the company on its blog.Silent Text offers a mixture of private text chats and file transfers, with features including the ability to set how long messages can be read for; to manually delete them from the recipient’s device; and end-to-end encryption.Among the new technologies used for Silent Text 2 are progressive encryption, to get around the fact that both participants in a conversation may not be on Silent Circle’s network at the same time.“Ideally you should be able to start sending secure messages without waiting for the recipient to respond, but without sacrificing the same level of security and end to end encryption provided by the key exchange that we employ our current product,” explained the company.Silent Text 2 for iPhone and iPad.Silent Circle also says that the iOS app has been “substantially rewritten” to make it slicker to use, and also more secure:“We walked away from Apple’s CoreData and didn’t look back. We replaced it withYapDatabase, developed by our own very talented Robbie Hanson. This gave us amazing improvements in performance and reliability as well as substantially better anti-forensics on the data at rest. All the protocol security in the world won’t help you if your device is not well protected and so we treat that with the same amount of concern.”For now, Silent Text 2 is iOS-only, although the existingSilent Text app is available for Android.Silent Circle hit the headlines in 2013 when the companyshut down its Silent Mail encrypted-email service“to prevent spying”. The move came after a similar service, Lavabit, was closed after rejecting a US government court order to cooperate in surveillance of its customers.“We were sitting on metadata, so we knew it was only a matter of time before someone would come to us. Email was different – the rest of our products have no metadata, no IP logging, no way – but email was fundamentally broken,”said Silent Circle’s co-founder and chief executive Mike Jankein December.By then, Silent Circle and Lavabit had co-founded theDark Mail Technical Alliance, intending to provide infrastructure – the Dark Mail protocol – for a new wave of unbroken (in a security sense) email services, for which theyraised $212.5k on crowdfunding site Kickstarterin November.•Silent Circle: &apos;You may wish to avoid email altogether...&apos;
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe face recognition algorithm that finally outperforms humans &gt;&gt; The Physics arXiv BlogThe best systems can beat human performance in ideal conditions. But their performance drops dramatically as conditions get worse. So computer scientists would dearly love to develop an algorithm that can take the crown in the most challenging conditions too.Today, Chaochao Lu and Xiaoou Tang at the Chinese University of Hong Kong say they've done just that. These guys have developed a face recognition algorithm called GaussianFace that outperforms humans for the first time.The new system could finally make human-level face verification available in applications ranging from smart phone and computer game log-ons to security and passport control.Impressive.Apple, Google settle smartphone patent litigation | ReutersApple Inc and Google Inc's Motorola Mobility unit have agreed to settle all patent litigation between them over smartphones, ending one of the highest-profile lawsuits in technology.In a joint statement on Friday, the companies said the settlement does not include a cross license to their respective patents."Apple and Google have also agreed to work together in some areas of patent reform," the statement said.Apple and companies that make phones using Google's Android software have filed dozens of such lawsuits against one another around the world to protect their technology. Apple co-founder Steve Jobs called Android a "stolen product."Google and Apple informed a federal appeals court in Washington that their cases against each other should be dismissed, according to filings on Friday. However, the deal does not apply to Apple's litigation against Samsung Electronics Co Ltd.This is quite odd. Motorola had been suing Apple since 2010, claiming that Apple infringed its standard-essential patents on 3G. Apple said it had a licence via its chip supplier. Back and forth, and no result. But now with the Lenovo deal about to get approved, this never-ending litigation is abruptly settled. It feels like Motorola - or Google, or Lenovo - wanted things wrapped up. Florian Müllercalls ita "second-class settlement".Microsoft gets into the home automation game with Insteon partnership &gt;&gt; CNETMicrosoft announced a partnership with Insteon today, along with some big plans to fully incorporate the popular home automation network into its ecosystem. Starting June 1, an enhanced version of the Insteon app with exclusive features will be made available for Windows Phone 8 devices, along with any tablet, laptop, or desktop running Windows 8.1.In addition, it won't be long after that before you start seeing Insteon products lining Microsoft Store shelves.… Insteon is a fee-free home automation network that's long been popular with hobbyists. The Insteon network combines a wireless radio frequency with existing power line connections to create a fast, reliable, dual-band connection.How to encrypt your Facebook chats, and how Facebook will stop you &gt;&gt; Graham CluleyCryptocat is offering encryption for Facebook chats:I have a question, however. Is anyone who is serious about encrypting their online communications really going to be comfortable connecting with Facebook to have those conversations?If privacy is so important to you, isn't Facebook the very last place you are likely to be hanging out?Wouldn't you take any sensitive conversations away from Facebook, and have them some place where *no* meta data is being collected about who you are talking to, and when? It's also in question whether Cryptocat can sway the skeptics who may remember the service's rocky history when it comes to security."No-one I know voted for Nixon" in tech &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:The point was, Nixon had just won the US presidential election, and yet Pauline Kael lived in a world where almost no-one had voted for him. How was this possible? Who were these mysterious people who voted for Nixon, and what made them tick?I fear that the people who spend all day thinking and writing about technology often suffer from the same myopia about the behavior and mentality of the vast majority of everyday users of technology. We are nothing like them in many respects – we know far more about the technology than they do, we use a far greater variety of devices and services than they do, we read far more about it than they do, and we inhabit the same sort of bubble as Pauline Kael did, where we're often shut off from how regular people think about technology.How to get a job at Google &gt;&gt; MediumDan Crow (who worked there):Okay, so you still want to work there? You should. But it isn't easy. A lot of people want to work at Google. To give you a sense of this, in the year I joined, Google grew by about 3,000 employees, that same year they had around 1,500,000 people apply for jobs, so only 1 in every 500 people who applied, was hired. Google is in the enviable position of being able to pick and choose who it makes an offer to.I'll focus on engineering hiring. The core of Google's engineering teams are the SWEs — the software engineers. Most developers joining Google start as a SWE. Above this are TLs — Tech Leads, who run one or more teams of SWEs. A TL makes the high level technical decisions for their team(s), mentors more junior team members and keeps their projects on track against deadlines and milestones. They spend some of their time writing code.Fascinating.Led Zeppelin's Stairway to Heaven vs. Spirit's Taurus: a reckoning? &gt;&gt; BusinessweekFor live audiences, Stairway's power starts with its introductory notes. "Can you think of another song, any song, for which, when its first chord is played, an entire audience of 20,000 rise spontaneously to their feet, not just to cheer or clap hands, but in acknowledgment of an event that is crucial for all of them?" Observer critic Tony Palmer wrote in a 1975 profile. Dave Lewis writes in Led Zeppelin: The Complete Guide to Their Music that "Stairway has a pastoral opening cadence that is classical in feel and which has ensured its immortality."But what if thoseopening notesweren't actually written by Jimmy Page or any member of Led Zeppelin? What if the foundation of the band's immortality had been lifted from another song by a relatively forgotten California band?You'd need to rewrite the history of rock 'n' roll.Be sure to play the MIDI-based game in the link as well as reading the story.2014 US smartphone ownership demographics &gt;&gt; Edison ResearchWhat is remarkable about these statistics is the fact that the overall number, at 61% of Americans 12+, would be significantly higher were it not being suppressed by the relatively slower adoption by seniors–particularly amongst Americans 65+, among whom one-quarter own a smartphone. The growth in smartphone ownership has been significant over the past three years, and yes, the growth rate among seniors has been high, as the chart below indicates–nearly doubling with Americans 55+ over the past two years. Still, the overall penetration of ownership amongst 12-54 year-olds is now approaching 75%–more than double the penetration with 55+.For those aged over 65, smartphone ownership is just 25% - which probably isn't a surprise. Those over 65 comprise 13.5% of the total US population in 2012, according to its Census Bureau.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday!
De Rosa Idol £3,999 with Campagnolo Athena 11-speed groupset, Fulcrum Red Wind 50 wheelset, 3T Ergosum Pro bar and stem, FSA aero seatpost and De Rosa Sella Italia SaddleThis bike costs four grand. There, said it. It's out. I didn't want to write this review with the spectre of your disbelieving face hanging over me. Lip curled. "What? Four sodding grand? I can buy one down the market for 50 quid!" I know, I know, but it could have been worse. I&nbsp;could have been reviewingDe Rosa's Sessanta– a snip at £11,300. Instead I've gone all entry level.De Rosa has long been known as a maker of deliriously good bicycles. It has a racing pedigree stretching back 60 years. In the early 1970s, it provided the bikes forEddy Merckxand his all-conqueringMolteni team.Riding a De Rosa always feels special, and pedalling this quintessential Italian racer at the same time as the world's best cyclists are burying themselves on the heroic climbs of theGiro d'Italiafeels particularly apposite. Those riders are fighting for the honour of wearing the Maglia Rosa – the pink jersey. Three weeks of pain just to pull on a&nbsp;tight pink top! You should see what they're like with their Barbies…Chain gang: the De Rosa is driven by an 11-speed Campagnolo Athena.The De Rosa isn't, in fact, named after the maglia, but the notable frame-builder Ugo de Rosa, who set up his business in 1953. It's still a family firm, run from its Milan workshop by Ugo's sons Danilo, Doriano and Cristiano.De Rosa is one of the few bike builders which offers frames in a&nbsp;choice of steel, aluminium, titanium or carbon. Debating the pros and cons of each of these materials is the kind of thing that keeps passionate cyclists awake at night – that and their saddle sores. Dip into any bike website and the word "stiffness" occurs with such alarming regularity you'll be clearing your search history. Either way, "structural rigidity" is essential – a&nbsp;stiffer frame yields a better power transfer with each stroke (phnaar).The Idol, made of Super Hi-Modul carbon fibre, is both rigid and virtually weightless – the holy grail of bike building. Lift it with your finger and it's more hologram than bike. The mix of tube shapes blends aerodynamics with power and good looks with comfort. The slim rear stays feed into the top tube like the straining tendons of an athlete's neck. The gear and brake cables are all internally routed, which keeps the lines clean and uncluttered. The Idol comes with an 11-speedCampagnoloAthena groupset. "Oh, a Campag…" muttered my neighbour reverentially. "So mechanical…"I tested the Idol on the Surrey hills in last Sunday's London Cycle Sportive. On the flat it unfurled itself with pace and precision. On the hills it turned me intoMarco Pantani… Well, you've got to have an "idol".  But best of all, it was so comfortable. It's not often you climb off a bike after 100 miles with a bottom that isn't the bright pink of the Maglia Rosa. If I had the money I'd buy this bike in a shot.For more information on the De Rosa, go toi-ride.co.ukCapital rideRight, bring on Box Hill: a competitor in the London Cycle Sportive.  Photograph: Matt AlexanderKeen cyclists from the mean streets of south London are a familiar sight on the leafy hills of Surrey, but last Sunday's second annualFT London Cycle Sportiveturned the quite lanes into a busy cycle track. Torrential rain and gale-force winds threatened to de-rail the ride, I even checked the website before I left home in the vain hope that the event would be cancelled. But cyclists are a hardy bunch and it was clearly going to take more than rain and 30mph gusts to send us back to bed. In the end almost 2,300 turned out to tackle either the 48km, 100km or 100-mile distances of the sold-out sportive organised by Human Race in support of Access Sport. As I was on the De Rosa (reviewed above) it seemed the least I could do was to tackle the longer loop. We started at 7.30am in Dulwich Park, puzzled dog walkers wondering what was going on as hundreds whirred out of the gates, before climbing up towards Crystal Palace and then along the edge of the North Downs with amazing views over Kent and Surrey. As always it is a surprise just how quickly London goes green when you are on two wheels whisking along empty Sunday-morning roads. Eventually we returned through the suburbs and were rewarded with a victory lap of the Herne Hill velodrome – the one used in the 1948 London Olympics and now being restored by theFriends of the Herne Hill Velodrome. It was a great and testing day – competitive yet filled with camaraderie. The London Cycle Sportive is part of the Human Race Sportive Series. The next event is the Chiltern 100 on 1 June. For more details, go tohumanrace.co.uk/cyclingThe life and death of Marco PantaniOn Friday 16 May a new biopic of the gifted Italian cyclist Marco Pantani opens in cinemas across the UK. CalledPantani: The Accidental Death of a Cyclist, it explores the startling truth behind his remarkable descent from being among the finest athletes on earth to his tragic end in a sport riven by intrigue. Based on two years of extensive research and inspired by Matt Rendell's excellent bookThe Death of Marco Pantani, the film combines scintillating race archive with contemporary news footage, stylised reconstructions, and interviews with Pantani's friends, family, colleagues, and rivals, including Sir Bradley Wiggins, Evgeni Berzin and Greg LeMond. Known as Il Pirata thanks to his head scarf and gold hoop earrings, the film celebrates the rise of a man born in 1970 to a humble family in Cesanatico in northern Italy to become the most successful, flamboyant and popular cyclist of his era.&nbsp;In 1998, he won both the Tour de France and Giro d'Italia – he was the last man to accomplish the titanic feat. Yet, less than six years later, he died alone, in a cheap hotel room – destroyed by the sport to which he had given so much. It's a sad, humbling film which shines a light on the extraordinary pressures the riders faced at the height of the doping scandals. For further information, visitpantanifilm.com.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Vicky and Jonathan were 23 when they got married and started trying for a baby, and it hadn't occurred to them that they might have any trouble conceiving. That was in 2007, but after a year, Vicky still wasn't pregnant. "It didn't sit easy, because we were both so young," she says. And after a GP referral and a number of tests, they were none the wiser: "They couldn't find anything wrong with either of us."Fertility problems are estimated to affect one in seven couples in the UK – about 3.5 million people. About 84% of couples who have regular unprotected sex conceive within a year, but those who don't are diagnosed as infertile. And a quarter of them, like Vicky and Jonathan, are given a diagnosis of unexplained infertility – doctors simply cannot find a reason for it. That diagnosis was a mixed blessing for the couple. On one hand, knowing that there was nothing physically wrong gave them hope that they would one day be able to have children. But some days were darker, Vicky says: "On a bad day, you think 'if they can't find anything, no one can fix it for us either'."It seems surprising that a process that appears so simple and natural should remain so mysterious in such a large proportion of cases. But new technologies, in the forms of apps and wearable sensors, are now helping couples to better understand the intricate physiological processes that influence their fertility, and so boost their chances of pregnancy. By gathering data from large numbers of women around the clock, these apps are also providing researchers with masses of information from which to look for broader clues and patterns about lifestyle and health factors that affect fertility more broadly, which could help other couples too – not just those using the apps. "We get amazing insights into fertility," says Paris Wallace, chief executive and founder of Ovuline, a company that has produced one such app, calledOvia Fertility.For many women, the science of conception is already a refined one. Taking their basal body temperature measurements first thing in the morning or using over-the-counter ovulation kits are probably the best ways to determine when they are ovulating, and therefore the times when conception is most likely to happen.Apps such as Ovuline's Ovia orGlow, another popular alternative, help refine this process by allowing women to input such daily information as temperature readings, when their periods occur, what their emotions and moods are, and to track sexual activity and even sexual positions. But Dr Allan Pacey, a fertility expert at the University of Sheffield, is not convinced that these apps are better than traditional methods. "Women have charted their menstrual cycles in a diary or put notes in a calendar for years," he says. "Apps that allow you to input that are just an electronic diary. If you want to use an iPhone rather than a pen and paper that's fine. The question is, how much will it help?"Wallace says the apps teach users how to take control over their fertility. "For example, many people don't know when ovulation happens or that a couple can only conceive during six days of a cycle until they start using [it]." The manufacturers of the apps claim to use this information to give users tips on how to get pregnant faster. For instance, Glow will calculate the probability of a woman getting pregnant on any one day, and send reminders to her phone to tell her when she's most fertile.Many of the users – 20% in the case of Ovuline – are infertile, and have turned to the app as an alternative to IVF and other assisted reproductive technologies, or an addition to them. Wallace says there is evidence to show it helps. "The average couple takes four to six months to conceive, but our users do it in 60 days, which is two to three times faster than the national average."Of course, the same principles can also be used to avoid pregnancy. Apps such asKindaraandOvuViewpromote their use as a means of natural contraception as well as a way to help pregnancies happen.One user, who wishes to remains anonymous, says: "I think these apps are really good for people who can't have sex regularly for whatever reason, or who don't really understand their cycle due to not understanding the science or not having regular periods. But if you are capable of having sex two to three times a week, then they're not much use except for peace of mind – seeing you've ovulated [because of] a temperature change, for example."Where the technology becomes arguably more interesting is that these apps are increasingly becoming compatible with others such as food diaries and activity trackers, allowing data to be used to look for other possible factors in conception. These aren't things that doctors can glean from talking to individual patients. But with hundreds of thousands of people inputting data, it's a different matter."At Ovuline, we're undergoing the largest research study in reproductive health in the world," says Wallace. "Our users have submitted over 100m data points about their health and lifestyles, and we're getting 24,000 new data points every hour." Working with scientists at Harvard University, the company is undertaking two research projects – one on the signs of early pregnancy, for instance how your emotions can indicate whether you are pregnant, and the other on a method of  "scoring" a person's fertility.There is clearly a huge market for this kind of technology. Ovuline claims to have hundreds of thousands of users (although it will not reveal exact figures) and says the number is growing by 20% each month. But although these apps are supposed to make fertility cycles easier to track and analyse, for some people, manually inputting the information doesn't work. Vicky, who is herself a midwife, gave up taking her basal body temperature to track ovulation after two months. The temperature has to be taken at the same time every day, and with her shift work it was too difficult. And taking daily readings was adding to the pressure she already felt. The infertility issue "was ruining my life enough without trying to take my temperature every day and do all those things," she says.After they had been trying for a year and were therefore told they were infertile, Vicky and Jonathan decided to try IVF, but swore that they would only try as many times as they could on the NHS, to avoid getting into debt. With the news that the second round of IVF had not worked, the couple went back to "normal life".By 2012, they were just beginning to get their heads around the idea that they might never become parents. "We were starting to accept it as much as you can. We started to look at expensive holidays and treating ourselves because we had put our life on hold to try for a baby," Vicky says.It was then that a colleague told her about a new gadget calledDuoFertility, which they thought looked interesting. Her colleague was having similar fertility issues, and "we both agreed we would do it together because we had nothing to lose," Vicky says.DuoFertility was launched in 2009 by Cambridge Temperature Concepts, a Cambridge University spin-off, and has been steadily growing in popularity over the last couple of years as a result of the boom in both "big data" analytics and advances in sensor technology.Women who are looking to conceive wear a sensor on their skin under the arm. It monitors very small changes in their body temperature and can more accurately detect the small increase in temperature associated with ovulation.The DuoFertility reader and the small sensor worn under the arm to monitor body temperature.Rather than having to manually take a reading at the same time every morning, the sensor constantly takes them: about 20,000 times a day. It then wirelessly transmits the information back to a small receiver, which can be plugged into a computer for analysis. By picking up small changes in body temperature, the device provides a much more accurate picture of when the woman is ovulating. "Simply having this information on precisely when to try is shown to make a dramatic impact on a couple's chances," says Claire Hooper, DuoFertility's chief executive. As with other apps, users also manually input data such as sleep, physical activity levels and their sense of wellbeing. "We are able to establish patterns and anomalies that may be missed on a single visit to the clinic," she says, because the device monitors people as they go about their daily lives.The company also prides itself on the fact that it provides a personal support and analysis service for each couple. DuoFertility staff analyse the data and send emails providing help or asking for more information to provide context. For instance, Vicky would tell them what shifts she was working because warm temperatures on the ward could affect her body temperature. The team also gets in touch if there seem to be any problems that might warrant a visit to a GP – such as signs ofpolycystic ovaries.Vicky and Jonathan started using the device in February 2012 and found out Vicky was pregnant by the end of April – three cycles later. After five years of trying and two courses of IVF, it had worked after just a few months, and their son is now one year old.Vicky speculates that success might have just been down to the fact they were more relaxed and knew that they did not have much to lose. The most popular DuoFertility package costs £495, which includes the sensor itself, the wireless monitor to which the data is transferred, and the one-to-one support over the phone and by email.Hooper says people use the service for a range of reasons – some are "simply very busy and need to schedule their time together – we can give up to six days' advance warning of when to try, which is exactly what they need to align their diaries!" she says.Others are often considering IVF because of unexplained infertility but would like to be sure they have maximised their chances of a natural conception first. Some are between cycles of IVF, or, like Vicky and Jonathan, have tried it without success. In 2012 DuoFertility was approved as a medical device by the US authorities, and peer-reviewed research conducted by the company has found significant increases in pregnancy rates of people using the device. "In the UK, one in eight with unexplained infertility who have been trying to conceive naturally for more than two years, but less than three, will get pregnant within a year," says Oriane Chausiaux, DuoFertility's co-founder and chief scientific officer. That's a 12.5% pregnancy rate. "For a similar group of couples, we have 39% pregnancy rate with DuoFertility over 12 months." The company claims that for many couples the service is a viable alternative to IVF.It's important to note that this is just related to people with unexplained fertility or mild problems – the device cannot help people who have serious conditions that are preventing them from conceiving naturally. And the device doesn't work in all cases of those with unexplained infertility . The colleague who first told Vicky about DuoFertility had no success.Meanwhile Glow has come up with a way to make the app into a kind of insurance should couples fail to conceive. Through the app'sGlow Firstprogramme, users can choose to make a monthly £30 contribution until they get pregnant. Those who don't conceive after 10 months are entitled to money from the kitty to help pay for IVF. "It's crowdfunding for babies," says Glow co-founder Mike Huang.Hooper says in the future, DuoFertility would like to be able to use the sensor to understand other conditions. "We're collecting and cross-referencing huge quantities of patient data. When analysed together, all this data is especially relevant to other aspects of healthcare such as pain management, sleep problems, obesity and other conditions. It's a prospect we are actively exploring."For Vicky, being able to contribute to something bigger is also an exciting prospect. "It's so un-invasive, no one needs to know you are doing it. Yet all that data that you are giving them, hopefully will find things out for the future and help so many other people."
Nintendo's pink puffball hero returns in triplicate. Story mode offers the usual special power-stealing, platforming action, fighter mode hasSuper Smash Bros-style four player battles and drum dash offers a rhythmic challenge. And whileKirby Triple Deluxecould be criticised for not exploiting its well-worn tropes, there's no denying the game will prove&nbsp;thrilling to newcomers and younger family members. There's around nine hours of play in the main story and discovering every hidden item adds challenge and replayability. Ultimately, though, developer Hal Laboratory's tactile inventiveness never quite fires on all cylinders, leaving a solid experience that never quite soars like its pink, helium hero.
There's little new inBound By Flame. A fantasy RPG with combat that focuses on character classes and skill trees, it will be instantly familiar to anyone who has ever playedThe Witcherseries. OrDragon Age. OrFable. But whether or not it will elicit similar affection depends largely on how forgiving players are willing to be.The game glitches. Its world design is repetitive and restrictive. Its characters are impressively dull. Even its plot – in which you play as a warrior possessed by a fire demon who's forced to choose between doing good or evil – follows a well-travelled route. And yet it's hard not to be charmed by the game's commitment to its own bawdy, high-fantasy silliness, and its keenness to grant the player a host of wild&nbsp;combat abilities. The overall experience, then, is a shallow one, but ultimately satisfying enough for the brief &nbsp;time it lasts.
Daylightbegins with a fairly straightforward premise. Playing as Sarah, you've awoken in a dilapidated,&nbsp;sealed-up hospital with no memories and only a smartphone to dimly light the way. With a malevolent presence at your heels, the aim is simply to escape, not fight. ButDaylightsteps away from the norm with maps that are randomly generated, lending an appropriate sense of claustrophobia to navigating the labyrinthine hospital (and, eventually, other equally creepy locations).However,&nbsp;such settings are commonplace in horror stories, making attempts to find a way out feel overly familiar. Indeed, once the scares&nbsp;play out, boredom sets in.
Very few games – let alone mobile titles – break out to the mainstream in the wayAngry Birdsdid – so it's a surprise that few have attempted to ape the series' intuitive controls as achieved inSplemy(Windows Phone, £2.49, Formerdroid)while mapping them on to a different genre. This platform puzzler takes advantage of the drag-and-fling mechanic, but rather than a single slingshot, it's used for the continuous movement of the eponymous yellow blob across a cavernous landscape. Born from the primordial soup, the grinning one-eyed hero is set to work collecting miniature versions of himself, while navigating the underground lairs without falling prey to spiky obstacles, across 75 levels. Hit sharp objects and the mini-splemies are lost (much like Sonic's rings), and he will eventually die. Additional points are awarded for collecting as many as possible, as well as traversing to the end of levels with as few movements as possible. It looks cute, and the neat controls make for an accessible experience for novice gamers.Monument Valley: 'luscious visuals'.Monument Valley(£2.49, iOS, ustwo) may only boast 10 levels to Splemy's 75, but if ever there was an example of less being more this is it; a breathtakingly beautiful game, that manages to captivate and delight across its short play time. Calling it a puzzle game doesn't do it justice – while the aim is to guide the "silent princess" Ida across the Escher-inspired Arabesque landscape – the simply told, yet touching, narrative and luscious visuals make the experience a feast for the eyes and the mind.Players control Ida through the twisty-turny world of interlocking staircases and turrets by tapping where you want her to go. Some walkways can then be rotated or shifted vertically to allow access to the previously inaccessible, whether that be doors, leading to different areas around the monuments, or pads that alter the landscape further. Some walkways can be manipulated with Ida on, others not, and as the level's architecture shifts, areas connect in a way that makes sense visually, if not in reality – a beautiful construct of interlocking planks to be traversed before reaching the endpoint. The simple interplay between touch controls, gameplay and the shifting perspective on the world should be a lesson for all game developers and fits the medium to perfection. The accompanying sounds that ring out and create your own soundtrack as the land masses are moved adds to the haunting environment – uninhabited but for squawking black crows, who seem to resent your very presence, and a mysterious genie-like figure who drives the story through narrative interludes. It may only be brief, you'll probably get through it the first time in around an hour, but with a game this good one shouldn't complain; instead just soak up the atmosphere and enjoy the tricksy mind-bending puzzles while it lasts.
Sooner or later, every argument about regulation of the internet comes down to the same question: is this the thin end of the wedge or not? We saw a dramatic illustration last week when the European court of justicehanded down a judgmenton a case involving a Spanish lawyer, one Mario Costeja González, who objected that entering his name in Google's search engine brought up embarrassing information about his past (that one of his properties had been the subject of a repossession).Mario Costeja González said the debt issues had been resolved long ago and were no longer relevant. So he asked the newspaper that had published the information to take down the notices and Google to delete the links to them. When they refused, he complained to the Spanish data protection agency that his rights to the protection of his personal data were being violated. The agency ordered Google to remove the links. Google challenged the order and the Spanish courts referred the matter to the European court in 2010.Which is how we got to last week's judgment. The court ruled that the EU's 1995 data protection directive means that individuals should have an opportunity to insist that Google (and presumably other search engines) remove certain search results that come up in a search for their names, not because they are false, or infringe copyright, but because they violate a "respect for private life" or a "right to protection of personal data".This is what the mainstream media, in their cheery, clueless way, have called "the right to be forgotten". The judgment triggered a storm of thin-end-of-the-wedge protests. "This ruling,"thundered James Waterworth, for example, "opens the door to large-scale private censorship in Europe. It may open the floodgates for tens of thousands of requests to have legal, publicly available information about Europeans taken out of a search index or links removed from websites… While the ruling means to offer protection, our concern is it could also be misused by politicians or others with something to hide."It's worth noting that Waterworth is the head of the Brussels office for the Computer and Communications Industry Association, which counts Facebook, Microsoft and Google among its members, and that these companies are mightily pissed off by the court ruling. Asked about it at a company press conference, Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, said: "A simple way of understanding what happened here is that you have a collision between a right to be forgotten and a right to know. From Google's perspective that's a balance. Google believes, having looked at the decision, which is binding, that the balance that was struck was wrong."For "wrong" read "also annoying and expensive". Google will have to tool up to deal with take-down requests in each of the 28 countries of the EU. It will need "an army of removal experts," one (anonymous) company source said. And it seems that already people are beginning to issue take-down demands. This additional EU-imposed expense is obviously annoying to an American company, but I think we should put away the violins and try to get this into perspective.So, is the judgment the thin edge of a censorship wedge? Answer: in practice, maybe. We'll have to see how it pans out. After all, the ruling does not preclude anyone from publishing anything on a website (subject to the usual restrictions about libel, hate speech, Holocaust denial etc): it just makes that information harder to find. Why? Because if Google can't (or chooses not to) find a website, then for practical purposes that website doesn't exist.That's power. Real power. So one way of reading the court's verdict is as a way of making a US company, whose business model depends, ultimately, on exploiting its users' personal data, conform to European standards.En passant, it would be nice to see the EU taking a similarly tough line on the US National Security Agency's cavalier disregard for Europeans' right to privacy, but that's obviously a step too far.The most insightful comment on the judgment came from Jonathan Zittrain of the Harvard Law School. "I think it's a bad solution to a very real problem," he said, "which is that everything is now on our permanent records." He's right. There are good reasons why, for some people, for example, public figures, and in some contexts, information should always be publicly available. But for most people there ought to be some kind of statute of limitations. The problem is that our networked environment, as currently configured, allows for no such statute. All we have is the thin end of a wedge.
For years, the London licensed cab driver's badge was worn with pride. Up to five gruelling years spent scootering around the capital learning "the knowledge", plus a full medical, meant the black hackney was driven by the cream of drivers. But now there is insurgency on the block. The digital revolution that has changed so many industries is sweeping the taxi business, possibly putting the very future of the famous vehicle so loved by tourists and Londoners alike under threat.Next month, London's black-taxi drivers are planning a mass protest in the capital against Californian technology company Uber, which is leading the changes in the way people hail cabs. Uber – like several other entrants to the lucrative cab business – allows people to use an application on their phones to see where the closest car is to them and then book it after agreeing a set fare, which is paid by credit card. No cash changes hands, and Uber even discourages passengers from tipping their drivers.The encroachment of smartphone technology on the capital's taxi operations is being looked at by the licensing authority, Transport for London. In a statement, it said: "We've seen no evidence to suggest that Uber London Ltd are not fit and proper to hold a London private hire operators' licence, but no final decisions have been made while Uber's operating model is still under investigation."Taxis and minicabs are regulated differently in London. Black cabs, allowed to use bus lanes and to pick up passengers who hail them in the street, are more tightly regulated and their fares are metered. Minicab drivers work under a lighter touch and have fewer privileges, but still must be licensed and registered.The new cabs being "facilitated" by Uber – which says it is not a cab firm but  an enabling "platform" – are, according to  the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association, being allowed to straddle both while only meeting the licensing criteria for minicabs: they are classified as a minicab service but can use a charging system more like metering, even though there isn't a meter inside the car.London cabbies aren't alone in their protest against technology that undermines their business with just a phone and a satnav. Uber has run into opposition in 15 of the 100 cities worldwide in which it operates – in the UK that includes Manchester. There have been protests and even court cases against it in Brussels, Toronto, Paris, Berlin and New York, plus several other US cities.Jo Bertram, general manager of Uber in the UK and Ireland, said the service was so popular that the average wait for a cab was around five minutes. "Seven during the tube strike," she added.She was more coy on how many cars and drivers were registered to its "platform". "Our clients are giving us very encouraging feedback and we're seeing fantastic growth," Bertram said. "The private hire industry hasn't been shaken up in a decade or more. The laws governing it were written in 1988, before smartphones were even invented. All our drivers are independent operators, but clients can rate their driver at the end of a journey, so we make sure the right people are out there and the right price is charged at the end of each journey. "The idea is very simple – if you want a taxi, you look at the app on your phone, see where the nearest car is and order it. You can then watch the little icon on screen as it approaches. The payment is taken from the registered credit card.Nicko Williamson runs Bounce, another app-driven taxi firm. "We don't want to put the black cabs out of business. It's an iconic thing. You can hail them, and that's really important for Londoners. Will drivers stop aspiring to be a black cabbie? I don't think that's going to happen any time yet. There's still a demand, but we work on a commission model with our drivers – straight 20%. They can log on and off when they want, and we find loads of people want to be drivers. We have a fixed upfront price and our overheads are lower, without the minicab office and telephone operators."A lot of people don't realise how big this market is. There are 65,000 mini cabs in London. But it has been very inefficient. A driver who picks someone up in central London and drops them off out in the sticks is driving back empty. That's wasted mileage, higher pollution, higher congestion and no money earned. The app system allows that cab to be booked immediately by someone in the area."Passengers can also be sent a photograph of the driver and the car's registration number. The whole journey is recorded on an emailed receipt. But while people can request a fare quote, the journey cost is calculated, says the LTDA, by a metering system even if the meter is not actually inside the car.London cabbies are plotting their survival. The June protest will attract enough drivers to cause serious congestion in central London, said the LTDA's general secretary, Steve McNamara. "We're not asking for Uber to be banned. If everyone else has to follow the rules, why shouldn't they?"
We have come toWhipsnade Zooin this one. It's the smallest car here by a mile. So many big 4x4s. Perhaps this is how people justify them – they come to Whipsnade Zoo because there are lions and zebras about the place, and they can pretend they're in the actual Serenfrigginggeti, where they might need that kind of off-road capability and protection.Have you been? To Whipsnade, not theSerengeti. There's a bit where you drive through and the animals are loose – OK, not the lions, but a&nbsp;few deer. Anyway, on a&nbsp;sunny spring weekend it's bumper-to-bumper Land Rovers and Land Cruisers, and it really does feel as if we are on safari. And we are in a wee Hyundai.Do I feel inadequate? Not a bit of it. Well, there's a very good flat metalled road, for one thing, so there's no need for all that traction and torque. And the i10 might be tiny, but it's solid and roomy enough to appear bigger once you're inside. A city car, certainly, but it didn't feel out of place on the M1 on the way here, even with the smaller 1.0&nbsp;litre 66 PS three-cylinder engine which is what this one has, and it's remarkably quiet and relaxing for a&nbsp;small car, even at motorway speed.And now, on the plains of Africa (actually, I see that the drive-thru is called Passage Through Asia, so maybe we're in Mongolia or somewhere), I don't feel vulnerable. If something turned nasty, decided it wanted in… Hang on, they're deer. I'm more worried about hitting one of them, or being squashed between a couple of 4x4s, whose drivers probably wouldn't even notice. Thank God for the six airbags.Anyway, I explain to my children that, because we're averaging 60 miles per gallon, and emitting only 108g of CO2per kilometre, it's the other children in the big cars who are killing all the animals by destroying the planet they live on. Boo, Bambi slayers. (To be honest, I'm not sure the one-month-old fully gets it.)And then, in the other areas where you have to pull over and get out of your car to see the meerkats and lemurs in their enclosures, we can squeeze into spaces the 4x4s can't even dream of fitting into. Ha! And we might be small, but we've still got four doors, so it's not such a&nbsp;faff getting everyone out.The i10 is an excellent car. So a&nbsp;VW Up! might be ever so slightly more fun to drive. And a Fiat 500 might be a teeny bit cuter. But, taking everything into account, this one's hard to beat. Parkable, practical, functional, likable, cheap to buy and run, it's a city car that's not scared to&nbsp;venture out of the city, way out into the wilds of Bedfordshire. (In&nbsp;the distance, a lion roars.)Hyundai i10 1.0 SE 66PS ManualPriceFrom £9,295Top speed96mphAcceleration0-60mph in 14.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption60.1mpgC02emissions108g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating7/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewRay is on his way home from work as a hard-hat tester when he gets hit on the bonce by a mysterious military experiment, waking up with a giant wobbly pink arm growing out of his head. Looking like a 2D platform game, Stick It To The Man is actually an adventure, with Ray meeting and reading the minds of the strange denizens of his world, before figuring out how to help them. The animation and whacked-out comedy have shades of classic surrealist cartoon Ren &amp; Stimpy and the game is generously laden with fourth-wall poking and self-referential meta humour.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKThe Walking Dead: Season Two, PS VitaAlthough games based on films or TV shows tend to be lifeless pap churned out to suck up extra revenue, The Walking Dead was an example of how things ought to be done. Taking the series' zombie-infested setting, it created characters you actually care about, who are then often brutally snuffed out in front of you. Season two is just as effective at toying with your sentiments, as well as giving your actions far-reaching consequences. The Vita version lets you play with buttons and joystick or touchscreen, which is confusing but still delivers the full complement of emotional trauma.Telltale Games, £3.99Kiwanuka, iOSLike a miniature touchscreen ode to the 16-bit classic Lemmings, Kiwanuka has your staff-carrying magician leading a population of tiny, multicoloured followers to the safety of a prism at the end of each level. You can jump from ledges and make bridges out of your followers, delicately swinging them into position so that your troupe climb across gaps and over stretches of deadly crystal. Moving platforms, floating crystals and impossible-looking rock formations never hold you up for long in this two-hour mini-puzzle adventure.CMA Megacorp, £1.49
The school holidays may be over, but there's always another one lurking on the horizon, which makes the release of thePokémon TVapp – with its vast library of child-hypnotising small monster-focused entertainment – a welcome new device for managing long car journeys and rainy spring mornings. Meanwhile, Nintendo has been forced to pre-apologise for the upcomingTomodachi Life, a whimsical game about adding characters to your very own paradise island and nurturing their hobbies, jobs and relationships. Its insistence on heterosexual-only love has caused a wave of online grumbling. As well as saying sorry, Nintendo pleads that "it is not possible for us to change this game's design", but the company has promised that any future instalment will be redesigned so that it is "more inclusive, and better represents all players".
Spoiler alert: the first paragraph of this story contains plot details about the end of Halo 4Master Chief, the troubled hero of the Halo game series, has changed. The end of Halo 4 saw him battered and exhausted after his epic battle with The Didact. His best friend – the AI assistant Cortana – is dead, ravaged by a computerised sickness and then sacrificed to save humanity. We leave him contemplating his role in the UNSC, questioning everything he&apos;s fought for.So when 343 Industries revealed the next Halo instalment on Friday, the obvious questions were, where does the series go next? In her Xbox Wire post, general manager Bonnie Ross spoke mostly about the technical aspects of bringing the game to Xbox One, the new engine, the ambition behind it.So what of that ending? What does it tell us about the mood of the next title? Well, speaking to Ross as well as development director Frank O&apos;Connor, we know that Halo 5 will take place soon after the previous game: &quot;This is a continuation of the story from Halo 4,&quot; says O&apos;Connor.And Chief? &quot;When we left him in Halo 4, he&apos;s in a really challenging position,&quot; says Ross. &quot;He&apos;s questioning many things he once firmly believed were true. He&apos;s lost his best friend, he&apos;s questioning his past and his purpose, he&apos;s question who he is fighting for.&quot;For us this is a really interesting point. For the first time he&apos;s questioning everything he&apos;s done for the UNSC in the past. Just as with past titles, we&apos;re being really open about the fact that we want to tell this story over more than one game – this is about Master Chief&apos;s journey: it&apos;s about his past and his future.&quot;The reference to the past is interesting. We know that 343 Industries has something planned for 2014 as well as 2015, and there have been consistent rumours –reiterated on Eurogamer in February– that a Halo 2 Anniversary edition may be in the works. Perhaps that will form a taster, a bridge to the events of Halo 5?Is that Master Chief in the cloak, looking out over a rugged terrain?We&apos;ve also seen the intriguing opening images from the new title, with Master Chief shrouded in a cloak on some desolate planetscape. Is the 343 development team going to give us a much darker, more personal adventure? &quot;For us, it&apos;s super interesting,&quot; says Ross. &quot; If you look at Halo 1, 2 and 3 and know the origin story and know the fiction well, Master Chiefisour hero, he is you, and he is saving humanity... but its been at a huge cost to his life and there are things going on – you saw them in 4 – that make him question who is calling the shots. Is he doing the right thing? That&apos;s very interesting for us to explore.&quot;We did try to get some more information on the structure of Halo 5. How much has 343 Industries looked across at the likes of Dark Souls, Titanfall and, of course, Destiny - how much has it considered elements like seamless multiplayer/single-player crossovers and cloud-based persistent worlds?Ross laughs. &quot;You&apos;re asking questions we just can&apos;t answer! We learned a ton from Halo 4, and having the abilities we have with Xbox One... it has opened up doors on things we could never have done before. We&apos;re very excited but we can&apos;t talk about any of it.&quot;But this is a new beginning right? And a lot will ride on this title. Who knows where the PS4 vs Xbox One fight will be by then. Halo is, and always has been, a flagbearer for Xbox as a platform. &quot;Any time you have a platform launch, it&apos;s an opportunity to take a step back and think more broadly,&quot; says Ross. &quot;For us, it&apos;s almost a blank canvas. What are the stories we want to tell, how do we want to tell them, how do we use Halo to push the new platform?&quot;It&apos;s also a time to listen to our fans and take their feedback on what&apos;s important to them going forward. It&apos;s about how do we start and where do we go on Xbox One?&quot;Halo 5 is launched on Xbox One in autumn 2015• Halo 5: Guardians announced for Xbox One
Young designers need to establish an online presence early on and embrace technology, as it has become an &quot;essential part&quot; of the fashion business, according to the chief executive of the British Fashion Council.&quot;Technology has become so much more accessible and ingrained in the way we do business, shop and communicate,&quot; Caroline Rush told the Decoded Fashion summit in London.She said technology had become an essential part of the business and as a result of adopting online platforms and developing their e-commerce, many designers are now selling directly to the consumer at a much faster pace than would have been the course traditionally.&quot;It&apos;s really about bringing the fashion and tech sectors together and providing opportunities to help young designers get online – that is helping them to do it in the right way, to make sure there&apos;s mentors around them so that it is successful and they&apos;re learning... from challenges and hurdles that come with any retail platform.&quot;Rush added that fashion businesses that &quot;get it right&quot; could grow more quickly and see better profits. &quot;In London, people are seeing that there is a really great movement going on in the fashion and tech world. If [the BFC] can support that to grow, it is an added feather in our cap for the fashion industry.&quot;We&apos;re also seeing lots of tech firms who are coming to work with designers so that the tech that they have can be put into really beautiful products and that&apos;s an exciting moment for us,&quot; Rush told the summit attendees, a mixture of industry insiders and enthusiasts from the tech, retail, marketing and fashion sectors.Designers struggle to keep upHenry Holland, the designer who first started selling his bold T-shirt designs on Myspace, said he found the main challenge to be keeping up with the development of technology.Fellow designer Mary Katrantzou, know for her detailed print creations, said designers allowed time to build a brand creatively but &quot;maybe we don&apos;t necessarily have the time, network or knowledge about what to do technologically&quot;.She also highlighted a desire for technology that could make studio life easier. Asked what would be a dream app, Rush replied that an app tracking the reputation brands are building would be much coveted by the BFC. Katrantzou said she would like an app that could offer a pool of logistics information, providing price comparison costs that she says would &quot;save a lot of time across the company&quot;.The British designer Lulu Guinness said designers should not be afraid of incorporating technology into their brand. &quot;You’ve got to be fearless, I think you get left behind otherwise,&quot; she said. &quot;You&apos;ve just got to go with it – use your intelligence, your common sense. If you’re a fashion retailer you should be embracing every single type of technology you can.&quot;Guinness was enthusiastic about the prospect of 3D printing, even declaring it would be a perfect fit for the Perspex lip-shaped purse her brand has become known for. She was quick to add that some items would still need to be produced by the hands of craftsmen.Emulating tech startupsThe British Fashion Council also released a report on Tuesday entitled Commercialising Creativity – Creating a Model for Success for British Fashion Designers, which said young British designers should emulate Silicon Valley and view the launch of afashionbrand as an entrepreneurial venture.The report echoes comments from Liz Bacelar, the founder of Decoded Fashion, who told the Guardian this year that “designers need to launch like startups”. The release also marks a new partnership between the London Business School and the British Fashion Council, which was also announced on Tuesday.•Stella McCartney&apos;s seven key steps to fashion business success•Decoded Fashion&apos;s Liz Bacelar on fashion-tech startups
The phablet bandwagon is rolling – and Apple had better get on board quickly or it will lose out, according to the research company Canalys.According to its latest research, a third of the 279.4m smartphones that shipped in the first quarter of 2014 had screens larger than 5in, the size commonly used to define a &quot;phablet&quot;, which is a cross between a phone and a small tablet.And contrary to the expectation that phablets&apos; principal popularity is in Asia, the company&apos;s data shows that in the US 32% of phones had screens larger than 5in, in line with the world total, even though smartphone shipments to the US made up only 12% of the world.In Europe, which accounted for 11% of the world total shipments, phablets made a smaller but still substantial proportion, at 27% of shipments. Large-screened phones remain more popular in the Asia-Pacific region, where they made up 43% of all shipments; for China the figure was 39%.Smartphone shipments by screen size, Q1 2014. Data: Canalys Photograph: /PR/CanalysSmartphone shipments by screen size, showing Apple as separate category, Q1 2014. Data: Canalys Photograph: /The Guardian/CanalysJessica Kwee, an analyst at Canalys, said: &quot;The trend is unmistakably towards larger-screen handsets at the high end of the market. Consumers now expect high-end devices to have large displays, and Apple&apos;s absence in this market will clearly not last long.&quot;There are growing rumours that Apple will release a phone with a 4.7in screen later this year, and that it is testing an even larger phone with a 5.5in screen. 9to5Macreported on Wednesdaythat Apple was testing an iPhone 6 with a display with a resolution of 1704x960 pixels. While both measurements would give the phones a &quot;pixel density&quot; as large or greater than the iPhone 4 and 5 screens, it&apos;s unclear how easy it would be for developers to rewrite apps to work on those screens without introducing pixellation. Apple declined to comment on the 9to5Mac report.A sales document presented at the recent patent trial between Apple and Samsungsuggested that Apple was concernedthat people &quot;want what we don&apos;t have&quot;: cheaper phones and larger-screened models.The data from Canalys show that if Apple is excluded from the figures, then just over half of smartphones shipped in the period had screens smaller than 5in, while 22% were in the 5-5.4in category, 10% in the 5.5-5.9in category, and 1% with screens larger than 6in. Apple, whose phones range from 3.5in to 4in, comprised 16% of total shipments.Excluding Apple, almost all the phones shipped during the quarter were running versions of Google&apos;s Android software: according to ABI Analytics, another research company, about 22% of all Android handset shipped in China running AOSP, the open-source version of Android without Google services.Tim Coulling, a senior analyst at Canalys, said: &quot;Smartphone screen size is increasing, and people are more accepting of something larger in their pocket. It will be interesting to see how this affects the &apos;small tablet&apos; market.&quot; He noted that the worldwide tablet market &quot;stumbled&quot; in the first quarter of 2014, even as shipments of larger smartphones grew. But he characterised the space above 5.5in as &quot;more niche&quot;.A study by another research company, Kantar,suggested in Januarythat a significant proportion of European buyers of phablet-sized phones tended to shift to a smaller phone on their next upgrade, though phablets retained 58% of buyers.Samsung has had notable success with its Galaxy Note range of phablets, of which the newest Galaxy Note 3 has a screen measuring 5.7in. Each new generation of the Note range has had a slightly larger screen, pointing to attempts by Samsung to make the device a complete replacement both for PCs and tablets.Google&apos;s data about screen sizes, from itsDeveloper Dashboards page, suggest that almost 90% of the hundreds of millions of Google Android devices in use have &quot;small&quot; or &quot;normal&quot; sized screens, which covers a range up to about 4.5in. The &quot;large&quot; category, covering those up to 7in, comprises 7.8%, but has been growing steadily.Google Android installed base screen size, by percentage. The size ranges overlap because of the way Android reports screen size. The rise in the 'small' category is likely caused by measurement changes. Photograph: /Google/The GuardianEven so, the &quot;small&quot; and &quot;normal&quot; categories remain dominant, comprising 87.3% of the total installed base, according to Google&apos;s figures. That points to both the size of the Android installed base, and the inertia such a base shows to changes by smartphone manufacturers.But Apple needs to align itself with the changes, says Coulling. &quot;Without addressing the larger screen size of the market, Apple is missing out on a significant amount of shipments,&quot; he said. &quot;Bigger screens are becoming essential for browsing. They make it a lot more attractive – you can fit more information into a single screen. And media consumption is becoming more and more important. That requires a larger screen too. Email gets easier on a big screen too.&quot;He also suggested that productivity functions such as document editing are a &quot;major use&quot; for larger screens, a functionality that Samsung has pushed hard with the Note, including a split-screen function and pen capability.Coulling suggested that Apple could create a range of flagship phones at different sizes, in the same way as HTC and Samsung have with their One and Galaxy ranges. But Apple only moved to releasing two different handsets last year, suggesting a cautious approach on its part to releasing new products.&quot;Increasing screen size would only be a benefit to Apple,&quot; he said. The effect on rivals would be dependent on how any larger iPhone was priced, he added. &quot;For the time being, rival vendors have enjoyed non-competition from Apple at these larger screen sizes. If Apple entered that segment, it would make some people decide whether they want to stay on Android or go back to Apple.&quot;Canalys said the smartphone market was still showing strong growth, with shipments growing 29% compared with the year before, although it fell by 5% compared with the final quarter of 2013, traditionally the largest.China remains the largest market, with 97.5m smartphones shipped – although that too was down sequentially, by 3%.•Phablets to make a splash in Asia – but appeal in Europe is &apos;limited&apos;
Rebekah Ford is an interactive designer and developer. She’s lived in Brixton for 20 years, and until recently was commuting out of the area for work. She’s now set up shop locally working from Brixton’s newly launched communal workspace along with other tech, creative and social enterprise start-ups.“I had no idea there were so many tech-related people living in the area,” Ford said. “I’ve never felt local to the area. I’ve worked in lots of different spaces, such as people’s offices and at home, but just being around people with a collaborative mind-set will be a massive benefit to my business.”Brixton Impact Hub has been operating on a trial basis since April. It will fully open its doors in mid-May, and already 50 entrepreneurs have expressed interest in joining. Funded by Lambeth council, the Hub sits within Lambeth Town Hall, and aims to offer an affordable base for local entrepreneurs.With links to 50 other Hubs throughout the world, the first Impact Hub was launched in Islington in 2005; Brixton Impact Hub will draw on their experience to help young businesses get off the ground.“Since I’ve started taking part in collaborative spaces, I’ve doubled the amount of work I’ve had,” Ford said. “Entrepreneur meet-ups with people in suits, who were not like me, were intimidating, but if you’re in a communal environment where you’re all bringing all your skills to the table you know you’re on to a winner.”Limited local impactAlexandra Deschamps-Sonsino, founder of Design Warm, a consultancy specialising in theInternet of Things, agrees. “I think it’s really smart,” she said. “There are a lot of people coming into Brixton at the weekends, but the amount of impact they’re having locally is fairly limited. I think there are a lot of creative people in Brixton who could be putting value into the area.”Like Ford, Deschamps-Sonsino is moving her business to Brixton. She’s been based in Shoreditch for four years, but cited the expensive rent and commute as major factors in her move. “People are moving south of river,&quot; she said. &quot;There is value in being in east London, but it’s not worth the cost involved.”Lambeth has second highest number of London startupsThese two examples of tech business moving to Brixton come at a time when Lambeth council is encouraging entrepreneurship among its residents. Already there has been a host of events to help locals understand how to start a business or expand into new markets.A Tech City event in November, for example, highlighted routes to funding and encouraged residents to think about how they could be more technically creative. And perhaps these sorts of events have been working, because according to the latest figures from the Office for National Statistics, Lambeth has one of the highest number of business startups, second only to Westminster city council, with 4,255 businesses launching in the borough in 2012.An emphasis on tech and entrepreneurship in the area, though, comes at a time when Brixton is changing, housing prices are increasing, and middle-class residents are moving in. Along with that, some of Lambeth’s existing residents are falling behind, with 15% not having online access; among social housing tenants, the proportion without access is is 40%.Thousands of residents need help getting onlineThis also comes at a time when the government wants to make the internet its primary way of communicating with benefit claimants, including accessing the universal credit system. For Lambeth residents to do this, an estimated 27,500 of them will need support getting online, and of those about 23,300 will need an hour of basic support. The remaining 4,200 will require a minimum of five hours of training, with a quarter of those potentially needing up to 15 or 20 hours of help.So what is Lambeth council doing to help these people? It&apos;s decided to launch Digi-buddies, a scheme using volunteers with strong IT skills, to help these residents understand the internet. Several councils across the country have launched similar schemes: Peterborough has a Fibre to the Future programme and Merthyr Tydfil has a programme called Get Merthyr Tydfil Online.&apos;I don&apos;t have time for the internet&apos;But not everyone is welcoming digital inclusion. Tony Benest, who has owned and run the Brixton Wholefoods shop for 30 years, said: “I’m too busy to learn about the internet. I work 70, 80 or 90 hours a week, every week, and I don’t have time.” He said the council’s emphasis on entrepreneurship is a “desperate measure to get people into work, and if the cost of living continues to rise, and the wages in the area are staying rock bottom, there’s a much bigger issue that needs to be addressed”.Referring to the programmes introduced by Lambeth to help residents as “pet projects”, Benest added that he was more concerned about the empty shop next door, which is being advertised for twice his rent. “When my rent comes up for review in a few years, I don’t know what the area will be. Brixton seems to be taking off and basically leaving a great many people behind or kicking them out altogether.”•Brighton&apos;s leading tech startups
Dance music star Deadmau5 has launched a new iPhone app offering fans exclusive music, video and access to his &quot;candid thoughts&quot; in return for a monthly subscription fee.The app, whichwent live in Apple&apos;s App Storethis week, is the mobile companion to thelive.deadmau5.comcommunity that the musician – aka Joel Thomas Zimmerman – launched in December.Its App Store listing describes the app as &quot;a subscription based digital destination he personally architected for fans to get direct access to premium content and intimate experiences&quot;.Fans can sample some features for free, but sign up for a £2.99 monthly subscription or £34.99 annual fee for full access. Deadmau5 has worked with music startup Upfront Media on both the website and app.Soon after the app launched, Zimmerman was defending the lack of an Android version to cross fans on Twitter. &quot;okay complainers. we are developing an app for android as well, have been for a while. ios was just easiest for now. work takes time,&quot; hetweeted last night.we dont have a staff of 30+ programmers on it 24/7. contrary to popular belief, im aactually a dubstep dj. not a software company.&mdash; deadmau5 (@deadmau5)May 15, 2014It&apos;s not the first official Deadmau5 app on iOS, though: Zimmerman has previously worked with developer Touch Mix on two apps:Deadmau5 MixandDeadmau5 Remix. Both enabled fans to remix some of his songs on their devices. He also starred (in cartoon form) in iPhone gameShred Neffland: featuring Deadmau5.Launching his own subscription service was a bold move in December, with Zimmerman admitting to fans at the timein a posting on Redditthat the model was new and risky.&quot;i’ve had this idea forever,&quot; he wrote. &quot;most publishers and labels are, still, completely overlooking the value of an artist created / driven subscription model. I guess it’s sink or swim for me.&quot;Other musicians have tried the idea within apps, including another dance star –Tiësto– and unlikelier bedfellowsCrosby, Stills and Nash. Both artists charge in-app subscriptions for access to exclusive music and other content.The idea of artist-based subscriptions has been discussed more widely within the music industry, too, albeit not always as apps. Prince has launched (and closed) several subscription sites for his music, for example, including NPG Online, NPG Music Club and Lotusflow3r.Deadmau5&apos;s fellow EDM star Skrillex also launched an online subscription service calledThe Nestfor his label OWSLA in December 2012, charging fans $12 a month to get every release on the label, plus exclusives and priority tickets for live shows. &quot;The Nest is another chance for us to get music out to the fans quicker and easier,&quot;said Skrillex at the time.Meanwhile, in June 2013, industry analyst Mark Mulligan proposed the idea ofartist subscriptions sitting within existing streaming services like Spotify and Deezer&quot;with users paying a small monthly fee – say $/€1 – for a month’s worth of artist content&quot; and having the cost added to their monthly bill.
Microsoft has announced the next instalment in the multimillion selling Halo series of sci-fi shooters. Halo 5: Guardians will launch on Xbox One in autumn 2015.Little else is being disclosed about the project, although its developer, 343 Industries, has said the game will utilise a new engine, and will run at 60 frames-per-second. The multiplayer component will run on dedicated servers.In a post on the Xbox Wire news site, the studio&apos;s general manager, Bonnie Ross, said: &quot;Halo 5: Guardians is a bigger effort than Halo 4. That applies to the content and scope of the game, as well as the technology in what’s now a brand new and more powerful engine.&quot;Certainly there are some core elements carried over from prior games, but we’ve invested a huge effort in retooling our tech to take full advantage of the Xbox One’s hardware and ecosystem to create worlds and experiences worthy of next-gen.&quot;Frank O&apos;Connor, development director, told the Guardian about the studio&apos;s approach to the project. &quot;When you move to a new console, it is a transitionary period that lets you review your situation,&quot; he said. &quot;In the case of Xbox One and Halo 5: Guardians, we&apos;re building a bigger game and we&apos;re building it on a completely new architecture. The engine has been completely retooled from the ground up to take full advantage of the Xbox One, both the power of the machine itself, but the infrastructure of Xbox Live.&quot;We made some big improvements on Halo 4, which was an evolution of the first Halo engine, but this is a big re-set in terms of the technology. Some core principles of the gameplay and some familiar pieces of code are still going to be buried in there because, ultimately, Halo has a soul that you want to respect and retain. But technologically, this is a whole new ball game and we&apos;re incredibly excited about it. Every Halo game is a three-year development cycle and this is no exception. We&apos;ll be talking about the scale and scope of the engine maybe later this year.&quot;Released in 2012, Halo 4 was the first title in the series to be developed by 343 Industries, and earned $300m in revenue within a week of its launch. Formed by Microsoft in 2007, 343 was set up after original developer Bungie revealed that it would be moving on to other projects, and includes staff from the first three titles. Bungie is now making the epic space opera Destiny for Activision.Fans can expect more information, or at least a teaser trailer at E3. A news story on Xbox Wire also mentions a tie-in Halo television series, being produced in association with Steven Spielberg, which is also set to premier in autumn 2015.•Halo 4 launch blasts past Hollywood•Halo 4 review•Halo 4 – how to win at online multiplayer
Google’s Gmail app has become the first standalone smartphone app to pass one billion installations on Android devices.The milestone,announced bySundar Pichai,Google’s head of Android, was crossed sometime last week; the Google Play Store ranks apps by downloads in different ranges and the Gmail Android app ticked over into the one to five billion bracket.The figure excludes updates, so there is no double-counting when an update is issued. And the Google Play services app is disqualified from the counting, as it is required as part of the Google Play Store.Default powerThe Gmail app is installed by default on all Google Android devices as part of Google’s licensing, which covers most of the Android software-powered tablets, smartphones and other devices available outside China. It is updated automatically when the device connects to the Google Play store.Amazon’s Kindle Fire range of Android devices and Microsoft’s Nokia X smartphones do not come with Gmail installed as default, nor is it possible to download the Gmail app through their app stores. Nor are there any figures for the number of downloads of the Gmail app for Apple&apos;s iPhone and iPad.Several groups of apps, such as Outfit7’s range of Talking Friends apps, havealready passed the one billion downloads milestone, but no one individual app has been downloaded 1bn times on its own before. The Angry Birds collection of games broke one billion downloadsin 2012.Gmail’s billion downloads reinforces data on how many Google-powered Android devices have been sold, with Google&apos;s executives saying that more thanone billion Android device activationswere passed last year.It also indicates how important Google&apos;s agreements to have its apps installed by default are in fuelling downloads, and encouraging use of its services. As it stands, manufacturers cannot have access to Google&apos;s Play Store without installing Google&apos;s suite of apps and placing them in a prominent position.There is no data however on how many of the devices which have downloaded the Gmail app are still active.Other default Google apps include Google+, Chrome, Maps and YouTube, but they all remain under the 1bn app install barrier, with Chrome listed as being installed less than 500,000 times, according to the Play Store. Gmail has been part of the default installation since Google first introduced Android in 2009.• Sick of freemium apps?Here are 20 apps worth paying for on Android and iOS
Google&apos;s doodle on Friday celebrated the 296th birthday of the Italian mathematician and philosopher Maria Gaetana Agnesi.Agnesi, born on 16 May 1718, is believed to be the first woman in the west to gain recognition as a mathematician, at a time when most Europeans did not see the value of education for women.Raised into a wealthy and literate Milanese family, she was recognised as a child prodigy and became interested in mathematics. At an early age she composed and delivered an hour-long speech in Latin to some of the most distinguished intellectuals of the time on the subject of women’s right to be educated.By her 11th birthday she had mastered seven languages including French, Hebrew and Greek, with her father often hosting parties where she could display her knowledge.After the death of her mother, Agnesi, the eldest of 21 siblings, took over management of the household and was charged with educating her brothers and sisters – a task that took a great deal of her time and energy while she continued to study mathematics.Agnesi is credited with writing the first book discussing both differential and integral calculus;Instituzioni analitiche ad uso della gioventù italiana, orAnalytical Institutions for the Use of Italian Youth. In it, she discusses the algebraic curve, now known as thewitch of Agnesi.Uses of Agnesi&apos;s findings are only being fully recognised in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, with physicists and mathematicians working with x-rays, optical lines and electrical circuits.After her father’s death, she apparently lost all interest in scientific work and devoted the last four decades of her life to studying theology and to charitable work, taking charge of a home for the poor and infirm in 1771.She died in the poorhouse on 9 January 1799, after having spent all her wealth on charitable works.•Women in technology: no progress on equality in 10 years
Amazon is preparing to launch its first three original TV series for children, developed by its Amazon Studios division and offered as part of its Prime subscription service.Animated shows Tumble Leaf and Creative Galaxy will debut on the service on 23 May and 27 June respectively, aimed at preschool-age children. Live-action series Annedroids, aimed at 4-7 year-olds, will appear from 25 July.The shows – like 2013&apos;s adult series Alpha House and Betas – will be available to stream on a range of devices, including Amazon&apos;s own Kindle Fire tablets and Fire TV set-top box, as well as iOS devices, Roku, and all the major games consoles.&quot;We’re working with some of the most renowned creators in the business to introduce programming that promotes life-long learning through play,&quot; said Amazon Studios&apos; head of kids programming Tara Sorensen, in a statement.All three of the new children&apos;s shows had been piloted on Amazon Prime, with users able to rate and review the initial episodes ofTumble Leaf,Creative GalaxyandAnnedroids. That feedback was then used to inform Amazon&apos;s decision to commission full runs of each show.Sorensen and Amazon Studios director Roy Price talked about the company&apos;s strategy for children&apos;s TVin an appearance at the MIPTV industry showin April.&quot;A huge part of our customer base is families and kids. We decided to start with preschool programming,&quot; said Sorensen, before outlining plans to start commissioning shows for 6-11 year-old children too.&quot;Kids today are not looking up to the Justin Biebers and Miley Cyruses, they might have different role models, so how can we create at the core smart characters that kids will want to emulate?&quot;Price also hinted at plans to build (or commission) apps and other interactive, educational content based on the shows. &quot;It’s clearly an interesting area we’re looking into. We’d like to figure out something along those lines, whether it’s second-screen or the primary thing we should take advantage of,&quot; he said.Amazon is far from the only company thinking about delivering original TV shows to children through digital channels. Netflix signed a deal in June 2013 for DreamWorks Animation to providemore than 300 hours of original shows for children, based on characters from its films.The first,Turbo F.A.S.T., launched on Netflix in December, with three more shows – King Julien, Puss in Boots and Veggie Tales in the House –to follow later this year.Elsewhere, Angry Birds maker Rovio has been building out its ToonsTV children&apos;s entertainment network,generating more than 2bn viewsfrom its own Angry Birds cartoons in its first year.It has also struck distribution deals to carry archive shows like Fraggle Rock, as well as a new series from comics veteran Stan Lee, Chakra the Invincible. ToonsTV is available within every Angry Birds app, but also as astandalone website, with adedicated ToonsTV app being tested in a few countries.Meanwhile, children continue to flock to YouTube in their millions, helping to create new stars. The Minecraft-focused Stampy channel wasthe fourth most-watched YouTube channel in the worldin April 2014, with its creator Joseph Garrett preparing to launch a second channel, Stampy School, offering educational content for children.•Fire TV: Amazon&apos;s $99 set-top box to rival Google and Apple
In the pre-Snowden era, believing that a household object was listening to you was enough to have you committed to correctional facilities for state-sponsored reprogramming.In his new book, No Place to Hide, the journalistGlenn Greenwaldexplains how he and the NSA contractor turned whistleblower put their phones in a freezer with the batteries disconnected to thwart spooks’ ability to operate phones remotely as microphones. But what would happen if the fridge itself was listening to your words?Two American artists are now taking that concept to a logical conclusion. Using only a credit card-sized Raspberry Pi computer, a microphone and a Wi-Fi card hacked into a lightbulb fitting,and a piece of open source software hosted at Github, they have installed a listening device at an undisclosed spot in Manhattan, New York, and connected it toa Twitter feed.“There are many ways this could be implemented, some totally for free,” saysBrian House, a 34-year-old artist living in New York, who co-created the project withKyle MacDonald. “Our version costs between $50 and 100 as it includes a Raspberry Pi and a microphone.&quot;House explains how it works. &quot;The device continually records 10-second snippets of audio, analyses them for potential voice content, and sends promising file toMechanical Turkfor transcription. The system then posts these transcriptions to Twitter.&quot;The Twitter feed’s transcriptions themselves are at times cryptic, and at others strangely touching; but always deeply voyeuristic.&quot;So you are posting stuff you don&#39;t want me to see. What are you posting about?&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)April 18, 2014&quot;Do you take any medication to help with your symptoms?&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)April 16, 2014&quot;I won&#39;t lie [?] babies are not cute, this one pretty much looks like a baby monkey with all of that hair.&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)April 25, 2014&quot;I think that white people just act the way we want them to act around us&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)May 6, 2014&quot;I cried myself to sleep last night and I woke up with my eyes all puffy and I was like this is not gonna work&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)April 26, 2014&quot;Are you sure you want to be talking about this? I really don&#39;t know if this is the place.&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)April 18, 2014&quot;I can&#39;t help it. I know she&#39;s old and has dementia, but she drives me nuts.&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)April 16, 2014&quot;It&#39;s like they know.&quot;&mdash; Conversnitch (@conversnitch)April 15, 2014How would the speakers of each of these phrases feel to see their words documented like this? How would you feel to have your private conversations overheard and live-tweeted? Why not feel the same way aboutPrism,XKeyscore,or Tempora?Stripped of context, these comments might make you consider anew the ramifications of a world in which there is no privacy, nor any expectation of it. It reifies the notion that someone, somehow, somewhere in an office in Virginia, Utah or Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, is listening to your every word. That’s not paranoia; that’s the modern surveillance state, say the artists, who considered a live audio stream but settled on text instead.The artists say: “The ability to dissect and understand text is also the foundation for the international surveillance machine. Once you have something that is searchable, knowable, you can make decisions and predictions from it – and that&apos;s where the danger is. That idea of making the real world searchable in realtime is the foundation for Conversnitch.”Its aims, they say, are to play with ideas around technology and politics. “Binaries like public/private, physical/digital, human/automated are being totally reconfigured at the moment, and that is very much a political issue.“The secret deployment ofPrismand other programs is a clear violation of democratic principles, and it demands a rethinking of how a free society needs to work in an age when data-producing technology is so integrated into everyday life.”The artists say they would &quot;certainly&quot; collaborate with authorities if they heard someone confessing to a serious crime or plotting a terrorist incident, but what do they think of the ethics of releasing code and information that might help people spy on their friends, co-workers, or spouses? “Since time immemorial there have been all kinds of creative ways to do this,&quot; says House. &quot;Releasing the code is a prompt to other artists to iterate on the idea, and it demonstrates how easy something like this is to set up, hopefully producing some critical reflection.&quot;• This article was amended on 23 May 2014 to correct an error in the title of Greenwald&apos;s book.
PewDiePie continued his reign as the biggest star on YouTube in April 2014, generating 296.6m views of his gaming videos and adding nearly 890,000 subscribers.The Brighton-based Swede runs his channel under the wing of the multi-channel network Maker Studios, which is in the process of being acquired by Disney in a deal worth up to $950m.PewDiePie– aka Felix Kjellberg – ended April with 26.4m subscribers to his channel, which is an audience rivalled only by YouTube&apos;s own channel, which has more than 22m subscribers.The chart of YouTube channels isproduced by the industry site Tubefilter. Its latest rankings reveal thatKaty Perrywas the second biggest star on YouTube in April with 256.2m views on her channel, and more than 510,000 new subscribers, taking her total to 12.2m.The third- and fourth-placed channels provide a reminder of the large audience of children watching YouTube. TheDisneyCollectorchannel posts video reviews of children&apos;s toys from popular brands, and generated 192.3m views in April, ending the month with 1.3m subscribers.Stampy, a Minecraft-exploring cat – aka Joseph Garrett – notched up 177.2m views during the month, adding more than 268,000 subscribers to take his total past 2.5m. Garrett, who is British, is also part of the Maker Studios stable, and is preparing to launch a second channel focusing on education.Garrett disclose those plans at the MIPTV conferencein April, and Maker this month showed off the new channel – called Stampy School –at its Newfronts event for brands and advertising agenciesin New York.The American wrestling body theWWEalso enjoyed a strong April on YouTube, thanks to the buzz around its annual Wrestlemania event. Its channel generated 145m views that month, adding more than 218,000 subscribers to reach 3.3m overall. Overall, the chart shows the diverse ecosystem of established stars, new faces, big media organisations and newer digital brands jostling for attention on YouTube.For example, the dance music channel Spinnin&apos; Records, with its 141m views in April, was bigger than Shakira (133.4m) and One Direction (115.9m). YouTube creators The Fine Brothers (118m), Smosh (86.8m) and Rooster Teeth (85m) drew bigger audiences than official channels from the NBA (82.8m) and BBC (59.6m).The charts also show how the audience for the most popular YouTube channels has grown over time. In April, the top 100 generated 8.1bn video views in total, up from5.8bn in October 2013, and5.2bn in June 2013– the first month Tubefilter produced its monthly chart.•From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing how we watch TV
As an IT contractor, I spend a lot of time on trains and in airports, working from my laptop. I run some pretty processor-intensive tasks on it – virtual machines, data warehousing and SQL Server analytics, Excel spreadsheets with over a million rows etc. Put simply, I want more power. I&apos;m not bothered about a touch screen, or graphics, or how light it is. I do care about memory, disk space, battery capacity, and processor speed. Windows 7 would probably be essential.I started out on a tight budget, so I have a Lenovo ThinkPad L530. Now I&apos;m in a position to upgrade, what&apos;s the best money can buy?OliverEvery laptop involves some compromises over the main features, which are size and weight, speed, battery life and price. In the Windows market, there are many different types of laptop, each of which offers its own balance. Examples include netbooks (light and cheap but slow), Ultrabooks (light and fast but expensive), and desktop replacements (fast and cheap but big and heavy).The three types you could consider are Ultrabooks, gaming laptops and portable workstations. Ultrabooks compromise on speed but have the advantages of portability and long battery life, while gaming laptops sacrifice portability and battery life for speed. Portable workstations generally provide speed and durability, while also being designed and tested to run certain types of software, such as Adobe Creative Suite and Autodesk&apos;s AutoCAD. They often have expensive but high-performance Nvidia Quadro graphics cards.UltrabooksFor an Ultrabook, I&apos;d look first at the LenovoThinkPad T440, not the X1 Carbon Touch. The T440 starts out as a modest beast, and at a base price of £791.19 it&apos;s fractionally cheaper than your current L530 (£800.40). The T440&apos;s appeal is that you canupgrade the specificationonline. In particular, you can increase the memory from 4GB to 8GB for an extra £33.60, or to 12GB for £69.60. If you are running &quot;virtual PCs&quot; that need 1GB-2GB each, the more memory you have the better. You can also upgrade the standard 500GB hard drive to 1TB for £31.20, and throw in a 16GB solid state &quot;micro hard drive&quot; from £34.80. This means you can have plenty of hard drive space with some of the advantages of an SSD. (The T440 would run faster with an SSD instead of a rotating hard drive, but the 256GB SSD might be too small for you.)The standard processor is a fourth-generation 2.6GHz Intel Core i5-4200U, which is slightly slower than your current third-generation 2.5GHz Core i3-3120M. The difference is that it&apos;s an ultra-low-voltage chip, running at a TDP (thermal design power) of 15W instead of 35W. This will provide much better battery life. The T440 has two batteries lasting &quot;up to 17 hours&quot;, and the second battery is swappable. However, you can opt for a faster processor, and I&apos;m assuming you&apos;ll go for the i7-4600U for an extra £284. This will give you a useful performance improvement on your Core i3, though not a massive one.The downgrade from Microsoft Windows 8 to Windows 7 is free, of course, and the licence allows you to upgrade later. However, Windows 8 runs slightly faster and uses less memory than Windows 7, and the latest Windows 8.1 Update 1 is much more usable on a traditional laptop. Also, Windows 8 resumes in about two seconds, which is a significant benefit when you&apos;re on the move.In other respects, you should find the T440 a good step up from your L530. Although the screen is smaller – 14in versus 15.6in – it shows more, thanks to the 1600 x 900-pixel resolution. You also save a significant amount of weight: it&apos;s 1.8kg versus 2.6kg. Finally, the T440 has built-in HSPA+ mobile broadband (3G Ericsson N5321), though you can remove this for a saving of £50. Total price online: £1,362.79.For more information, there&apos;s areview of the T440 and the improved T440sat NotebookCheck. TheT440shas a touch screen and Windows 8.The 14in HP EliteBook Folio 1040 G1 is also worth a look. HPshowed it in December, but it hasn’t appeared on the UK website. (Update: The Folio G1 is available, andHP has provided a link to it.)Gaming laptopsThe users who really want maximum performance are the gamers. Gaming laptops often have quad-core instead of dual-core processors, and very fast graphics processors, such as the Nvidia GeForce GTX 780M. Systems often have both a large hard drive and an SSD, and perhaps a Blu-ray drive as well. Obviously they tend to be heavy and have relatively short battery life, especially when operating on full power. Most of them also have 17.3in screens, which I reckon is likely to be a deal breaker for you. However, a few have 15.6in screens, and there&apos;s a Dell Alienware with a 14in screen.The Asus ROG (Republic of Gamers) range includes theG750JH, claimed to be &quot;the most powerful 17in gaming laptop in the universe&quot;. It has a 3.4GHz quad-core Core i7-4700HQ processor and a GTX 780M with its own 4GB of graphics memory. But the processor has a TDP of 47W and the whole thing weighs 4.8kg.MSI has many similar or even better gaming laptops, including theMSI GT70 Dominator Pro, which has a 3GHz Core i7-4930MX Extreme that goes up to 3.9GHz on turbo. Very few desktop PCs have anything as fast, partly because of this chip&apos;s suggested retail price: $1,096. However, the TDP of 57W means it&apos;s only suitable for 17.3in laptops.MSI also offers gaming laptops with 15.6in screens, which might be portable enough for you. TheMSI GT60 2OD-092UK, for example, has a 3.2GHz Core i7-4700MQ processor (same speed as the HQ), 16GB of main memory, a GeForce GTX 780M with 4GB of graphics memory, a 750GB hard drive and a high-resolution 2880 x 1620 pixel screen for £1,854.94 on Amazon.co.uk. But it&apos;s still heavy at 3.5kg, and the battery is unlikely to last more than four hours of web browsing, or a couple of hours of gaming.The 14inDell Alienwarecomes in three models and you could get one with a Core i7-4710MQ, 16GB of memory, GTX 765M graphics chip, 1TB hard drive and 1920 x 1080-pixel Full HD screen for £1,498.99. Weight starts at 2.8kg. Battery life isn&apos;t mentioned so I&apos;d assume about three to four hours max.Although all these machines are powerful, they are not as practical as a ThinkPad T440, and their styling is, by ThinkPad standards, idiosyncratic and flashy. I think you&apos;d be happier with something that falls a bit short by gaming standards but is still relatively powerful. For example, theAsus N550JVpacks a Core i7-4700HQ and up to 16GB of memory, GT 750M graphics with 2GB or 4GB of video RAM, a 750GB or 1TB hard drive, and a 15.6in 1920 x 1080-pixel IPS touch screen into a slim (27.7mm), smart-looking 2.6kg package. Prices range from about £1,000 to £1,500, depending on the spec.All these systems ship with Windows 8, which is quite popular with gamers.Workstation choicesWorkstations are among the most powerful laptops, but as mentioned above, they are designed to run professional applications rather than games. The obvious ones to consider are the Lenovo ThinkPad W540 – since you are already a ThinkPad owner – and the Dell Precision M3800.TheThinkPad W540looks like a T-range laptop but includes high-spec components. The standard model has a Core i7-4700MQ but there is a choice of five chips, up to the 3.9GHz i7-4930MX (for £1,069.86 extra). Memory starts at 4GB but can be expanded to 32GB for an extra £364.80. The graphics card is an Nvidia Quadro K1100M or K2100M. As with the T440, the hard drive options include a 1TB drive with a 16GB &quot;micro hard drive&quot;. However, you can combine a 1TB hard drive with a 256GB or 512GB SSD, which is probably ideal. You can also upgrade the 1920 x 1080-pixel FHD screen to a 3K (2880 x 1620) IPS screen for a very reasonable £90.18.The stated weight is 2.5kg, but your spec may weigh more. Lenovo quotes a battery life of &quot;up to six hours&quot; for the standard 6-cell battery, so you might get &quot;up to nine hours&quot; from nine cells. W540 prices start at £1,353.99, but a 32GB system with a 3K screen, top spec HD/SSD combination and built-in 3G costs almost £2,500.TheDell Precision M3800 Workstationis an impressive attempt to pack workstation power into something that looks like an Ultrabook. It&apos;s only 18mm thick, and the starting weight is only 1.88kg – very close to the T440&apos;s 1.8kg. The drawback is that once you have chosen the top model, that&apos;s it. You get a Core i7-4702HQ processor, 16GB of memory, Nvidia Quadro K1100M graphics with 2GB of memory, a 256GB SSD, a 15.6in 3200 x 1880-pixel touch screen and Windows 8.1 Pro for £1,962.48 including VAT and shipping. If you really want to downgrade to Windows 7, you&apos;ll have to do it yourself.According to the spec, you should be able to add a 500GB or 1TB hard drive to go with the 256GB SSD, but I can&apos;t see that option on the UK website.The M3800 looks like a good choice for people who need to edit photos or videos in Adobe Creative Suite or similar software, or do 3D graphics work, but want an ultraportable. However, you don&apos;t need workstation graphics for Microsoft Excel or the other tasks you mention.What to choose?In terms of raw power in a professional package, the ThinkPad W540 looks like the best bet, because it is so configurable, and has good battery life. But if you sacrifice some processor performance, the ThinkPad T440 offers a lighter and more portable package with even better battery life. The Asus N550JV could be tempting because, on paper, its i7-4700HQ offers significantly better performance than the T440&apos;s i7-4600U, without scaling the heights of the i7-4930MX. The N550JV&apos;s drawbacks are that it is just as heavy as your current ThinkPad L530, and will have similar or worse battery life.Ultimately, it comes down to performance per watt. The 35W and 47W versions of the Core i7 are always going to outperform the 15W versions, but the 15W Ultrabook chips are fine for most of the tasks people do on laptops. Run Windows 7&apos;sPerformance Monitorto find out what&apos;s limiting your current system. For example, you could graph processor queue lengths, hard page faults and the current disk queue length. I don&apos;t think the processor will be the biggest bottleneck.In general, I&apos;d expect the biggest gains in all-round performance to come from having an SSD and more memory rather than a (literally) hotter processor. And memory is cheap, so that&apos;s the way to go.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTo Serve Users &gt;&gt; Hacking for ChristGervase Markham of Mozilla on the DRM-in-Firefox row:we think our stance has worked rather well; over the years, the Mozilla project has been a force for good on the web that other organizations, for whatever reason, have not managed to be. But we aren&apos;t invincible - we don&apos;t win every time. We didn&apos;t win on H.264, although the deal with Cisco to drive the cost of support to $0 everywhere at least allowed us to live to fight another day. And we haven&apos;t, yet, managed to find a way to win on DRM. The question is: is software DRM on the desktop the issue we should die on a hill over? We don&apos;t think so.Bradley accuses us of selling out on our principles regarding preserving the open web. But making a DRM-free web is not within our power at the moment. Our choice is not between &quot;DRM on the web&quot; and &quot;no DRM on the web&quot;, it&apos;s between &quot;allow users to watch DRMed videos&quot; and &quot;prevent users from watching DRMed videos&quot;. And we think the latter is a long-term losing strategy, not just for the fight on DRM (if Firefox didn&apos;t exist, would our chances of a DRM-free web be greater?), but for all the other things Mozilla is working for.Reasoned debate in the comments too.Xiaomi Mi Pad is a $240 plastic iPad Mini lookalike &gt;&gt; CNETThe Wi-Fi only 7.9in slate strongly resembles the iPad Mini, but is clad in shiny candy-coloured glossy plastic instead of aluminium. Its screen resolution of 2,048x1,536 pixels matches Apple&apos;s Retina Display, Xiami boasts.Powered by Nvidia&apos;s quad-core Tegra K1 processor, the Mi Pad has 2GB of RAM and 16GB or 64GB of onboard storage. It supports up to 128GB of extra storage via microSD. At a slender 8.5mm thick, it weighs 360g - a little thicker and heavier than Apple&apos;s tablet.It runs a heavily customised version of Android called MIUI, based on Android 4.4.2 KitKat. Strangely (or perhaps not), the new UI greatly resembles iOS 7, and it appears Xiaomi is going all out to deliver the Apple experience on an Android tablet.How odd that they didn&apos;t model it on the Nexus 7 or Galaxy Tab.Google Play gets PayPal support in 12 countries &gt;&gt; The Next WebGoogle says sales of apps and games through Google Play are up by more than 300% (is that threefold or fourfold?) over the past year (January-December or May-April?). Also:You can also charge to your phone bill in 24 countries - that is, for about half of Google Play users.Does the Paypal integration have implications for Google Wallet, though?QR Code for South East Euro Election Voters &gt;&gt; YOURvoiceIn a UK first voters are being given ballot papers with a QR code. Those in the South East will get a ballot paper with a party emblem that can be read by a smartphone.The QR code with a website link has been incorporated into the emblem of the party YOURvoice yourvoiceparty.org.uk which is standing in the 2014 European Elections.The Electoral Commission which approved the emblem after the application by YOURvoice have confirmed this is a first for voting in the UK.Dr Jonathan Bright of the Oxford Internet Institute has questioned whether people should still be making up their mind as they vote.Julian James of YOURvoice believes that Dr Bright has missed the point. With over 1 in 4 people casting their vote by post in the 2009 European Elections, it&apos;s postal voters with time to consider their options who stand to gain most from easy access to information. What better way to reduce barriers between party and voter than to use links to party websites on the ballot paper?Quite likely that the number of website hits via the QR code will tally closely with the number of votes cast for it.Here&apos;s why Intel and AMD can&apos;t beat Qualcomm &gt;&gt; The Motley FoolTo compete with Qualcomm, Intel bundles its x86-based Bay Trail chips with a binary translator. The emulator recompiles Android-based apps, and converts the native ARM code to native x86 code - something that Intel chips can run.The chipmaker claims that the translator can work without utilizing a substantial amount of system resources. Research conducted by ARM, however, suggests otherwise.Rod Watt of ARM recently concluded that binary translation drains the CPU and battery resources by as much as 40% and 90%, respectively. This inefficient utilization of system resources can prove detrimental to Intel&apos;s growth in the cutthroat, ARM-based, mobile chip industry.Even if ARM is overstating the case, Intel&apos;s still at a disadvantage, and that won&apos;t improve. (And isn&apos;t Rod Watt a great name for someone who looks at power consumption?)The &quot;right to forget&quot; a genocide &gt;&gt; MediumZeynep Tufekci:I am not even attempting to scratch the surface of that complexity, nor defending current legal practices in Rwanda which certainly have worrisome aspects, but simply pointing out that the right, and the choice, to want to forget can occur in settings most lawyers and engineers in Palo Alto may well not be thinking about at all.They should start.Overall, &quot;never forget&quot; and keep every speck of memory atrocity alive is rarely how countries recover from massive spasms of violence, especially if the conditions that sparked the violence don&apos;t just disappear. Rwanda, or a future case of ethnic cleansing, may seem like an extreme case to raise, but as the next billion comes online, such questions will become less and less theoretical....these questions of identity, representation, and what information about you that Google shows the world, outside of your own control or wishes, is neither simple nor to be dismissed as the work of busy-body nanny über-state, and the fragile egos within it. The current legal decision may well be overdone or misplaced, but the question of who holds the keys to our collective memory is one that deserves a discussion, and not just left to a few companies. The stakes and the burden is too high.A powerful argument.Broadband technology fact sheet &gt;&gt; Pew Research Center&apos;s Internet &amp; American Life ProjectOur latest survey shows that 70% of Americans have broadband connections at home. The survey was completed in September 2013. High-speed access to the internet at home has risen steadily in recent years, and the &quot;always on&quot; connection typically increases the frequency with which people use the internet.Education is a strongly determining factor in having broadband, judging by the demographic breakdown. (It would be wonderful to see a similar study for the UK.)Smartphone usage update: Windows Phone takes third place behind iOS, Android &gt;&gt; Chitika OnlineWindows Phone users now generate the third-largest share of Web traffic amongst all smartphone operating systems, according to our latest North American usage data. Recently ceding the third place position was BlackBerry, which exhibited a usage share decline over several months and was overtaken in March 2014. Meanwhile, iOS and Android smartphones continue to generate the two largest aggregate usage totals by a considerable margin.Where &quot;considerable margin&quot; means those two together have 97.6% of browsing, against 1.0% for Windows Phone and 0.8% for BlackBerry. It isn&apos;t two bald men fighting over a comb - it&apos;s two bald men fighting over a comb after falling out of a plane without a parachute.Forget PS4 Vs. Xbox One--The Console Wars Have Barely Begun &gt;&gt; ReadWriteTaylor Hatmaker crunches the numbers and finds that both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 sold about 80m units to the end of 2013:Sales built steadily over time and even picked up as the consoles matured. The PS3 had its best sales in 2010 (four years after the console&apos;s initial launch) while the Xbox 360&apos;s best year was 2011 (six years after its launch). The first few months of sales proves almost completely insignificant. Both consoles launched in their first markets late in the year and took a few months to expand worldwide. In spite of everything that happened prior, the PS3 and Xbox 360 ended up in the same place at the dawn of this console generation, each selling roughly 80 million units by late 2013. It&apos;s not a zero sum game. Both consoles enjoyed healthy sales, neither to the apparent detriment of the other. In fact, both popularized console gaming into an increasingly mainstream phenomenon, arguably helping each other in the processYou can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Wii U; 3+; Nintendo; £39.99It is hard to remember a time before Mario Kart. It has been there for over twenty years, with one instalment per Nintendo platform, as regular as clockwork. The standard has been so reliably brilliant that when the series missteps, as with the Gamecube&apos;s MK: Double Dash!, it feels like some cosmic error.And so to the Wii U&apos;s Mario Kart 8 (Nintendo is not one for theatrical titles). The number might suggest otherwise, but this is and always has been a young game, one that puts fun way above petty considerations like fairness – and never lets a race pass without the track turning into a 150CC mosh pit.The controls are simple – accelerate, brake, use item and jump – but packed with subtlety; with each new entry the first pleasure is in learning exactly how to tease out a long slide around corners, and shooting out of the bend with a boost. The many bumps and ramps scattered across the tracks are all opportunities for a timed jump that will give another blast of accleration, and beyond this the new tracks add frequent anti-gravity sections where the tires flip into afterburners and the karts stick to walls, ceilings, and everything in-between.What Nintendo&apos;s designers do with this new spatial freedom ranges from amazing to even more amazing. The Star Cup&apos;s Electrodome circuit – the clearest nod to F-Zero – has a spectacular sequence where the track forks, and both lanes end up vertically parallel. That is, regardless of the path chosen, you&apos;re racing against karts that are driving upside-down above you. Seeing Mario Kart in HD is one thing, but what makes Mario Kart 8 such a visual feast is how confident it is in flipping perspective, folding its tracks in upon themselves, sending great loops skywards and curving back down, or making solid ground ripple to create potential boost jumps.The new circuits offer a range of head-spinning anti-gravity routes, twisting you through huge corkscrew loops above the landscapeClassic opponent-ruining powerups like shells, lightning, and stars return – alongside the ultimate leveller, the spiky blue shell that crashes through the pack and takes out the leader. One new powerup, the super horn, lets you knock this away – as well as hit any karts within the blast&apos;s radius. The other new items are a piranha plant that sits in the hand and for a time chomps any kart that dares approach, and a boomerang that can be thrown straight ahead three times.None significantly alter the feel of Mario Kart&apos;s interplay, but what does is that you can no longer &apos;drag&apos; items behind your kart, which provided a way to have two items at any one time. This feature&apos;s absence does feel like something of a hole, but on the other hand it encourages regular use of the items you do have as opposed to hoarding.In single-player there are four cups consisting of four new tracks each, alongside another four cups of tracks from previous Mario Kart games re-made to take advantage of 8&apos;s new features – 32 tracks total.The opening circuit, Mario Kart Stadium, feels like a celebration – an enormous crowd watches from a distance, the track bends off at strange angles as fireworks pop in the distance, and on the second lap a brilliant electric guitar slides in over the background score. As you come to the end of this race, the finish line has a Mario Kart banner with one word above it: Welcome. Who would stop here?A huge roster of characters unlocks as you play, alongside many kart customisation options and stampsToad Harbour is typical of the fresh tracks, offering multiple routes, some of which go up walls or round hidden corners, none of which offer a particularly huge advantage unless they&apos;re taken absolutely perfectly. And more than anything else, Nintendo knows how to do scale. Sunshine Airport, for example, has you hopping from bend to bend, screeching around each corner only to land on a straight where you&apos;re &quot;racing&quot; the shadow of a plane taking off overhead. Grind around one more long, curving corner and your kart launches into the air and flies towards the ground, just as another aircraft takes off and heads just above you.Cloudtop Cruise is one of those glad-to-be-alive creations, a race atop the sky that starts with devilish bends before taking you through a dark stretch of Bowser&apos;s airships – complete with growling guitar – before shooting you out into a sun-dappled sky where, as you land on a beanstalk and start sliding, a rainbow appears and Mario Galaxy&apos;s transcendental Gusty Garden theme starts up. Only Nintendo can make magical moments like this, enormous feats of visual engineering and co-ordination, seem so effortless.The &quot;classic&quot; tracks have all been heavily re-made to incorporate MK8&apos;s features, and among these the new version of the N64&apos;s Toad&apos;s Turnpike is especially great, adding wall climbs and speed boosts as well as NPC vehicles with ramps on their back. Other returning favourites include Cheep Cheep Beach, the GBA&apos;s Mario Circuit, Royal Raceway, Wario Stadium and Melody Motorway – alongside a lovingly engineered re-casting of the N64&apos;s marathon Rainbow Road as a sprint.Solo play offers the standard Grand Prix mode, alongside Time Trial (with global ghost data, i.e. other players&apos; records), VS race (where you can create your own GP of up to 32 tracks), and Battle Mode (more on which later). There&apos;s local multiplayer for 2-4 players, and up to 12 players can go online."Weeeeeeeeeeeeee"Mario Kart 8&apos;s AI is one thing, rarely hesitating to throw a red shell in the works or drop bananas at the wrong moment, but when you get online, this cute world turns into a cutthroat race to the finish where only the fastest – and luckiest – survive. Online is also the most surprising aspect of Mario Kart 8 – because it&apos;s fast, lag-free, and lets you create private or public lobbies with tweaked rulesets. Nintendo&apos;s online offerings tend to flatter to deceive but here there&apos;s everything that could be wished for, outside of a more persistent element like rankings, perhaps – but then, Mario Kart&apos;s never really been about prestige so much as one-off races and clonking your mate with a red shell.Mario Kart TV is a new feature which lets you upload automatically-saved race highlights, or create them through a stripped-down video editing tool – and in a first for Nintendo integrates with Youtube. Nice as the idea is, you may find yourself watching other players&apos; ghost data far more often, simply because it&apos;s impossible to judge tactics or technique from the dramatic angles of MKTV.The changes to Battle Mode are less amenable. Traditionally, this has taken place in arena-like levels, with players trying to pop three balloons on each others&apos; karts. In Mario Kart 8 it takes place across a selection of the main tracks, and it&apos;s difficult to see why; it&apos;s hard to find other players, hard to get into fights, and most often results in a lot of aimless driving. This is Mario Kart 8&apos;s one significant misstep.Outside of this, every aspect of Mario Kart 8 is polished to the finest shine: the look of joy as your character faces the camera for a split-second after a boost jump, the way the canvas of the gliders ripples in the breeze, or how the Sweet Sweet Canyon&apos;s spectators are gingerbread versions of Mario characters. No detail is too incidental.Regardless of the Wii U&apos;s troubles Nintendo remains one of (if not the) greatest developers on the planet in terms of making games that are a pure joy to play, and Mario Kart 8 is one of its finest. The question with Mario Kart 8 was never really &quot;is this going to be good&quot;, because with Nintendo that much can be taken for granted. The question is whether it&apos;s the best yet. And, among one hell of a field, it takes first place.
It's Friday.
Abandoning the sun-scorched locations of its predecessors, Far Cry 4 is coming this autumn and it will be climbing to the treacherous peaks of the Himalayas. Ubisoft has announced that the latest title in its open-world shooter series will release on 21 November, all set in a perilous region named Kyrat.Not much else is known about the game just yet. Ubisoft has of course confirmed that there will be the usual array of vehicles, weapons and wild animals, the latter including elephants, which,according to Eurogamer, the lead character can ride. Intriguingly, the announcement claims that players will be able to, &quot;write their own story across an exotic open-world landscape&quot; suggesting a slightly more emergent narrative. Apparently, the area is being ruled over by a &quot;despotic self-appointed king&quot;, which sounds a little like insane pirate Vaas from Far Cry 3.“We wanted to take the franchise to the next level and create a game that will surprise players,” said executive producer, Dan Hay. “Given the unique setting, we feelFar Cry 4will stand out as a top first-person shooter and we’re eager to reveal more about the game in the coming months.”Demos of the title will doubtless be shown at E3, though it&apos;s surprising that Ubisoft has left it so late to announce such a major project. It will join stablemates Assassin&apos;s Creed Unity, Tom Clancy&apos;s The Division and open-world racer, The Crew, in a bust event for the French publishing giant, which like Rockstar is now pulling several studios into each of its key projects. Far Cry 4 has been developed at the company&apos;s premier Montreal studio in collaboration with Red Storm Entertainment, Ubisoft Toronto, Ubisoft Shanghai, and Ubisoft Kiev.Released in 2012, the last Far Cry title attracted critical acclaim for its vast explorable location, a tropical island teeming with wildlife. The new title will release on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One.
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) moved another step closer to drawing up new rules toprotect the open internetThursday as the war of wordsbetween cable giants and consumer activistsintensified.In a sometimes heated meeting in Washington protesterscalling for an open internetwere ejected and the two Republican members of the regulator’s five member panel strongly objected to the new proposals.The panel voted 3-2 along party lines to advance a proposal in which content companies could pay to have their traffic prioritised by broadband providers. The new rules will be finalized after a four-month public consultation period and are expected to be once again challenged by the cable industry.The FCC was effectivelyleft without rulesto govern the internet in January after a court defeat in a case against Verizon, whichchallenged the agency&apos;s powers to regulate the web.FCC chairman Tom Wheeler said: “I strongly support an open internet. This agency supports and open internet … There is one internet, not a fast internet, not a slow internet. One internet,” he said.The FCC had been considering two main proposals for regulating the internet. The first, which is believed to be Wheeler’s preferred option, would see the FCC monitoring any attempts to create a high speed service on a case-by-case basis under Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act. Wheeler has said he would block any deals that are not “commercially reasonable”.The second proposal, supported by consumer groups, activists and many tech companies, would treat broadband internet access as a utility, like electricity or water, as it was until 2002 when president George W Bush separated telecoms communications from “information services”. Redefining broadband as under Title II of the Communications Act would give the FCC more power over companies like Comcast, Verizon and AT&amp;T, which strongly oppose such a measure.The FCC has been bombarded with calls and received over a million emails from people concerned about the impact of the new rules, details of which were leaked weeks ago. Tech giants including Apple, Facebook, Google and Twitterhave also expressed concern. Wheeler said “The public response has been tremendous because the stakes are so high.”FCC chairman Tom Wheeler during an open meeting to receive public comment on proposed open Internet notice. Photograph: Alex Wong/Getty ImagesHe said the regulator had twice had its rules thrown out by legal challenges from the cable companies. “Today this agency moves to surmount that opposition and to stand up for an open internet for consumers,” he said.Wheeler denied that his proposals would create a “tiered internet” with fast lanes for companies able to pay for higher speed access. Wheeler said his proposed rules would clamp down on any cable company attempting to slow internet access for consumers of startups. He also put forward the idea of an ombudsman to represent consumers in disputes with internet service providers (ISPs).Wheeler was backed by Democrat commissioners Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rossenworcel. Clyburn said she had been inundated with calls from educators, healthcare professionals, startups and even her mother worried about the open nature of the internet.She said people were right to be concerned. Without rules, she said, there was nothing to stop cable companies not consumers “picking winners”. “There are dozens of examples around the globe where we have seen the dangers to society when people are not allowed to choose. Government blocking access to content and stifling free speech,” she said“The future of the internet is the future of everything,” said Rossenworcel. “We can not have a two tiered internet that supports the privileged and leaves the rest of us lagging behind.”But Republican commissioners Ajit Pai and Michael O’Reilly the FCC was overreaching and its attempts at regulation were likely to be harmful and would fail. Pai said that while there was a bipartisan consensus on a free and open internet the issue was too “fundamental … for us five unelected representatives to decide”. He said two prior attempts to go it alone had ended in court defeats and “I’m not sure the third time will be the charm.”Commissioner Michael O’Reilly said he had “serious concerns that this ill advised item” will be damaging and send the FCC down the “slippery slope of regulation”.“Getting the internet right is more important than getting this done right now.”Google had argued in favour of net neutrality. Photograph: Georges Gobet/AFP/Getty ImagesIn a letter to the FCC Wednesday the National Cable &amp; Telecommunications Association (NTCA) said it was “wholly unnecessary to pursue a Title II reclassification” and such a move would be “immensely destabilizing and “would discourage network investment necessary to fuel the &apos;virtuous cycle&apos; of deployment, innovation and adoption that the Commission has long sought”.Ahead of the meeting about 100 protesters demonstrated outside the regulator’s Washington headquarters with banners reading Save The Internet and Free Press Requires Free Internet. Some had been sleeping outside the building for days ahead of the meeting.Kevin Zeese, spokesperson for political activist group Popular Resistance, spent the last week sleeping outside the FCC. He was among the protesters ejected from the meeting.Wheeler came out to speak with Zeese and others Wednesday.“He says he wants an open internet and equal access for all. That’s great but I judge a man by what he does not by what he says,” said Zeese.Zeese said cable companies were lobbying hard for less regulation and that he and other protesters would redouble their efforts after the meeting. “Our goal is to overcome Comcast’s lobbying power with people power,” he said. “The FCC should act in the people’s interest. People hate Comcast, they hate Verizon. Does the FCC really want to concentrate more power in their hands?”Evan Greer of digital rights group Fight for the Future, said: “It was a pretty clear example of the stranglehold that telecoms money has on the FCC. Despite protests from the left the right, tech companies and thousands and thousands of people that he won&apos;t just do what is necessary and reclassify internet as a utility and a public good.”Becky Bond, vice-president and political director of Credo Mobile, an independent telecoms company, said failure to pass Tier II would be a disaster for the internet. Credo, which uses profits to fund progressive causes, has organized thousands of calls to the FCC to protest any threat to net neutrality and collected over 300,000 signatures.“A slow moving cave in on net neutrality has been taking place for years. We now have an opportunity for a do-over of a fight that we had lost,” she said. “Now we will see if the FCC will stand up and do what the internet’s users want or whether it will stand back and do what the industry wants.”
Google chief executive Larry Page has slated the US education system for fostering a fear of failure and saying it isn&apos;t encouraging the &quot;big thinkers&quot; that Google wants to employ.Writing in the company&apos;s annual founders letter, Page sums up Google&apos;s achievements in the past 12 months. This year, Google has told us that &quot;incrementalism&quot; in technology leads to ruin.Here are the things we’ve learnt from the horse’s mouth.‘Incrementalism leads to irrelevance’Page considers iterative progress the death knell of a company. It would be easy to argue that most companies, Apple, Samsung and Google included, have been iterative rather than evolutionary in recent years, at least on the surface.“Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, with a few incremental changes. This kind of incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, because change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary.”Page considers the Google’s investment in left-field topics and ideas the “next generation of big bets”, like Calico (a health startup) and Google’s purchase of Nest, as a way to dig the company out of the iterative hole. But there’s a problem, and it’s mainly to do with the education system.‘People haven’t been educated in this kind of moonshot thinking’The Google X research lab is headed by co-founder Sergey Brin, and investigates Google&apos;s most experimental and ambitious projects, including self-driving cars, Google Glass and other leftfield ideas without an immediate profit objective. It&apos;s the “moonshot” centre of the Google world.But apparently getting people to work in Brin’s big-thinking division because the education system is not geared up to produce people who take risks.“I’ve learned over time that it’s surprisingly difficult to get teams to be super ambitious because most people haven’t been educated in this kind of moonshot thinking. They tend to assume that things are impossible, or get frightened of failure.”Page doesn’t suggest a solution to the problem, but says that Google puts a lot of time and energy into recruiting big thinkers. Many technology leaders have said that going to university isn’t necessarily the best use of time, with many of the biggest and most innovative names in technologybeing college dropouts themselves, including Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Elon Musk and Steve Jobs.Simplicity of design is keyGoogle’s search page was one of the most simple sites around when it launched back in 1997 and it still is today. Page reckons that was one of the reasons Google has been successful, but “building good, efficient interfaces is hard, and a bit more like engineering than you might think”.“There’s no reason the same [simplicity] principles can’t apply across our products, especially now, with so many devices and options, and so much opportunity for distraction.”“The more choices you throw at people (even if they never use them), the longer it takes them to get stuff done.”Google is currently going through a change of design ethos across most of its products, but many of them are cluttered and certainly not simple in design, Gmail being a prime example. A recent leak of apossible redesigned Gmail interfaceshowed a simplified interface, but it is unknown when or if the design will be rolled out.‘Android developers earn four times more than in 2012’&quot;In less than six years, over one billion Android devices have been activated (and growing fast) — creating an amazing platform for the increasing number of app developers globally. It’s super exciting to see this ecosystem take off, with Android developers earning four times more on average in 2013 than they did the year before from user payments,&quot; Page wrote.Apple’s iOS App Store still maintains the lead in average developer revenue with $5,200 per month, but Android was not far behind in the third quarter of 2013 generating $4,700 per month, according to data from Developer Economics.In the global app economy, iOS remained the most valuable in 2013 reaching $27bn, but Android is currently growing twice as fast in value and Developer Economics predicts that it will surpass iOS by the end of 2016.Project Loon will soon hit BrazilProject Loon, Google’s connectivity network that provides internet access from high-flying balloons, will soon stretch outside of New Zealand, where a pilot test started in June 2013. Classrooms in Brazil seems like a worthy cause. The internet is one of the most powerful tools in education.“The idea is to create a network of balloons on the very edge of space (they fly about twice the altitude of commercial airlines) that can provide connectivity in rural and remote areas. Soon there will be a classroom in northeast Brazil we are working to put online for the first time, using Loon.”Project Loon isn’t the only bit of charitable work Google’s doing. It recently launched a competition where charities can compete for £500,000 grants and mentoring from Google andNesta, an innovation charity. The 2014 Google Impact Challenge has £3.2m up for grabs, with Peter Jones from Dragons’ Den and Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales among the judges.• Europe hit the wrong balance with right to be forgotten,according to Google&apos;s Eric Schmidt• Explaining the right to be forgotten –can anyone scrub data from the internet?•Google facing fresh trial over Android copyright
Hundreds of people including an ex-politician seeking re-election, a paedophile and a doctor have applied to have details about them wiped from Google's search index since alandmark ruling in Europe on Tuesday.The deluge of claims trying to exercise the "right to be forgotten" follows a decision by Europe's highest court, which said that in some cases the right to privacy of individuals outweighs the freedom of search engines to link to information about them although the information itself can remain on web pages.The Guardian understands that the applications have been made to remove links to information that the complainants say is outdated or irrelevant including, in the UK, a former politician who is now seeking office and wishes information about their behaviour while in office to be removed. A man convicted of possessing child abuse images has demanded links to pages about his conviction are taken out of the index, while a doctor has said that negative reviews from patients should not be searchable.In total hundreds of people have made claims across Europe since the ruling was released on Tuesday morning.Google, which has more than 90% of the search market in Europe, declined to comment on how many applications it has received, or their nature.A Google spokesperson said: "The ruling has significant implications for how we handle takedown requests. This is logistically complicated not least because of the many languages involved and the need for careful review. As soon as we have thought through exactly how this will work, which may take several weeks, we will let our users know."Google already removes millions of links per month from its indexes where copyright holders such as music and film companies say they infringe their content. But those are largely automated. In the case of people demanding removal, each request would have to be considered individually.The European court of justice ruling on Tuesday was criticised on Wednesday by Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmdt,who saidthat the ruling was over "a collision between a right to be forgotten and a right to know. From Google's perspective that's a balance. Google believes, having looked at the decision, which is binding, that the balance that was struck was wrong."But Viviane Reding, the European commission's vice-president, said that the ruling "is exactly what data protection reform is about, making sure those who do business in Europe respect European laws, and empowering citizens to take the necessary actions to manage their data".The ruling says that search engines must remove links where they point to information that is "irrelevant or outdated" but that the original information itself can remain. That could cause tensions between the search engines and news organisations, because the latter may argue that links should not be removed, creating a tug of war that leaves the search engines at risk of being sued by both the complainant and the original source of the information.The ECJ ruling includes a public interest test, which says that search engines do not have to honour removal requests if keeping the links about a person "is justified by the preponderant interest of the general public in having, on account of inclusion in the list of results, access to the information in question".In the case of the ex-politician seeking office, or a convicted paedophile, that could mean Google and others will have a reason to reject calls to expunge their index.Google and other search engines operating in Europe, including Microsoft's Bing and Yahoo, will have to devise procedures that allow them to accept requests for link removal from individuals. But sources with knowledge of Google's procedures said that a suggestion by Hamburg's deputy data commissioner that it would have procedures in place within two weeks were incorrect.Google is understood to be considering offloading the task of deciding whether links should be removed from its index to the data protection commissioners in the country where requests are received – a move that could add significantly to the commissioners' caseload, which in some cases is already under considerable strain.The UK's information commissioner, Christopher Graham, is currently reviewing the ruling, but a spokesman for his office declined to comment on the possibility of taking on the task of reviewing such cases. "We are still studying the ruling," he said.
