.Monday January 1, 2007Has Google reached the tipping point?Time's Top 10sTuesday January 2, 2007'Wikipedia bans Qatar'... or does it?Xbox 360 shaved the US market over ChristmasMadden tops but "Gears of War breaks out for Xbox"Web 2.0 Companies I Couldn't Live WithoutWednesday January 3, 2007Unknown variables -- Amazon's book pricesCalling the odds on Macworld ExpoLate news: Seymour Papert injured in VietnamThursday January 4, 2007In print: what Steve Jobs said about a tablet and 'iPhone'Stamper brothers have left RareDual hi-def players and dual HD discs are on the wayFriday January 5, 2007Viva CESTablet Mac coming, but not from AppleSamsung developing RFID fridgeThis week's letters and blog mentions, in fullLuxpro to countersue Apple over Shuffle-alikeSaturday January 6, 2007Guy Kawasaki -- could do betterCES countdown continuesSunday January 7, 2007Gizmodo claims first blood at CES 2007Xbox news leaked ahead of Bill Gates's CES speechTechnology 'embraced by public' shock -- how about SlingCatcher?LG's hybrid DVD player unveiledSeamless computer looks interesting -- but it is not a UMPCMonday January 8, 2007Panasonic bigs it upCES 2007 keynotes onlineSony takes the circular PC route to CESGates the rock god (CES keynote)Windows Home Server on the wayWatch high-definition TV via your Xbox 360 -- maybeBill Gates overload -- CES lunch with bloggersZander might get a rough rideSony box links Bravia TV sets to net -- WebTV revisited?Asus W5Fe gets credit for Vista SideShow; Dell sings alongOn yer bikeTuesday January 9, 2007Silicon Valley meets Glitter GulchCES: brand new, second handSteve Jobs keynote bingo 2007Apple PodPhone tipped to go with CingularNokia upgrades N770 and launches fashion phoneNow what's inside an iPhone?Yes, it *is* called the iPhoneLive from Macworld: "We've revolutionised the phone"Stevenote: favourite momentsiPhone: keep your hands offDavid Sobotta, ex-Apple, on the iPhone and Macworld announcementsWednesday January 10, 2007iPhone started as a tablet PCHands-on iPhone, and life without a keyboardCan Apple own the mobile phone market?Apple, iPhone and Cisco trademarks: more confusedThursday January 11, 2007In print: what delays broadband, Bill and Steve's visions for your home etciPhone will use ARM processor, Apple job ad impliesOh the irony -- the iPhone, ARM, Marvell and FreescaleHas someone bugged the coins in your pocket?Best of CES -- a win for the LG dual hi-def driveCBS News has iPhone demoFriday January 12 2007Vista's got soulIf Google looked like Yahoo..Porn could tilt the hi-def DVD warMemory laneSaturday January 13, 2007Taking HTML mail back to basics, with EC helpWill the iPhone flop like the Mac?Sunday January 14, 2007Cisco lost rights to iPhone, say expertsApple's lawyers attack over iPhone iconsChip for conducting blood testsThis week's letters and blog mentions, in fullMonday January 15, 2007Want an iPhone? Beware the iHandcuffsFirst HD DVD movie now on BitTorrentWhat's happening with Napster?Bill v Steve? Bill uses too many big wordsMost of you won't figure this out....Roaming charges: a thing of the past?Tuesday January 16, 2007Venice Project renamed JoostEno to produce Spore musicThe economics of spamThe surveillance society revisitedThe Twilight Years of Cap'n CrunchWednesday January 17, 2007Beta Wikiseek searches WikipediaLed up the Packet Garden pathGoogle takes another small step down the evil roadFirefox still gaining ground in IE switchoverTUAW posts Mac Office 2008 screensTog on invention and the iPhone interfaceThursday January 18, 2007In print: Multi-touch screens for the rest of us, what causes 'electrosensitivity'?Fire and rescue robots "could save lives"Edited out of historyICANN hires critic McCarthyRobert Anton Wilson, the obituaryTouch phones that are not the iPhoneFriday January 19, 2007Fastest spacecraft in history slings past JupiteriPhone is cheap to make, claims iSuppliFAQ: Your first tech memoriesSaturday January 20, 2007Google's master plan to take over the worldAT&amp;T -- The T-1000 of TelecomsSunday January 21, 2007Microsoft responds on Vista content protectionGoodbye Gutenberg -- newspapers in the digital eraThis week's letters and blogs in fullHad a bad time with a media player?Monday January 22, 2007Wikipedia adopts "nofollow"Get A First Life -- no, reallyFAQ: This week's winnerWe'll all be Wallies in the futureTuesday January 23, 2007Microsoft seeks immortalityReal Life in Second LifePlayStation 3 -- a flop in Japan?Wednesday January 24, 2007Keeping up with Guardian blogsMicrosoftie tries to improve Wikipedia, indirectlySteve Jobs questioned over stock options; fat lady still not singingThursday January 25, 2007In print: search engines for faces, which Vista do you want?Forbes 25 web celebs: God bless AmericaDell US offers Windows-free desktops, perhaps for just a small extra chargeDual hi-def player not recommendedIn rip-off Britain, PlayStation 3 will cost $835Friday January 26, 2007Buy a brushstroke, save a painting for the nationFAQ: What technology do you miss the most?Amapedia -- Amazon to take on WikipediaWhere do Americans spend their time on the web?Saturday January 27, 2007This week's letters and blog pingbacks in fullMicrosoft rivals want EC to stop XAMLIntel extends Moore's Law with new chip techniqueSunday January 28, 2007Tax authorities are spidering the webI'm a Mac ads spawn even more parodiesMonday January 29, 2007China slips straight into 4GTech alumnus scores $4.5m fundingObi-Wan's Jedi robe up for grabsTuesday January 30, 2007Retailers say goodbye to floppyVista: admire the view, says GatesWednesday January 31, 2007End of the line for Steve Jobs blog?A periodic approach to visualising visualisationsUS time changes will have a global impact, says Gartner
Pocket Gamer has takena long hard sobering lookat Sony's latest financial figures and has found some alarming information on PSP:"In the three months ending December 31st - the critical period that included the run up to Christmas - Sony shipped a mere 1.76 million PSPs worldwide, compared to 6.22 million in the same period in 2005. That's a staggering fall of 72 per cent.Total PSP hardware shipments in the three quarters so far recorded for this financial year total 7.67 million units. The company is now forecasting total PSP hardware shipments of 9 million for this financial year - a huge plunge from the 14.06 million it shipped in financial year '05, and from its prediction last April of shipping 12 million units, too."The good news? Well, PSP 2.0 might be along soon - there are rumours of an updated machine complete with hard drive (or Flash drive), camera and smaller chassis. But is the hardware the problem? Or is it something to do with, ooh I don't know, the games?The ting is, there are quite a few very promising titles on the way this year. If Sony is feeling clever, it should get its hardware update out therenowto capitalise on the likes of Metal Gear Portable Ops, GT4 (if it still exists), Elder Scolls Travels: Oblivion and - who could forget - Crazy Taxi Fare Wars.
Tech sites have started to get to grips with Vista as a fully-fledged consumer reality - and naturally their thoughts are turning to gaming. Eurogamer has aneat little introduction to Vistafrom a gaming perspective, with lots of nuggets about DirectX 10 and some of the problems early adopters are facing.For a more in-depth analysis, Legitreviews.com has alengthy articleon how Vista has affected the olde ATI vs NVIDIA conflict. After some serious testing with lots of performance tables, the site concludes that both are suffering as their software drivers aren't quite compatible with the new OS.Ah PC - you never change do you?
You know what they say about empty vessels making the loudest noise? Well, the mobile games industry is filled to the brim with braying execs who'll tell anyone within shouting distance that this industry will be worth USB100 billion by 2010 and that mobile games will soon be more popular than console titles. So it's refreshing to seethis interviewwith THQ Wireless marketing director, James Scalpello."There's just no way that people will go home and, rather than firing up their 360, will fire up their phone. Maybe in 10 or 20 years time when technology is sufficiently advanced, but not now. Maybe being able to download content to your phone and then upload it to your 360, or taking a character from the console onto your phone and building it up on the bus or whatever - but in terms of pure gaming, no way."He also recognises that most of the big publishers see mobile games as little more than marketing exercises, there to build pre-release hype for console titles. He's right on both counts.It's a shame, though, that these publishers can't think of more imaginative ways of employing the mobile platform to publicise Triple A console and PC releases. If, as Scalpello asserts, consumers don't care that they're going to get a very different experience from, say, Project Gotham on mobile than they would on Xbox 360, then why bother coming up with a conventional experience? Why not go off-the-wall and produce something entirely different, something thatworkson most handsets? I don't know, Project Gotham Top Trumps or something.For me, the Holy Grail, as far as mobile versions of big console releases goes, is an experience that extends the console title. Scalpello mentions configuring your character on the bus then loading him back into your console game. Exactly. Football team formations, RPG inventories, weapon customisation - all could be achieved on the small screen. PS3 has bluetooth support built-in so maybe this is a possibility (although Sony seem more keen on playing up the PSP/PS3 connectivity).Let's see some imagination and some honesty about what mobile phones can do.
"The planned changes to the beginning and ending of Daylight Saving Time (DST) in the United States in March will have significant implications for organisation around the world," according to a Gartner press rlease.My first thought was to ignore it, but Gartner has list of the kind of problems that might arise:· Calendaring applications (including BlackBerry-style devices synching with an e-mail server) showing incorrect recurring meeting schedules · Incorrect times for arrivals and departures within the travel industry · Bank transaction errors, manifesting in late payments · Trading applications executing purchases and sales at the incorrect time · Missed deadlines for admissions and other time-sensitive enrolment programs · Auctions ending earlier, impacting late bids · Cell phone and other tariff billing applications incorrectly charging peak rates during non-peak times · Batch recovery, rollback and job scheduling processes operating off incorrect journal timestamps · Security programs improperly denying access to IT resourcesIt might not herald the collapse of civilisation but will obviously involve a certain amount of software patching. Will you have to do anything to deal with the change? If so, how would you have known about it?
I'm a bit slow on this one --Boing Boinghad it on January 9 -- but thePeriodic Table of Visualization Methodsis one of those things that will last a long time. And I'm sad enough to think it's fun.What the table does is organise and illustrate approaches to visualisation from the simple (tables, pie charts etc) to the metaphorical (knowledge maps, infomurals). Each entry has a pop-up example.There's some fascinating stuff in there, including things that are familiar in a technology context: Magic Quadrant, hype cycle, value chains, Porter's Five Forces etc. Have a broswe and you may see visualisations you have seen before but never realised they had names. You may also see visualisations you'd never visualised.You can read about the academic background inthis paper (PDF).
eBay has announced that they're proactively removing listings from their auction site which aim to sell virtual items for massively multiplayer online games like World of Warcraft, the EverQuest series and City of Heroes, according to Daniel Terdiman atcnet. The company hasfinallyresponded to calls from game publishers to remove the black market activity, a phenomenon which has caused a revolution in the virtual world thinking space.Real-Money Tradefor virtual properties, character accounts, currency, weaponry and other items rakes in phenomenal figures for individual and corporate sellers. If you need a run-down, check outJulian Dibbell's 2003 article from Wired Magazine,The Unreal Estate Boom, for a great overview. You can also check out the many articles profiling the phenomenon published in The Guardianhere, (here,here,here,here,here,hereandhere)It's unlikely that eBay's stance will affect the RMT economy; the trading will continue in other locations, and via other established sellers.Fromcnet:While there is no universally agreed-upon value for the RMT market, it is assumed to be worth somewhere between $250 million and $880 million a year, according to experts.eBay's move is "a boon for sites like IGE," said Julian Dibbell, author of Play Money: Or How I Quit My Day Job and Struck it Rich in Virtual Loot Farming. "They're going to have the field pretty much to themselves." But, Dibbell said, such a circumstance is "sad" because it restricts individuals from being direct participants in the markets themselves.But destroying a relatively free economy isn't much of a deterrent to eBay and to the game publishers. As the article rightly notes, the auction house's move is probably a result of wishing to eradicate the time consuming task of chasing virtual trade fraudsters. It's a lesson learned a few years ago by Sony, publisher of the EverQuest series and Star Wars Galaxy, who started an in-house market calledStation Exchange.Not surprisingly, the eBay ban doesn't affect the sales of goods from the virtual world Second Life, where trade, barter and asset accumulation are the name of the game.More fromcnetand, as ever, the brains atTerra Nova.
The Secret Diary of Steve Jobs(Dude, I invented the friggin iPod. Have you heard of it?) has been one of the funniest tech things on the web recently, but it may be under attack. In his latest -- and possible last -- post, the anonymous Fake Steve says:Well my friggin lawyers are advising me that I will have to shut down this scandalous old blog. Details not worth going into here. Someday I'll be able to explain. Maybe I'll write a book or something. Maybe a really beautiful e-Book that you can carry in your pocket and which will be sleek and elegant and shiny, with rounded corners and an extremely hi-res touch screen and only one button.FSJ has already linked toThe Secret Diary of Hillary Clinton, which is done in a very similar style, but hedisclaims credit:Namaste to the dude who sent us the comment post informing us about this copycat site. Yes, we have trademarked and patented the "secret diary" blog format, and our lawyers are trying to track this down. Meanwhile, I gotta admit, it ain't half bad. As with the fake Arnold site, well, I kinda wish I'd thought of it myself.There has been lots of speculation about the real identity of Fake Steve, and some suspect he's British -- how many Americans know about Quad and Harbeth hi-fi products, for example?So is this "In memorium, NOT!" or not? It would be sad to see it go.
Now don't get me wrong, I love my Wii. Christmas was a blast and after years of writing about games it was nice to see parents and relatives finally appreciate why games can be so exciting and involving (yes, I'm looking at you bowling). And Zelda too was wonderful, the controls adding something to the familiar action. But since then things have been quiet. Yes, I appreciate there is always a post launch lull, but I'm struggling to get too excited about the Wii at the moment. The terrible Call of Duty 3 makes me fear for future Wii conversions of multi format games, while the Virtual Console downloads aretechnically flawedand far too familiar . Excite Truck is due out soon and a previous play with that suggests it is worth a go, but the likes of Super Mario Galaxy and Metroid Prime 3 can't come soon enough. The novelty has worn off for me, but are you still in love with your Wii?
Greg Costikyan, the founder of indie game aggregator,Manifesto, has been writing about the healthy variety of traditional point-and-click adventure titles available on the site.His poston Games*Design*Art*Culture mentions games likeThe Shivah, a rabbi mourning mystery (there aren't enough of these), andAl Emmo and the Lost Dutchman's Minewhich pays homage to the great LucasArts titles as well as Leisure Suit Larry. Several of these adventures were apparently written usingAdventure Game Studioa purportedly user-friendly game creation package.However it's done, it's fascinating to see how point-and-click legends like Maniac Mansion and Police Quest are still influencing and inspiring gamers. Deep down, what I really want to see is a Monkey Island package on DS - but then the likes of Lost in Blue, Phoenix Wright and the forthcomingHotel Dusk: Room 215are sort of keeping that spirit alive. None of them, as far as I know, contain grog or spitting competitions or secondhand boat salesmen, though.
Videogame hardware manufacturer,Splitfish, claims today to have developed a new force feedback system compatible with the PS3 Sixaxis controller. From the company's press release:"This low power consumption force feedback technology called 'Sensor Effects - SensorFX' uses no moving parts to produce meaningful sensory feedback. A broad range of intensity and sensation compliment the ability to derive feedback sensations from isolated areas on the controller, to isolate one side or the other, movement from front to back or all areas at the same time. As an example, a gamer playing a race game can feel variations in pulse, strength and collision location and to feel intensity differences between a smooth guardrail swipe and a full frontal slam into a wall."The interesting thing about SensorFX, which can be built into third-party controllers or supplied as an add-on for end users to plug into their own pads, is that it isn't based aroundImmersion Corp's patented Rotating Mass technology. It is, of course, rumoured that the real reason Sony has not included a rumble feature in Sixaxis is that the company is still embroiled in alegal disputewith Immersion over alleged patent infringement. Immersion owns the rights to many elements of rumble technology design, allegedly including those found in the Dualshock. If SensorFX reallydoesrepresent a whole new take on vibration, this could be a way for Sony to build the element back into its controller plans without having to license technology from Immersion.
We've been expecting some of these for a while, but today Microsoft officially announcedtennew titles heading to Xbox Live Arcade over the next few weeks. Up there at the top of my wishlist are Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, the absolutely wonderful PSone 2D platformer, and Worms, the timeless multiplayer battle strategy title. Some quirky indie hits are on the line-up too, including Alien Hominid and Eets: Chowdown, plus a couple of arcade veterans in the shape of Paperboy and Root Beer Tapper. I also like the look ofBand of Bugs, a strategic combat newcomer complete with a level editor.I've been lazy and pasted Microsoft's press details below for more information...3D Ultra Minigolf Adventuresfrom developer Wanako Games and publisher Sierra Online, allows gamers to putt their way through 36 fun-filled holes of manic minigolf action on wild courses that range from the Old West to outer space and feature a bevy of crazy hazards and obstacles.Alien Hominid HDfrom The Behemoth features side-scrolling, hysterical cartoon action with a quirky twist and exclusive Xbox Live Arcade features.Band of Bugsfrom NinjaBee is a fast-paced tactical strategy game that offers gameplay deep enough to satisfy tactical genre fans and friendly enough to appeal to casual gamers. Creative gamers can even design their own levels with the built-in level editor, then play them solo or over Xbox Live with friends.Castlevania: Symphony of the Nightfrom Konami is a faithful version of this legendary classic updated for Xbox Live Arcade and featuring the game's full soundtrack and memorable side-scrolling vampire-hunting action.Catan, from developer Big Huge Games Inc. and publisher Microsoft® Game Studios, is a faithful remake of the immensely popular strategy board game.Eets: Chowdownfrom Klei Entertainment Inc. is a completely revamped version of the popular PC title of the same name. It offers new items, 120 new levels and the exclusive debut of Marsho Madness, a high-adrenaline action game in which players must keep the impending evil marshmallows at bay.LUXOR 2from developer MumboJumbo LLC, sets a new standard for action puzzlers as players match and shoot their way through the land of ancient Egypt.Paperboyfrom developer Digital Eclipse and publisher Midway, is a classic coin-op hit, specially enhanced for Xbox Live Arcade.Root Beer Tapperalso from developer Digital Eclipse and publisher Midway, features fast-paced reflex action as players scramble to keep thirsty patrons happy without dropping root beer mugs in the scramble to earn the biggest tips.Wormsfrom developer Team 17 Software Ltd. features armies of adorable weapon-toting worms locked in tactical combat.
The Microsoft boss, Bill Gates, promised that the long-awaited version of the Windows operating system would revolutionise everything from making phone calls to watching television as he launched it in Europe today.Unveiling the consumer version of the successor to Windows XP at the British Library in London, Mr Gates predicted a world in which television was personalised and students worked without paper textbooks."We're just at the beginning of that. We've just begun to see what we can do," he said.Windows Vista - which has been more than five years in the making - was released alongside a new version of Microsoft's flagship Office business suite, which includes Word, Excel and PowerPoint.Journalists and invited guests, somebloggingfrom the launch, packed a British Library conference theatre for the event, which included a performance by British band the Feeling.Mr Gates introduced the new operating system by reminding the audience that it was 24 years since Microsoft had produced the first version of Windows."Now, in Windows Vista, we have the foundation to take things to a whole new level," he said.The Microsoft chairman said Windows Vista would revolutionise television by letting people watch personalised shows, for example containing longer news items on subjects they were interested in.Even television advertising would be targeted to the individual viewer, he said.However, concerns have already been voiced that Windows Vista's new features to protect computer users against viruses and identity theft areinsufficient.Mr Gates said extensive testing - including the help of 5m volunteers who downloaded early versions of the software - meant Windows Vista and 2007 Microsoft Office were the "highest quality products we've ever released".He was joined on stage by the British Library chief executive, Lynne Brindley, to announce that two rare Leonardo Da Vinci notebooks had been made freely accessible online for the first time.The so-called Codex Leicester, part of Mr Gates's personal collection, can now be viewed alongside the Codex Arundel on the British Library'swebsite.Ms Brindley said the "electronic reunification" of the Da Vinci manuscripts for the first time in 500 years would be the first use of the library's version of its Turning the Pages digitisation software.Windows Vista's improved graphics handling makes digitising books and manuscripts much quicker, and means viewing them online is much smoother and more realistic, Mr Gates said.The British Library is also working with Microsoft to finish copying 25m pages of its 19th century books into digital format this year.Mr Gates hosted the worldwidelaunchof Vista in Times Square, New York, yesterday, supported by the punk band Angels and Airwaves, who played a version of Louis Armstrong's What a Wonderful World.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
So, this morning saw Bill Gates stroll into town to announce the launch of Windows Vista at the British Library.Those of us who have been following the drawn out Vista release process - including witnessing Gates' keynote speech atCES earlier this month- are pretty used to the drill by now... it's a revolutionary version of the Windows operating system that's going to take us into the future. Very beautiful, very useable and pretty heavy going on your computer.As an aside, Gates announced that he was making two rare Da Vinci books available online with the British Library (hence the venue) and brought in Universal Music and popular beat combo The Feeling to back up the announcements.He also took the time to point out that Vista was looking forward, andpainted a picture of where things were going:Mr Gates introduced the new operating system by reminding the audience that it was 24 years since Microsoft produced the first version of Windows."Now in Windows Vista we have the foundation to take things to a whole new level."The Microsoft chairman said Windows Vista would revolutionise television by letting people watch personalised shows, for example, with longer news items on subjects they were interested in.Even television advertising would be targeted to the individual viewer, he said.So, here's the thing: given that there have been 5 million testers, I'll bet that plenty of Technology Blog's readers have already been testing Vista for sometime.So, if you've had your hands on it, tell us what you think.
Sony was today counting the cost of the launch of its PlayStation 3 game console, but said there were signs of an upturn in its core electronics division.The firm's operating profit fell 15% in the October-December quarter, but brisk sales of its Cyber-shot digital cameras and Bravia flat-panel TVs over Christmas prompted a rise in its full-year earnings forecast.Net profit for the quarter fell to &#165;159.9bn (&#163;667m) from &#165;168.9bn for the same period last year but sales rose 9.8% from &#165;2.38 trillion to &#165;2.61 trillion.Sony's attempts to turn around its fortunes, starting with the appointment in 2005 of its first-ever foreign CEO, the Welsh-born Sir Howard Stringer, have been overshadowed by delays to the launch of the PS3 and the global recall of about 10m potentially faulty batteries for laptop PCs.But in a sign that the tide may be turning, Sony's electronics division registered a record operating profit of &#165;177bn for the quarter, double the figure from a year ago.Re-establishing its dominance of the consumer electronics sector is a key component of Sir Howard's recovery strategy.Sony's problems began when it lagged behind Samsung and Sharp in the emerging market in flat-panel TVs; the firm behind the Walkman has never been able to accept Apple's dominance of personal audio with its hugely successful range of iPod music players. Sony also raised its net profit forecast for the current fiscal year through to the end of March to &#165;110bn from its earlier estimate of &#165;80bn - although that would still be down from a &#165;168.9bn profit a year ago. Its full-year sales estimate remained unchanged at &#165;8.23 trillion. Its movie division saw sales rise by 46.8% thanks to the success of films such as The Da Vinci Code and Casino Royale."It's a positive development that the company increased profits on electronics even as their prices fell during the holiday sales period," Mitsuhiro Osawa, an analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities, told Reuters."Of course we cannot ignore the game machines...it is too early to say Sony has been reborn."Start-up costs for the PS3 ate into profits, however, with Sony's computer entertainment division registering a &#165;54bn operating loss.The firm said it had shipped 1.84m of the next-generation consoles worldwide between October and December, and last week announced that it had reached its goal of shipping 2m machines worldwide, two weeks later than it had hoped.Today it said its target of shipping 6m PS3s worldwide by the end of March remained unchanged. The PS3 went on sale in Japan and the US late last year after delays blamed on production of components for its new Blu-ray DVD player.Gamers in Britain and the rest of Europe will have to wait until March 23 to get their hands on the console and they will not, for the moment, be given the option available in Japan and the US of buying a cheaper, 20GB version of the high-end 60GB machine.Sony's gaming sector was also hit by a slowdown in sales of its PlayStation Portable handheld console and the surprise pre-launch decision to cut the price of the PS3 in Japan by about 20%. In Tokyo Sony shares closed down 1.8% at &#165;5,630. It reported its results after the market had closed.&#183;Emailbusiness.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk
It is an encyclopedia written by nobody but Wikipedia is rapidly becoming prime source material for American judges.A search of court decisions by the New York Times turned up more than 100 rulings that have cited the online encyclopedia since 2004, including 13 from the circuit court of appeals, one rung beneath the supreme court; America's highest court has yet to succumb to the site's call.Despite its status among the 20 most popular sites on the internet, its reputation suffered when several cases emerged of entries being tampered with by pranksters or containing errors. In 2005, a writer was falsely accused of being linked to the assassinations of John F Kennedy and his brother, Robert, by a Nashville delivery driver playing a joke on a co-worker. The writer, John Seigenthaler, who had served as an administrative assistant to Robert Kennedy and was one of the pall bearers at his funeral, was not amused.This month, the history department at Middlebury College, a small private institution, voted to ban students from citing the website in academic work. Professors at other colleges forbid students from using Wikipedia as their central source.But it has established a berth in the courtroom, despite concerns among some legal scholars about the dangers of relying on unreliable sources. In a 2005 case before the Tennessee court of appeals worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, the site was used to help define the meaning of the word "beverage". It was also cited this week in a federal district court in Florida to offer background on the term "booty music", the New York Times said.In one instance cited by the newspaper, a decision from a Chicago appeals court cited Wikipedia in a drugs case - even though the judge, Richard Posner, had first-hand experience of its unreliability. One entry had said the conservative commentator Ann Coulter had been his law clerk. Mr Posner has never met her.
Microsoft launches its long-awaited new version of Windows today with the promise of next-generation computing power, but experts have warned that the system may suffer from the same security problems as its predecessors.Windows Vista, which has been beset by delays, is finally going on sale to the public with the backing of a huge advertising campaign and widespread support from the computer industry. The system - promoted with the tagline "The wow starts now" - is intended to bring huge advances to computer users worldwide, offering detailed 3D graphics, better performance and improved protection from viruses and other online threats. Some security experts, however, are already concerned that the system may not be as secure as users have been led to expect.Webroot Software, one of the plethora of security companies that helps protect Windows users from attacks, said that buyers should be aware of the potential holes in Vista. "We want to make sure that users understand the system's limitations," said Gerhard Eschelbeck, a spokesman for Webroot, "and caution them that Microsoft's anti-virus programs may not fully protect them."In testing, the company said, the new Windows Defender program failed to block 84% of viruses - including 15 of the most common pieces of malicious code.It is not the only criticism being levelled at Vista, which has been hailed by some as the most significant advance from Microsoft in a generation. A number of campaigners have criticised the heavy technological burden the new system will bring. In order to utilise Vista's capabilities fully, many users will need to buy expensive add-ons, or buy an entirely new system.The Green Party yesterday claimed that the combination of new hardware and "paranoid" software restrictions would afflict users and the environment."There will be thousands of tonnes of dumped monitors, video cards and whole computers," said Sian Berry, the Green Party's principal speaker. "Future archaeologists will be able to identify a Vista upgrade layer when they go through our landfill sites."But consumers and companies are looking forward to the launch. Analysts anticipate the arrival of Vista will significantly boost the number of IT and manufacturing jobs around the world, and retailers are awaiting a windfall. Some PC World branches were planning to open at midnight to sell the new system.The release is also vitally important to Microsoft's future. The company has already felt the ill effects of launch delays: last week it announced a 10% drop in earnings for the six months to December.The launch comes as the software company faces further accusations of anti-competitive practices. Campaigners in Europe claim that Microsoft is abusing its monopoly by creating a new way of building web pages, which critics fear may become the de facto standard. They are hoping for a favourable ruling from the European commission, which last year fined Microsoft &pound;190m for other instances of anti-competitive behaviour, in an echo of the US antitrust lawsuits that brought the company to the brink of break-up in the mid 1990s.BackstoryThe five-year development of Vista has been one of the most tortuous processes in Microsoft's history. Originally known by its codename Longhorn, the system was conceived in 2001. In 2004, however, Microsoft announced that many features were being scrapped in favour of a stripped-down product that could be more easily finished. Although the system was more or less complete a year ago, several delays pushed its release back nearly a year.
Some of you may rememberourcoverageofDarfur is Dying, the winning candidate of the serious games challenge spearheaded by theKaiser Family FoundationandMTV's Universitynetwork. Spurred on by that game's critical and viral success, this year's competition challenges (real or wanabee) game designers to create an interactive product which deals with the spread of HIV/AIDs. From the press release:mtvU and the Kaiser Family Foundation are looking for innovative, interactive concepts for video games that will spread rapidly online. Proposed projects should raise awareness about HIV/AIDS among young people in the US, identify ways to stop its spread, and address the silence, stigma and discrimination surrounding the disease. The challenge is open to college students nationwide and the deadline for submissions is March 16th, 2007.Sadly, the compeition is only open to people in the US, but we look forward to the resulting submissions; last year's crop were superb.Thanks to my Mum, who pointed me in the direction of this news
They were the chosen medium of computer users for years, but it looks like the final nail is going into the coffin of the floppy disk. PC World, Europe's Walmart of computing, has decided that it's not worth selling floppies any more and will just let stocks run out.According to a statement from Bryan Magrath, the company's commercial director, the technology has just been left behind:"It is now increasingly standard for computer users to transfer data via the internet or use USB memory sticks, some of which will store the equivalent of 1,000 times the capacity of floppy disk. With that amount of memory available in such a small and convenient device, the floppy disk looks increasingly quaint and simply isn't able to compete."Over the weekend I came across a box of floppies while delving around in my spare room, and looked at them in wonder. It's been years since I used one, and yet at one point they were so vital. Bye bye floppy: we loved you, once.
From today I'm starting a weekly series of interviews asking key developers about the future of our favourite game genres. For the opening report, I talked to Mike Simpson, the studio director ofCreative Assemblyabout the strategy sim. As you'd expect the developer of the astonishingly good Medieval and Rome Total War titles has a few interesting ideas about where this is all heading.Next week:Evolution Studios on the driving gameIn what key ways do you feel Medieval II took the strategy game forward last year? Which elements do you feel point toward the future of the genre?The Total War series has always set the standard when it comes to the sheer scale of RTS battles but with Medieval II we took this further. The game banished what we called the "clone" armies that were present in our previous title, Rome: Total War, and indeed the strategy genre as a whole, and gave the men under the player's control far more individuality both in terms of the way they looked and the way they acted in battle. Troops had a variety of face and body types, a variety of shield patterns and heraldry, while weapon and armour updgrades were visible on the battlefield. It meant the thousands of troops under the players' command actually felt like individual men rather than units of clones.In terms of the way these troops acted on the battlefield, we made some massive strides. A brand new combat animation system really brought home the brutality of medieval warfare and added a heightened cinematic feel to the battles. Players can zoom into the frontline and witness a huge variety of combat moves being carried out with individual troops blocking, parrying, claiming their victims and then looking around for the next threat. The amount and variety of animation is staggering when you consider the huge amounts of detail included in each model and the sheer scale of the battles that can be fought - up to and beyond 10,000 troops.Which other strategy titles do you feel did interesting things last year?There were many top quality strategy games released last year. For me personally the two that stood out were Company of Heroes and Galactic Civilisations II. Very different games in their own right but certainly great examples of what makes the strategy genre so strong on the PC.Medieval II seemed to make evolutionary changes to the series recipe, rather than huge revolutionary alterations. Do you feel this will be the case with strategy games in the next few years - using developing technology to 'flesh out' key elements (i.e. more advanced environments, more intricate animation, etc, rather than completely re-define things?If you trace the Total War series back to the days of Shogun you'll see that there is a clear pattern of evolution and revolution. Most of the other major franchises only evolve, and do it very slowly too. Certainly when a new game technology is developed there are always refinements and features that couldn't make the initial release that will always be suited to a second, evolutionary release based on that technology- that's something that happens naturally through the development process. We will certainly never abandon our desire to create revolutionary games. We're driven by the desire to create a perfect Total War game and sometimes that means refinement, other times in means creating brand new technologies and re-defining things to take things forward.There weren't too many enormous 'traditional' strategy titles last year - do you feel the market leaders - like yourselves - have cornered the market and created brands that gamers have committed themselves to monogamously? Is it too complex to enter the strategy market with new games these days?Developing a brand new strategy title from scratch is a massive task because they are complex beasts and because, from a marketing perspective, there are franchises that are already very established.One of the key strengths for the Total War series is that the technology behind the games has evolved, along with the skills and experience of our development teams, for more than 7 years. It's very difficult for a new strategy developer, with a new technology, to compete with that. Having said that we're never going to rest on our laurels. As I've mentioned, we're driven to continue to improve Total War games not only for the fans of the game but also for ourselves. We're all gamers too.In what ways are new technologies such as multiple core processors and advanced graphics and physics cards going to effect the strategy title?It's certainly going to be interesting to see how these new technologies impact on the games we play. Obviously in terms of graphics, PC Gaming has always been advancing rapidly so this is nothing new. DirectX 10 on Vista offers a major advance for us, removing some of the big limitations on the graphics engine and opening the door towards more detailed men and environments. The role that multiple core processors can play, in areas such as AI for example, is definitely intriguing. Ultimately they'll also make it possible for troops on the battlefield to behave much more realistically, although the technology will take time to mature. Physics on hardware presents some interesting opportunities - it will definitely make the explosions look better, but going beyond that and having it affect gameplay probably isn't going to happen until the cards become common.Thematically, where do you think the genre is going next? We've had Creative Assembly's historical titles, and EA's fantasy-based Lord of the Rings series - can you see a point where current conflicts are tackled? Or are there historical periods that remain untouched?There are certainly many many themes and settings that remain untouched. We're spoilt for choice when it comes to Total War games because history hands us so much to play with. Having said that, we're not bound by history by any means - the Total War formula could easily be applied elsewhere. As for the strategy genre as a whole - we've seen several titles touch on modern conflicts in the last year and I think that's a trend that's likely to continue.Do you think, in the current political climate, that military strategy games have a developing role in questioning, or looking into the consequences, of war? In Medieval II you've introduced weaker townstates, which brings in an economical element, plus there's theincreased role of religion - were these added merely as gameplay toys, or were you think about the wider nature of war?We never set out to make statements or to question wider issues with our games - we strive to create great games but historical reality provides a fantastic opportunity to do just that. At any moment in history the "position" is perfectly balanced, and the closer we get to depicting it accurately the better the game we produce. The educational benefits or the elements that make gamers think about the themes involved in our games are positive side-effects of playing the games we develop.In the case of Medieval II, religion was clearly a crucial aspect of medieval life and warfare so therefore, it was crucial that we gave religion a significant role in the way that the game played out. Of course we were mindful of respecting the religions included in the game and we've always gone to great lengths in all titles to ensure that gameplay elements like religion, are treated with respect and are portrayed accurately.Do you feel the future for Medieval is to add more intricacies, or do you feel the industry is heading toward more user-friendly and immediate experiences? is there pressure on you to engage with the emerging Wii generation of casual gamers? Or do you feel that yourselves and your fans are entirely separate from that?The emergence of a new generation of gamers is great news for all game developers but it doesn't influence our approach. We've always seen the importance of creating games that are accessible to new players. However, there's a balancing act involved. We're always looking to improve the accessibility of our games to new players, not just strategy gamers but gamers as a whole. On the flip side we're also aware that we have a fan base of experienced Total War players who expect more depth and new challenges. The task for us is to continue to evolve the Total War games in terms of their appeal to our fanbase while also making them more accessible to new players. That's obviously not easy.What's next for Creative Assembly? What are you working on now?Aha. Big things that's for sure but unfortunately we're not in a position to reveal just what they are right now. Since we joined up with Sega we've had the resources to expand our teams and are now able to do bigger and better things than ever before so the future is very exciting for us.Can you tell us five things we should look out for in strategy games of the near future?Away from what we're creating here at Creative Assembly I think there are some general trends we'll see in the future for the strategy game. Inevitably we'll see the effects of improved graphics technology. The advent of multi-core processors will also allow strategy games to create deeper and more complex AI routines that will create a greater challenge for the player. Away from technology, I think we'll continue to see strategy games making more of online, not only with regards to getting gamers playing online but also in terms of making more content available via digital download. Finally I think we'll see more strategy developers attempt to blend their games with other genres - not only by combing real-time and turn-based strategy genres, but also other genres such as the FPS and third-person action.
Through mobile phones, set-top boxes, videogame console download services and good old-fashioned websites, casual games are everywhere in 2007. Many of us snigger at them, barely considering them part of the gaming pantheon - then we quietly skulk back to our Xbox 360s to play Texas Hold 'Em.So what makes a successful casual game? And where is this whole scene going? I recently got some questions to John Vechey, co-founder ofPopCap, one ofthekey casual game publishers, and responsible for the likes of Bejeweled, Zuma and Xbox Live newcomer, Heavy Weapon. Here's what he had to say about zen gaming modes, Apple iPhone and using your mum as a QA tester.Popcap has recently launched Heavy Weapon on Xbox Live Arcade - can you tell us how that came about?From the beginning PopCap has always had a great relationship with Microsoft. It was only natural when they were dong the original Xbox Live Arcade that we took part in it. When we saw how amazing the Xbox 360 Live Arcade interface was and how big of a part of the Xbox 360 strategy it was we took it even more seriously and immediately started working to get more games ported. Heavy Weapon is our first Live enabled title for 360. It's been getting great reviews and a lot of customers love it.Did you develop the titles in house, and if so, how did the process differ from your PC titles?So far we've only contracted out Xbox 360 development. We've had an in-house producer working with a third party company. In the future, it will be a combination of in-house development with the occasional game being done with an external company.Are there more Xbox Live Titles on the way? Can you tell us your plans?PopCap doesn't disclose advance details of upcoming games. What we can say at this time is that yes, we're planning to make more titles available for XBLA in the coming year and beyond.How about PS3 or PSP downloads? Any plans there?We're exploring these platforms as well as several others, but can't provide any details at this time.Your games have also appeared on iPod, do you feel music players are going to become an important platform for casual games in the future?Any portable entertainment or communications device with a reasonable level of media support is worth considering in terms of casual game porting or development, because the devices are well-suited to casual games, and vice versa. From the screen size and simple controls to the very broad appeal of these devices, they lend themselves to casual games consumption. Casual games are simple to learn and play, don't have extensive graphics/video playback demands, and appeal to anyone over the age of six or seven.So we believe that MP3 players and mobile phones are an extremely significant area of growth for casual games. PopCap's flagship title Bejeweled has been deployed on more than 50 million phones in N. America alone, so we take the mobile side of the business very seriously. PopCap has partnered up with Glu Mobile and EA Mobile with some of our titles and have had a lot of success. We're also very excited about MP3 players. Bejeweled and Zuma were two of Apple's launch titles for the iPod games.Did you see any interesting new platforms for your titles at CES? What did you think of iPhone?While we can't comment on our relationship with Apple and future plans in that regard, we certainly view the iPhone as another pioneering device from Apple - the first multipurpose mobile phone to really "get it" and provide a wide range of capabilities in an elegant package. As for other new platforms, PopCap has always been at the forefront of bringing casual games to new platforms. We were first on the XBLA service, first on the ultra-mobile PCs introduced last year by Microsoft and Intel, and among the first on mobile phones. We were first to make our games available on retail store shelves in N. America. The good news is, PopCap is now large and well-known enough that the device manufacturers seek us out, often before we've even become aware of the device in question!Bejeweled has obviously been a key game for you - what is it about that game that's allowed it to gain such a huge fanbase despite there being so many ostensibly similar titles on the casual scene?Honestly, I wish I knew. I think part of it was that it had a couple of years to build word of mouth / momentum before there were a bunch of clones on the market. I also think that our attention to detail on the game was very, very high. We kept the game simple and fun, without trying to add too many things that would make it less enjoyable.What have been the most surprising successes in your portfolio? And any surprising failures?Heavy Weapon. I can't talk about early numbers on 360, but in the first week it's done phenomenally well for us. But before we launched the game on the 360, it was one of our biggest flops on the PC. When working on it we were always afraid it was going to sell poorly, even though we thought it was a great game. We're very happy that it found it's market and platform on the 360 and that people love it!Are you in contact with your users much? PopCap always seems to understand the 'fashions' in casual gaming - do you listen to your community?PopCap stays in close touch with its customer base, through newsletters, beta test groups, customer service efforts and outreach to individual consumers in some cases. We love hearing from our customers, and do factor their feedback into our game design and development work. But to say that this customer influence has inspired a given game would be overstatement. It's all about maintaining a focus on gameplay and quality - essentially spending lots of time figuring out how to make each game as fun as it can be. In the early days of the company, the three co-founders (myself included) would occasionally use our mothers as "alpha testers," setting them down in front of an early playable version of a game we were tinkering with, and coming back half an hour later. If our moms were still playing the game, we knew it probably was on the right track in terms of 'fun factor' and breadth of appeal.We also have incorporated "Zen" and "timeless" modes into many of our latest games, based in part on customer feedback. We received many, many emails and calls from customers saying their favourite way to play Bejeweled or Alchemy or etc. was to ignore any time-limits or goals in the game, just zoning out and relaxing while moving jewels around a screen or trying different moves in an experimental way. We used this feedback to make modes of many recent games in which there's absolutely no pressure on the player to complete a level in a set amount of time or achieve a certain score or etc. So we definitely do listen to what our customers tell us!Now that casual games are gaining a market share on the next-gen formats as well as handheld systems like DS and PSP, do you think developers and journalists are treating them with more respect? What kind of impact is this Diaspora of casual gaming having on the industry?So far, this growth in the casual games sector has occurred relatively quietly, but with the casual games business now a billion-dollar industry, we expect to see more developers and journalists take notice. Both are definitely more inclined to treat an emerging market with respect when that market reaches a certain size and "pervasiveness," and we believe this will happen soon in the casual games space.As far as the impact it's having on the overall videogame industry, there are some signs: large established videogame publishers acquiring casual game firms, buying mobile games aggregators and developers, etc. And console makers like Microsoft and Sony opening up their systems/services to a broader array of game content, including casual games. I think the entire video game industry is grudgingly acknowledging that casual games are 5x more appealing than 'hardcore' games in terms of audience size. Given the cyclical nature of the video game publishing business, there's no question that traditional videogame firms are eyeing the casual games sector and starting to think about how they can be part of it.Can you tell us about some of your current projects? What sort of team sizes and development periods are you working with?Sorry, we don't disclose information about upcoming games. This is largely due to the fact that our games are usually "cloned" (knocked off) by others shortly after they debut, and we don't want to give those erstwhile competitors any more advance warning than necessary. Generally speaking, each game has a development staff of 3-6 people, and takes 12 to 18 months to bring to market. As we begin to make more elaborate casual games, the time spent making some of the games has increased. Bookworm Adventures took 2.5 years from concept to completion, for example.So, what are going to be the key casual gaming trends of 2007? Where is this whole scene going?First, this should be the year where consumers as a group really wake up to the phenomenon of casual games as a fun, fast, cost-effective source of leisure-time activity and entertainment. You can get Bejeweled and Zuma on your mobile phone or iPod for about the same cost as going to a movie. But Zuma and Bejeweled will give you hundreds, perhaps thousands, of hours of entertainment while the movie will only give you two.Second, this will be a year in which all-new genres of casual games come to market, despite the common misconception that there's nothing left to invent in the casual games space. We know this will be true because we've got some things up our sleeves that are unlike anything on the market today, yet are definitely squarely in the casual games vein...
ViaThe Registercomes this spot for Star Wars fans: the cloak worn by Obi-Wan Kenobe actor Alec Guinness in the original movies is going up for auction this spring.Bonhamsexpect the cloak of Obi-Wan Kenobi - who was killed by Darth Vader at the end of the film (sorry for the spoiler, folks) - to fetch a quite remarkable £60,000. Will it imbue the wearer with the Force? Unlikely, although since it's 30 years old it might well imbue them with the pong of mothballs:Whilst the character is central in the recently filmed prequels (Episodes I-III), starring Ewan McGregor in the role, the character first appeared in the first installment of the saga, Episode IV, A New Hope. Sir Alec Guinness gave a remarkable performance as the ageing Jedi Knight in Episode IV and resumes his role in the other sequels, usually clad in this iconic Jedi robe.This original cloak, an integral part of this world of excitement and mystery is estimated at £50,000-60,000. Also from Star Wars is an imperial commanders uniform, estimated at £8,000-10,000.
Technology Guardian regular Ashley Norris and friends have scored an interesting boost for the world of blog publishing bysecuring $4.5m fundingfrom Bright Station Ventures to put into the Shiny Media network.According to Paul Durman in theSunday Times, Bright Station is the brainchild of "jilted tech boss" Dan Wagner, who once missed a golden opportunity to rake in the cash.The entrepreneur who ran the Maid online information business in the 1990s, once turned down an opportunity to invest $1m (£510,000) for 30% of the fledgling Ebay -- a stake that would now be worth many billions.Although Wagner missed the chance to back Ebay founder Pierre Omidyar, who briefly worked in the group's Californian arm, he has taken steps to make sure he doesn't make the same mistake again.Shiny claims to be Europe's largest independent blog publisher, following the model set by Jason Calacanis (Weblogs Inc) and Nick Denton (Gawker), and - in Ashley's words - "attracts almost three million readers each month to our 22 sites".
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
China has been dominating tech headlines for a few days - from theincredible riseof internet users toGoogle's admissionthat maybe censoring its Chinese index wasn't a brilliant idea - but now it seems they're trying to crank things up even more.Apparently a group of movers and shakers in Shanghai have decided to skip 3G, which has proved quite troublesome for them, and go straight to 4G instead. Here'sReuters:Data-rich 3G telephony -- which allows high-speed transmission of data and images -- is not yet available in mainland China. But a group of 10 "leading domestic institutions" called the "FuTURE Project" on Sunday rolled out 4G in Shanghai, the official China Daily reported.China aims to hold field tests for the 4G system -- whose rollout has cost 150 million yuan ($19.3 million) and will allow data transmission at up to 100 megabutes per second, several times faster than current technology -- and put it into trial commercial use up until 2010, the paper added.It brough to mind a great piece that Kevin Kelly wrote last year about "the myth of leapfrogging", and how we shouldn't expect cultures to skip whole generations of technological development. Of course, in the case of 3G/4G, we're not talking about a huge shift from riding horses to flying cars - it's more a difference of degree rather than kind.
This image arrived in my inbox early this morning fromthe folksbehindPerplex City, the British-madeAlternate Reality Game. Figure it out and you'll be on your way to nabbing the £100,000 prize! I can feel it in my waters... the missing cube will soon be found:A feverish last dash for the prize is expected as 50,000 players from 92 countries scramble to unravel the final puzzle in the gaming saga - and there is a real possibility of a Great British victory, as the leader board is dominated by Brits.45 per cent of players are from the UK, with another 45 per cent from the US; the remaining 10 per cent of gamers come from the 90 other participating countries. The player demographic is a 50/50 split between male and female participants - making Perplex City a game for everyone, from anywhere.Spoiler ahead:For those who can't stand using your brain on a Monday morning, the answer is (in reverse order):moc.lebabfoyrarbileht.www
We may have done this before, but hey, it's Monday. Anyway, with Final Fantasy XII due out soon it reminded me that I never did get round to playing Final Fantasy VII, the supposed classic of the series. And when it comes to RTS games there are some notable blanks including Starcraft and the original Command and Conquer. Eeek. But what about you? Forget acclaimed cult games like Psychonauts, we're talking Half Life 2, GTA: Vice City, Goldeneye, Super Mario 64, Metal Gear Solid 2, Zelda: Ocarina of Time etc - which classic game have you never played?
Apple's "I'm a Mac" commericals may be stupid and insulting, but they've been a tremendous boon for the parody market. Paul Thurrott of WinSupersite has just postedfour on his blogfrom YouTube. These are better made than the average knock-off, and the scripts are much funnier than any of the Apple originals. And "probably more honest," says Thurrott.There's a classic line in the third video where the Mac guy says: "Sorry I'm late, I was up all night building a website for my cat."
Tax authorities in the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark, Canada and the UK are spidering the web "with the assistance of Amsterdam-based data mining firm Sentient Machine Research," according toWired, and Sweden is thinking of joining the group.Wired talked to Dag Hardyson, the national project leader for e-commerce for Skatteverket, the Swedish tax authority. From the story:Hardyson said the Swedish government -- which already has its own internally developed tax crawlers -- is currently keeping a copy of everything it spiders. That means that someone's long-expired actions have the potential to come back and haunt them. "We can scan and store all actions for every e-marketplace in Sweden, it's about 55,000 per day," said Hardyson. He said his agency hasn't decided if it will change its policies with the new, more sophisticated Xenon software. "Is this what we should do? Our lawyers must look at it."
Think of it as sat nav for humans instead of cars. The vEye, or virtual eye, uses the same technology to guide visually impaired people from A to B. It could eventually render guide dogs obsolete.A vEye consists of a mobile phone with built-in GPS, the technology that allows satellite navigation, and a pair of wristbands. Users specify where they want to go, potentially by a voice command. When they need to turn left, the left wristband vibrates; when they need to turn right, the right wristband does the same. All the time their progress is being charted on a digital map to ensure they reach their final destination.GPS can be imprecise and the signal can be lost inside a building such as a shopping centre. So the vEye would also rely on tiny radio frequency identification, or RFID, tags, which can be attached to or incorporated into products or surfaces and would be activated when the user comes close.The idea came about when Ivan Cardim, a 22-year-old student from Brazil, realised that his grandfather's eyesight was failing.'We started brainstorming,' said Cardim, who worked on the project with two friends, Carlos Rodrigues and Madson Menezes Costa. They spent five months working on computer coding. A &pound;100 prototype is still under construction.Rodrigues added: 'It would be automated like GPS in a car. This would not be a replacement for the cane, which is useful for avoiding objects in your path, but it cannot tell your direction.'
Intel is claiming an advance in chip technology that involves the most significant change since it pioneered integrated circuits more than four decades ago, according to theMercury News. Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, 78, who observed Moore's Law,came out of retirement -- he spends some of his time in Hawaii -- to issue a statement Friday about the Intel team's innovation. He said Intel's use ofhigh-k and metal materials"marks the biggest change in transistor technology" since Intel's pioneering use of polysilicon in 1969.It seems that IBM has been working with AMD on the same approach but is "still in the research phase," according to Yoshio Nishi, a professor of electrical engineering at Stanford University."It's a real breakthrough . . . for both of them," said Rick Doherty, research director of the Envisioneering Group in Seaford, N.Y. "I wouldn't be surprised if members of these teams were up for the Nobel Prize."Robert Scoble hasfilm at PodTech.
The European Committee for Interoperable Systems is capitalising on the forthcoming consumer launch of Microsoft Vista by publicising its attempt to attack the use ofXAML(Extensible Application Markup Language). According to anAP story:They asked the European Commission to make a decision "as fast as possible" on a complaint they filed last February. It had accused Microsoft of working to keep its existing monopolies and trying to extend its market dominance into other areas, including Web-based computing.Well, this could easily be solved by blocking Microsoft's access to the Web, and blocking all access from PCs running Windows. An extra benefit is that a lot of bandwidth would be released because it would remove 95% of the world's internet users, including the staff of the European Commission.The group said Microsoft's XAML markup language -- which it said was positioned to replace the current Web page language HTML -- was designed "from the ground up to be dependent on Windows."I think ECIS's point is that Google, Yahoo and everyone else will have no choice but to capitulate, abandon HTML, Ajax, Flash, Java etc and be forced to rewrite all their applications in XAML, so then Microsoft will dominate the web. You've heard this story before over Internet Explorer, Active X, Passport, Windows Media Player, Microsoft.net etc, so just fill in the blanks yourself.The ECIS was founded as a front organisation by IBM, Nokia, Oracle, RealNetworks and Red Hat, and its strategy seems to be based on what Ronald Cass, former vice chairman of the US International Trade Commission, and dean emeritus of Boston University School of Law, calledAntitrust Tourismin a Wall Street Journal commentary. This is the process by which US companies such as Real Networks, Symantec and McAfee shop around for friendly places to litigate, and the European Commission, said Cass, is "the world's most accommodating forum for companies who fear losing business to more successful competitors".Whether this latest attack will have any effect is an open question. However, following the spectacular success of its Windows-without-a-Media-Player venture into operating system design, you might reasonably suspect that the EC's Competition Commission could be suckered into almost anything.In this case, it's somewhat hard to see the point. As with Open XML file formats, Microsoft is moving to a system that is a least more open and more accessible than before, which some people might think was a good thing. And rather than competing with HTML, XAML looks more like a competitor for Adobe's proprietary Macromedia Flash technology. I haven't noticed ECIS complaining about that, so we can only assume that it's not really too bothered about competition -- it's OK for Adobe to pwn the Web app interface. Either way, if ECIS is successful, any EC action would most likely tend to diminish competition (by, in effect, helping to protect Flash from competition from Microsoft) rather than increase it.This is relevant because the EC's remit is to promote cross-border competition. It doesn't care if users are harmed in the process. It also doesn't care ifAmericanusers are harmed, which helps make the EC a better target than the US Justice Department.Of course, there's a whole bunch of stuff available, including Ajax, ZUL, UML and the Flash/Flex competitor, Open Lazlo. For a couple of years there's also beenUnited XAMLat SourceForge, and projects such as MyXAML and MycroXAML.If you've missed out on XAML and WPF/E (Windows Presentation Foundation/Everywhere) -- the access software thatdoesn'tneed Windows -- I recently wrote a column about the field:Get ready to see more applications online.
Every week we get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room to print. (In the case of the story "Electrosmog in the clear with scientists", we could have filled this week's section with the letters in response, but I'm not sure we'd have been any wiser.)Anyway, click through for the full text. If you want to respond to a piece in the section, please do provide a full name and a post town.HANDS-ON SCREENSNice article. For some additional background, you may be interested in:http://www.billbuxton.com/multitouchOverview.htmlBill Buxton, Microsoft, Seattle&gt;&gt; Add me to the just about endless list of folks who find the displays beyond cool -- almost like a dream about how computers should look and act.defensetech.orgLOUD CDsHave to disagree somewhat with Steve Hoffman. I hold with his opinion that new music is often badly recorded and mastered, but I've experimented with a couple of recent CDs to get back some dynamic range using an editing program's Clip Restoration effect. A -12dB setting is not uncommon on some tracks! The clipped signal, as by magic, appears on your screen. Then carefully use the Hard Limiting effect, Normalise and it works! Perhaps not a purist approach, and it is still loud, of course, but you can now listen on a hi-fi system without too much fatigue. Vocals become more intelligible and instruments stand out more clearly. Good luck if you're going to try it on a favourite track. Bart Moolenbeek, Jávea (Alicante), SpainI have noticed that CDs are getting brasher and louder (although some have a new astonishing warmth - Gomez's How We Operate for example - which I attributed to a new menu option in ProTools). Surely the driving force behind this is how the music sounds when it is squashed into a low to medium bitrate MP3 and played through tinny little headphones, sadly how the majority of people listen to music. Keith Collins, DungenessI have been a Music Production student at Leeds College Of Music since September 2005, and late in 2005 I attended the LIMTEC (Leeds International Music Technology Education Conference). One of the keynote speakers was Bob Katz, an American mastering engineer whose credentials span the last three or four decades of music. The topic of his lecture was the same as Tim Anderson's article on CD mastering in Technology Guardian today. The issue of CD "loudness" is particularly prevalent in the hip-hop genre, with so much emphasis placed on the production of the backing drum beat that it has been known to damage speaker systems. An example Mr Katz gave was of a theatre in America which had selected both an Ozzy Ozbourne album, mastered in the 80s and untouched by the loudness-mastering madness of today's records, followed by the latest release by the Black Eyed Peas. The two were put on a multi-CD changer to give the audience some background music before the performance began. Alas, the monitor gain (the volume at which the speakers would play) was set according to the loudness of the Ozzy Ozbourne album, and as soon as the Black Eyed Peas record began the speakers overloaded and blew out the entire sound rig. Needless to say, the show had to be cancelled that night, and the Black Eyed Peas record was stamped on and thrown in the bin. As a student of Music Production I have been aware of the issue for a while. Whilst I have made similar mistakes in some of my own earlier recorded work, since joining the course and being told about the pressure today's mastering engineers suffer, I have vowed to keep the records I produce as free of over-compression as I possibly can. Jonathan Ardern, LeedsAt least you can turn the volume of your CD down. Try the cinema! I have just about given up due to the ridiculous level of music backing - The Last King of Scotland was the last straw - unbelievably loud (don't know the decibels) with bass notes thumping away at any "exciting' frame. Totally spoiled an otherwise good film. Chloe Baveystock, LondonThis has been a problem for recording engineers for many years but the real driver for increased volume has always been radio. If you are a small commercial station you charge your advertising on the size of your audience. A few dB more out of the transmitter could easily double your transmission radius with a pi-r-squared increase in audience coverage. Well worth while! Also, the A&amp;R men believe that if their record is going to sell it has to stand out on the radio. In this world of anodyne pop, the only way to stand out is to make your record louder than the last. We used to be happy to leave it to the radio stations to slice off the peaks and get the average level up as high as possible. Inevitably, A&amp;R men compare radio broadcasts and CDs and in their blinkered world, if it ain't loud it ain't no good! Stephen Allan, Senior Lecturer, Audio and Music Technology, University of the West of England, BristolYour list of music at the bottom is a very bad thing. It appears from your article that only those CD's are of bad quality, where in actual fact MOST CD's produced in the last few years are hitting the digital distortion "brick wall" and are compromised in a very disturbing manner. Some of this distortion is "low" but that doesn't matter. The fact the industry is entirely happy to produce distorted products "so they sound loud" is appalling. I simply do not buy music any more, for personal consumption. I do work at a venue and am forced to buy products for their legal use but I refuse to spend my money on bad media. I have not bought any media for over 2 years, preferring to simply download and "steal" them so I can listen. Yes, this is illegal and I accept that, however the products they want me to buy as flawed, distorted, and faulty and not worth my money. Will they learn? Probably not. With the world now turning to HD and high quality DVD-A thoughts I wonder if they realise that there is no point in HD and great playback capability when ALL media is already getting low-fi? Robert Veal, EdinburghYes, I agree. Music is 'loud' but boring, now. I've loved music recorded and live all my life, and I only buy CDs now if I hear them first. The last was Norah Jones, that sounded no better on my reference system than it did in a bar. In fact, worse – because the lack of dynamics made it very boring musically. In the bar, you heard the lovely voice, some words, and the nice recording. At home, the ruination of those lovely recordings is apparent and that destroys it's beauty . . . LIKE A VERY BORING PERSON WHO TALKS ON-AND-ON FOR FIFTY MINUTES OR MORE WITH NO LETUP OR PUNCTUATION WHATSOEVER . Quite horrible. So what can be done about it? Here are two ways to address this problem. One, if companies released two versions of a CD, one called 'BarAndCar', the other 'PlayItLoud: HiFi version' then everyone will be happy. you could hear the quieter bits in a van, and at home, drums won't sound like farts. I will be doing this double CD thing with a band ( the crook family ) I'm working with now, by the way. Two, if car CD players, and other systems in noisy environments, do the big dynamic-squashing thing automatically, or with a LOUD button. In the end the fashion for "loudness" will pop, maybe due to market forces or celebs complaining about bad sound. We need to hurry it along, though. I only hope that bands, mastering engineers and companies keep the original mixes – the ones that got mangled for the CD releases. Otherwise a lot of good music will be lost for posterity. Guy Johnson, HaverfordwestMy favourite band, Depeche Mode, released 'Playing The Angel' in 2005. The 2 channel stereo mix is absolutely dreadful. Distorted, too loud and all the subtleness and dynamics of the music are gone. Listen to the same album on an SACD player or the DVD disc with 5:1 versions etc......and it sounds so much better. The vinyl version too sounds great. So what happened with the 2 channel stereo mix? Does no one care about the 'normal' way of listening to music anymore? Wayne Kisbee, LondonI am a studio sound engineer and i have been experiencing the same problem that you mentioned in the article with a band who wanted everything so loud! I kept on telling them that loudness wasn't the sound need for a great album but they insisted on me pushing up the volumes so i pushed them up for them thus making it distort I told them that it was distorting but they didn't really care. But now they have listened back to i they were complaining about how in the loud parts IT DISTORTS!!! You just can't win! Graham Kirby, HullYou give examples of loud CDs with a lot of noise and distortion. However I was wondering where you think I might find lists of albums where aficionados think the sound production was of a particularly good quality, i.e. little digital interference and good quality recordings. I've been trying to find a list of such albums/release, but can't find any. Eric Vivas, LuxembourgI'm amazed at how bad new releases and reissues sound on CD these days. I've never been able to play the Coldplay album X&amp;Y all the way through, it literally hurts my ears after 3 songs. I've been meaning to get it on vinyl, but why should I have to buy it twice? So many CDs are unlistenable; it's amazing to compare a CD released in the 80s to one in the 90s or 00's. I just spent $22 on a first CD pressing Genesis CD of "A Trick Of The Tail" from 1984 and WOW, its a peach. Real drum sounds and bass, all clearly defined, not a no-noised muddle and compressed mess. I had gotten used to the Genesis remasters from a few years ago, and they really are almost unlistenable compared to this first pressing. Their "Platinum" collection is even worse. And, I don't have high hopes for the forthcoming Genesis SACD reissues that apparently will set me back about $40 US dollars as imports with a DVD that won't even play in America. No wonder this business is tanking. Unlistenable CDs and overpriced reissues of the same material. I bought it on vinyl, first issue Atlantic CD (horribly mastered), remastered CD, then again used and pricey but glad to have found an original issue Virgin UK CD. Thats the holy grail on that title. The US Atlantic first pressing was lousy, but this UK first issue is a terrific sounding CD. Now am I going to spend $40 for an SACD, a dead format! Are they friggin' kidding me? Do these companies want to stay in business? I bet they sound lousy to boot. But if i hear its amazing, sigh, I will have to get it. We music fanatics are the ones getting fleeced by reissues. Can't they just get it right and leave it alone? How many "Dark Side Of The Moons' are there? That's an article all on its own. Cd buying for me has become finding the holy grail CD pressing of each title. Usually there is one great CD. Like finding an original German or Japan issue of the first Pretender's album. A fantastic transfer of a well recorded album. We call them "target" CDs as they have a target face on the disc. Highly collectable. Don't write about them, you'll jack up the price more. I spent $40 on one and NEVER regretted it, though the recent Rhino reissues are actually pretty good, though I still prefer my target, more natural sounding and less compressed. Bill Cason, VP Media &amp; Artist Development, Shanachie Entertainment, Newton, New JerseyI totally agree with the points made in the article "How CDs are remastering the art of noise".. My absolute favourite band, The Flaming Lips, (bettered only by Dylan and the Clash no less) allow their CDs to suffer from this very problem: highly aggressive production/mastering. If only they could turn up the "soften" button. Simon Cummings, Sharjah, United Arab EmiratesAgreed, there's some music that needs to be loud, and all the distortion and clipping from over-amplification can have a musical effect. But, as my ears get tired and old, my tastes have drifted backwards from the music of my youth. Or maybe it's just that the good stuff lasts, and the new stuff isn't old enough for the bad stuff to have died off. If the Bay City Rollers can fade away, why not the modern, over-loud, rubbish? Dave Bell, BarnetbyThanks for highlighting a problem many music lovers care greatly about. I've almost given up buying new CDs due to the poor sound. Another mastering problem which shouldn't be overlooked is the misuse of digital noise reduction. When music is mastered from a tape source there is rarely an excuse for this. It removes natural air and noise around the music (as well as some of the music itself) and leaves the recording sounding unnatural and dead, with little high end. Sometimes engineers digitally boost the high frequencies to try and get some high end back, this makes it sound even worse. Combine this with the current trend for loudness and compression, and you get something sounding pretty nasty and very fatiguing and unrewarding to listen to. An example of bad use of noise reduction would be the Led Zeppelin at BBC CD set. Although they are hardly pristine recordings to begin with, the Digital NR, the Digitally boosted high-end, and the compression applied here means that bootlegs of the same recordings actually sound significantly better. The mastering engineer responsible for this actually won an industry award for his work on this release, highlighting a certain divide between what the artists and record companies want to do, and what music lovers and the fans want to hear. Jon JoyceI notice a reference in the article to Red Hot Chili Peppers' album Californication, which is one of the loudest and worst mastered CDs ever made. However, I write specifically concerning a reference in the article to an online petition requesting the album be remastered. I think you are referring to the petition that I authored, located at:http://www.petitiononline.com/RHCPWBCD/petition.htmlIf this is the petition you were referring to in the article, I'm wondering if you could insert a link to it in the article so that interested people can access and read the petition? Simon HowsonThere's always another alternative of course......vinyl! Nick Higgins, Leicester&gt;&gt; Certainly not all new discs are bad, but well mastered stuff now seems to be the exception rather than the rule. You could always just buy music with 'audiophile' labels but then you're stuck with classical, jazz or (god forbid) Scottish folk music.http://codebunny.blogspot.com/2007/01/loudness-wars.htmlFRIENDS OF CHANDLERI know it's being picky, but to get it straight, 123 was not the first spreadsheet on the PC - SuperCalc was there first, under CP/M and PCDOS, (although that copied a lot of Visicalc from the Apple II). 123 was about as blatant a 'copy' of the concepts, approach and key commands of SuperCalc as you could hope to seeing the world of reverse engineering. Mitch Kapor was, like Bill Gates, a marketing not a technical wizard. Remember the 'look and feel' lawsuits? That's why Kapor was able to develop it quickly with a small team: nothing to design, nothing to originate, nothing to create from scratch, just some hack coding. As to Chandler, I have what I call Paul's 90/90/90 Law to explain that. This states that 90 percent of all IT projects are 90 percent complete 90 percent of the time (c). Look at almost any project, and it is true. The last 10% usually has to be abandoned to achieve if not completion then at least a stopping point. Paul Nethercott, LondonDIGITAL CELLULOIDI work in the marketing department of the UK's longest established cinema equipment integrator – we have installed the largest quantity of sound and projection equipment for the UK multiplex operators and independent cinemas – starting with the UK first multiplex cinema in Milton Keynes (1985). Firstly, UK and European cinemas have NOT started to replace their 35mm projectors with digital equipment – a number of cinemas have, mostly with government funding, installed digital projectors ALONGSIDE their 35mm units, but it would be wrong to state that the replacement market has started yet. In the USA there are now around 2000 digital projectors installed, but this is less than 5% of the total market so it has a long way to go yet. Europe is some way behind America at this time. The test sites mentioned in the article are not dispensing with film yet – the digital projectors are being installed alongside the current 35mm projectors so the sites have the ability to show product either digitally or via film – the key reason being that there are still concerns about securing digital product from the film distributors. The various test sites across Europe all use traditional equipment alongside digital projectors and will continue to do so until a) They are comfortable that they can secure digital prints and b) Financial arrangements are in place between exhibition and distribution to support the cost of the roll out of digital equipment (the "who pays" arguments continue!). The film distributors will be interested to read that the cinemas would have the ability to move films around the site – whilst technically possible (and desirable from the exhibitor's position) the equipment currently has electronic keys to prevent this happening – the electronic key will only allow a specific movie to play on a specific projector at specific times. Hopefully this will change in the future and the exhibitor will have more programming flexibility on his site, but not yet. The comments from Duke of York about using the digital equipment to show non-film entertainment are spot on – tests have shown that there is a real market for cinemas to use their large screens and powerful sound systems to show "alternative content" – sports events, concerts (pop and classical), opera and there are numerous other opportunities – but not all venues will be as fortunate as the excellent Duke of York cinema, who received funding from the UKFC for their equipment. A digital cinema projector and server combination (and you have to have both units) has now dropped in price to near $100,000 rather than £100,000 and further price reductions are expected as take up increases and manufacturers start to see manufacturing economies of scale. Whilst Superman Returns was shot and edited digitally the vast, vast majority of cinema visitors will have seen it projected by a traditional 35mm projector. Worldwide, there are approximately 140,000 cinema screens – currently about 3000 of these have some form of digital projection equipment (although very few are digital only). All this will change soon, and the digital age is certainly coming – but the best numbers we have seen from all of the relevant parties (manufacturers, distributors and exhibitors) is that we are still 10-15 years from a fully digital cinema environment. Personally, I would like to see adoption much sooner and there are very good reasons for doing so, but 35mm film has existed as an international standard for almost 100 years and the whole of the film community is, rightly, worried about change while there are still a significant number of questions to be resolved. Jerry Murdoch (no post town given)SLOW BROADBANDTwo months for a broadband connection? (Letters &amp; Blogs, January 18). My current TalkTalk status page says that I should be live by the end of July 2006. I'm still waiting. Cliff Laine, LancasterSILVER.. GAMERSI wonder sometimes if I am an anomaly in the world of gaming but I suspect I'm not. I've enjoyed video games and gaming ever since the early Atari consoles came out and still do at 61 years of age. It rankles me a little that games are aimed at a certain age group, predominantly young and dare I say it a bit gullible. I say that because they are buying into the notion of paying £40 for a game and then paying again to play it online or buy extras. I'm playing Phantasy Star at the moment and pretty underwhelmed by the game. Is this next gen? I think not. It's the booklet that accompanies it that warrants my gripe. It's obviously aimed at someone with the young eyes of a sparrow hawk judging by the small print. However it's the games themselves that so often disappoint from my point of view. Some of the games are so darned hard for someone who's reactions have slowed down. I played FEAR which lacked multiple save points, so when I found myself in a really difficult spot lacking ammo, down on life and eventually died I was back to where the auto save had kicked in, lacking life and ammo. So frustrating. Perhaps the game developers could produce an old fart's setting for old fogeys like me. Emyr Owen, LlanfairfechanJOOSTHenrik Werdelin the Joost EVP explains how its pronounced on his bloghttp://coolburger.com/linkblog/2007/01/venice-is-now-joost.htm#commentsMatt Hendry, LondonderryTECHNOBILE - MOBILESSusan Saunders can't work her mobile with her instruction book. I can't ring any bells with mine either - until my sons sort me out. Wendy Weston (66) EalingAs another recent buyer of a Vodafone Simply, I sympathise with Ms Saunders (Letters, Jan 18). The two little booklets that come with the phone are quite inadequate. If you can find it, there is a full user manual online, but at 120 pages no-one will be printing it. Peter Stray, LondonSPAM AND CAPTCHAShas Wendy M Grossman (What have image spam and Captchas got in common? January 11) never heard of Optical Character Recognition? It's been around for years and the same techniques can be used by hackers to circumvent Captcha images. Seehttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Captcha#Circumventionfor how this is done. If image spam gets worse OCR could be used to identify spam text hidden in images. Dave England, Head of Computer Systems/Principal Lecturer, Liverpool John Moores University, LiverpoolJOINED-UP GOVERNMENTIn response to the concerns voiced over the proposed government 'super-database': I feel that political concerns are overshadowing the practical considerations. While the matter is certainly one that must be politically debated, said debate must not exclude the details of exactly how such a database would be structured. Professionals in the field understand that the benefits of integrated data are only valid if the data in question is accurate. The government argues that a joined-up system would significantly reduce error, for example when a family was contacted over 40 times by various departments regarding a deceased family member; however, if the super-database has incorrect data entered into it from poorly-maintained department records, benefits such as this will simply not transpire. If, as seems likely, the super-database is given the go-ahead, its implementation must focus on the areas of data quality and management rather than simple aggregation, otherwise the whole project risks becoming a waste of both time and public money. Colin Rickard, Managing Director EMEA, DataFluxWRITABLE BLU-RAYYour article "How the terabyte drive could end the DVD wars" says that whoever offers a writable version of high-def DVD will win the format war. Er, this afternoon I was looking around my local hypermarket here in Spain and came across a pile of Sony writable Blu-ray discs at 26 Euros a pop. If discs are available then presumably so are the writers (at I'm sure extortionate prices). Does this mean that Blu-ray has won? Don't think so. Steve Dennison, Murcia, Spain [I've asked for confirmation this is correct, and not just bad labelling - Tech.Ed]ELECTROSENSITIVITYPeople living in Faraday cages because they think they're 'electrosensitive'? This all reminds me of a spate of cases some (15? 20?) years ago of people electing to live in plastic tents because they were 'allergic to the world'. What happened to them? No mobile phones then. Tim Pearce, BathAfter reading your article in The Guardian, I would just like to confirm the REAL seriousness of Sarah Dacre's condition due to ES exposure. I know her very well,and can say that she has truly suffered as a result of ES, it does exist, and she has been very ill over the past years. She has good and bad days and it really does rule her life. These people that are debating IF ES is the cause for these poor sufferes are doing more harm than good, more money should be put into investigating this terrible debilating illness, and the Government should make much more information available to the public on the harmful effects of all these high-tech gadgets we are encouraged to purchase in our daily lives. Please help to make more people aware of this VERY REAL illness and not try to dismiss information and genuine effects of ES. Anne Van Baars (no post town given)With reference to Technology Guardian "Electrosmog in the clear with scientists" (18 January) your article is over-conclusive. There is a real difficulty with provocation testing – ie subjecting a person who claims to be electro-sensitive (ES) to double-blind exposure in controlled conditions. First, there are two few studies, even those interpreted as "best" by the Rubin team, that truly replicate each other without introducing fresh variables in what is in all probability a complex biological interaction. Any "sham" testing should achieve a natural EM environment, since ES people show sensitivity to extremely small changes, and this is rarely achieved. The Kings college researchers assumed that extraneous fields were simply too small to affect their results, and this has been challenged. Second, testing for responses takes very little account of "lag time", ie it assumes an instantaneous response in the course of a 40 minute changing EM environment, and this is far from often the case. Third, introducing placebo and nocebo advances us nowhere. If the mind affects the body in this way, there is a fair chance that at least part of that neurological communication itself involves endogenous electromagnetic communication. The human body is highly energetic, not a bag of chemicals. There is abundant scientific research showing that EM fields can alter the skin (mast cell activity and conductance), the blood (red cell flocculation and leucocyte balance), blood pressure, gene expression and EEG rhythms. It seems hardly conclusive to compare provocation studies and psychiatric analysis with the physiological indicators, especially when an increasing number of people are developing a quite unexpected sensitivity. The HPA report on hypersensitivity and EM fields (Irvine, 2006) itself identified the most effective remedies of ES as being removal of EMF sources. If CBT works for some people, it no more proves the cause of ES to be psychological than that aspirin proves the cause of pain to be chemical. Andy Davidson, WorthingI actually talk to people who are sensitive to the technologies using pulsed microwave radiation and I am sensitive to some of these technologies myself. Let me explain to you simply what being sensitive to TETRA/ TETRA handsets, mobile phone masts/ mobile phones and WiFi/Wimax etc. is like. People who are sensitive to pulsed microwave radiation can become prisoners in their own homes, protected by various sorts of protection, because to visit nearby towns/cities with many of all the above can either cause pain and frightening symptoms or can make 'sensitives' ill for periods of time. Travel is a nightmare so sensitive people often can't and therefore don't. To go out socially is also a no-no because of all the above. Most cannot use mobile phones, some cannot use computers/laptops, DECT (cordless) phones and all the other wonderful technology available. If this was truly a case of 'all being in the mind' then I am sure these delightful gadgets would be an great incentive to cure such a phobia. Those who advocate that this is "all in the mind" might be well meaning but they are missing the whole point in their rigidly controlled psychiatric/ psychological/scientific fields. In actual fact it is extremely difficult to scientifically prove the state of electrosensitivity. Mankind is not as clever as he thinks he is by far. The wonders of Nature, to include the workings of the human being and the animals can still confuse experts in their fields. 'Sensitives' react to something alien to their systems, they don't imagine they are in pain and get psychotic about it. Humans have lived on this planet with natural frequencies for thousands of years. Suddenly, in a short time span by comparison, we are being inundated with frequencies that human bodies are not that familiar with and there is bound to be a reaction from some types of people. Do we say hay fever is all in the mind? Do we doubt those who are allergic to peanuts? I guess TETRA and mobile phone companies have the big bucks and hay and peanut farmers don't! What is more alien than some technology pulsing on some of the frequencies used by the brain messaging systems? Perhaps those who hold the "It's all in the mind" theory should check out the frequencies used by these technologies and also what frequencies are used by the brain messaging systems? Now that would be something very useful and productive. So would enlisting GPs (with adequate funding) to replicate in the UK the Naila Study which has been carried out by German doctors over a 10 year period with very interesting results. But of course, as Michael Clark of the Health Protection Agency keeps insisting that there are flaws in this study then we must ask him to fine tune and correct procedures so that it is no longer flawed. As regards to current research at the Psychological Department of the University of Essex, as an extremely electrosensitive person I fail to see how zapping sensitive people for a few sessions a year in blind experiments can prove anything worthwhile. None of the researchers at Essex University seem to be aware of anything concerning the condition of electrosensitive people, yet alternative medical practitioner are! I have invited Ms Eltiti to come down to the "killing fields" and see what she can find. It is quite informative down here. Some sensitive people react instantly but with others it takes a little time. Some don't react at all but become unwell. Symptoms can vary in people even if it is a shared source and this is probably because we are all individuals and therefore all different. There are at least three known types of sensitivity which are electrical, magnetic and aesthetic. Some people can also be mixtures of two or three of these types. The most damaging, I have been told, is the combination of magnetic and aesthetic. This broadens the variability in the reactions of sensitised people even more. Do the research procedures at Essex University make allowances for this? Does any person who cannot feel this technology know that there is now another line of TETRA emissions pulsing at around 20.16Hz (Still on the Beta Brainwave as is the original pulsing TETRA at 17.6Hz) and running alongside the conventional TETRA lines of emissions? Do any of them want to know the effects of this on humans? Come and ask us! The one thing many of the 'sensitives' agree on is that they believe it is the high powered testing signals that sensitised them. Since all of these technologies have a penchant to test on high power, more people are becoming sensitised or unwell and the already sensitised are tortured and become more sensitive. I note that some people are reacting to WiFi and Wimax and that some were never sensitive to any of the pulsed microwave radiation technologies before. I was only sensitive to TETRA up to July last year and now I am sensitive to 3G phones and WiFi/Wimax, too. So now the University of Essex has a bigger crop of recruits to pick from! We could all grow to be an embarrassingly large group, so maybe some sensible research ought to be done quickly. Sensitive people are abused and/or disbelieved not only by some of their friends/relatives but also by the general public; GPs/NHS staff ; the media; non-independent researchers and scientists; and by the Government bodies who are supposedly put in place to avoid situations such as sensitive people find themselves in. The truth can only be found by starting from an unbiased viewpoint and working towards exploring all avenues – but maybe some don't want the truth to be realised just yet. Perhaps it would be inconvenient for their profit margins. Sandi Lawrence, Mast Sickness UK, AldwickI organised a conference on EHS at the Royal Society of Medicine a few years ago. Putting aside arguments about whether or not the effect exists, the root of the problem is to understand and confirm a biological mechanism explaining why EHS might occur. Our lab has made progress in this direction by discovering that alternating electric (not magnetic) fields induce nitrites in biological solutions, thereby disturbing the control of ATP synthesis normally mediated by NO synthase in the inner mitochondrial membrane. This loss of ATP synthesis control gives rise to all the symptoms of EHS: fatigue without effort, sleep disturbance, attention deficit, short term memory loss, etc. Roger Coghill , MA(Cantab,) C Biol MI Biol MA(Environ Mgt), sometime Senior Visitor, Emmanuel College, CambridgeAs a licensed radio amateur living near a mast I wish I could uphold the notion that ICNIRP compliant emissions are without adverse impact on health. I am readily familiar with the commonly quoted symptoms that seem to be present amongst residents near base stations. What I found both worrying and intriguing is the remarkably consistent response these symptoms seem to have when the radiation is reduced by effective shielding. The implication might be that the placebo/nocebo effect does not offer convincing rationalisation, as the shielding in some instances was more effective than paracetamol and prescription sleeping tablets at mitigating the symptoms over the long term. (Years) The shielding has been on trial with seemingly good effect for over five years since the link between health/well being and shielding was fortuitously discovered. On many occasions some residents removed the shielding and the symptoms over time seem to return. How many times does this have to be repeated? Tangible symptoms experienced were mostly that of poor sleep, feeling run down, listlessness, simple tasks requiring inordinate amount of effort, prone to infections and uncharacteristically susceptible to the cold, and after protection within a few months the overall health and energy seemingly returning back to levels that the resident was familiar with prior to being exposed to RF. The regulators and industry may demand double blind satisfaction and utilise the placebo/nocebo effect as a rationalisation to claim there is "no link". My observations on the ground however suggest that at least 16 people seem to have got their life back from a nightmare that one would not wish on one's worst enemy. Should you be familiar with any of the science you would know that: A)"Microwave syndrome" first appeared in studies as early as 1932 B) Soviets bombarded the personnel in the American Embassy in Moscow with the Schwann guideline compliant (forerunner to ICNIRP) emissions for over 23 years (1953-76) because they had already established the link between RF and health in well funded occupational studies. A study conducted by the Americans in 1976 concluded that people working at this Embassy experienced premature ageing due to the radiation. Was this premature ageing due to placebo/nocebo effect? The Stewart report acknowledges that the Moscow study exists but it would not look at it because it could not find a copy. Look up IEGMP review of science under "eastern European embassies" With this charitable review of science are debates on double blind studies and placebo/noceboes really necessary? C) In view of the length of time the symptoms took to present from onset of exposure and the time it took for them to go away after shielding was introduced this noticeable time lag (up to six months) might suggest that double blind studies might be inappropriate vehicles to gain any meaningful information on symptoms that might be linked to EMFs. Printing possibly emotive captions like "Electrosmog in the clear with scientists" in your paper might give hope to phone users and base station sufferers alike that might not be fully representative of the reality on the ground. On a concluding note it has come to my notice that the phone industry conducted a thorough research program on wireless technologies to the tune of $28,500 US in 1993 terms, commencing in 1993 and ended in 1999 in the USA. Unlike the £7 million often heralded by the HPA on research conducted in the UK. The report at the end of the program included things like: "The studies showed increased tumours, genetic damage, a greater risk to children, damage to the blood-brain barrier; in all, 15 epidemiological studies were carried out. The research scientist leading these studies has predicted 30,000-50,000 cancers worldwide this year alone - of just one type of cancer" Knowledge of this science has only come into the public domain after the head of the program Dr George Carlo after discovering that the phone industry was unwilling to act on the science they commissioned has personally undertaking to bring this science into the public domain. Perhaps your paper might serve the public in a more meaningful way should you choose to investigate whether this information of suppressed science is true or not. Panayis Zambellis, LutonWhile it is true that electrical hypersensitivity (ES) exists, it is likewise true that science did not find any ES-specific marker. Nor could ES sufferers indicate with any degree of certainty that an artificial EM field in test situations was switched off or on, in double-blind provocation experiments. I will demonstrate that science in this cases is on the wrong track. Researchers of the last yours did not really work hard to find an ES-marker. This is strange as previous decades of good research on animal and human models yielded a wealth of data indicating that animals and their tissues and cells respond quite remarkably to EM fields when exposure criteria were carefully chosen. Such care has not been shown in the human tests referred to in the article, and the experiments of the 20th century seem to be forgotten altogether. Short memory! The reason for experimental failure is the total ignorance of the cause of annoying health effects of certain EM fields. The techniques used in provocation experiments are based on the undocumented guess that the hypothetical needle in a haystack –the ES marker- would be found. It is no that simple. The ES problem is of a rather complex nature. Our insights are based on data in 200 questionnaires collected from ES people, an initiative of the Dutch working group on electrical hypersensitivity.. We found that every ES person is unique in that the EM fields causing discomfort for him differ from the fields causing discomfort for other ES people. And the health problems reported after exposure were also different from the problems of others. But for a given person, both the EMF causes and types of effects are strictly predictable and constant. We entertain the hypothesis that these EM fields act as environmental factors triggering one or more stress symptoms belonging to the flight/fight stress syndromes. Each persons has acquired the gift of recognising one or a few specific EM signal, characterised by frequency, wave structure, etc. and reacts to it. 'Normal' citizens are unable to perceive such fields. The defence reaction generated in the susceptible body is influenced by age, gender, experience and routine and differ from person to person. The health effects often reported include insomnia, fatigue, pains, hart failure, headache, tinnitus and several other primary complaints. After longer exposure also secondary effects are seen. If an experimental set-up does not take notice of such differences then the responses from a group of volunteers will never yield some sort of 'average' effect. Neither in the experimental group of ES people, nor in the 'healthy' controls. Instead, experiments can only give understandable results if they are adjusted to the specific 'preferences' of the participating ES individual. But that is not normal practice in modern experimentation. Therefore, the problem of the existence of ES should be readdressed with this in mind. It should be individual-oriented, both in stimulus selection as in health effects reported. It requires unconventional thinking and experimental design. After all, we are in the curious position to find out what never was found before: why some people have problems with adjustment to novel EM fields and why the body cannot generate a 'friendly' reaction to cope with this calamity An interesting question remains: who is to be considered normal in our sophisticated unnatural environment: the worker who does not notice the fields with his abraded senses, or the sensitised individual with his demands for an electrically clean environment where he can safely work and live? Sarah Dacre is absolutely right in her attempts to clean-up her world; she deserves respect and cooperation by all those responsible for keeping this world clean for now and for coming generations. Dr. Hugo Schooneveld, Senior scientist, biologist, Former senior scientist at the Wageningen University and Research Centre, Wageningen, the NetherlandsHaving been involved with electrically sensitive patients since 1982, I am pleased to see that an open discussion of their problem has become possible as evidenced by your recent article. Electrical sensitivity is to be found in patients who already have an on-going chemical sensitivity. It arises because an environmental frequency or pattern of frequencies matches that of some toxic chemical in the body when H- bonded to water. The electrical and chemical symptoms are identical. Once some patient specific field or intensity threshold has been exceeded, frequency becomes the relevant parameter. Since the system is coherent, frequency becomes a fractal quantity thereby linking the chemical to the electrical to the biological. Research into field strength effects keeps the paradigm within classical physics where the only effects are thermal but this is in accord with various interests. Actually the problem lies within the macroscopic quantum physics of living systems and water as I have been writing for many years. For evidence that electromagnetic field sensitivity actually does exist and can be elicited under environmentally controlled double-blind conditions with 100% reactions to an active frequency and 0% to the placebos, see: Rea WJ. Pan Y. Fenyves EJ. Sujisawa I. Suyama H. Samadi N. and Ross GH. "Electromagnetic Field Sensitivity", Journal of Bioelectricity 10(1&amp;2): 241-256 (1991). Cyril W.Smith, Eccles, ManchesterI am appalled by your article "Electrosmog in the clear with scientists" WHAT SCIENTISTS?? Are there any BioPhysicists or Radiation Experts amongst the group you mention who support the view that this is all in the mind? I think not! A Psychologist has no idea about the effects of EMFs on the biological system. If your paper is serious about science and the truth, please offer your readers a broader view of research from independent eminent scientists the likes of Prof.em.Prof.Dr.med Karl Hecht (on our website), one of hese's scientific advisors and check his credentials against Dr.Rubin's. Prof.Hecht only recently summarised 1 500 Russian studies about the biological effects of EMFs. These are strictly controlled studies dating back many decades. It is very worrying when the media reports on subjects they don't quite understand without undertaking proper research. Take the latest report about the Danish Study for example, telling everyone that mobile phones do not increase the risk of brain tumours and check out the response from well established scientists to this study (also on our website.) The Guardian must accept that reporting scientific arguments without prior extensive research could lead to misinformation and in this case to serious consequences for the public. Remember BSE? For your information, Prof.Dr.Heyo Eckel, a Radiation Expert from the University of Goettingen (Germany), Deputy Head of the Dept. for Health and Environment of the German Medical Council and Chair of the Fund for Tschernobyl Children makes the following statement, which he refers to as scientific fact:" Electromagnetic, pulsed waves from telecommunication masts and mobile phones affect and deform the core of the cell. They are comparable to X rays. As long as we cannot prove that there is no harmful effect we must do everything to protect the public from potential health damage. Ingrid Dickenson, Director of hese-ukwww.hese-project.org/hese-ukI am a qualified Social Worker and Teacher of Further Education. I would describe myself as rational, I do not generally respond to anecdotal accounts, preferring to take evidence from more than one source. In July 2000, I was forced to give up a full time job. I ran a health and social care NVQ programme for a college of further education, which at its peak had 15 assessors on the team. At the point of leaving I was hardly able to function. My capacity to think and make decisions was virtually non existent. I began to call things by the wrong name, paper clips one day may become sausages and students soldiers, when the mistake was pointed out, I could not recall their correct name without a huge effort. I had difficulty remembering colleague's names and confused people and situations. I could not manage to dial my own or office number without careful thought. I developed symptoms of extreme fatigue, experienced pins and needles and numbness throughout my entire body and clicking sensations in my head. My GP dismissed this at first , then called it stress implying that it was psychosomatic, he told me and my Husband during my last visit to his surgery, that we all get tired, he did too, and when he does, he goes to bed early, he also pointed out that he was very busy and must move on to the next appointment. I changed Drs. My new GP was more supportive, he had been my Aunt and my Fathers GP, he knew them both quite well, my Aunt came along with me on the initial visit to endorse what I was saying, and to confirm that, although the symptoms may seem bizarre, would he please take me seriously, because she had known me from the day I was born, and that I was not an 'ill' person, and that I am usually very level headed, and clearly something was happening, because when I said that I was tired, I was actually describing the inability to stand or communicate. My new Dr actively listened, he referred me on to a Consultant Neurologist, who referred me on to a specialist who would investigate whether or not I had damaged my nerve ends. The specialist found my nerve ends to be fine, and suggested it may be stress ( all in the mind ). Back to my GP who referred me on to a Teaching Hospital for a bone density scan, again no problem, M.S tests also proved negative. On to another Consultant to investigate the possibility of fibromyalgia, but the symptoms didn't really ring true, so again no conclusion. My symptoms worsened, I kept falling over, my speech and vision were affected and I became touch sensitive, in other words if I touched my skin on occasions a sharp pain would shoot through my body. My GP prescribed HRT, I had gone through the menopause at 47, my immune systems were not working properly, I had had a cough for 4 years and x rays showed nothing, my neutrophils (white blood cells) were hovering just above zero. In 2001 the village in which I live hit the headlines, 9 neighbours living in 18 households also had low neutrophils, 4 others were beginning to experience symptoms similar to mine, an alarming number developed skin rashes and cancers, these illnesses emerged over a six month period. Independent research lead us to worldwide scientists , further investigations enabled us to identify a possible cause, I had been sleeping for seven years in pulsed microwaves emitting from a mobile phone mast 180 metres from my home, my bed which was metal acted as an aerial. A huge amount of investigations took place and it was then that I discovered that I had become electrosensitive. With this newly found knowledge I was able to research my illness and protect myself and my home. I began to recover, however I only remain well if I avoid excessive electromagnetic fields, which is easier said than done. By meeting other electrosensitive sufferers, I realise that our symptoms can differ, its all about what actually caused the exposure in the first place. My symptoms are triggered off by some fluorescent lighting, computers, mobile phones, mobile phone masts, and microwave and wireless technology. I can only tolerate exposure on a short term basis, when in contact with this technology for longer periods my symptoms return. I now preserve exceptionally good health because I limit my exposure to electromagnetic fields . Going out to shop or to bank is a living nightmare as is travelling on public transport, because every other person if not talking drivel on a mobile phone, has got one on standby. If the phones don't zap me the lighting does, I've lost count with how many shops I have to run in and out of quickly if I want to remain well. I can however tell you of a small handful which are still a pleasure for me to shop and take time to choose. I am virtually unemployable, a modern workplace is the worst place for me to be, at home I have a purpose built office with protected screening , but my profession is not easily worked in the home environment. It is estimated that over 2 million people in Britain are electrosensitive, this has immense implications for the economy, considering extra pressure being put on the health service, coupled with a reduction in pensionable earnings and tax. Lynn Insley, Birmingham
Carbon neutrality has never been so high on the business agenda. The start of the year saw a flurry of headlines about airlines' contribution to pollution. But it was the bold announcement of a move towards carbon neutrality by Marks & Spencer that really highlighted the potential business benefits of going green. It was a brilliant move, in PR terms if nothing else.The retail giant's announcement is helpful to other businesses in one way, and completely unhelpful in another. They have demonstrated what can be done. But, on the negative side, the emergence of such a large player into the "carbon neutral" market might make it appear that this is a business for the larger company only. This need not be the case; steps can be taken to reduce the carbon footprint of even the smallest of organisations.Among the experts in the field is the Carbon Trust. The organisation's strategy manager, Pablo Ceppi, has noticed a marked increase in the number of organisations wanting to reduce their impact on the environment. The will is there, he says, but a lot of people are jumping to the wrong conclusion and assuming that offsetting - the act of balancing your carbon emissions with tree-planting - is a first option."Any business truly committed to addressing climate change should first look internally at its direct emissions by, for example, investing in energy efficiency, and then look externally at indirect emissions, working with other companies up and down the supply chain to find further emissions reductions and new revenue opportunities," he says. "Only after these two elements have been explored should a business consider an offsetting."Smaller businesses might feel they are not in a position to dictate terms to their suppliers in this way. But there are things a micro-company can do. David Mackin is a director of web design company Systems Associates, a 25-person organisation that does a lot of work for government websites. His motivation for investigating carbon neutrality was simple: "The planet's screwed! That's straightforward. Not only the management but most of our team believed that and wanted to do something about it."Intentions cost nothing and the practicalities had to set in sometime. "An overriding thing is that if you're in the service sector, as we are, then it's undoubtedly easier than if you're in manufacturing," he says. "The first issue we looked at is the staff commute; most of our staff live within seven miles and we continue to recruit locally so that their journeys are less." The management of the building is also important, he says, to use the minimum amount of heat and air conditioning. "No consumables get through the door unless they are recyclable. Anything we acquire that's new has to pass a certain criteria before we'll buy it."Wind turbinesThe downside is the cost and that you have to be careful with figures. The company has considered wind turbines but calculated that the amount of power it would generate at Systems Associates' Windsor location would fail to compensate for the power their manufacture would use. "When you look at the things you can do without relocating to somewhere unmanageable it gets extremely challenging and that's the issue that has to be tackled. As a small unit you can't make yourself truly neutral because the power from neutral sources simply isn't available on a small scale. It needs initiatives from government and groups of companies."Costs are an interesting matter to most small businesses as they perceive that they can barely afford their overheads as they stand, never mind increasing them. However, this is where the Marks & Spencer example becomes even more interesting; on the day the company announced its intention it justified it purely in business rather than ideological terms. Customers were interested, they said, and had come in asking about reduction of packaging and local produce for the environment. Marks & Spencer is a business that has proven itself canny and capable of dramatic recoveries over the last couple of years. So, will the business imperative hold good for the smaller trader as well?The Carbon Trust's Ceppi appears to believe so. "Recent Carbon Trust research has shown two-thirds of consumers are more likely to use a business that demonstrates it has a low carbon footprint," he says. "This increase in consumer demand signals a clear and growing opportunity for businesses."This holds truer in some markets than in others. System Associates' Mackin is clear that if you want to work for the government you need your green credentials in some sort of order or they won't look at you. "It definitely helps. On government tenders we've recently started seeing this sort of thing appear, but only recently. We were runner up for environmental sustainability in our local awards and that is starting to help us; we get asked what our environmental policy is, so it gives you something of an advantage if not a massive one."Critics claim that there is a lot of bandwaggoning around carbon neutrality. Its advocates respond, reasonably enough, that as long as the work's being done that probably doesn't matter all that much. The more serious critics ask whether the formula for neutrality actually works. Mark Hyams, co-founder of furniture importer A Chest of Drawers, has opted for carbon balancing rather than carbon neutrality."We'd been trying to move towards being more sustainable and looking at the miles travelled by furniture, grading each piece of furniture, and trying to move our suppliers towards more sustainable sourcing." As part of this he checked up on the World Land Trust's work on ways of offsetting and looked at a number of different sources of advice. He felt eventually that the World Land Trust and its carbon trust scheme offered a better scheme. "It's a conservation organisation so understands the complexity of doing things in a meaningful way, so it's not just a matter of planting one sort of tree and creating a monoculture," he says. "It talks about doing it in line with a community and about supporting forests that are already there, for example."Whatever the alternatives being investigated there can be little doubt that carbon emissions have entered the public consciousness and that employees are demanding their companies do something about it as well as employers and suppliers implementing policies from the top down - and it frequently helps the business grow. Brighton-based PR company Midnight Communications is an example of this: "Based on the staff ethos towards social responsibility and sustainability, we have always aspired to work with clients that share our outlook and attitude," says managing director Sarah Ogden. "We have targeted and successfully worked with a number of clients promoting sustainable businesses and services. These include Ecotricity, Farmers Weekly magazine and the TucTucs."The benefits don't stop there. Ogden stresses that the main aim of going carbon neutral was to be more sensitive towards the environment. But she notes that once you decide that you don't want your supplies to travel far you start building valuable relationships with local businesses. Aside from the practical bonuses of not having to travel far for meetings (maybe even getting there on foot, rather than driving), if you attract like-minded suppliers and clients there are bound to be synergies arising from the shared values.It may be that a full audit and the purchase of a forest to offset any negative impact is beyond the means of most smaller traders. It could well be that the initial cost will appear prohibitive with no guaranteed profitable outcome. However, enough people have noted that there are benefits - including several that weren't expected to be gained - from close examination of an organisation's carbon footprint for it to be worth anyone's while.1.There are grants available to help organisations wanting to reduce their carbon impact - but there are strings. Generators, for example, would need to be bought from a government-approved supplier in order to qualify for discount.2.Don't be floored by jargon and talk of offsetting automatically. The Carbon Trust has a lot to say about practical steps you can take such as reducing unnecessary journeys and energy efficiency first.3.Don't assume energy efficiency means moving to energy-efficient lightbulbs. Making sure people switch lights off when they leave the office can do as much; turning your thermostat down by one degree is also likely to reduce both environmental impact and fuel bills.4.Although the internet can do a lot in terms of reducing unnecessary travel through email and videoconferencing, there is honestly no imperative to keep computers switched on or on standby when they're not going to be used overnight or even at the weekend.
Our challenge to youWelcome to the first Business Sense of the year. I'm delighted to kick off 2007 with the return of our successful eBay Business Sense challenge, where we team up with the world's biggest auction site to offer five readers some seed money and advice to get their small business ideas off the ground. There's then the carrot of a &pound;2,500 prize (and, of course, a successful and ongoing business) at the end.It's the second time we've run the competition, and we are hoping for a repeat of both the volume of entries we got in late 2005, and the quality. I was sitting on the panel of judges for the competition, and (although this is a grim competition cliche) it was a difficult task to whittle down the shortlist to just five. I hope, after the festive break and all its pipedreams, we have a similarly inspired response this year.Should you have an idea just ready and waiting to go, you'll find the online entry form at guardian.co.uk/sme. And, of course, you'll be able to follow our finalists over the next few months here in Business Sense, on the last Friday of every month. The final five will be announced next month, and the overall winner revealed in May, although there's a fair bit of trading to be done before then.I'd be surprised if there isn't a green tinge to a few of the entries again this year. And, as environmental issues move up the business agenda for everyone, there are no apologies for leading on it in this month's Business Sense. Guy Clapperton's cover story looks at how you might start striving for carbon neutrality.Also this month, the first in what will become a series of interviews with inspiring businesspeople. This month, Jamie Milne talks to Vue cinema boss Tim Richards. Maybe his tale will inspire that new business idea that we could help turn into a reality...
Charles Handy does not like conventional offices. The author of numerous business books thinks that large office blocks have too much in common with factories, and play a part in convincing employees to leave through their depressing, battery-farm conformity."That dulls the human spirit," he told the audience of the Worktech 06 conference, including several facilities managers who probably run such offices, earlier this month. Citing an unusual authority for a business conference, he quoted St Augustine - "living a lie is the greatest sin" - and added that such offices force staff to live a lie by making them conform."Organisations do need a hub, a place to call home. But [in future] it will look much more like a club," said Handy - a place for employees to meet and converse rather than sit at a desk."One day I suspect, metaphorically, the tower will come tumbling down," he said of present-day offices, adding that the first office he worked in has been turned into residential space: "Maybe [one day] Canary Wharf will be."Handy focused on larger businesses, which often have existing conventional offices to deal with. But he pointed out that increasingly significant functions are being detached from businesses, whether through outsourcing, freelance or part-time staff or management buy-outs of divisions.Using the metaphor of one of his books, The Elephant and the Flea, Handy said that this made the fleas increasingly important - and without a legacy of office space, they were better-placed to create better places to work. Offices designed to promote creativity and collaboration may have suffered from their association with dot com companies, where ensuring the staff had access to table football and free espressos seemed to take precedence over making profits.Philip Ross, chief executive of workplace consultancy Cordless Group and author of Space to Work, which examines 200 innovative offices, says that until recently such areas could not really be used for working, as they lacked computers and telephones.However, recent developments in wireless technology mean they can - and small, new businesses are in the ideal position to take advantage. "All you provide people with is surfaces," he says of the ideal office for collaboration. Rather than individual desks - which are only used when that employee is in the office, and root him or her to one spot - staff share large tables equipped only with power-points, allowing the number of people working there to vary. It also allows staff and others to form groups for a particular project, then dissolve them when it is completed.Rather than shuffling paper, documents are held in online systems so they can be accessed through individuals' wireless laptops, both in the office and outside. The same concept applies to telephone calls, which are made through Voice-over IP soft-phones on the laptop computers."You don't invest in plastic on desks," says Ross, as well as cutting down on other hardware such as telephone switches and computer network wiring and equipment. A division of Cordless Group, which ran the Worktech conference, used it to exhibit how such table-top collaboration could be extended to link offices around the world, using digital and ultrasound pens to share what is written or drawn instantly.Ultrasound pensOne of the exhibitors, office furniture maker Orangebox, uses ultrasound pens (where what is drawn with a conventional pen is also picked up and digitised through a table-top detector) to aid discussions between its designers in Britain and manufacturers in China, and also provides a record of what intellectual property was shared in case of any problems later. The equipment involved is already available from mainstream retailers, mostly for a few hundred pounds.Using wireless laptop computers means that it is possible to provide significant variation within a workspace, with the likes of sofas, social areas and places to get food and drink, while ensuring that people can work anywhere within it.Ross says that because this model is designed for teams of around 30 to 40 staff, where everyone knows each other, people don't miss their own desk too much - which he says is hardly private in modern, open-plan offices anyway. "You personalise it almost out of desperation," says Ross, adding that "hot-desking" with hundreds of staff tends to work badly, as the numbers are too big to allow familiarity.John Glascock, professor of real estate finance at Cambridge University, says those setting up a new office from scratch need to think about what they want from it. "Figure out what your employees do," he says. "If they think and collaborate, then you would want a convenient, open space that would encourage collaboration."If team work isn't required much, working from small offices, from home or from a "third-space" public location such as a restaurant or coffee shop may prove more suitable. Glascock thinks people view home-working as lowly - a remnant from those who carried out small-scale manufacturing at home during the industrial revolution: "I think people still have the idea that working at home takes something away from home," he says.Glascock believes that in future companies will increasingly offer staff an office budget, which they can spend at home if they wish. He mentions a senior executive for an American firm who used such a budget to install a workplace including a giant screen in his basement - which he also uses to watch sports. Glascock adds that for those without a spare basement, computer memory is rapidly getting more compact, such as with high-capacity memory sticks or online storage, meaning that it will increasingly be possible for a worker to carry their computerised "office" - documents, software, operating system - in a memory stick that can be plugged into the family computer. "As technology gets better, it will impose less on your house," he says.A means to an endOverall, Glascock believes that entrepreneurs should see workspace as a means to an end, not an end in itself. "Having something that generates revenue makes you a business," he says, not having an office. "You probably need a lot less space than you think."Such ideas are being adopted by large companies, generally when they move into new offices. Jane Gately, a partner at professional services firm Ernst & Young with responsibility for IT, facilities and human resources, told the conference that its new UK office's in-house coffee shop has become a popular place to work. The main office space is shared, although some staff don't like this: "People try to create localised space," she says, and the firm tries to stop them. "I want people to stop coming there to work. I want them to come there to share."Two other organisations, the BBC and the Guardian, are moving in similar directions with planned and recently-opened offices. The BBC's White City Media Village is completely open-plan, and its new offices in Glasgow will be entirely tapeless, according to Chris Kane, the corporation's head of workplace.Luke Dodd, who is planning the Guardian's move to new offices north of King's Cross station in London, says the existing collection of narrow, multi-storey buildings around Farringdon Road means that the organisation currently has more desks than employees, as this is required to allow some staff to work for two departments when these are on different floors or in different buildings. In the new offices, with larger open-plan areas, this should not be needed.John de Lucy, head of estates for the British Library - the location for the Worktech conference - says the library's introduction of wireless connectivity for readers is turning it into a "third space" for work, with the benefit of access to the library. "We do find the public area is becoming a significant meeting space," he says.But a problem with abandoning conventional offices, whether for shared collaborative space or for remote working, is that managers have to trust staff. "It works as long as you the corporation can measure what your employees do," says Glascock. "When output is transparent, but input is not transparent, you solve the problem."In other words, as long as staff produce the goods on time, managers can stop watching over them while they work. On the evidence of some of the Worktech exhibits, which included global positioning system technology in hand-held computers to track staff when out of the office and low-cost radio frequency identification (RFID) tags built into paper stickers - mainly for tracking stock and equipment, but which can also be used for employees - letting go may be tough. According to a project on the future of work by Anab Jain, a design researcher for the Royal College of Art's Helen Hamlyn Research Centre, workers are going to crave ways to escape surveillance in future if they are not trusted.She suggests the advent of "coldzones", areas for "the digitally exhausted" free of mobile telephones, wireless networks, CCTV and other communications and surveillance. In a short film set in 2012, Jain imagines employees with RFID implants lurking in coldzones to get a break from their electronically omnipresent boss - not quite the emancipated, creative workplace that many are predicting.
Moving abroad can turn expats into accidental landlords and property speculators. If you own your home, what do you do with it if you leave the country? Hanging on to our flat in Edinburgh was a mixture of maths, cowardice and indecision. Only time will tell if it was the right thing to do.When Barbara and I moved to Ibiza we hadn't planned on a long stay. Letting our UK home was part of the deal. The rent was supposed to cover our Spanish accommodation costs -which it did. Almost.Everything became more permanent when we decided to buy a place in the sun. The obvious thing to do was sell up in Edinburgh, but that meant stepping permanently off the UK property ladder. Instead we took out the biggest interest-only mortgage we could and put the cash towards our Ibiza house.To illustrate why the sums sound attractive, imagine a property initially worth &pound;100,000. After a year its value rises to &pound;105,000. If you own it outright your investment has brought a 5% return. But with a 50% mortgage your initial investment is &pound;50,000 so a &pound;5,000 rise now represents a 10% gain assuming rent covers the monthly payments to a bank or building society.That's the theory anyway. We were lucky in that the flat we own in Edinburgh is easy to rent. Even so, despite it never being vacant our income hasn't covered the mortgage payments after agent's fees, insurance and other costs are taken into account. This may be covered by the eventual sale of the flat, but that could now be subject to capital gains tax which wouldn't have been the case if we'd sold in the UK before we bought in Spain.One thing's for sure - we're not going back to our Edinburgh flat. Once you've let a place it no longer feels like home. It's illogical and irrational, but that's the way it is even if the property has had model tenants. And lettings can go horribly wrong.Kay and David McMahon have chronicled their tale of woe on a websitewww.trashedhouse.com.Four years after being posted abroad they tried to return to their London home, a process that took months of legal wrangling, and when they finally regained possession the place was uninhabitable.It wasn't that the McMahons hadn't used a reputable firm of letting agents. They had. But there does seem to be something fundamentally flawed about that whole process.The problem is that rental agencies are servants of two masters. There are the landlords, who may be thousands of miles away, and the tenants, who live nearby. With the best will in the world it's easy to see who is likely to get the best service - the tenants who are handing over their cash every month.At the same time there are less obvious costs than seemingly exorbitant fees charged by agencies. Most accidental landlords let out their homes as furnished accommodation. It's simpler legally and saves on the cost of shipping furniture that may be cheaper abroad.What this doesn't account for is the mass of small items such as linen and kitchen utensils which you have to provide for tenants and then buy again in your new home. It's amazing how expensive it all turns out to be.Even with the benefit of hindsight I still don't know whether we did the right thing or if we should have sold up completely or even bought a small place in the UK purely to rent out and keep our spot on the property ladder. To a large extent all we've done is delay the inevitable sale, probably until the fixed-rate period on our mortgage runs out next year.Until then we watch the UK property market nervously, hope that we don't end up with bad tenants and try to work out what to do with all the stuff in the Edinburgh flat that we've managed without or replaced over the last couple of years. Then we remind ourselves how lucky we are to be property owners.I'm currently writing a book for the Guardian on living and working abroad. One of its main aims is to give would-be expats a taste of a variety of potential destinations including subjects such as employment opportunities, the ease of setting up a business and local attitudes to foreigners. While there may be general information available it is more interesting and valuable to hear first-hand from people who have actually been there and done it.Nick Clayton is a freelance writer and web content consultant. If you'd be willing to share your experiences - good and bad - of living and working abroad, please email him at:nick@adeskinthesun.com
How good is your business at responding to customers when they get in touch? If you thought that losing the occasional customer is a fact of life for all businesses, consider the research carried out by T-Mobile that found each lost customer costs small companies &pound;4,910, with smaller businesses losing at least four customers each over the last twelve months.Can your businesses afford to lose nearly &pound;20,000 in revenue each year? "Just look at the fall of M&S; in the 1990s or the rise of Tesco," says John Hughes, managing director at the Customer Service Network. "A 5% increase in customer retention can improve profits by as much as 85%."A survey by research company NOP found that reducing customer defections can indeed boost profits by 25-85%. But worryingly 73% of businesses surveyed made no attempt to persuade dissatisfied customers to stay. With the survey indicating that 35% of dissatisfied customers would not have moved to another supplier if they had received a simple apology, getting the communications with your customers right is money in the bank.Developing a response policy is now more important then ever. Derek Williamson, head of business marketing at T-Mobile UK, warns that, to remain competitive, speed of response should be considered a top priority: "Evidence suggests that larger competitors are much quicker to respond to customers and this is a significant threat for small firms. An immediate response to customers is the ideal but small companies should, at the very least, examine ways in which queries, either via email or phone, can be replied to within a maximum of one to three hours."Promoting good customer service must start at the top. If management doesn't realise how important this aspect of their business is, they will be at an instant disadvantage in their industry. Good customer response equates to loyal customers, which are the cornerstone of any successful business. No matter how much money you invest in your marketing, if you don't have the fundamental elements of your business right, it's wasted money.In today's marketplace, reputation is an important component of your company's brand. Personal recommendations are a powerful marketing tool that all businesses should cultivate. David Parsons, CEO at the Institute of Customer Service (ICS), says: "According to ICS research, responsiveness to complaints and queries is a key factor affecting a company's reputation. The other three - treating people personally, keeping promises and going the extra mile - are also key characteristics of a customer-responsive organisation. Achieving this is partly about having customer-friendly systems and processes in place, but also about the professionalism of customer service staff."By placing yourself in your customers' shoes and asking what they would want from you as a company, you can build a customer response system that will set your business buzzing with a steady stream of new and happy customers. "The widening gulf between customer expectations and organisations' actual performance suggests directors and leaders of organisations are ignoring customers' views, despite 93% of them believing their complaints culture affects the reputation of their organisation," says Clive Hicks, head of research at TMI.Empowering staffResponsiveness isn't just about how a complaint is dealt with. Customers will contact your organisation for a wide-range of reasons from simple information gathering to the shipping status of their order. The key to good responsiveness is to empower your frontline staff with the tools, knowledge and resources to be able to answer these queries efficiently.The findings of the ICS's National Complaints Culture Survey provides a valuable insight into the power of good customer responsiveness. Research indicates that more than 60% of customers are now willing to complain most of the time; a 10% increase in five years. Sixty-one per cent say they expect a telephone complaint to be resolved on the same day, compared to 51% in 2001. And 85-90% expect a written complaint to be acknowledged within a week. How close does your business measure against these expectations?The personal approach is echoed by David Jackson, managing director of Clicktools, who agrees that good customer response has a direct impact on profitability: "Many studies show a relationship between good customer service and long-term financial success. Good companies use great service to keep customers coming back and to enthuse them to recommend their products and services to others. Customers judge an organisation on the total experience, encompassing the core product, how easy the company is to do business with and how friendly they are."Get your response system right and you can look forward to a lucrative future. Businesses with great customer service - that take time to respond to their customers efficiently - benefit from loyalty and personal recommendations that no amount of advertising or promotion can buy. Consumers are no longer judging businesses on price alone. Whether your business sells goods or services, ensuring that every customer is handled professionally is vital to your bottom line.
Have you ever dreamed up setting up your own small business? Got that brilliant idea for a cottage industry that would free you from the daily grind and make you, finally, your own boss? If all you need is a little motivation - and a little cash too - then perhaps you're ready to rise to the eBay Business Sense challenge.For the second time, the Guardian and eBay have teamed up to issue a challenge to Business Sense readers: come up with a winning idea for a small business that can run on eBay, the world's biggest auction site.Five readers will win &pound;1,500 seed money to start their businesses, and Business Sense will follow their progress over the next few months as they get expert help to build up their businesses. As well as building up their shops and maximising their revenues, the five will face specific business challenges set by the judges. The top performer will win a final prize of &pound;2,500. And, we hope, all five will have the option of continuing their profitable enterprises.It could be the start of something big - or, at the very least, you'll learn a lot about your idea, and your own ambitions.Our last challenge, which ran from late 2005 through the early part of last year, saw five very different challengers battle it out. Winner Roger Eigenheer set up a successful business selling recycled bicycles. Runner-up Clare Tomkins started selling personalised children's bags and, since the end of the competition, has been kept busy by demand.And Denise Purdie - who set up Purdie's Scottish Soap Company from the rural Scottish village of Colintraive - has seen her business go from strength to strength. Her business is now supplying a range of retailers across the country.So, as you can see, this could be just the springboard you need for your business idea.What you need to do next is gohereto find our eBay Business Sense challenge entry form. We want to see the quick-fire pitch for your idea, summed up in no more than 1,000 characters; an idea that's both manageable on eBay and a limited budget, but which has that little something that's different enough to inspire our judging panel.You'll have to move quickly - the closing date is February 5 - and the five finalists will be revealed in the next edition of Business Sense, published on Friday, February 23. We'll follow the group's fortunes in subsequent editions, with the winner announced in May. Full terms and conditions are published on the entry form at Guardian Unlimited.So sit down, have a think, and see if you can rise to the eBay Business Sense challenge.Entry form.
When part-time inventor Matthew Shearn got through to the national shortlist of an innovation competition late last year, he imagined his dreams of giving up his day job were finally within his grasp. A classic British inventor with a head full of ideas but no real knowledge of how to get them off the ground, he saw the contest as the perfect opportunity to move things forward.Shearn, an engineer, entered the Powergen Energy Lab Challenge with his system for heating a kitchen's water supply using the otherwise wasted energy emitted by refrigerators. One of five runners-up, he lost out to the "bath-box", a product that displaces water in a bath so that children can wash safely and in less water.Shearn couldn't help feeling that the idea had been chosen more for its potential ease of commercialisation than for its likely impact on the planet. "It showed excellent lateral thinking, but was it a coincidence that it also met the objectives of the organiser - maximum publicity for minimum cost," Shearn says.The inventor of the bath-box was awarded &pound;50,000 of development funding with an incubator, something Shearn could have put to good use.So what does an inventor with a more complex idea, like Shearn's, do? In the current investment climate, business angels and venture capitalists favour ideas that they can turn around quickly, so what if your idea doesn't conform?"The traditional investment route doesn't work for inventions," notes technology inventor and entrepreneur Ben Way, one of the first dotcom millionaires, who today runs Rainmakers, developing new technologies and helping other technology businesses get off the ground.Way, who is passionate about environmental technology, has experienced the highs and lows of life as an inventor, having risen to the dizziest of heights as a teenage entrepreneur, only to lose everything by the age of 21. Today, he helps others avoid some of the mistakes he made in his early career."If investors are faced with two ideas, one which has a quick, obvious route to market and represents low risk, and a second which is groundbreaking but needs &pound;20m and three years of development before anything can be done with it, it's easy to see why the quick ideas get chosen," he says.Almost bankruptWay is convinced that Britain needs to find other ways of supporting national inventions, having himself tried - and failed - to provide pro bono incubation for new businesses. "I tried doing this for three years and it almost bankrupted the company," he says. "It's a shame, because people come to us with great ideas and we could help them, but the risk is too great if the product is unlikely to go on to get funded."We're supposed to be a nation of great minds, but Britain's culture doesn't support the results of all that great thinking. One of the most frustrating hurdles for inventors is trying to find someone who believes in them long enough to take a chance on them."This is a gap that Nesta (National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts) seeks to fill. The organisation allocates &pound;325m in independent, pre-institutional finance to "very early stage" company development, especially in the area of breakthrough technology. More importantly, it offers tailored mentoring to ensure that entrepreneurs make an effective transition from the garage-based tinkerer to the commercially astute."We're a lot like an American 'foundation'," explains Jonathan Kestenbaum, Nesta's CEO. "We are able to make longer-term investments than venture capitalists or business angels, who have to satisfy the needs of institutional investors."Nesta's recent success stories include Starbridge Systems, which expects to launch later this year, offering light-touch, plaster-based treatments for diabetics. Nesta put &pound;120,000 into the development of a prototype, and provided a network of mentors to help think through the product and bring it into the line of sight of the NHS.Universities are now also providing substantial support for inventors, to ensure that they catch talent in its most raw form, before graduates become sucked into time-consuming jobs that drain them of all their creative energy. London South Bank, Coventry, Manchester Metropolitan and Lancaster University Management School are just four offering impressive schemes designed to help commercialise inventions.Huge potentialOne beneficiary of London South Bank University's support is Ronald Thompson, a name you may be hearing a lot more of judging by the perceived potential of his discovery. Thompson, an environmental designer and model maker, has been awarded an "entrepreneurship" by the university, which has propelled him into the business world.He stumbled on his idea when working as an assistant on the Batman film set during his gap year. When disposing of some fibreglass waste, Thompson noticed how relatively delicate the fibre is. Having previously run a hair salon, Thompson considered the comparative resilience of human hair and wondered about the potential for turning this into a material, given that hair is a biodegradable waste product that's in plentiful supply (whereas fibreglass leaves a huge carbon footprint).For his final-year university project, Thompson created an eco-friendly, ergonomic chair made from hair, to demonstrate the substance's potential. The resulting design has already attracted an order from a high-profile London restaurant.But the applications don't stop there. "The material we've developed has around 20 special properties, such as its crumple zone, which could have applications in car manufacturing, and the fact that micro-organisms can be grown in it, enabling desert land to be reclaimed," says Thompson. "It also breaks down ...#8805; ...#8804; well in soil, so it could have applications in agriculture."Thompson, who still works in hairdressing, is very optimistic about the commercial prospects of his invention, thanks to his university's Enterprise Associate Scheme. This has so far given him a lump sum of &pound;3,000, a tax-free salary of &pound;1,200 a month (all university fees are covered too), free office space, access to the university research labs, computer equipment, and a series of mentors and business tuition. The university has even formed a company for him, Pilius X, taking him all the way to market. "I'm as impressed with the university as they are with me," he says.Inventors who aren't fortunate enough to fall into the categories helped by Nesta or other specialist programmes such as the university schemes should not despair, as other, less obvious sources of support do exist - if you know where to look for them. "This is the real problem," says Ben Way of Rainmakers. "How are inventors supposed to know where to go to get the help and advice they need?"Way highlights some of the most useful resources he has come across in recent years as being web-based forums designed to enable inventors to seek unbiased feedback on their ideas. Then there are those that provide "free" software development services to bring new internet ideas to market, in return for a share in the resulting business. "The help you need may be out there, somewhere," says Way. "If you really think you've got something, don't give up."LINKSBritish Inventors Society:www.thebis.org/links/index.phpPilius X:www.piliusxdesign.comInnovateur:www.innovateur.co.ukInnovate:www.innovate-design.co.ukIdeas 21:www.ideas21.co.ukTrevor Baylis Brands:www.trevorbaylisbrands.com/tbb/home/home.asp?A671Enterprise Week:www.enterpriseweek.org/downloads/roughguide.pdfFeedback forum:www.globalideasbank.org
The first film Tim Richards ever saw was the multiple-Oscar winning adaptation of To Kill A Mockingbird, a picture acknowledged as one of the greatest of the last century. As a successful entrepreneur who now owns his own chain of cinemas, it's perhaps unsurprising that he recalls fondly the place he saw it in all those years ago almost as much as the film itself."It was an old-fashioned single-screen, 2,500-seat auditorium in Rio de Janeiro," he says. "My father was a diplomat and we'd moved to Brazil. Every so often they'd bring down prints of the older English movies to Rio and one of my earliest memories is of going to see that film with my parents. I had nightmares for weeks afterwards."Cinema played a big part in the life of the young Richards, but perhaps not as big a part as it does now. In June 2006 he staged a successful management buyout of the Vue cinema chain, which his company SBC co-owned with private equity partners. With 55 cinemas, 554 screens, and 20% market share, it is the third-largest player on the UK circuit behind Odeon and Cineworld, both of which are fully owned by private equity groups.Richards was named UK Entrepreneur of the Year last month by Ernst & Young and has big plans not only to secure Vue's reputation for offering moviegoers a state-of-the-art entertainment experience, but also to revolutionise the entire multiplex business. But like all the best movie protagonists, his path to success has been beset by near-disasters and a hell of a lot of ups and downs.After his early life in Brazil, Richards, now 47, moved back to Canada with his family and completed his school and university education. He was poised to carve himself out a career as a ski racer, but traded in his salopettes to dive into the perhaps more perilous world of New York corporate law. From Wall Street he moved to London and worked for the cinema chain UCI from 1990, overseeing legal and business affairs. At this point he realised the law wasn't for him and in 1994 he joined Warner Brothers as senior VP for business development.Despite living what he describes as "an incredibly enviable lifestyle," with a corner office on the studio lot and two assistants, the relentless pressure of the job, and travel to Europe, led Richards to reassess his entire career.He says: "For about three or four years I lived on planes. I loved LA, but my wife and I both missed London. It was very difficult to be based in LA - you really have to be close to your assets in business, otherwise either your business is going to suffer or your personal life is. It was really the support of my wife that got me through it. A lot of other marriages didn't make it."At this point, Richards had what he calls a "life-changing moment," in the somewhat unlikely environs of Finchley Road in north London."I was at the 02 Centre - a fantastic cinema - and Warners had just introduced a new design. It was a nightclub feel - dark box, dark lights, loud music. They had all the cartoon characters in the foyer, Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck, and I was watching customers circulate and I saw this middle-aged couple. They came over and looked inside the foyer and saw this loud, outrageous nightclub and it was very clear that they wanted to go and see a movie. They turned around and left."I thought, 'we're alienating these people'. And I realised that by designing the cinemas differently we could make them exciting for our young audience, but at the same time we could upgrade them and make them more appealing to the greying baby boomers."Sensing an opportunity, Richards took the entrepreneurial plunge and in 1998 set up his own company, SBC. Released from the safe embrace of the Warners empire, he found himself planning his future in the less glamorous setting of his garage."I spent the best part of a year in there," he chuckles. "Then I moved to London and moved the business into my dining room at home. Our first proper office was a two-floor walk-up above a Greek restaurant in Chiswick."Classic dilemmaTo use a screenwriting metaphor, Richards faced the classic Act 2 climax dilemma: the point in the story where the protagonist questions what he is doing, while standing to lose everything if he fails."There were people who thought I was absolutely nuts. Everything was on the line - my entire net worth, our house, my work permit. If it hadn't worked I would have lost everything. But it was what I always wanted to do."Over the course of 18 months, Richards enticed a number of other senior executives ("the very, very top people") to join him. After buying six cinemas, SBC set its sights on the Warner Village UK circuit. The deal took almost three years to complete and collapsed several times. The chain was finally bought for &pound;225m in 2003. If the deal hadn't come off, SBC would have been "tanked" by fees accrued in trying to secure the deal, Richards admits.Having experienced the financial excesses of the US film industry, he decided to run his company along leaner lines - executives fly economy and he still takes the tube. His prudence paid off. The company rebranded the newly acquired cinemas, consigning Bugs and Daffy to the dustbin in the process, and bought out the Ster Century and Cinemark chains. Then, in June 2006, Richards and his team bought out the company with the backing of HBOS.So what changes have freedom brought? "The really nice thing is nothing has changed," says Richards. "You never know how people are going to react to a payday, but everyone was so excited that they were back at their desks a week later, working as hard as ever."The buyout will allow Vue to continue to grow the business. The opening in July this year of an 11-screen cinema - one of the most technologically advanced in the UK and the biggest film complex in London outside the West End - in the o2, as the Millennium Dome is now known, shows how ambitious they are. However, Richards insists that being the best, rather than the biggest, is his goal. The focus is on improving the customer experience, all the way from buying the tickets to getting a perfect view of the screen.Extensive analysis of the customer base has also opened up a new revenue stream via niche cultural markets - the Islington, north London Vue now shows Turkish movies, while the bourgeoning Indian population in Inverness take their seats for screenings of Bollywood pictures.The multiplex seems to be working its magic. In the 1950s, British moviegoers made more than one billion visits to the cinema per year. That dropped to 54m in the early 1980s, when the heady thrill of VHS and Betamax kept the punters at home. To the obvious delight of Richards, the cinema going public is projected to make 200m visits next year. Why the resurgence?"I can remember going to my local ABC in London years ago," he laughs. "There were springs coming out of the seats, people were smoking, it was horrible and dirty. The classic fleapit. Our challenge is to show that generation, who grew up with those horrible old cinemas, that we have this great new product."The ever-fickle youth market is crucial too. But Richards, who has three children, is confident that new digital and advanced 3D technologies will have enough of the wow factor to get kids into his cinemas, one way or another. Last year, Vue screened the World Cup final and there are plans to show much more sport this year - some of it in 3D ("a phenomenal experience," he enthuses). Gamers are already experiencing the thrill of competing in three dimensions on a 40ft Vue screen.This year looks set to be a good year for celluloid lovers too, with the Bond franchise suitably refreshed and The Queen, The Last King of Scotland and Borat tipped to win Oscars next month. All good for business, but Richards is clearly more than a numbers man."For me, the magic starts when the lights go down and you're experiencing something socially with hundreds of other people," he says. "That's why I never worry about other home entertainment. We're social beings."Despite operating in a business not noted for being oversubscribed with ego-free shrinking violets, Vue's CEO comes across as a remarkably sanguine figure. Indeed, he laughs at the suggestion that his working life is glamorous."When I was in LA we'd go to the big Hollywood parties. People would hear I was a senior executive at Warner Brothers and jump on me because everyone in LA has a screenplay in their back pocket. Then they'd hear that I was actually a bricks and mortar cinema guy and they'd run! We're not glamorous and we don't pretend to be."Our goal as a company is to turn this industry upside down. We're a young team. We've all known each other socially and professionally for 15 to 20 years and we're going to be around for a long time."As they say in the business, this one could run and run.
I had hoped to make it to middle age without being fingerprinted. But as I pressed my hand against the MiSense scanner at Heathrow, I reflected that I had been fingerprinted at the US border a couple of times already. That biometric data is being held indefinitely. This record, I was assured, would be destroyed at the end of the MiSense Plus trial.After signing a form that gave the Home Office permission to search the national police computer for evidence of any wrongdoing, my passport was inspected and the photo page copied, my irises scanned (twice, because the first attempt failed) my fingerprints read and my face photographed and digitised. Within a minute, I had a card containing all 13 pieces of biometric data.Apart from the lack of a visible mugshot, it was an ID card in all but name. The first string of numbers and letters began "IDGBR", followed by an identity number, my date of birth, a number from my passport and my name in machine-readable format. It would be activated as soon as the police computer had cleared me and, were I planning to fly Emirates to Dubai or Cathay Pacific to Hong Kong, would enable me to bypass the immigration queue on my return.Instead of queuing to have their passport inspected by an immigration officer, MiSense passengers insert their card into a gate similar to a tube barrier, and then press their right index finger against a pad. This, Stephen Challis of the British Airports Authority told me, is sophisticated enough to detect a pulse and detect a false latex fingertip or - it has been known - a finger that has been permanently separated from its original owner.That should make forging a fingertip using existing techniques extremely difficult. Producing a fake biometric card is, Huw Farmer of the UK Immigration Service admits, "probably not impossible". But the biometrics industry is, he says, in a state of "continuous evolution"."We're not in the business of creating holey sieves," adds Challis.But why the need to collect so many biometrics, when the MiSense barriers only require a scan of the right index finger? "We are testing equipment reliability, customer experience and staff operation," says Challis. "Taking all 13 biometrics at the time of enrolment also paves the way - obviously subject to agreements between governments and participants - for some kind of international inter-operability."That phrase reveals what makes MiSense much more interesting to airports, airlines and immigration authorities. Offering travellers a faster passage through the airport in return for their biometric details is not new: Schiphol airport, in Amsterdam, has been doing it for years, and charging them an annual fee for the privilege. Right now, MiSense is only available on a couple of regular flights from Terminal 3, and so is of little use to the vast majority of travellers, though it does grant you fast-track immigration clearance at Hong Kong international airport. But the next stage, MiSense AllClear, will pave the way for advance passenger information (API) to be shared between the immigration services before a passenger's flight takes off.Criminal convictionIn theory, this would mean that, say, US border control would be able to access biometric and other data about an individual as soon as he or she checked in at Heathrow and scanned their MiSense card and fingerprint. The same would apply for a foreign passenger checking in to fly to Britain. It is not hard to imagine why governments would be keen on a system that screened would-be visitors before they even stepped foot on the air bridge. It is also worth noting that no one with a criminal conviction, no matter how minor, is issued with a MiSense Plus card. That would certainly appeal to countries like the US, which make a clean record a condition of visa-free entry. Collecting all 13 biometrics also means that if Australia wants iris scans and Canada the left index finger, travelling Britons will be able to meet all the possible demands.MiSense, in other words, is not just a useful testing-ground for the forthcoming ID card and ePassport, or even merely a fast track through Heathrow. It is a foretaste of much more stringent, biometrically-driven border controls which, if they work, will make it far harder for a suspect to borrow another traveller's passport in order to flee the country. Challis compares the scheme to a "powerful magnet" that enables border control staff to find the needles lurking in the haystack while sweeping away law-abiding, low-risk travellers. If an American Airlines and an Air India flight landed at virtually the same time, for example, US passengers armed with their biometric data would no longer have to tap their feet impatiently while the higher-risk Indian passengers were scrutinised by immigration staff. They could pass through immigration without even having to speak to an officer.The MiSense pilot is not the first biometric trial to have taken place at Heathrow. The airport has already experimented with iris scanners, with mixed results. A Home Office report on the pilot quietly filed in the House of Commons library last December reveals that the biometric rejection rate - the percentage of passengers rejected - was well above the target of less than 2%. At the beginning of the trial, the scanners were failing to recognise more than one traveller in every 20, though the software suppliers contended that some of those people might not be signed up to the scheme and could have tried to use the barrier by mistake. Nonetheless, the government announced earlier this month that the first-generation identity card, due to be issued to foreign nationals living in the UK in 2008, will not use iris scanning.
MondayVista and the indiesTuesdayFind Satoshi!WednesdayVirtual world news/a&gt;Sony and Namco Bandai join forcesThursdayPlayStation 3 launch detailsThe welcome return of two classicsFridayGames give boost to TV ratingsLord of the Rings OnlineWii takes flight with Wing IslandV5 site goes live
Click pic for larger versionIf your first thought was MySpace, then you're not wrong, according toCompete's list of Top 20 sites by time.Less obvious is that Yahoo! is in second, presumably because of the success of its email service. Its news and Yahoo Finance services are pretty good too. And it owns Flickr.Jay Meattle says:Yahoo holds a significant lead over Google+YouTube.com, MSN+Live.com and AOL+AIM.com. Yahoo simply needs to merge with MSN to take #1 (hint hint)But that would never happen, would it?
Another indulgent post - this time to point out that theofficial Virtua Fighter 5 websiteis now available for your browsing pleasure. It's a lavish affair with the usual character biogs, video streams, etc. Looks like some sections are going to be opened later as the release draws near.I played this very briefly a couple of weeks ago and it does look astonishing, building on the beautiful, layered detail of the VF4 environments and adding to the character models without them plummeting headfirst down the Uncanny Valley. There are two new characters and new evade moves too, as well as tweaked signature moves to give a smoother combat experience. Still unapologetically hardcore at heart.
There's probably a gap in the market for a product wiki, because Google's search results for products are often spam-ridden, and because Wikipedia doesn't do product reviews. One answer could be Amazon'sAmapedia, whichRogers Cadenhead has just discovered. He says:There's not much to recommend yet in the wiki's user-generated content (cash register ka-ching!). When I created a new article on the Sonicare Elite 9800 Power Toothbrush I became credited as a "Contributing Amapedian" on my user profile.He adds:I believe I've found Amapedia early enough that I can install myself as its leader and establish the community norms. Towards this end, I'd like all Amapedians to addressed me as Amazimbo, First Among Equals.As noted in a comment, this is competition forwww.productwiki.com.Will you become an Amapedian too? Or do you think there are already better places for consumer reviews?
View imageThis is just an excuse to put up some screens of Hudson's forthcoming biplane stunt sim for Wii. Released in Japan last year (I think) and coming out here at the end of March, Wing Island allows players to garner intricate control over their craft via the controller's tilt and motion sensors. Thrusting backwards and forwards controls fast deccelaration and acceleration, while a quick turn can be achieved with a left or right wave. There are 27 missions, as well as a free flight mode, and success opens up tuning options.I've put two more screens below.View imageView imageThe similarly stunt-based Pilot Wings remains one of my favourite ever flight games, with Konami's Dreamcast shooter, Deadly Skies, and X-wing vs Tie Fighter coming up close behind. How about you?
BooksSpiritual guidanceOn the bookshelf this month is The Attractor Factor by Joe Vitale (Wiley, &pound;11.99). The blurb made me hesitate; Vitale's belief is that there's a spiritual component behind succeeding in a business venture - or more or less anything else - and without addressing that you're not going to get very far.So far, so new age, and I have to admit to approaching the book with some scepticism as a result. Having now read it, I think "spiritual" was probably the wrong word to use - "attitudinal" would have been better.And the author does make the reader question some of their attitudes. Do you, he asks directly, think there is something morally wrong with making a profit for yourself? For the businessperson or entrepreneur the answer should be "no", assuming other ethical elements are in place, but we still live in a culture in which "fat cat" is a term automatically associated with big business rather than a thief, benefit cheat or anyone who's doing something identifiably wrong. Does this lead people to talk themselves and their business down when negotiating? It's worth considering.He also asks whether people enter negotiations or start planning ideas with the possibility of failure uppermost in their minds. In doing so he believes that they turn failure into a likelihood rather than a possibility. Looking at the way many sales organisations work, with a set of leads and the assumption that most of them will come to nothing, you can't help but recognise that he might have something there, too. He takes his view to extremes. Every business outcome is a result of the approach and attitude taken by both parties, he suggests. You can attract any outcome by focusing on it and accepting every opportunity, he reckons, which is unlikely to work in every case. Nevertheless the book is a good one for prodding your assumptions and uncovering a number of subconscious attitudes that make success less likely some of the time.HardwareQuite a catchIn case you've been living under a rock for the last few months, Microsoft has recently launched the next generation of Windows, called Vista, to businesses. The consumer version, which is likely to appeal to home workers, is out next week.Logitech has been one of the first off the mark with a range of peripherals that are designed to work particularly well with the new system. There are cordless keyboards and mice as well as a headset.I looked at the MX Revolution Rechargeable Mouse (RRP &pound;72.90). It has two modes on the scroll wheel that let you browse through a document more quickly than you would before and a technology called SmartShift that adjusts the speed of scrolling depending on what you're doing (so you can have large scrolls for a big document or smaller ones for scrolling through individual pictures).It looks good and, if you don't want to upgrade to Windows Vista quite yet, that's fine, it will work with XP or indeed Mac OSX 10.2.8. The best thing about it from this reviewer's point of view, however, is that it's fully rechargeable. In other words you don't get that dreadful moment when you run out of batteries just when you need to do something important on your system.Voluntary workBoost to networkingSmaller businesses are working for nothing. It certainly feels like it some of the time if you work for one, but this time it's serious; SMEs in London are finding their business grows as a result of putting time into the local community. So says a new piece of research from London voluntary action group City Action.The organisation matches city firms with local groups in need of help and its survey suggests that employees are eager to participate. Employers, meanwhile, have embraced employee volunteering schemes and been surprised at how easy they are to administer, while a side effect has been that networking opportunities grow and therefore the opportunities to pitch for new work and increase understanding of the sector in which an employee operates increase dramatically.The organisation is managed by the City of London and believes itself to be the only independent voluntary work brokerage of its kind in the UK.BroadbandHandy tips for VoIP usersBroadband connection slowing down or unreliable? There can be a number of reasons for this and several are outlined in a new free guide from IP telephony company CallNavigator. It focuses on the Voice-over IP area and is downloadable fromcallnavigatorip.co.uk/broadband. Expect to see guides to whether your broadband is going to be sufficient for voice as well as data and questions to ask your broadband supplier if you're planning to move to VoIP. If you don't want to download it, call the freephone number 0800 0336 100.WorkspaceSick of sending emails?British Telecom has launched a new tool for companies needing to share projects. The entry level product is called BT Workspace Lite and is free for a couple of people sharing two workspaces of no more than 10MB in size; the price increases when more people and data are involved and starts at &pound;7.50 plus VAT per month, per user. The idea is to be able to log on and see, for example, the progress of a project without having to send an endless trail of emails back and forth to see how it's going.Users get three workspaces divided into project workspace for specific projects, company workspace for general company stuff and personal workspace for scheduling and diary.Further information and a demo is available atwww.bt.com/workspace.
It's the end of the week, and that can mean only one thing: time for the Friday Afternoon Question.On Tuesday I read the thoughts of Steve Rubel, who believes thatthe number of Web 2.0 companies going to the wallshows that the bubble is starting to burst. I don't know if he's right, but it did start me thinking about all those old companies and products that I miss.You know what I mean; that little gizmo that saved you hours but then broke and you couldn't get it replaced. Or the piece of software that would still kick the competitors today, but is pushing up daisies instead.My own offer is the humbleAmiga500, which served me well as a child; not just because it was the first computer which really got me excited, but because it was pretty innovative in lots of ways that we now take for granted. I'd bring it back just in order to play Sensible Soccer (modern attempts are, frankly, no match for my winning Sensi team).If you could bring back one piece of technology from beyond the grave, what would it be?The best entry - as decided by me - will scoop a prize drawn from my drawer o' gadgets.
