Users and moderators of Reddit&apos;s newest default subforums have reacted in varying ways – from fighting back to opting out – after being thrust into the limelight as part of the site&apos;s recent redesign.The front page of the news and networking site&apos;s biggest community for women, r/TwoXChromosomes, was dominated for much of Friday and Saturday with fairly graphic posts about menstruation and toilet habits. This was the result of a protest by regular members who felt undermined by an influx of new – and not always entirely genuine – contributors.Meanwhile, moderators of r/dataisbeautiful, a subreddit devoted to data visualisation, tightened up the rules submitters have to follow, requiring original creations to provide the data source, and banning contributions from members who are not explicitly subscribed to the subreddit.The music forum r/listentothis, with the help of a large collection of automated moderation tools,has managed to keep its rules rigidly enforced. Bands with more than 500,000 listeners on last.fm and songs with more than a million views are automatically removed, as is anything that&apos;s not a song. But the submission rate on the forum has doubled and there has been a spike in spam, which the robots can&apos;t handle.Each is reacting to the influx of new members of the community brought by inclusion of their subreddits on the site&apos;s default list, to which all new members are automatically subscribed and which is shown to users who aren&apos;t logged in.TwoXChromosomes, for example, had 180,000 members subscribed as of last week, but over a course of an average month the reddit front page receives 100 million unique users.At their worst, those new members flood the subreddits with submissions out of character for the forums, which have often spent years building up codes of conduct and their own community norms. &quot;There has never been a default sub that didn&apos;t suffer in quality, and there never will be,&quot;says user LinuxLinuson the DataIsBeautiful subreddit. &quot;It&apos;s a numbers game: we can report and downvote as much as we like, but unless you have 50 mods, the shitposting will overwhelm everything else, just as it has on every default sub.&quot;KaylaS,a user of TwoXChromosomes, agrees. &quot;There were a few trolls and ignorant people on here before but most people on here were serious subscribers and there were enough of us to counteract them with downvotes and report. Not anymore. We can all say goodbye to a safe place on reddit for women. I know I won&apos;t feel comfortable here anymore.&quot;While most users only found out that their favourite subreddits were becoming default subs whenReddit announced it publiclyon Wednesday, the moderators of each sub were given advance warning – and the opportunity to decline. Some redditors, such as KaylaS, wish they&apos;d taken that chance, but others have placed their trust in the moderators.&quot;I know that a lot of people are afraid of the defaulting of the sub,&quot;writes KennysConstitutional on r/listentothis&quot;but… we have very dedicated moderators who are resourceful and determined to keep this place from going to shit.&quot;But moderators can only do so much, particularly against an influx of users who are not so much clueless as actively hostile. That was the problem faced by TwoXChromosomes, which has to deal with being the most prominent space for women on a site known more for being the home of numerous communities of &quot;men&apos;s rights&quot; activists and &quot;pick-up artists&quot;.Some members of those communities begrudged having a subreddit just for women included in the defaults, seeing it as an example of discrimination against men. Just hours after the change was instituted,users reported abuse in the private message systemof Reddit, something no moderator can prevent.But rather than being cowed, many users of TwoXChromosomes are fighting back; hence the rush of &quot;TMI&quot; posts. &quot;For those of you not wanting to see girl-talk on your frontpage because we are &quot;gross&quot;, you can unsubscribe,&quot; says the author of &quot;Oh the period shits…&quot; a front page post with 1144 comments and 1672 net upvotes.&quot;Serious question: is this how it normally is around here?&quot;asked one new user in response.&quot;I&apos;ve never known TwoX to shy away from the more gnarly TMI [too much information] topics that women talk about, so in a way, yes,&quot;confirmed another. &quot;But I think we might be pulling out all the stops in retaliation.&quot;•Reddit shakes up the defaults again: which are the best of the new intake?
In March, the Beastie Boysreached a settlement with the US toy company GoldieBloxover the latter’s parody of their song Girls in a viral advert. Now the details of that settlement have been published.GoldieBlox agreed to pay $1m to a charity of the band’s choice supporting science, technology, engineering and/or maths (STEM) education for girls, in return for a backdated licence to use the track in the ad, which was a YouTube hit in November 2013.The details wererevealed in a documentfiled as part of a separate copyright infringement lawsuit between the Beastie Boys and Monster Energy,spotted by entertainment industry journalist Eriq Gardner:“On March 16, 2014, the parties settled… The GoldieBlox Settlement granted GoldieBlox a retroactive license to use the musical composition of ‘Girls’ between November 18, 2013 and November 28, 2013.&quot;In exchange, GoldieBlox agreed to make annual payments of 1% of its gross revenue, until the total payments reached $1 million, to a charitable organization chosen by the Beastie Boys and approved by GoldieBlox which supports ‘science, technology, engineering and/or mathematics education for girls’.”The settlement will not be used as evidence in the new case after a complaint from Monster, which is accused ofusing several Beastie Boys songs in a 2012 snowboarding videowithout approval from the band.The GoldieBlox video, which reworked the original sexist lyrics of Girls to focus on encouraging girls to explore STEM subjects, waswatched 8m times in a week last November, before sparking lawsuits from both sides and a debate over whether the video&apos;s use of the song was &quot;fair use&quot; or not.The Beastie Boys explained their decision in anopen letterto GoldieBlox that month, saying they were respecting the wishes of member Adam Yauch, who died in 2012 and left a will explicitly banning use of his music in advertisements:“As creative as it is, make no mistake, your video is an advertisement that is designed to sell a product, and long ago we made a conscious decision not to permit our music and/or name to be used in product ads.”GoldieBlox responded withits own open letterafter removing the track from the video:“We don&apos;t want to fight with you … When we made our parody version of your song, Girls, we did it with the best intentions. We wanted to transform it into a powerful anthem for girls ... Although we believe our parody video falls under fair use, we would like to respect [Yauch&apos;s] wishes and yours.”It remains to be seen how soon the $1m settlement is paid.GoldieBlox raised just under $286kon the crowdfunding site Kickstarter in 2012 to launch its business, which produces construction toys and books for girls, but its sales since the toys launched in March 2013 are unknown.•GoldieBlox: the toy designed to get girls into engineering
Motorola launched yet another low-price smartphone on Tuesday, going head to head with lesser known Chinese and South Korean manufacturers with its £89 Moto E handset.The device is aimed squarely at first-time smartphone buyers, who might ordinarily have bought a feature phone, getting the basics of a decent Android phone at an affordable price.Charlie Tritschler, senior vice-president of products at Motorola, told the Guardian: “We are on a mission to end the feature phone. We believe at this point there is enough capability in what we can create in terms of smartphone level that it’s time to say goodbye to feature phones.”RAM todayThe 3G Moto E runs the latest version of Google’s Android software and has a 4.3in display, a 5-megapixel camera and all-day battery life. It also has 4GB of built in storage and a microSD card slot for adding up to 32GB more space for movies, music and photos, as well as 1GB of RAM – typically double that of most other phones under £100.Motorola hopes that the Moto E can continue the momentum that its last budget offering,the popular Moto G, has built in the UK, Europe and developing markets like India. The Moto G was launched in November last year costing £135 in the UK, but was frequently available for under £100 from mobile phone networks on pre-paid plans.Motorola’s marketshare rose steeply in the UK in the six months since the launch of the Moto G, withsales of the low-cost handset driving a 6% increasefrom practically 0%, according to data from the research company Kantar World Panel.Guaranteed upgradeTritschler said: “We really want to drive down the cost of an exceptional phone, something our engineers have been working on for a while resulting in the Moto G and now the new Moto E, with which we can drop the price down even further.&quot;Motorola is promising “all-day battery life” for the Moto E, and has fitted it with features such as Corning’s scratch-resistant Gorilla Glass 3 and P2i’s waterproof nano coating (which makes the phone splash-proof) that are found only on smartphones costing twice as much as the Moto E.As with the Moto G, Motorola will guarantee an upgrade to the next version of Android for the Moto E, something that cannot be said for most of the other smartphones in its class. Motorola is also using a version of the Android software that has none of the modifications that other manufacturers like Samsung and HTC typically make, which are often considered to slow the performance of cheaper smartphones.Smartphone penetration on the marchTritschler said the Moto E was “the phone for folks who would like to have a smartphone but just can’t afford it&quot;. He added: &quot;Now they’ll have a product that offers a great smartphone experience that allows them to shift off a feature phone.”Smartphones in the UK are projected to reach 80% penetration by January next year, with 90% sometime between mid-2016 and the end of 2017. At that point, almost every person who wants to buy a smartphone will have bought one, which could make very low-end smartphones like the Moto E redundant.In the meantime, if the keenly priced Moto E performs similarly to the Moto G, being snappy and lasting a solid day on a single charge, it could sell very well, especially in the run-up to Christmas.Motorola also launched an update to the Moto G, adding 4G and a microSD card slot for storage expansion costing £149.• Motorola Moto G –the best budget smartphone for just £135
"All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players." It's a phrase so familiar that it's hard to remember how rich the metaphor is. Shakespeare returned to the thought many times. What if this world were just a painted set? What if all the events of our lives were merely the motions of a poor player? There's a wryness to this thought. It puts us in our place.Of course, plays were the great art form of Shakespeare's age – and popular art forms inform the way people think about their lives. As novel-readers, we might talk about entering "a new chapter" of life, or of "turning the page" on a relationship. As cinema-goers, we might consider who'd be in our "end credits" or label ourselves a "supporting actor" in someone else's story. What about video games? They're the biggest entertainment medium in the world, and growing. If all the world were a game, what might we learn from that?Firstly video games, in a way that might please the conservative-minded, frequently reward hard work. They often contain a phase called "grinding" – repeatedly doing the same activity to accumulate small rewards. You fight weak enemies to improve your strength, repeatedly harvest crops to raise money, practise simple spells to increase your magical ability. Only when you've spent hours mastering the basics do you get to do the cool stuff.This is a better metaphor for how people really achieve success than cinema's truncated "montage sequence" or reality TV's "instant makeover". It's a rather useful, if somewhat mechanical, way of thinking about how to live well: decide on a goal and work hard until you've done it. So much so that one blogger has even penned a very popular gaming-like"strategy guide for life".It's this thought that is partly behind the "gamification" movement; the various attempts to turn elements of life, from exercise to reading to good mental health practices, into games. The Fitbit suite of health products award "badges" for achieving health goals and show gamelike "progress bars" to let you know how far you've gone towards your "next level".It is a metaphor that leaves some things out, though. In many games everyone starts out equal, and it really is only your hard work that determines success. But perhaps this encourages us to overlook the fact that in life we don't all start out with the same resources, skills or opportunities.Games metaphors have an answer for that, though: writer John Scalzi has suggested that being a straight, white man is likeplaying the game of life on the "easy" setting.If they weren't so busy being appalled by a few violent games, the right wing might also applaud the fact that many games emphasise choice and personal responsibility. Where novels or plays are linear – however many choices the hero thinks she has, only one thing actually happens – a game can explore the web of possible outcomes of your decisions. Thinking about life in this way can be both overwhelming ("This choice could change everything!") but also paradoxically comforting. In games, making the right choice is often a matter of luck; it's only when we get further on in a game likeThe Walking Deadthat we can see whether the choice we made about whom to sacrifice or whom to save was a good one. How easy life would be if we could just go back and try again.In this way, games have something to say about the immediacy of life. Sometimes, in life, we get a precious "do-over", but often we don't. Some games demand a split-second decision that cannot be attempted again. I write as someone who's frequently shouted at some console: "No! I didn't mean to shoot him, I wanted to shoot the other one!" Such is the life of the not-very-talented gamer. And indeed, in a less homicidal sense, such is life in general. Many philosophers have remarked on the "nowness" of life – whether you do something or refrain from doing, your life is going on right now. In games and in life, even making no choice is making a choice and all those decisions are part of life, and of the game.Video games don't necessarily set out to tell us something about life. Some do; the simulation gameThe Simsrather shockingly mirrors back to us the materialism of consumer capitalism, as well as making attempts to depict the benefits of more numinous values like friendship or learning. But in the way they're constructed, they tell us about our illusions and our fears, our fantasies and our desires.And video games are probably already influencing our thinking more than we know. If all the world's a game, it's more playful and more goal-oriented, less important but more filled with personal meaning. Now, where's the Shakespeare of game-making to write about it?
I can&apos;t code. I can barely draw, let alone do graphics. And I&apos;ve got about as much idea about how the back end of a game works as I do rocket science. So what on earth was I doing at a two-day game hackathon in Cologne?At first glance you&apos;d think I&apos;d be completely unsuited to attend Europe&apos;s firstNewsgames hackathon. Organised by the game studioThe Good Eviland theCologne Game Lab, the event brought together developers, coders, graphic designers and journalists (like me) from all over Europe. The aim? To develop, in just 48 hours, a prototypenewsgamethat helps to explain topics in the news. Quite a hefty task for someone who grew up playing video games, but never thought about actually making them.Newsgames have become increasingly popular in recent years. Tomas Rawlings, whose digital media and video games consultancyAuroch Digitalruns the news-gaming projectGame The News, explained that journalists are now not only competing with other news organisations, they&apos;re also competing with games.&quot;You&apos;re competing with Candy Crush,&quot; Rawlings said. &quot;You&apos;re competing with Clash of Clans. You&apos;re competing with every other app that the user can close and open up. So if news organisations are not making use of the interactivity of these devices, then the output they produce will become increasingly stale next to the evermore elaborate investigations.&quot; This is why you&apos;ll see a lot of what Rawlings calls &quot;gamic&quot; elements on news sites these days. From quizzes to quick, mobile-friendly games, these games draw in a significant audience.According to Marcus Bösch, co-founder of The Good Evil and one of the hackathon&apos;s organisers, games are a big digital medium yet to be tapped by most big news organisations. &quot;I think people are recognising a lot has changed and we already missed the beginning of Facebook and Twitter. What comes next?&quot;Journalists are very keen to see what comes next. I&apos;m pretty sure games come next and if you ask me, they are the leading medium of the 21st century. They&apos;re used broadly in business, in medicine and science, so why not use them in journalism?&quot;European news organisations certainly seem to be taking newsgames seriously. The event was sponsored in part by Germany&apos;s international broadcaster Deutsche Welle and The Suddeutsche Zeitung, Germany&apos;s biggest newspaper, sent a team of three to the hackathon.Of course, before you start making a game, you need a decent idea. Everyone at the hackathon was invited to pitch a game in just 60 seconds, trying to lure others to their team to bring the idea to life. One suggested a game about the return of wolves to Germany&apos;s forests, another wanted to create a Monopoly-style game about tax evasion. Each team would round off their pitches with what skills they needed to create the game.But don’t be fooled by the “news” in newsgames – when it came to the project pitches, not one team said they needed a journalist.Also have learnt: when people are coming up with a newsgame, no one really thinks: &quot;You know what we need? A JOURNALIST.&quot;#newsgameshack&mdash; Elena Cresci (@elenacresci)May 6, 2014It’s not that journalists have nothing to offer in this new genre, it was more these teams needed the people who could do the actual creating, namely coders and graphic designers. As a result, I found myself clustered with three other journalists, one academic and a game developer – but no graphic designer and no one who could code.Cue panic.We had a vague idea of what we wanted to do, a game about privilege and how lack of it makes life more difficult for certain members of society. After a frenzied five minutes, and some much-needed help from Rawlings, we settled on creating yet another version of Flappy Bird, an already infuriatingly difficult game.The idea was to make different profiles which would be randomly selected and would be more difficult depending on what &quot;profile&quot; you had. So, for example, the &quot;elderly&quot; profile would move incredibly slowly, making it more difficult to finish the level. The LGBT profile had more obstacles. But if you were lucky enough to land on the &quot;white, heterosexual, male&quot; profile, your bird flaps through the level with relative ease.Admittedly, it&apos;s a crude metaphor, but it seemed like we could make it work with our limited skills. Fortunately, by this time, we managed to entice a coder onto our team, who set about recreating a Flash version of Flappy Bird using ActionScript.Unsurprisingly if you can&apos;t code, you won&apos;t spend much time in the back end of the game at all. For the first day of the hackathon, me and two of the other journalists spent our time looking up facts about everything from LGBT rights to disability, which would flash up every time the player completed a level or died.A screenshot from the game "Find Me", made at the Newsgames hackathon.If you&apos;re going to create a game about the news, then you&apos;re inevitably going to need someone to research the facts behind it. Another team createdFind Me, a game based on the ongoing story of the missing schoolgirls in Nigeria. In it, you play an FBI agent tasked with finding the girls. By engaging media interest, the player buys more time to find the girls.Team member David Farrell, games design researcher and lecturer at Glasgow University, explained it was a satirical take on the Western media&apos;s initial response to cover the story. He said: &quot;It&apos;s a satire of the media&apos;s response to, particularly the kidnapping of the girls in Nigeria, but in general the media response to any kidnapping.&quot;In the game, it&apos;s a trade off of actually doing the work of finding the girls and engaging with the media game.&quot;And this was where the journalists, the people who had never made a game before, came in. For &apos;Find Me&apos;, they were the ones fact-checking what was going on the real world, which was then mirrored in the game.A screenshot from the game "Shame Gas", made at the Newsgames Hackathon.One of my favourite games came from a group of French developers. Called &quot;Shame Gas&quot;, the gamer takes on the role of a lobbyist for a shale gas company. Inspired byPlants vs Zombies, the player takes on the role of a lobbyist for a major shale gas company, tackling protestors and attracting sponsors.Flap flap#newsgameshackhttps://t.co/7L3WlFVT41&mdash; Elena Cresci (@elenacresci)May 7, 2014In the end, our Flappy Bird clone, renamedFlap Your Privilege, was definitely the more slapdash of the bunch, but not a bad effort considering the majority of our team had never even touched game making before. With no graphic designer on our side, we turned to the web, which is full of free-to-use pixel artwork. In the end, given the time constraints and the fact we definitely aren&apos;t planning on making any profit from our game, it was easiest to use the game art from Flappy Bird, courtesy of a tutorial on how to create the game.So, can you create a game from scratch without any coding or design experience? Theoretically, yes – so long as you’ve got a coder and designer on your side. At the end of the 48-hours, we had a playable game, albeit not nearly as good-looking as some of the others on display.I think it&apos;s important to manage your expectations with a project like this. While it&apos;s easier than ever before to make your own game, without the necessary skills, you&apos;re not going to end up with the next Angry Birds.But when in doubt, just rip off Flappy Bird.Want to make your own game? We&apos;ve rounded up five tools you can use to make your own. If you need some inspiration, check out all the games here.•Top five tools to get started with making games
Want to make a game but don&apos;t know where to start?We asked the developers at Europe&apos;s first Newsgames Hackathon to tell us which tools novice developers can use to create their own games. Whether you want to tell a non-linear story using a text-based tool or get stuck in with some basic coding, here are the top five recommendations.Each of these tools has a thriving community of users who provide video tutorials, artwork and help when you&apos;re stuck. We&apos;ve listed them from the easiest to the most difficult to use so you can get an idea of where you should start if you want to get into making games.1. TwineScreenshot ofDepression Quest, a game made using TwineTwine is an open-source tool for those who want to tell interactive, non-linear stories. It is mainly used for text-based games, and it&apos;s possible to fine-tune your game with images, CSS and JavaScript if you have the know-how.Depression Quest, the interactive game aimed at helping players to understand depression, was created using Twine and has gone on to win a number of awards.The format is great, especially if you want to create a choose your own adventure type game.2. ScratchA screenshot from the web browser version ofScratchPopular with those who want to create fun and educational games, Scratch is a good multimedia tool, especially if you want to create games for kids. Free of charge, it&apos;s colourful and easy to use once you get the hang of it. You&apos;re able to make your own sprites, add sounds and participate in a vibrant community of users which includes schools, museums and community centres.3. GameSaladScreenshot ofGameSalad. Photograph: GameSalad IncGameSalad&apos;s flagship project allows budding gamemakers to create and publish games for free on a number of platforms. The basic tools are free, but to access full features you need to pay for a Pro account. It has a community of some 700,000 developers from across the world who have created more than 200,000 games. The drag-and-drop interface is easy to get to grips with but, as with any tool, it can get complex the more you want to do with it.4. GameMaker: StudioGameMaker: Studio caters to both novices and the more advanced gamemaker, allowing games to be created using both a drag and drop method or a scripting language for something a little more complex. Primarily running games with 2D graphics, it does let you use limited 3D graphics and you do have to pay for certain features. Asthis blogpostfrom GameMaker shows, some developers have been able to make a living off the games they&apos;ve created using this software.5. UnityScreenshot of game engineUnity. Photograph: UnityIt&apos;s a bit of a cheat adding this one to the list as Unity uses C# and JavaScript and does require at least a basic knowledge of code. But, if you&apos;re willing to learn, there&apos;s a lot which can be done with this game engine. When we asked15 developers how to get into the games industry, several of them said Unity is a great starting point. Again, Unity has a huge community made up of plenty of people with the know-how to help people starting out.This postandthis postboth cover starting points for developers starting out without a huge knowledge of code.Do you make games? Let us know which tools you use and which ones you would recommend.•Newsgame Hackathon: Can we make a game with no coding experience?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRumour: Google exploring home screen overhaul with revamped notification shade, recents menu, and more &gt;&gt; Android Policeour information leads us to believe that the navigation bar will be getting a shakeup, with the new layout including the typical back and multitask buttons, plus a "Google" button, which appears - for now - to be an actual Google logo.Pressing the "Google" button appears to trigger Search, which would help users perform general searches or app-specific actions. The back button seems to work as you'd expect, and the multitask button appears to bring up the multitasking view we saw a glimpse of when looking at Google's potential plan to unify Chrome and Search on Android. So where's the home screen? Today's post will take a look at what Google seems to be experimenting with - a new launcher system, a new look for notifications, and a new quick settings shade.Samsung Galaxy S5 adoption outpaces predecessor in north America &gt;&gt; ChitikaIn the 25 days since the device hit the North American market, usage statistics point to Galaxy S5 users generating 4.3% of all continental Samsung smartphone Web traffic. For comparison, 2.0% of North American Samsung smartphone Web usage was driven by Galaxy S4 users in the same time period following its 2013 release. This makes it likely that the device will best the previous 10,000,000 unit sales record for the company, which was set by the Galaxy S4 in 2013.What makes the Galaxy S5's rate of adoption slightly more remarkable is that Samsung users generate the largest portion of Android smartphone Web traffic in North America. With the company's traffic level as significant as it is, capturing more than four full percentage points worth of usage share in just slightly over three weeks is particularly notable.Google has most of my email because it has all of yours &gt;&gt; copyrighteousBenjamin Mako Hill:Despite the fact that I spend hundreds of dollars a year and hours of work to host my own email server, Google has about half of my personal email! Last year, Google delivered 57% of the emails in my inbox that I replied to. They have delivered more than a third of all the email I've replied to ever year since 2006 and more than half since 2010. On the upside, there is some indication that the proportion is going down. So far this year, only 51% of the emails I've replied to arrived from Google.The numbers are higher than I imagined and reflect somewhat depressing news. They show how it's complicated to think about privacy and autonomy for communication between parties.Apple plans to roll out iPhone 6 in August, a month earlier than expected: report &gt;&gt; NY Daily NewsApple plans to release its new iPhone in August, a month earlier than expected, after sales were hit by new big-screen models from its rivals, a major Taiwanese newspaper reported Friday, citing supply chain sources.The Economic Daily News quoted unnamed sources as saying Apple had acquired parts from various Taiwanese suppliers such as wafer maker Visual Photonics Epitaxy Co and Largan Precision, a leading maker of lenses used in mobile phones, for the handset expected to be called iPhone 6.Taiwanese electronics contract makers including Foxconn and Pegatron have also been notified by Apple to start their assembly lines for the new handsets likely around late June, said the mass-circulation national newspaper.Believe it if you choose to. Let's circle back (as they say) in August.Let's stop hyperventilating over smartwatches because none of them are good &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSteve Kovach:It's unclear when the G Watch will launch. LG is holding an event on May 27, but that'll likely be to announce its new flagship smartphone, the G3. If we had to guess, we'd say LG won't formally show off the G Watch in public until Google's I/O developers conference in late June.Let's just call it now. This thing will be a dud.So far, most attempts at making a smartwatch like this have failed. Manufacturers have tried to take the smartphone, shrink it down, and put it on your wrist. But that adds little value to the smartphone already in your pocket. Why spend an extra $200 or $300 on top of your $600 smartphone for a gadget that does the same thing?Google's Android Wear operating system and the hardware it'll run on is too obvious and simply doesn't do enough. The tech press seems to love hyperventilating over smartwatches in their attempt to pinpoint the next big thing, but not one savvy person will tell you anything out there is worth buying unless you just want to burn some cash.US crude oil imports from Norway correlates with drivers killed in collision with railway train &gt;&gt; TylerviglenYes it does. To a high degree. The whole site is a set of unexpected correlations.Tablets v. the world &gt;&gt; Learning by ShippingSteve Sinofsky (you know, used to have a job at Microsoft):The characterization of tablets as "neither here nor there" or "in between tablet and a laptop" misses the reality that the modern nature of tablet platforms—both hardware and software—will drive innovation and subsequent transition for many many scenarios from traditional laptop platforms to tablet platforms.  We're in the middle period where this is happening—just as when people said cars were too expensive for the masses and would not be mainstream or when the GUI interface lacked the hardware horsepower and "keystroke productivity" to replace character based tools.The examples he cites are intriguing. (It's probably also the most readable blog post he's ever written.)February 2009: Does Apple have a blind spot about Flash? &gt;&gt; AVCFred Wilson in February 2009:it's very exciting to me that Flash is making a big move over the next year onto smartphones. I'm also very excited to see Nokia and Adobe creatingthe Open Screen Project and Open Screen Fundto promote an open and consistent experience for web browsing and mobile apps across mobile devices. The mobile web needs to be just like the web for innovation to flourish and capital to flow.Anyone know what happened to the Open Screen Project/Fund? Wilson's post demonstrates the difficulty in adapting a mindset used to one paradigm (desktop) to a new one (mobile). But his comments about streaming (further down the post) have some resonance.With Free, France shows the US what an open mobile market should be &gt;&gt; EngadgetSteve Dent:If you hadn't noticed, T-Mobile has been on a rampage lately in the US. It has offered cheaper contract-free plans, paid users cold hard cash to switch, and generally crashed other carriers' parties. The result has been a wave of new customers for T-Mobile and cheaper, me-too plans from AT&amp;T and Verizon - all a boon to US consumers. But over in France, an alternate-reality version of this scenario has been playing out. Until recently, old guard carriers like Orange and SFR have trundled along, milking customers while stifling innovation. Then, trampling over them on a white horse, came a bizarro T-Mobile carrier called Free Mobile. It's been a far greater competitive threat than T-Mo in the US and, thanks to its radical plans, France has become a wireless utopia with some of the cheapest rates in the world.It's gone from zero to 12% of the market in just two years; €20 gives you unlimited texts and calls, and 20GB of 4G data. No misprint.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
British people’s privacy is being put in danger because organisations are failing to get rudimentary security right, the information commissioner’s office warned on Monday.In areview of the breaches reported to the privacy regulator, the ICO uncovered some common basic errors that led to data breaches, including failing to update software and poor password management.“It’s the same sort of breaches occurring again and again,” the ICO’s group manager for technology Simon Rice told The Guardian.“There are some basics you should be doing. Clearly these are being done in a lot of places but [in many cases] there were a lot of basic things that could have been done, not necessarily to stop the breach but to make it more difficult for the attacker.”In most breaches investigated by the ICO, emails and passwords went missing, which “although bad, isn’t that serious”, said Rice.He pointed to the case of the Sony PlayStation Network breach of 2011, which led to the leakage of data on more than 71 million users. Sony was eventually fined £250,000. “Because there were so many people involved, it met that bar [deemed worthy of a fine],” Rice added.The ICO can impose fines up to £500,000 for the most egregious breaches of the Data Protection Act, although that limit is set to increase. The largest fine yet handed out by the ICO was a £325,000 penalty for Brighton and Sussex University Hospitals NHS Trust, after patient data was found on hard drives sold on an online auction site.While that is pocket change to those big businesses that have been guilty of letting data slip, the ICO believes that the reputational damage of a breach can cause a substantial amount of financial harm too.In the US, the retail giant Target has shown its CEO and chief information officer the door, after a digital attack on the company’s point-of-sale systems in November 2013 led to the loss of more than 40 million customers’ credit card data.The breach was also partly responsible for a 46% decline in fourth-quarter profits.One of the mistakes highlighted in the ICO&apos;s report is failure to keep software up to date, a problem that has become even more urgent sinceMicrosoft stopped supporting its Windows XP operating systemin April. Many government departments and bodies, including the NHS, continue to use XP, placing them at greater risk of being hacked.Rice said: “In general, the advice would be to move away from XP to a supported OS but the ICO will recognise that there are valid reasons which an organisation may not be able to do so and that an XP machine can be used with little or no risk to data protection with certain safeguards but these will need to be addressed on a case-by-case basis.”
Gmail is thought to be undergoing a redesign that will radically change the way people interact withGoogle email.The interface change, revealed by leaked screenshots of a test versionpublished by technology site Geek.com, shows a shift towards the simplified design already used by theGoogle Plussocial network and Google’s intelligent digital assistantGoogle Now.It could be the biggest change in the way Gmail looks and operates since the service was created in 2004.Removing clutterThe design focuses on Google’s search, which can be used to find and highlight emails in a long list, replacing the need to file email in folders or categories. The cluttered sidebar that contained email labels, folders and Google’s Hangouts instant messaging service has been removed in favour of a sliding menu, already used by Google’s social network and other Google services.Google's simplified interface for Gmail. Photograph:Geek.comButtons for composing a new email, setting reminders and other quick actions are now in the bottom right-hand cover, and the tabbed interface that allows users to switch between email, contacts and tasks has been removed. Google Hangouts now drops down from a menu in the right-hand top corner. Google’s starred emails, which are used to flag important conversations, have been replaced by “pins”. Emails can also be snoozed, to be returned to the top of the inbox at a later date.Google has only made small, gradual additions and changes to Gmail in the past, with some changes remaining entirely optional for years for its 425-million-plus users.It is possible that the redesign is an internal Google change that will not be released to the public, but it appears to match that of leaked design change ofGoogle’s mobile email interface. It also brings Google’s email service more into line withnewer Google online servicesin look and workflow.Google declined to comment on the redesign.• Googlefaces a lawsuit over its email scanning practicesfor student data
Estonia&apos;s internet voting system should not be used for the European elections in May because its security vulnerabilities could lead to faked votes or totals, say independent researchers.The flaws were discovered by a team who were accredited to observe the October 2013 municipal elections. They said they observed election officials downloading key software over insecure internet connections, typing PINs and passwords in view of cameras, and preparing election software on insecure PCs. They havereported their findings to the Estonian government, but had had no response by Monday.As one of the highest-profile countries in its adoption of the internet, Estonia intends to use the e-voting system for its European elections in May, and already uses it for national parliamentary and municipal elections. Up to a quarter of votes are cast online in elections.The attacks could be carried out by nation states that wanted to compromise elections, or a well-funded candidate who hired criminal hackers with the capabilities to alter the vote, the researchers warned.Harri Hursti, an independent researcher from Finland who works for the web security company SafelyLocked, said: &quot;These computers could have easily been compromised by criminals or foreign hackers, undermining the security of the whole system.&quot; Hursti has carried out a number of tests of e-voting systems, demonstrating weaknesses in systems used in the US and elsewhere.The Estonian government has been developing its e-voting systemsince 2002, and used it for the first time in 2005 for local government council elections. In 2009, about a third of the electorate voted in the European elections – of whom 15% used e-voting. In the parliamentary elections in March 2011, 61% of the total electorate voted; just under a quarter of the votes cast came through e-voting.The researchers, including Hursti and a team from the University of Michigan, replicated the Estonian system using its published software which was used in the 2013 elections. &quot;This was essentially their system, but used in a laboratory environment,&quot; Jason Kitcat, of the UK&apos;s Open Rights Group, told The Guardian. &quot;We couldn&apos;t use their system that they used for real votes, because that would be unethical.&quot;The results showed that &quot;although the Estonian system contains a number of security safeguards, these are insufficient to protect against the attacks we tried&quot;, said Alex Halderman, assistant professor of computer science at the University of Michigan, who was an e-voting election observer in Estonia in 2013.Those attacks included taking over voters&apos; PCs to cast fake votes, and hacking into the vote-counting servers to install software that would alter the final count.Estonian voters use a combination of smartcards, with built-in chips, and smartphone verification to confirm their votes. Even so, the researchers said it was vulnerable; and Kitcat warned that e-voting might be an area which could never be guaranteed safe from hacking.In a statement to the Guardian, the Estonian National Electoral Committee said it took any evidence of flaws in balloting seriously, but that in the past decade its online balloting had stood up to numerous reviews and security tests. &quot;We believe that online balloting allows us to achieve a level of security greater than what is possible with paper ballots.&quot;It said it could give only preliminary answers to the findings as the researchers had not shared with it the full results of their work. &quot;The researchers met with officials from the electoral committee in October 2013, and could have contacted us at any point in the last six months to share the initial findings of their research. In reality, the only advance information we received was notification, on Saturday evening, of a press conference on Monday.&quot;The committee said it could conclude that:&quot;The researchers have not discovered any new attack vectors that had not already been accounted for in the design of our system as a whole.&quot;It is not feasible to effectively conduct the described attacks to alter the results of the voting.&quot;The electoral committee has numerous safeguards and failsafe mechanisms to detect attacks against the elections or manipulated results.&quot;The committee also claimed that the researchers did not “provide technical details on the alleged vulnerabilities in our system&quot;.If confirmed, the discovery could have serious ramifications for other countries which are looking at adopting the Estonian system, including Lithuania, Finland and possibly the UK.Estonia has been praised by UK ministers for its enthusiastic adoption of online systems for providing government systems. But some say e-voting should not be pursued.Kitcat said: &quot;Many computer scientists believe that the unique properties of an election make it impossible to do electronically. With e-commerce or banking, you can give a refund if something goes wrong. But you can&apos;t do that with a vote – you can&apos;t go in to the server and say, &apos;Yes, that&apos;s my vote&apos;, because otherwise you&apos;d be able to sell it. A vote has to be anonymous and secure.&quot;Computer security scientists feel e-voting isn&apos;t the appropriate way to do it. A hacker only has to find one little hole and it&apos;s all in question. It&apos;s a question for the politicians – are the benefits really worth the risks?&quot;The researchers have released videos showing how they couldcreate fake votes, and how they couldinfect servers to alter vote counts.Security researchers demonstrate how Estonia's e-voting system could be used to make fake votesSecurity researchers show how malware could be run on a server to create a faked total for e-votes using Estonia's e-voting software• This article was updated on 13 May 2014 to include a response from the Estonian National Electoral Committee.•&quot;E-voting systems are inherently flawed – and susceptible to fraud&quot;
Google has honoured the Nobel prize winning biochemist Dorothy Hodgkin, with her very own Google Doodle on what would have been the scientist's 104th birthday.Hodgkin, who was born in Egypt in 1910, was credited with the development of protein crystallography and established the structures of vitamin B12 and penicillin.She became interested in chemistry and crystals as a child and went on to study at Oxford, followed by a PhD at Cambridge. Her pioneering work helped unravel the structures of proteins, including insulin, which she studied for more than 30 years.Hodgkin was the first woman to win a prestigiousCopley Medaland was awarded an honorary degree from the University of Bath in 1978.Until 1949 she published under her maiden name of Crowfoot until she was persuaded to use her married name for research on the chemistry of penicillin.Hodgkin remains the only British woman to have ever won one of the science Nobels, which she was awarded in 1964, but the British press were unable to forget her gender. The Daily Mail reported at the time: "Oxford housewife wins Nobel", while the Telegraph wrote: "British woman wins Nobel Prize – £18,750 prize to mother of three."She died on July 29, 1994.More on Dorothy HodgkinDorothy Hodgkin: the 'Oxford housewife' who won a Nobel prize100 years of scientific breakthroughs by women – in pictures
In 1826, the art critic and collector Robert Balmanno wrote a stinging review of the latest JMW Turner exhibition. He berated the artist for his descent from naturalism into &quot;excessive colour&quot; – he saw only chaos on those giant canvases of sky and land. And he wasn&apos;t alone. Turner was widely derided and mocked by contemporary critics. His swirling, eerily blurred landscapes – though now appreciated as formative impressionism – were seen as an affront to nature; they weren&apos;t art.On Monday morning,Radio 4&apos;s Today programmeheld a short debate on the cultural value of video games. &quot;Let&apos;s put aside the question, is it art,&quot; suggested presenter James Naughtie. &quot;I mean, anything is art if people think it is. The question is, do [video games] have a kind of power and integrity? Where do video games sit in our firmament? Do they make us think?&quot;In the studio was Sarah Kent, an art critic and contributor to the website The Arts Desk. Her response? &quot;We have this ongoing debate, should we write about video games? Most people are against the idea because it feels wrong – they&apos;re not serious enough, they haven&apos;t got the right intentions. It&apos;s just a marketing tool for kids... They don&apos;t count as art because they don&apos;t have any kind of self-reflection. They don&apos;t think about what they&apos;re doing. Their function is to get you involved, unthinkingly and obsessively, like a drug.&quot;Already, we are on depressingly familiar ground: the idea that somehow games are just for children, that they have nothing to say except &quot;buy me&quot;, and that they are not a medium for broader communication. But of course that&apos;s exactly what they are – as long as you look beyond the exciting, enthralling mainstream hits, and seek out the works of, say, Richard Hofmeier, Anna Anthropy, Zoe Quinn, Christine Love, thatgamecompany, Tale of Tales or, oh wow, the list is so extraordinarily long.Alex Evans, co-founder of Media Molecule, one of the world&apos;s most artistic and creative developers, was in the studio too, and he mentioned Jason Rohrer&apos;s haunting temporal study Passage, and Rod Humble&apos;s minimalist experiment The Marriage. &quot;A blanket description of all games as equally adrenaline-fuelled is doing a disservice to the breadth there now is,&quot; he protested. &quot;Most games don&apos;t want to be art, but on the other hand there are games that absolutelyarereflective.&quot;And there are. Really, there is such an obvious comparison to be made here: you would never debate the artistic potential of cinema by focusing solely on mainstream Hollywood films. Although even the most brainless rom-coms and action flicks have valid things to say about culture and society (just as mainstream games can, and do, explore interesting often self-reflexive themes), you would seek to consider the whole canon, the whole history of the form. You would think about Eisenstein, Renoir, Hitchcock and Kubrick – you wouldn&apos;t base an argument about cinema as art on the works of Judd Apatow and Michael Bay alone, because all cinema critics know that, as funny as Apatow&apos;s movies are, as filled with visual spectacle as Bay&apos;s are, they don&apos;t represent the whole gamut of cinematic history and intent. Grand Theft Auto is no more representative of games as a whole than Knocked Up is of cinema, and yet there are critics who seem to think that a few minutes with a Rockstar game and they&apos;re qualified to write off an entire medium.Kent went on to describe the games she had looked at. &quot;I was shocked and horrified at how dull and cliched they are,&quot; she said. &quot;The images were so cluttered – there was this idea that the more you had in there, the more information, the more exciting. Art is about editing, it is about taking out, not stuffing in.&quot; And sure, she&apos;s right aboutsomegames; some games are horribly loud and cliched. But wait, so is a lot of art. So is a lot of television, a lot of cinema, a lot of literature and a lot of theatre. But, as critics, we tend to understand that the loudest works should not be mistaken for the most representative. And, actually, amid the apparent noise, there is aesthetic quality, there is meaning; you just have to take the time to decode it. It&apos;s a shift of thinking that allows you to read schlock 50s horror flicks as paranoid commentaries on communism and nuclear terror; it&apos;s a willingness to engage and interpret that turns flashy 80s pop into a comment on Thatcherite politics and rampant consumerism.But not all games are about noise. Evans highlighted Journey during the debate, a beautiful minimalistic adventure. He could also have recalled Dear Esther or Proteus, or Monument Valley, or Thomas Was Alone, or Antichamber, or Limbo, or Gravity Bone, or Bientôt l&apos;été; or, as a developer has just pointed out to me, mainstream titles like Super Mario Bros. Or, of course, Media Molecule&apos;s handcrafted works – LittleBigPlanet and Tearaway. Evans didn&apos;t mention these, although he could have. I hope he manages to get a copy of Tearaway to Kent (although her own site has indeed reviewed games like Kentucky Route Zero, Child of Light and Jazzpunk, which all challenge the idea of games as noisy adrenaline-boosters for kids.)Does it matter? Not much, I guess. It doesn&apos;t matter that some people don&apos;t understand games, or don&apos;t look beyond the most controversial or successful. But then, it does matter to me that people will go on a national radio programme and denigrate a medium they don&apos;t understand or have experience of. It matters to me that on Monday morning, seven million Today listeners heard games being dismissed on the basis of a tiny minority of the annual output. It matters how consensus develops around new artistic forms.I tweeted this morning that, as a critic, once you find yourself questioning the validity of a new cultural medium, you are no longer relevant; you have consigned yourself to a time frame, and your frame is over. Art and creativity are boundless and open; they are joyous. We are fortunate, perhaps, that John Ruskin provided an almost scientific appreciation of Turner&apos;s work in his critical masterpiece, Modern Painters. He laboured to overturn the consensus. As gamers, we should all do the same.It isn&apos;t really good enough to shrug and say, well, that&apos;s typical of mainstream debate, we should just ignore it. We shouldn&apos;t; we should question it. Because denial is harmful; it harms artists and it will harm game makers. There are many hundreds of people, right now, making sensitive, extraordinary and subtle games, who are pouring their frustrations, fears and anxieties into these projects, often working alone, using whatever tools are at hand. They are doing this because games are a way they can communicate and express themselves, just as Turner expressed himself through canvases of light breaking through hazed, muted shadow. So to denigrate their work is to denigrate them as artists and people.As gamers, we owe it to these people to question the consensus on games and to point out where it is wrong.•Are video games art? The debate that shouldn&apos;t be•The absolute and inarguable beauty of video games
Twitter is to fix a bug in its abuse reporting feature that led to it being accused of optimising its platform for abusers.But campaigners argue that even once the error is corrected, the social network will still not be doing enough to protect at-risk individuals from harassment, threats and abuse.Caroline Criado-Perez, a feminist who ledthe successful campaignto ensure women were represented on English and Welsh banknotes, argued in a blog post that a change in the forms used to report harassment &quot;has once again optimised its platform for abusers&quot;.&quot;Less than a year after they started to automatically include links to abusive tweets in the report form, they have silently removed this functionality,&quot;Criado-Perez wrote. &quot;There has been no announcement, no explanation.&quot;I discovered it last night when yet another man decided to make me the target of his misogynistic bile and found that I had to go back to the abuse, and view it again, in order to find the link to report it. In all the process took about five minutes. Not that bad when it’s once in a while, perhaps. When it’s several times a day, every day, the time starts to mount up.&quot;Twitter says the change was a mistake, which will be fixed by Tuesday. A bug was introduced when the company was updating the code that links the report abuse button to the actual forms.As a result of a bug with the in-Tweet report form for harassment, the Tweet URL is not auto-populating. A fix will be deployed soon.&mdash; Safety (@safety)May 12, 2014But Criado-Perez argues that the bug underscores the lack of progress made by Twitter on preventing abuse since the &quot;report abuse&quot; button was introduced to great fanfare in August 2013. &quot;I remain hugely disappointed that all their promises that the changes in August were just a &apos;first step&apos; came to nothing,&quot; she tells the Guardian.&quot;In Decemberthey made changes that went in the absolute opposite directionfrom what I (and many other people) were asking for from the blocking system – and I foundthe statement that they issuedwhen they reversed the changes worryingly high-handed and dismissive of the real concerns people have about how easy it is to stalk and incite abuse with the current system.&quot;To underscore the level of abuse she and other campaigners receive on the service, Criado-Perezpublished a selection of the abusive messages she has receivedin the past year. As well as posting her home address, email and phone number, the harassers threaten to &quot;mutilate her genitals with scissors&quot;, set off a car bomb outside her house and rape her.•Twitter reinstates its blocking option after user backlash
After 30 years in the geek wilderness, virtual reality entertainment is suddenly being taken extremely seriously.In March, the independent manufacturer of a forthcoming VR gaming headset, the Oculus Rift, was bought by Facebook for $2bn. Later that month, Brendan Iribe, the Oculus CEO, claimed that the two companies would one day build an online multiplayer virtual reality game for one billion players. A few years ago, that would have been insanely hubristic. Now? Probably not.Crucially, Oculus Rift isn’t the only one fighting for the future of virtual reality. Sony’s got its own add-onVR headset for the PlayStation 4 called Project Morpheus, and even though it is still in development, it is a convincing look at the future of gaming, virtual tourism and a whole new set of experiences.Right now, Sony is actively researching what is possible, what works and what doesn’t in this new world of immersive entertainment. Lots of things are currently up in the air: such as how it will be used in the home, how it will fit into Sony’s greater consumer electronics lineup and when users will actually be able to get their hands on one. What is certain is that carbon-copying traditional 2D games and slapping them on a face-mounted 3D screen is not going to work.The headset in use for Sony's Project Morpheus. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianConvincing virtual reality – a big leap ahead of what was available the last time VR raised its head in the 1980s – holds a lot of potential for new ways of interacting, playing and experiencing content; not just games.“Games for the Morpheus are going to be very different,” said Jed Ashforth, a senior game designer with Sony, who has spent the past 18 months playing and experiencing everything virtual reality has to offer to discover what’s possible with the new headsets. “The sense of having a presence within the game is something totally new. It’s a very different experience.”In the same way as the Nintendo Wii’s motion-oriented gaming opened up the industry to new users, from children to grandparents and casual gamers everywhere, VR could have a similar impact. Ashforth says: “I’ve tried it with my kids, my mum, everyone loves it. VR goes beyond the traditional shooting or running and jumping. You can use it to walk through a museum or experience something you could never normally do. If you want to take a quick tour of the surface of Mars, that’s possible, or perhaps a spin through the Louvre. VR can do that.”Ashforth explained that Sony had been working on virtual reality for years, but only now were VR headsets becoming a viable option. Mobile phones have driven the development of small, high-resolution screens and brought their price down to affordable levels, a “perfect storm” combined with the advancement in sensors, motion controls, binaural 3D audio and the processing power to make it happen. He added: “Having the processors and equipment to power two high-resolution screens at 60 frames per second with very low latency [delay before the screen updates to the position of a user&apos;s head or view] is crucial, as lag is one of the biggest factors that makes a poor, nauseating VR experience, something we must avoid if we’re going to convince people to get onboard.”Two screens strapped to your headThe headset and goggles. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Morpheus headset resembles most other head-mounted displays. Two screens are suspended in front of your eyes while a headband makes sure the whole thing doesn’t move. The current design allows users to add their own headphones, which strangely plug into the headset in a socket in the goggles, something Ashforth assured me wouldn’t be the case in the finished product. One cable connects the Morpheus headset to a processing unit that hooks up to the PlayStation 4.The processing unit is needed to handle some of the computational duties the dual-screen headset demands, leaving as much of the processing power of the PS4 available for the game or experience.It also means that in future Sony could upgrade the processing unit, providing enhanced functionality without having to change the PS4 or the headset itself. Sony has looked at trying to go wireless with a VR headset, but the power and processing requirements as well as wireless bandwidth have made it impossible at this stage. But, says Ashforth, “Never say never.”Lights, camera, motionThe outside of the Morpheus headset is dotted with lights, which allow the PlayStation camera to track its position and orientation. PS Move controllers and the PS4&apos;s DualShock 4 joypad share the same lighting nodules for tracking their position, making the whole thing a one-camera system.There are no two ways about it, the headset is heavy for something strapped to your head, but isn’t uncomfortable to wear. It is something you will notice as you move around, but the single cable is light enough not to cause a drag on your head as you do so.Once inside the headset, the outside world is entirely obscured. The screens are crisp enough that you cannot see any pixelation, even at that minimal distance from your eyes, which combined with the fast refresh rate and 3D audio create a truly immersive experience. Other people in the room with you will be able to see what you see through the headset in 2D on a normal television, which allows social elements to be introduced to what appears on the surface a very solitary gaming experience.The DeepA scene from The Deep, in which the player is locked in a diving cage and sent into the oceanAshforth explained how other players could interact with the virtual world and play other parts of the story concurrently. The Deep, one of the demos on offer at a recent PlayStation press event, enables the player to be (virtually) locked in a diving cage and sent into the ocean – less a game and more of an example of a tourist-style experience.At one stage a shark attacks the cage, ripping parts off. Other players can introduce fish and other events into the depths via second screen apps on tablets and smartphones, while watching what happens on a regular television. The “in player” experience of the Deep is really convincing. You can spin around, see your shoulder, look down and see your flippers, and even see your knees bend as you crouch in real life.A scene from Project Morpheus's The Deep. Photograph: SonyThe sensory deprivation, flowing underwater sounds and voices over the radio add to the experience, as well as the shock as a shark burst out and attacks your cage. A flare gun is in your hand, controlled by a DualShock 4 controller, which helps to anchor your vision. In fact, I expected my ears to pop and to feel the pressure as the cage sinks.The CastleOne of the other demos cooked up by internal Sony game developers is The Castle. It showed how the Morpheus headset can be used with Sony’s PS Move controllers.Here, two of the controllers become your hands in the game, allowing you to rotate your wrists and grip in a very natural way. The trigger buttons close your fists allowing you to punch a mannequin, much like boxing as part of Wii Sports on the Nintendo Wii, except this time with a more direct connection between your actions and what happens on screen.The experience is convincing enough that it really feels as if the onscreen hands are your own, moving within your vision in precise co-ordination with your real hand movements.Sword swinging in The Castle, a game used with Sony's PS Move controllers. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe demo then progresses to swords, two of which are stuck in the ground forcing the player to reach over and grab them, pulling them out of the ground and into a fighting position. It all feels very natural and intuitive, holding the trigger button to grip the swords and then swinging them the way you would a real sword.It is perhaps only when you make a connection with the mannequin and don’t feel any resistance as the sword passes through that you suddenly become aware that you aren’t really holding a sword – your brain expects physical resistance.The final stage of the demo gives you a crossbow, which immediately had me shutting one eye to aim down the iron sights. Shutting one eye made no difference at all, of course, but such an instinctive reaction shows how immersive the experience is.At the end of the Castle, a dragon appears, swooping down over the player&apos;s head. In my demo, it growled and then ate me, ending the game. The fact that you can hear and then see the dragon take off and then fly over head, turning your vision and looking over your shoulder, adds to the experience dramatically, but also illustrates that it is possible to miss some interactions entirely if you happen not to look in the right direction at the time.Throughout the Castle demo you can walk forwards and backwards to adjust your striking distance for the swords or punches, which to me felt relatively natural, although I was aware that real-world objects like a table lay in my path and there was no way to know whether I was about to hit it. All perception of your real-world surroundings become removed as you place the headset on and are instantly transported to another world.Eve ValkyrieA scene from Eve Valkyrie. Photograph: CCPThe final demo shown off was space combat game, Eve Valkyrie. Originally designed and programmed with the Oculus Rift in mind, and now taking advantage of the Morpheus headset, it was the only demo on offer that was not produced by Sony and was much more of complete game.As a result, the experience is leagues above the other demos. Players are puts inside a star fighter, and the seated-only playing position utterly suits the experience of using the Morpheus.Controlling the ship is pretty much like any 2D space flight game using the DualShock 4 joypad, but it is the fact that you can look all around your ship that makes the empty void of space feel so much more real.Playing Eve Valkyrie. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianWith the system tracking your head movements, you can lean to the side and peer down the side of your pilot’s seat inside your cockpit. The team from CCP joked that they should stick a chocolate bar wrapper or two around the cabin to make the experience a bit more authentic.You can lean out and peer over the edges of your cockpit, too, twist your head and view space and ships fly by through the windows, and look up as you pitch your ship, tracking the enemy in your vision. In fact, the experience of putting on the headset they way you would a helmet and being able to see every bit of the inside of the cockpit, including your hands, arms, legs and chest, makes it so immersive that on launch I felt as if my head was being thrown back as the ship rocketed out of the docking bay.The cockpit from Eve Valkyrie. Photograph: CCPJohn Nejady, a quality assurance analyst with Eve Valkyrie&apos;s developer, CCP, says: “The low latency and high frame rate boost the &apos;in-person&apos; experience. But we still need to think about unpredictable events. With the kind of player-focused vision that VR provides, you need to make sure events are anchored in the reality and physics of the game. Things that happen too quickly or come from out of nowhere look like bugs, even if they aren’t.”Nejady, one of the 26-man team in Newcastle working on the VR-only title, adds: “The connection we have between the virtual and real world – sitting in the pilots seat and playing seated – helps prevent the discomfort that can occur with VR.”In the game, I didn’t feel any motion sickness or nausea until I intentionally pulled a very heavy and fast barrel roll and looked straight into it. At that point, there was a little queasiness, but it would certainly have been the same in a real life in a fighter jet, for instance. It seems that in the coming world of virtual reality entertainment, the most important limits might not be those of the hardware, but those of the player.• Oculus Rift –10 reasons all eyes are back on virtual reality• Oculus Rift –Facebook sees a $2bn future for virtual reality•Sony Project Morpheus – VR developers react
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSCinamatic (£1.49 + IAP)Photo-sharing app Hipstamatic remains a going concern: it&apos;s not Instagram-big but it has a passionate community of snappers sharing their images. Now it has a new app focusing on shortform video: 3-15-second clips that can be shared to Instagram, Vine and Facebook, with an array of filter effects that can be applied first.iPhoneAdobe Voice (Free + IAP)This is a curveball from Adobe: an app to &quot;tell your story&quot; through the medium of animated videos. What that means is choosing from more than 25,000 images (or adding your own) and turning them into an animated slideshow with you talking over the top. It&apos;s a business tool, really, but one that could have wide applications.iPadYahoo Sport (Free)This app&apos;s new to the UK: Yahoo&apos;s sports-tracking app offering news, scores and stats from a host of sports and leagues, including football (both varieties), tennis, golf and pretty much every US league you can think of. Features include event alerts to keep you posted on specific games, and personalisation to set your favourite teams in the various competitions.iPhone / iPadCurious Ruler (Free)If your children are learning about measurements and comparisons at school, Curious Ruler could be the perfect way to practise the concepts at home. It gets kids to choose a reference object from 36 – coins, crayons and Lego bricks through to footballs and iPads – then place another object they want to measure next to it, and point the device&apos;s camera at them. On-screen sliders then compare the objects. Inventive and interesting.iPhone / iPadNito (Free + IAP)Nito looks like a novelty app, but it&apos;s a fun one. It gets you to stare into the screen and speak, while making whatever facial expressions you like – then maps all that to 3D avatars including animals, monsters and human characters. The idea being that you then send the resulting video messages to friends.iPhone / iPadTransformers: Age of Extinction Movie: Official App (Free)With a new Transformers film on the way, there&apos;s an official app from Hasbro. It&apos;s mainly promotional: trailers, interviews, character biographies and so on – oh yes, and obviously the toys – but there&apos;s also a gaming element. Weekly &quot;missions&quot; will play out over the coming weeks, as fans earn points for staying engaged.iPhone / iPadVoice - Give and gather opinions (Free)There have been quite a few &quot;Ask your friends / the world for opinions and get them back on your smartphone&quot; apps, and few have really taken off. Can Voice buck the trend? You can ask questions and browse those of other people, with a follow model used to keep tabs on people you find interesting. Fun for impromptu polls, but much depends on whether it can get a big bunch of people using it for the long term.iPhoneMimi Hearing Test (Free)The science of hearing is fascinating: I once had a hearing test and they could tell in a few seconds that I&apos;d been to a few too many gigs, based on the frequency I was missing. Mimi Hearing Test is an app based on that science which helps you understand where your hearing is lacking (if it is), while also teaching you about different types of hearing loss by simulating them.iPhoneDr Panda’s Toy Cars (£1.49)The Dr Panda series of children&apos;s apps has been getting increasingly ambitious, with Dr Panda&apos;s Toy Cars the latest sign of developer TribePlay&apos;s desire to become a brand as familiar to parents as Toca Boca. The idea here is that kids get to drive eight vehicles around a cartoon town, including police cars and cargo trucks. It&apos;s a mixture of exploration and play, with each vehicle having its own interactive aspects for children to roleplay.iPhone / iPadTime.is (£1.49)The Time.is website is very handy: showing accurate times for whatever time zone / city you like. Now there&apos;s an iPad app, showing times in a choice of digits or words, synchronised to atomic clock time. There&apos;s a list of popular cities for fast access, but a much wider database to tap into. Ideal to have at hand if you&apos;re regularly coordinating across time zones.iPadKiwanuka for iPhone and iPad.GAMESKiwanuka (£1.49)In an increasingly-long line of delightful puzzle games on iOS, Kiwanuka is one of the best. It sees you guiding a colourful collection of characters to freedom using a glowing staff: like a neon-infused Lemmings built for touchscreens. File alongside Monument Valley in this year&apos;s games-worth-paying-for pile.iPhone / iPadBotanicula (£2.99)Oh, and here&apos;s another one: an adventure game from developer Amanita Design, who made the equally-excellent Machinarium. Converted from a critically-acclaimed PC game, it sees you controlling five &quot;little tree creatures&quot; as they explore a beautifully-realised world of seeds and parasites. A joy to explore at your leisure.iPadRecord Run (Free + IAP)Another endless runner: a genre that&apos;s nearly as packed on iOS as the start of the London Marathon. This one at least comes from an interesting source though: music game maker Harmonix, of Rock Band and Dance Central fame. Their twist on the &quot;run, jump, slide and dodge&quot; genre is musical: it uses the songs stored on your device to fuel its levels. Fun, although if you&apos;ve switched to a streaming service like Spotify or Deezer, you&apos;ll need to remember how to sideload your collection.iPhone / iPadFrederic - Evil Strikes Back (£2.49)More music here: as far as I can tell, developer Forever Entertainment&apos;s Frederic – Resurrection of Music was the first mobile game based on composer Frederic Chopin. That presumably makes this sequel the second: &quot;music duels&quot; based on his works, with a story wrapped around it about &quot;soulless artists with their same-sounding radio hits&quot;. Quirky but good fun.iPhone / iPadQuizTix: Pop Music (Free + IAP)Trivia games are increasingly-big business on mobile, as the rapid rise to fame of QuizUp has shown. Developer QuizTix is hoping to get in on the question-answering action with its own series of social trivia titles, with its Pop Music game offering plenty of questions, daily challenges and Facebook and Twitter-fuelled social features. And if the app appeals but its topic doesn&apos;t, try QuizTix: Movies instead.iPhone / iPadMLB Perfect Inning (Free + IAP)Cricket has proved a problematic genre for game developers on all platforms, but baseball has been far more favourable. Gamevil&apos;s new game is the latest polished take on American rounders, with an official licence and very slick graphics in its favour. There&apos;s a comprehensive choice of modes and gameplay options too: plenty of depth, although obviously it&apos;s best if you&apos;re starting with some knowledge of baseball.iPhone / iPadWarhammer 40,000: Carnage (£4.99 + IAP)If the recent Plants vs. Zombies-alike Warhammer 40,000: Storm of Vengeance wasn&apos;t to your liking, how about this? It&apos;s more the action game that fans of Games Workshop&apos;s famous tabletop game might have been hoping for, as you suit up as a space marine and head off to shoot the bejaysus out of hosts of enemies, upgrading your weaponry along the way. Frantically good, whether you&apos;re a 40K veteran or new to the world.iPhone / iPadCastleStorm - Free to Siege (Free + IAP)CastleStorm has enough to make it stand out from the crowd of mobile tower defence games. Not least because you&apos;re on the attack – trying to destroy your opponent&apos;s castle – as well as defending your own. All this is handled with a well-worked system of buying and upgrading weapons and units, with four campaigns to work your way through, and in-app purchases that aren&apos;t too aggressively pushed at you.iPhone / iPadDark Lands (£1.99 + IAP)More running – the lines between endless runner and platform game are blurry nowadays – with a fantasy/horror theme and atmospheric visuals. There&apos;s a choice of the 40-mission adventure mode (platform game) and the endless mode (endless runner), with the graphics and sound combining to give the familiar themes a kick.iPhone / iPadDragon Coins (Free + IAP)Finally, something strange from Japan in the form of Sega&apos;s Dragon Coins, based – no, really – on those coin-dropping machines you find in arcades around the world. Here, you&apos;re not just hoping to win a few 2ps: you&apos;re charging up monsters for battle, collecting and fusing new beasties to give yourself a better chance. And yes, the in-app purchases ARE used to buy more coins.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
Bletchley Park, the home of British wartime codebreaking, opens on Monday with new lawns and a new visitor centre for the 150,000 people who come each year to explore the historic site.The visitor centre was built in 2011 with the aid of a £5m lottery grant as well a further £3m in matched funds, raised by the Bletchley Park Trust. This money secured the future of the site and helped to restore the decaying huts in which many of the codebreakers worked.But it also opens with some six foot-high fences – separating two museums which each claim the legacy of Bletchley –which have been described as a Berlin Walland symbolise an ugly, long-running dispute with Bletchley Park&apos;s neighbour and tenant, the National Museum of Computing (TNMOC).The trust claims that the fences and gates are to improve safety for pedestrians by removing some car parking. The museum says visitors have to walk twice as far to reach them, and that the Trust doesn&apos;t explain that the working rebuild of Colossus – the world&apos;s first programmable digital electronic computer and key codebreaking engine – is on site [see footnote].The tension between the two factions, and the fence and what it represents, have attracted considerable attention, including unwelcome press and a discussion in the Lords led by the Conservative peerLady Trumpington, who herself worked at Bletchley during the war.Dr Sue Black, thecampaigning computer scientistwho was pivotal in securing the funding,left the Bletchley Park board in December 2013. Disgruntled volunteers continue to put out a satirical underground newspaper deriding the Trust&apos;s management.“I&apos;ve known people in both trusts for quite a long time, and when I&apos;ve talked to them, everyone basically wants the same sort of thing at the big-picture level,” says Black. “They want to make sure that everything is preserved for posterity, and that the place is there not just as a memorial but also to tell the story.”She remains confident the disagreements can be sorted out. &quot;At the highest level, they both want the same thing,&quot; she says. &quot;From all my conversations over the last six or seven years, I would say that there will be a happy outcome at the end. It&apos;s just the details that have gone a bit awry. I think getting them all round a table actually talking through everything would be the best way to sort it out.”Colossus: Bletchley&apos;s crowning achievementHitler&apos;s second world war intelligence systems were formidable. By the time D-Day was approaching, the Nazi high command had used spies and intercepted radio communications to determine that the huge 1st US Army Group, led by the formidable US general George S Patton, was stationed at Dover and poised to land at Calais. Even as the Allies were landing on the Normandy beaches in June 1944, Hitler&apos;s forces were still split, anticipating the main force landing at Calais.Only the 1st US Army Group was fictitious. In Operation Fortitude, one of the most successful military deceptions of the war, the allies built balsa wood aeroplanes and army buildings at Dover, placed false marriage and death certificates in the local press and faked waves of radio traffic. It was at Bletchley Park in February 1944 that the Colossus computers were used to help break German messages coded using the Lorenz cypher, confirming that the Germans had fallen for the deception.It was the crowning achievement of Bletchley Park, the home of the British codebreaking effort during the second world war.While the last surviving Colossus machine was lovingly rebuilt by a team of volunteers, and completed in 1996, the Bletchley Park Trust was formed, in 1992, to preserve and develop the estate itself. Both wanted to preserve the uniquely precious spirit of Bletchley.The Trust emphasises the story of Bletchley Park&apos;s contribution to the war effort, telling the story of how geniuses like Alan Turing and Gordon Welchman battled to break the Nazi codes and end the war years earlier than it might otherwise have been.The National Museum of Computing, the home of Colossus, sits in a squat block, Block H, on the outskirts of the Bletchley Park site, taking the war as its starting point and describing Bletchley as the birthplace of the computer. With an impressive array of vintage machinery, it charts the line from Turing and Welchman&apos;s work on Enigma, through Colossus itself, and on to the age of computing.Huge volunteer workforcesIt was at Bletchley Park that Alan Turing defined the basic concepts of computability, so it&apos;s only natural that TNMOC has made its home there. And while the museum and the Bletchley Park Trust cover similar ground, a shared pride in the history of the site has, over the past decade, generally encouraged co-operation rather than conflict – at least at grassroots level.Kevin Murrell, co-founder of TNMOC, says: &quot;Both the Bletchley Park Trust and us have a huge volunteer workforce. These people are incredibly enthusiastic and incredibly knowledgeable, and have always worked together and worked together well. We&apos;ve always trusted that enthusiasm.&quot;Undoubtedly the two trusts are quite different, but we have complementary goals. They [Bletchley Park] focus on the wartime effort of codebreaking, and then we show how that progressed into the computing revolution.&quot;But the complementary goals haven&apos;t healed tensions between the groups. Block H is owned by the Bletchley Park Trust, meaning that TNMOC is its tenant. The rent, £75,000 a year plus £25,000 for utilities and a service charge, is a big chunk of the small museum&apos;s turnover, creating tension between the two.One site, two entry feesThe most longstanding issue is ticketing: none of the £15 entry price to Bletchley Park goes to TNMOC, so the museum has to charge a second fee to visitors (currently £2 to visit just Colossus and £5 to see the whole museum). To visitors unaware of the difference between the establishments, the second fee can be an unwelcome surprise, and TNMOC has for years had to deal with complaints about it.Attempts to introduce a joint ticket faltered after the what the trust describes as &quot;lengthy negotiations which ultimately proved inconclusive&quot;. TNMOC says the sticking point was a condition &quot;which implicitly questioned the ownership of the Colossus Rebuild&quot;, but while Bletchley Park agrees that the ownership of the Colossus Rebuild was a sticking point, it accuses TNMOC of inserting a clause which forced Bletchley Park to relinquish claims on the computer.Colossus isn&apos;t owned by TNMOC; it is on long-term loan from Colossus Rebuild Limited, a shell company created by Tony Sale, himself a founder member of the Bletchley Park Trust, for that purpose. But when Sale was building Colossus, although much of the money for the project was his own, he was still heavily involved with Bletchley Park, and donations came in from supporters of the trust. As a result, the trust has never quite accepted the claim of ownership, even if it has no inclination to launch a challenge while the machine stays in Bletchley Park on TNMOC&apos;s property.Colossus wasn&apos;t the only reason why negotiations fell apart. TNMOC was also asking the trust to lift a debt of hundreds of thousands of pounds, built up over years of renting its site. &quot;On behalf of my trustees, I couldn&apos;t agree to that,&quot; says Bletchley&apos;s chief executive, Iain Standen [see footnote].Through it all, the can-do attitude – appropriate, given the history – has pervaded. Bletchley Park&apos;s volunteers&apos; tours ran from the house, through the grounds, and ended in the Colossus rebuild; TNMOC was prominently positioned on the map handed out to visitors; and the trust&apos;s bid for lottery funding pitched the rebuilt Colossus as &quot;an integral part of the Bletchley Park story&quot; while cautioning that its separate ownership placed it &quot;outside the scope of this project&quot;.Volunteers rebelBut money changes things. If there has to be a single cause for the falling out of the two organisations, it is the £8m funding of the development. The Bletchley Park Trust was awarded £5m from the Heritage Lottery Fund to restore the buildings on the site to create a museum-quality experience for visitors. The cash – £8m in total with the additional matched funds of £3m – is equal tomore than two years&apos;worth of income, and offers the opportunity for a radical rehaul of the whole site. The trust is refurbishing buildings, pedestrianising areas of the complex and trying to create &quot;an inspiring experience for its ever-increasing numbers of visitors&quot;.According to some volunteers at the site, the implementation of those improvements has led to an attitude that all change is good. &quot;&apos;Change&apos; is a common word at Bletchley Park,&quot;writes PJ Evans, a volunteer at TNMOC. &quot;If you disagree with policy you are &apos;resistant to change&apos;.&quot;Other TNMOC volunteers speak of waves of defections, while a group of Bletchley Park volunteers, who claimed they were tired of being treated like &quot;pond scum&quot; by management, bought tadpole badges in an act of surreptitious rebellion. They created an underground satirical newspaper, the Bletchley Bugle, with headlines such as &quot;Nasa photo of Earth’s most inhospitable place is Bletchley Park Management Offices&quot; and &quot;Park to replace staff with docile clones&quot;.No dissatisfied Bletchley volunteer was willing to go on the record for this article.Some of the tensions began before the lottery funding was awarded. In particular, by 2012, a lack of oversight meant that some volunteers were giving guided tours that lasted up to two and a half hours. A decision was made to standardise the tours at one hour, &quot;to manage increasing numbers of visitors, and to make it more accessible and family friendly&quot;. That decision entailed removing the trip to TNMOC, which had previously taken up the last 20 minutes of the tour.Although the decision was made by a group of staff and volunteers, not every tour guide was happy with it. Tony Carroll, one such guide, refused to use the new tour route. The trust took action and as a result he no longer gives guided tours, although the trust assures me that &quot;he continues to be a valued volunteer at the Bletchley Park Trust&quot;, giving tours for school groups instead. Carroll&apos;s tearful recounting of the conversation aired on the BBC six o&apos;clock newsbrought the trust an unwanted level of attention.Bletchley&apos;s chief executive, Iain Standen, says: &quot;He was counselled on a number of occasions to return to the planned tour but you can only ask people so many times. Eventually he was told, &apos;Sorry, but you&apos;re not guiding.&apos;&quot;But since rebuilding began in earnest, the changes have been harder to fight. It&apos;s also become harder to ignore the fact that if the trust did want to disassociate itself from TNMOC, this is how it would do it.&apos;Mecca for geeks&apos;During the war, the Bletchley Park complex sprawled far beyond just the house itself, with more than 25 huts being built to hold everything from a makeshift pub to Colossus itself. But after the war, it fell into disrepair. BT took over the site, and used it as a management school, but by 1991 the huts were being considered for demolition and redevelopment. It was against that background that the trust was formed.Roger Bristow, a founder member of the Bletchley Park Trust, wrote an open letter to the trust published in MK News, a local paper published in Milton Keynes, in February.“Over the last 23 years many ordinary committed hard working volunteers and groups have helped to save a large part of Bletchley Park from the destruction of the developer’s bulldozers,” Bristow wrote. “It could be said it is the second time a group of dedicated people came together to save something worth saving, only this time it was the saving of this historic site itself.”The Trust saved the site, but didn&apos;t have the resources to fill the entire area with exhibits. Some of the huts were let out to private tenants; others were rented to enthusiasts drawn to the area by its history. Part of the latter group was a private collection of vintage computers, known as Retrobeep, which was housed in Block H, the brick building which had held the Colossus machines until they were destroyed at the orders of Winston Churchill at the end of the war. (Two Colossi survived, and moved with GC&amp;CS – the Government Code and Cypher School, newly renamed as GCHQ – to Cheltenham in the 1950s, but they too were dismantled by the end of the decade.)In 2005, Retrobeep applied for, and received, charitable status and became the National Museum of Computing. It officially opened two years later, and the star of its collection was a rebuilt Colossus, the culmination of a 14-year project by Tony Sale.Kevin Murrell says: &quot;Within two metres of our backdoor are residential properties, so Tony Sale and I had the building listed to protect it, and we established the museum at that point.&quot;Sale died in 2011; Murrell continues as a trustee of the museum.Christian Payne moved a monthly gathering of cryptography fans from Bletchley Park to TNMOC after what he said was indifference to the group from the trust. &quot;You can put a fence up, you can move the gates, but you can&apos;t shift the heart of Bletchley,&quot; he says. &quot;There&apos;s a reason Stephen Fry called this &apos;Mecca for geeks&apos;. The heart of Bletchley is here.&quot;Worryingly for the trust, it’s not just those affiliated with TNMOC who agree. Bristow’s open letter argues that the museum “should be at the heart of the park, where the computer was born”. He continues: “It makes me very cross and upset to see how the current Bletchley Park Trust is repaying and treating those volunteers without whom the site would have been lost… One must ask ‘where were you’ when the Park needed saving?”The park&apos;s legacyLady Trumpington was posted during the war to Bletchley, where she worked in naval intelligence. “I still find it difficult to discuss this subject in public,” she told the Lords in March. “After all, the Bletchley that I knew was a highly secret place and for many years we were forbidden from mentioning it.”Strong words were aired in the House. The Lib-Dem Lord Sharkey pointedly refused to comment on “the obviously dysfunctional management that allows the situation to continue”, while Lord Cormack, another Conservative, emphasised that it “would be very bad indeed if we allowed any disputes between individuals to confound the preservation of Bletchley Park”.That sentiment is echoed all around. Bristow’s letter concludes by declaring the trust “custodians of a legacy which celebrates the incredible achievements of the wartime personnel, and a historical record which belongs… to our future generations”. Black agrees: “Everyone that I&apos;ve spoken to wants [Bletchley] to be a great historical site, that&apos;s restored for everyone to understand the whole story.”A collection of huts hastily thrown together in the midst of war were never intended to be here 80 years later, and keeping them in useable condition is an expensive job. But when the modern world was born inside them, it&apos;s a necessary one.• This article was amended on 10 June 2014 to correct errors and provide additional information. An earlier version wrongly stated that the £8m cash used to develop Bletchley Park came entirely from the Heritage Lottery Fund. In fact this sum was made up of £5m lottery funding with additional matched funds of £3m raised by the Bletchley Park Trust. References to the role of the Colossus computers in breaking German messages using the Lorenz cypher were clarified to show that they were only a part of the operation. There is an exhibition in the Bletchley Park Museum dedicated to the Lorenz story and a sign promoting TNMOC and the Colossus replica in this exhibition. There are also a number of signs throughout the Bletchley Park payzone that show the location of TNMOC, which is also promoted on leaflets given to visitors. In addition the Trust has pointed out that by the middle of 2013 TNMOC’s accumulated debt had reached more than £250,000. In consequence the Bletchley Park Trust Board approached TNMOC with a compromise settlement to resolve the issue. This settlement reduced the debt to £147,000 and it was paid on 6 April 2014.•Google backs Turing papers bid
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSAmerican Interior (£2.99)American Interior is the new album from Super Furry Animals’ Gruff Rhys, but it’s also a book, a film and an app. It tells the story of adventurer John Evans’ quest to find a fabled Welsh-speaking tribe of native Americans, using a mixture of text, video and music split into 100 “messages”. ReadThe Guardian&apos;s interview with Gruff Rhysfor more on the app, and the story behind it.Yahoo News Digest (Free)Yahoo bought British startup Summlylast year and promptly shut down its news aggregation app. However, its summarisation technology has returned in Yahoo News Digest, which sucks in news from a range of sources, summarises it in short &quot;atoms&quot; of quotes, images, videos and background information, and delivers it as a package twice a day. A handy way to catch up on the day&apos;s news.Waygo (Free + IAP)Waygo felt like magic when it first launched on iPhone: an app that you pointed at foreign language signs to see English translations overlaid. Now there&apos;s a version or Android, initially focusing on Chinese and Japanese. It works the same way, displaying translations on-screen, including &quot;pinyin&quot; pronunciation of words. If you travel regularly to one or both countries and need a little linguistic help, it&apos;s well worth a look. You get 10 translations a day for free, and can upgrade via in-app purchase to the unlimited version.Yahoo Sports (Free)Another app from Yahoo, and although it isn&apos;t new as such, it&apos;s new to the UK. It&apos;s a sports-tracking app offering news, scores and stats from a host of sports and leagues, including football (both varieties), tennis, golf and pretty much every US league you can think of. Features include event alerts to keep you posted on specific games, and personalisation to set your favourite teams in the various competitions.Spoticast (Free)If you&apos;ve got a Chromecast dongle and a premium subscription to streaming music service Spotify, Spoticast is well worth a look. It&apos;s a simple way to cast music from Spotify to your Chromecast, signing in to your premium account first. It&apos;s very much a work in progress – &quot;pause/play are fragile at best,&quot; notes its Google Play listing – but in the absence of Chromecast support in the official Spotify app, it may find a decent audience.ESPN FC Soccer &amp; World Cup (Free)As Roy Hodgson gears up to announce England&apos;s World Cup squad (or, at least, announce the bits of it that weren&apos;talready announced before the planned announcement) we&apos;re seeing the start of a flurry of football apps planning to capitalise on the tournament. ESPN&apos;s is fresh out, for example, promising news, analysis and data from the competition and beyond – it&apos;ll also work for major leagues around the world next season. If you&apos;re in the US, meanwhile, the app will also provide video highlights of the World Cup.Transformers:Age Of Extinction (Free)With a new Transformers film on the way, there&apos;s an official app from Hasbro. It&apos;s mainly promotional: trailers, interviews, character biographies and so on – oh yes, and obviously the toys – but there&apos;s also a gaming element. Weekly &quot;missions&quot; will play out over the coming weeks, as fans earn points for staying engaged.Dr Panda’s Toy Cars (£1.29)The Dr Panda series of children&apos;s apps has been getting increasingly ambitious, with Dr Panda&apos;s Toy Cars the latest sign of developer TribePlay&apos;s desire to become a brand as familiar to parents as Toca Boca. The idea here is that kids get to drive eight vehicles around a cartoon town, including police cars and cargo trucks. It&apos;s a mixture of exploration and play, with each vehicle having its own interactive aspects for children to roleplay.Mubi (Free + IAP)Mubi is an interesting app for film buffs: a subscription service with a firm focus on &quot;cult, classic, independent or award-winning&quot; movies. Every day, a new flick is added to its collection with a 30-day viewing window, meaning that at any one time, 30 are available to watch. You can stream or download the films to watch offline, with the monthly subscription costing £2.99. An intriguing alternative to Netflix, with the small-but-constantly-refreshing catalogue a spur for experimenting with films you might not otherwise have tried.Jiggster (Free)If you&apos;re looking to sell secondhand games (as in console/PC, not mobile) there are already a couple of options in the UK with Android apps:Music MagpieandZapper. Now there&apos;s another: Jiggster, which has launched its app in beta to buy, sell or swap games that you&apos;ve finished with. The swapping may be its most useful aspect: you can text-chat to other users to negotiate deals, then either meet up or send games in the post once you&apos;ve successfully haggled.Icebreaker: A Viking Voyage for Android.GAMESIcebreaker: A Viking Voyage (£0.69 + IAP)A big hit (in critical acclaim at least) on iOS, Icebreaker is now available on Android too: a well-crafted puzzle-action game with a viking theme. Your job is to free the Norse warriors by solving 140 physics-puzzle levels, with controls somewhere between Fruit Ninja and Cut the Rope as you chop through ice and other obstacles. Head-scratchingly challenging in places (in a good way) with a welcome dash of humour.Magazine Mogul (£2.99)Japanese developer Kairosoft made its name in the west with Game Dev Story: a cute pixel-art simulation of the games industry. It&apos;s since rolled out a host of similarly-addictive sims, and now this based on the magazine industry. It sees you building a team, launching issues and researching new topics, with finely-balanced mechanics for levelling up characters and expanding your business. It&apos;s a real battery-chewer, as you won&apos;t want to stop playing.Aliens Drive Me Crazy (Free + IAP)One of the most characterful action games on Android this year, here, with Rebel Twins&apos; side-scrolling game. You have to run, shoot AND drive your way through the game, seeing off aliens and their bosses across a series of colourful levels. Variety comes in the form of new cars and weapons, with explosions galore and impressive animation.CastleStorm - Free to Siege (Free + IAP)Android is super well-served for tower defence games, but CastleStorm has enough to make it stand out from the crowd. Not least because you&apos;re on the attack – trying to destroy your opponent&apos;s castle – as well as defending your own. All this is handled with a well-worked system of buying and upgrading weapons and units, with four campaigns to work your way through, and in-app purchases that aren&apos;t too aggressively pushed at you.Word Monsters (Free + IAP)This fun and accessible word game involves swiping words off the screen, competing against friends from social networks, and comes from Angry Birds maker Rovio&apos;s publishing division. The core word puzzles are fleshed out with different themes – reminiscent of Draw Something and SongPop – and monster personalisation. In-app purchases are used to unlock this, but the game can be played happily for free without them.Toy Defense 4: Sci-Fi (£1.20 + IAP)More tower defence, this time from a series that&apos;s now into its fourth game on Android. This one&apos;s based on science fiction: all robots and spaceships across its 72 missions, where you defend your bases from enemies including stormtroopers. The gameplay is a familiar blend of resource management and careful tactics, with its upgrade system providing lots of scope for building the perfect defence force. Or, indeed, one that folds miserably at the sight of a tank, if you play badly.MLB Perfect Inning (Free + IAP)Cricket has proved a problematic genre for game developers on all platforms, but baseball has been far more favourable. Gamevil&apos;s new game is the latest polished take on American rounders, with an official licence and very slick graphics in its favour. There&apos;s a comprehensive choice of modes and gameplay options too: plenty of depth, although obviously it&apos;s best if you&apos;re starting with some knowledge of baseball.King&apos;s League: Odyssey (£1.19 + IAP)This started as a popular Flash game on the web: a fantasy game involving building an army and sending them out to war. As on iOS, its mobile incarnation has been designed to work well with a touchscreen rather than a mouse: with lots of depth once you get into the strategy of balancing the various units. Meanwhile, its in-app purchases aren&apos;t used for the actual in-game currency: you can&apos;t buy your way to success, in other words.QuizTix: Pop Music (Free + IAP)Trivia games are increasingly-big business on mobile, as the rapid rise to fame of QuizUp has shown. Developer QuizTix is hoping to get in on the question-answering action with its own series of social trivia titles, with its Pop Music game offering plenty of questions, daily challenges and Facebook and Twitter-fuelled social features. And if the app appeals but its topic doesn&apos;t, tryQuizTix: Moviesinstead.1849 (£2.94)Finally, a game for anyone with a liking for the city-management strategy genre. Here, the setting is gold rush-era California, as you build Old West towns up across a range of scenarios. The fact that the real-life history wraps itself around the gameplay through its campaign mode is a nice touch, while that gameplay looks deep enough to attract fans of the genre who fancy something new.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
The surprise is how long a backlash took to come. When I was a child in a heat-hazed suburb to the north of Palo Alto, almost no one had heard the termSilicon Valley. In common with the hamlets scattered around it like points on one of my join-the-dots colouring books – Cupertino, Sunnyvale, Santa Clara, Woodside – it was an unassuming place, with pretty, straw hills and decent schools; a good, honest incubator for the aspirant lower middle class; benign spot for Hispanic incomers to land.Now Palo Alto is the spiritual epicentre of Silicon Valley, the Detroit of the 21st century. An average home costs $2m, despite an eastern flank still mired in poverty, even as rich young "tech" workers glide in from nearby San Francisco aboard white, smoked-glass, Wi-Fi equipped buses, shielded by headphones and shades – a target for resentment that could only be improved if they wore handlebar moustaches and snatched kids' iPods on the way past. Is the resentment fair? When I last came here, the Valley was still reeling from the greatdotcom crashof 2000, with Amazon shares trading at $3 and the fledgling industry on its knees. And although it's hard to believe now, no one was predicting that by 2014 our lives would be very largely shaped here, by an army of software engineers – programmers or "coders" – who are progressively recasting the human environment in their own image, forcing the rest of us to adapt to this radically reconfigured landscape in the only way possible: by becoming … more … like … them.Yet, for all we see and hear about the Valley's gilded apps and networks, glimpses of the people behind them are rare. Who are they and what does the society they have made for themselves (the template for our own) look like by light of day? A recentanti-tech protest in San Franciscobecame the first to draw attention from the FBI. What don't San Franciscans like about the tech titans to the south who have made their city rich?East Palo Alto. Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverGliding into Santa Clara, home to Intel among others, the last question is not so hard to answer. Silicon Valley runs from San Francisco in the north to San José in the south and is here thanks to an unlikely alliance of Stanford University computer pioneers and hippies who saw that while acid hadn't made the world more free and open, computers just might. Sixties and seventies originals such asDouglas Engelbart(inventor of the mouse and a conceiver of the web) andStewart Brand(founder of the first online communityThe Well) hoped for wisdom and enlightenment through the spread of information, as a bulwark against The Bomb or World War Three. Counter-cultural rhetoric still suffuses the Valley tech industry.Talk of "disruption" and "changing the world" assails you like tinnitus the moment you arrive, and if "making a difference" often devolves into piddly goals such as "improving the end-user experience", it still contains an idealistic sheen.What to make of some tech insiders' recent pronouncements, then? The first Frisco protests followed a speech by biotech entrepreneur Balaji Srinivasan last October, in which he decreed that the rest of America was holding Silicon Valley back andit was time to consider secession. Lest this be taken for a joke, a venture-capitalist investor named Tim Draper duly filed a petition to split California into six, with an independent Silicon Valley – putatively the richest state in America – abutting Central California, which would be poorer even than Mississippi.And it got better. In the absence of independence, another venture capitalist, Tom Perkins, suggested that, at the very least, rich techies should be given extra votes and went onto compare criticism of his industry to the Nazi persecution of Jews.With spectrum-friendly timing, the billionaire CEO of social network Yammer, David Sacks, then spent $1.4m throwing himself a Marie Antoinette-themed 40th birthday party under the banner "Let Him Eat Cake", even as Valley legend and Facebook billionaireSean Parker(played by Justin Timberlake in the movieThe Social Network) spent a reported $10m on a wedding in which guests were dressed by the costume designer fromLord of the Rings(at least it wasn'tStar Wars), and a young startup founder named Peter Shih penned a blog post entitled "Ten Things I Hate About You: San Francisco Edition", in which hate number six was given as "homeless people". Is there an app for hubris?British comedianJohn Oliver, in hosting a tech awards ceremony called the Crunchies, gently roasted his guests with the quip: "I heard that the new design for the buses had tinted windows, but with the tint on the inside: 'Look, I don't mind if the peasants see me, but I'd rather not see them'." Laughter in the hall was muted.Workers glide into the Valley aboard anonymous white, smoked-glass, Wi-Fi equipped buses. Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverLike bankers in the UK, techies seem surprised at what is happening to them. So in many ways am I. For all the gathering cultural divide, driving through Silicon Valley is still an awesome experience. Around every turn stands the glinting HQ of another household name, or two, or three – and not just the big ones you expect, but the everyday others you seldom think about. Look! There's Adobe, Cisco, Hewlett Packard, Pixar, SanDisk, Symantec …now to Oracle, Netflix, Asus, Atari, Groupon, LinkedIn, Logitech, Electronic Arts, Mozilla, PayPal, Twitter, YouTube, McAfee, Yelp, Atari, Nvidia, Yahoo!, Tesla, Sun Microsystems … not hundreds, but thousands, tens of thousands, everywhere you look.Even those giants with headquarters elsewhere – Microsoft, Nokia, Panasonic, Samsung, Amazon, Nasa – have research centres here, such is a concentration of tech talent. The sensation is of having stepped like Alice through your computer screen and even the disposable-looking architecture whispers of the Valley's exotic, hyper-Darwinian credo of "creative destruction". The phrase you hear everywhere is "innovate or die", which is not intended to relax you.My first mass encounter with the present workforce comes on a Saturday night in Mountain View, home to Google and Microsoft among others, and it couldn't be more startling. Last time I was here, I phoned an editor at theSan José Chronicleto ask where the geek people hung out. "You won't believe this," he chuckled, "but if you go to the cafe at Fry's Electronics superstore, that's where you'll find them."I did, but every time I tried to speak to one, they stared at their sneakers and scuttled away like crabs clutching circuit boards. They were of a stereotypical piece, though, which is why first sight of Mountain View's bright-lit main drag is such a surprise, because the scene doesn't look American. It's populated mostly by knots of generically-dressed young men, the vast majority from the Indian subcontinent or Asia, looking lost, as though not sure what to do away from their screens.Later I'll check the census figures to find that more than three-quarters of tech workers are now born outside the US, with China, India, Korea and Japan supplying most, often via Ivy League universities, with a small contribution from eastern Europe. Given that women are outnumbered 25 to one, the modern Valley is at once highly international and culturally monocular, adding to the air of transience. Minority female tech workers complain of a frat-housey "brogrammer" atmosphere within the industry. I'm floored by what I see.Molly Magees. Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverInside Molly Magees, an ersatz Irish pub, which turns out to be one of only three places you can dance in Silicon Valley, the music is overwhelmingly from the decade in which most of its clientele was born, the 1980s (and I abruptly realise that this is what most the local radio stations are playing, too). Most of the women cutting a rug together are from local colleges and universities, but the genders operate for the most part at a tangent.Asked what dating is like in this apparent 25:1 paradise, women tend to roll their eyes or laugh ruefully. "The odds are good, but the goods are odd," one tells me. "Most are just interested in money or programming," says another, echoing screeds of anguished posts on tech forums. I soon see what they mean. Conversations with the men are mostly fluid, but tend to resemble those you have at technology "meetups", where the unspoken question is "Can we do business together?" When I mention this unexpected gregariousness, an important truth is explained: that the people in Molly's are not "tech people", that there is a clear divide between tech people, meaning coders, and "non-tech" people, which is to say entrepreneurs, financiers, idea and business people. Good coders are in short supply and tend to regard themselves as an elite, with the best being paid six-figure bonuses just to stay at places such as Google and Facebook.Coders, I quickly learn, are almost universally regarded as weird. A Valley entrepreneur I contact in an effort to find some to speak to (he asks not to be named) warns that "a small percentage of the good ones are not so autistic/introverted that they might be willing to talk", and, as if to script, two of the three candidates he suggests as being in this category subsequently refuse, one sniffing airily, "No, I don't really want interviews with journalists."I do meet one coder at Molly's, a 26-year-old goateed American named David, who looks more hipster Shoreditch than Banana Republic Valley, who has travelled through Europe and chats easily aboutBreaking BadandMad Menand whose favourite bands are the Pixies and Sigur Rós rather than Metallica – not the stereotype at all. So the stereotype is flawed, I rejoice! But no, he groans."In truth, I feel kind of isolated, 'cos I'm intellectually curious and outgoing. As a single guy who likes women, it's hard. I mean, I just work with nerdy guys and there are hardly any women – it's horrible, man." Why does he stay? "The money's really good," he says with a shrug. "It's hard to walk away." I ask what he earns, and he smiles. He doesn't want his name used.Later I meet a woman in her mid-twenties named Sunny Allen whose ex-fiance was a coder. Her eyes widen as she tells me: "They're the real hardcore. He would work for 36 straight hours, sleep for four, then get up and work another 36. Eighty-hour weeks are the norm for those guys and weekends don't exist. They work harder than any group of people I've ever come across."It's as if these people are not so much a different breed, as a new species. An ad in the back of the main San José listings magazine reads: "Computer Systems Analyst, Sunnyvale, CA. Bachelor and five years experience required." What is this place?Machines from the 70s and 80s on display at the Computer History Museum, in Silicon Valley.  Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverIdrive home to Santa Clara thinking about the society being made here. The average age of employees at Facebook is said to be 26, which is exactly the same as at Nasa during the moon landings of the 1960s and early 70s. A Brit I meet named Mark Whelan (one of very few Brits out here) says he loves being in the Valley, where finance is available for risky good ideas – unlike at home. Now on his third "startup", for an electronic payment system, he tells me that he loves being around (software) engineers, "a unique breed, because they're always trying to solve problems, that's what they care about – getting the job done".The question, of course, is whether the problems being solved are worthy of such energy, intelligence and investment. With the honourable exception ofElon Musk, founder ofSpaceXandTesla Motors, the challenges they address are not big ones requiring years of commitment, they are the local concerns of Ivy League-educated twentysomething males with a surfeit of cash and no off-screen responsibilities. Not to mention a widespread awkwardness with people; an empathy deficit that may explain not just the prevailing libertarian, often Ayn Randian politics, but the much-trumpeted techy grail of "connection". Because hardly anyone seems to have noticed that connection is not the same as engagement, upon which deeper relationships are built, and may even run counter to it.Is this disjunct written into Valley DNA? Top venture-capitalist investor Marc Andreessen has pointed out that by the time most techies are 22, they've done the 10,000 hours work whichMalcolm Gladwell, in his bookOutliers, claims to be the main constituent of "genius". As Andreessen says: "[That] doesn't happen in other fields … you can't start designing bridges at age ten." True. But those 10,000 hours can only come at the expense of other activities we associate with the process of transcending youth, growing up, finding a place in the here-and-now.If this is the case, should we be more afraid of these men than we currently are? As a graduate computer science student named Yiren Lu  noted in aNew York Timespiece headed"Silicon Valley's Youth Problem": "If the traditional lament of Ivy League schools has been that the best talent goes to Wall Street, a newer one is taking shape: why do these smart, quantitatively-trained engineers, who could help cure cancer or fix healthcare.gov, want to work for a sexting app?" Why do programmers do what they do, in the obsessive way they do it?Alison Chaiken is in her fifties, and made a career switch from physics two years ago. Her challenge to Valley norms is more a source of awkwardness for the young men she works with than for her, she chuckles, "because I'm used to it – it's 100% of the time for me". The cult of youth around startups exists because "if you want people to be willing to die for the cause, who are willing to work long hours for almost no money, you have to get 'em young".Asked if she thinks coders are weird, she pauses: "Well, this is an elliptical answer, but I'm a person who loves music, and there are certain fields like music and math – and a lot of people love both – where you have to be a little bit obsessive and quite devoted to be good at your craft. And to maintain your skills you have to spend an awful lot of time keeping up with recent developments."So to be a real professional coder you have to put in a lot of hours. And if you don't really love it, you can't motivate yourself to do it, so the motivation has to come from within, same as for musicians or writers."Right. Except that most neutrals can appreciate the pull of music or writing. Why does coding appeal? "I think part of it is a feeling of power and mastery, in that you can solve problems. That  is very reassuring. The other thing is instant gratification. People always talk about 'gamifying' interfaces, where you're getting points totals and a lot of feedback … and with programming, you get that same kind of feedback. Every time you add a function and it works, it's like a little mini accomplishment."Or as another coder, Jesse Monroy, has it: "The overwhelming reason I know that people program is the certainty of the outcome … the way a small amount of work can make a profound difference." Do coders deserve their reputation for weirdness, I ask? "Yes," he says. "Good coders are a bit weird." And they're busy redesigning society for us. Excellent!Tech Museum of Innovation.
 Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverNext morning I follow the sun south to San José, a bigger point on the map because, like San Francisco, it's had its own song. José is a light-washed picnic blanket of a town, gathered around featureless buildings barking the cryptic handles of tech firms such as InvenSense and SunWize. Nicknamed "Man José" for the dearth of females, it houses the sheeny Tech Museum of Innovation, a paean to digital technology, which should be exciting but presents as a lesson in fatuousness. I snigger at bold, declarative wisps of nothing, such as "digital technologies bring people together to work, learn and play".Brilliantly, nowhere is it explained what "digital technology" is or suggested that anything existed before it. In a society so fixated on the future, does the past become a kind of irritant, an inconvenience? Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg is on record as having declared that young people are "just smarter" than older people (even while supporting politicians opposed to Obamacare and in favour of Arctic drilling), which may have more to do with disdain of history than elders. As per much of Silicon Valley, the Tech Museum, which is funded by the likes of Intel and Microsoft, betrays no concern for context and is quite simply the most arcane museum I've ever seen. Battalions of schoolkids look bored out of their trees and would undoubtedly be better off running outside to climb something.There is still something Las Vegas-ly thrilling about Silicon Valley. Tourists flock to the Facebook, Apple and Google "campuses" just to cop a sense that they are real and exist in physical space, a surprisingly hard mental adjustment to make. At Google, as elsewhere, you find nothing much to see, except that as you drive through the maze of lanes radiating from a huddle of inscrutable main blocks, dodging staff on Google-liveried bikes, it seems to go on forever.In fact, this HQ belonged to a fleetingly massive 1990s tech firm called Silicon Graphics – creative destruction in motion – and Google has staked out a yet grander estate to rise on the hills opposite. For the first time, the scope of its empire seems tangible.Then, an unexpected turn. While queuing to take the obligatory tourist snap with the giant corporate "like" sign outside Facebook – simultaneously wondering why I'm doing it – a likewise-engaged Indian startup founder named Jagmeet Lamba steers me towards a very different kind of place: a startup "incubator" called Hacker DoJo.Hacker Dojo, Mountain View. Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverDoJo is remarkable: an airy tech playground in which anyone can grab a desk or couch and work for free, 24/7. More valuable even than desk space is the proximity to other dreamers, and the space is full of them, by turns absorbed in their screens or playing pool or ping-pong or chatting over bites to eat. All at once, the desire to be in the Valley makes sense.On a couch near the entrance I find Sunny Allen, the sometime fiance of a coder, herself a Kentuckian linguistics major who took a second degree in biology and is now developing "bio-reactors" which produce algae for processing into food, fuel or biodegradable plastics for clearing up water pollution or sequestering carbon from the atmosphere. She smiles at my observation that she is the only woman here, saying: "Yes, it's definitely a male-dominated environment. I shouldn't say this, but sometimes I walk through here and I feel that the men just look at me like wolves. I feel like meat."That familiar roll of eyes. Yet, when I ask if she likes this sexless, drab-seeming milieu, her response is emphatic. "Oh yeah – I love it! And because everyone's so focused on work, I never feel excluded. As a woman it's not assumed that I have skills, but once I've proved I have, I'm accepted. I feel like this is the place where the ideas are coming from. You need to be here."Better yet, whenObserverphotographer Barry Holmes turns up to take snaps at DoJo, he finds a Londoner named Simon Brooks, a non-tech app developer who read about the incubator one Thursday night while living in Kentucky, held a yard sale over the weekend and drove to Cali with his cat and two dogs the following Monday. That was six months ago, since when the money's run out, Izzy the cat has died and he sleeps in his battered '99 Lexus with the dogs.Simon Brooks, from the UK, who is sleeping in his car with his dogs, as he waits for success in Silicon Valley. Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverAsked what his parents, a GP's receptionist and plant machinery mechanic respectively, think of his decision, he says: "They don't understand the startup thing, so they're not too happy." about it A weary pause. "And it's absolutely not ideal. But I know I've got something really good and just need to get that break to get me to the next stage. As long as you've got goals, you have to reach for them."A longstanding fan of word games such as Scrabble, Brooks has already released a word game app called Gadzookery and is about to launch aKickstarter campaignto fund another. Inspired by the immensely popular "Words With Friends", but without that game's susceptibility to cheats, this new app sounds like a winner to me (who once watched two close woman friends fall out over allegations of Words With Friends cheating). If the Kickstarter campaign works, he will hire a budget mobile home and take his scratch team of coders to the Mojave desert to "build" it.There they will party, but mostly work absurd hours to have it done in a fortnight. After that, it'll be two weeks' testing, another two fixing bugs, then launch: six weeks, start-to-finish. Given that Words With Friends had 80 million users at its peak, the prize is clear. Hence Silicon Valley. Remarkably, Brooks had never been to Silicon Valley before hitting the well-worn trail west to join personal heroes likeMark Pincusof the game-makersZynga. He has watched others arrive and slink home, tails between legs, having failed to build a viable team."And I definitely felt that I was being watched at first. But the good thing is that, unlike home, it makes no difference here who you are or where you're from: it's all aboutwhat do you know? The really, really important thing, though, is that there's no shame in failure. As long as you can learn from it, failing won't be held against you, it's just part of the process."Isn't there a hierarchy, with coders aloof, a little superior, I ask? Weren't they hard to recruit? "Funny you should say that. Yes, I think the coders do think like that. But you can build a bridge, can usually prise the interaction out of them. What I learnt is to just keep saying 'hi' – and don"t push it! It's a bit like with a pet. Show them that you want to know them, then wait for them to come to you. If you don't stroke that cat, then it'll come and sit on your lap and wonder why you haven't stroked it – he-he!"Brooks claims not to be interested in the big yacht or end-of-rainbow lifestyle, dreaming instead of using future money to build an orphanage. Does he meet many Valley folk with similarly idealistic goals? "Do you know what? No. Most people are just here for one reason – to make money. But there are a few of us." And the inequality doesn't bother him? "Inequality?"  The vast gulf between the Harvard-educated billionaire Mark Pincus and you? "Ha ha. Yeah, in the UK there would be a war if it was like this! But here there's not that class divide to tie people to. It's all mixed up. So it's not a problem for me." Like most Dojo dwellers, Brooks works 15-16 hour days, six or seven days a week; anything less would open the way to chance. The successful social networking site Pinterest was developed at DoJo, he says, so the dream is for real.After the Tech Museum debacle, it takes every ounce of willpower to stop at the Computer History Museum en route north to Woodside, but the effort is handsomely rewarded. As understated as its predecessor was brash, this collection revels in a sense of continuity; is all about context and the colourful people who first imagined then built the machines now mediating our lives. A working version of Charles Babbage's 165-year-old Difference Engine No&nbsp;2 is joyful, but the highlight for me is a Cray supercomputer from the 1970s, which consists of an alluring 8ft tall, semi-circular tower, finished with an exterior bench in kinky red leather (iMac, eat your heart out). I could wander this place for hours.A property in the hills of Woodside owned by a successful Silicon Valley Investor. Photograph: Barry J Holmes for the ObserverThe drive to Woodside is heart-stoppingly beautiful, with clapboard mansions atop wooded picturebook hills – yet the biggest estates, such as those belonging to squillionaire Oracle founder Larry Ellison and the late Steve Jobs – are tucked into the valleys. I've come to break bread at Buck's, a bustling luncherie in which some of the biggest deals in Valley history have been inked, relating to companies like PayPal, Google and Tesla.Having opened the venue in 1990, proprietor Jamis MacNiven has known many of the big tech names over the years (seems that Jobs, though a friend, really was an asshole) and can tell you about the Google founder who, rich beyond imagining in his twenties, lost all impetus and now wanders through his vast garden strumming a guitar to no one in particular … a story which concludes: "So, he lucked out, but then again, did he?" A Burning Man festivalgoer of long standing, MacNiven doesn't think Valley people have changed generationally. Being at the centre, he still hears lots of stupid pitches, like a recent one ("the dumbest so far, I think") extolling the virtues of a networked toothbrush.Yet dumb ideas are sort of the point, he says, revisiting Brooks's observation that the big difference between here and everywhere else is the willingness to countenance and even embrace creative failure. His impression from a recent trip to London is that if you fail once there, you're off the list, out of the club, with no way back, and I think he is right. When I spend time in London's rebranded "Tech City", I hear a lot of people playing safe, trying to insert themselves between the makers and the market – perhaps mirroring the dysfunctional finance industry upon which they rely – rather than stepping up to the plate and building things. After visiting Silicon Valley, once thing is clear: Tech City won't succeed without a better funding model.What are we make of all this? I barrel back to LA with a complex suite of feelings. The California tech industry's embrace of risk is clearly encouraging to some forms of innovation (a word I can hardly stand to hear after a few days in the Valley). And some of the innovations can be bigger than they look: the great media theorist Marshall McLuhan would say that anything that enables us to engage each other in new ways is ipso facto profound, regardless of the content of that engagement.At the same time, I see a plethora of connection but little engagement in the tools Silicon Valley provides, because for all the excitement and convenience they generate, the tech people are giving us a world which suits them, which we need to start treating with far more caution than we presently do. After all, no one ever grew or acquired wisdom through convenience.©Andrew Smith. Andrew Smith is author ofTotally Wired: the Wild Rise and Crazy Fall of the First Dotcom DreamandMoondust. @wiresmith• This article was amended on 12 May 2014 to update the sub-heading. An earlier version wrongly implied that Orinda is a suburb of Palo Alto.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPad charger teardown: inside Apple's charger and a risky phony &gt;&gt; Ken Shirriff's blogWe've had Shirriff tear down a counterfeit, and a real one, but this is a new side-by-side comparison before:Apple sells their iPad charger for $19, while you can buy an iPad charger on eBay for about $3. From the outside, the chargers look the same. Is there a difference besides the price? In this article, I look inside real and counterfeit chargers and find that the genuine charger has much better construction, power quality, and most importantly safety. The counterfeit turns out to be a 5 watt charger in disguise, half the power of a genuine charger.Quantum random number generator created using a smartphone camera  &gt;&gt; MediumFrom the Physics ArXiv blog:Bruno Sanguinetti and pals at the University of Geneva in Switzerland have worked out how to generate random numbers on an ordinary smartphone using genuine quantum processes. And they say their new technique can produce random numbers at the rate of 1 megabit per second, more than enough for most security applications.The quantum process that these guys exploit is the way light sources emit photons. Because each emission is a quantum process, the instant of emission cannot be predicted. So the number of photons that a light source emits in a unit of time will always vary by an amount that is entirely random.This is the basis of the new technique. Sanguinetti and co point out that smartphone cameras have improved so much in recent years that they are capable of detecting the quantum variations in the number of photons they detect.Applications: secure credit card transactions... and encrypted emails and phone calls.March 2013: Apple meets with Beats about music-streaming service &gt;&gt; ReutersJust over a year ago...Apple has held talks with Beats Electronics LLC, the audio technology firm co-founded by influential hip-hop producer Dr Dre and music mogul Jimmy Iovine, on a potential partnership involving Beats' planned music-streaming service, three people familiar with the situation told Reuters.From one meeting...Scientists may have decoded one of the secrets to superconductors &gt;&gt; WIREDSubir Sachdev, a professor of physics at Harvard University who helped devise Davis' study, correctly predicted the form of the charge density waves in a paper last year, which detailed a possible mechanism behind both the waves and high-temperature superconductivity. Though further tests are needed, Sachdev's theory is garnering support from many experts, who say it succinctly captures key features of the materials.Taken together, the various findings are at last starting to build a comprehensive picture of the physics behind high-temperature superconductivity. "This is the first time I feel like we're making real progress," said Andrea Damascelli, a professor of physics at the University of British Columbia who led two recent studies on charge density waves. "A lot of different observations which have been made over decades did not make sense with each other, and now they do."Room-temperature superconductors are.. still theoretical though. But now potentially closer.Why Nintendo's president doesn't play games on smartphones &gt;&gt; BloombergSo we asked Iwata, who's struggling to distract gamers from their iPhones long enough to win them over to Nintendo's machines, what kind of games he likes to play on his phone.It turns out he doesn't indulge in smartphone games.Maybe just the occasional Puzzle &amp; Dragons or Candy Crush? Nope. Iwata, who has been at Nintendo's helm since 2002, is a company man. And he's on message. "I haven't played smartphone games that much," the boyish looking 54 year-old said during a recent interview. "If I have time to play games, I spend as much time as possible playing Nintendo's games."Smartphone average selling price (ASP) by operating system, 2010-2013 &gt;&gt; iChartsData from IDC, in US dollars. The general downward pressure is clear; Windows Phone is clearly seeing its ASP fall through the success of the Lumia 520.Will Microsoft get the new Surface(s) right? Part 1 &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:By basing the Surface on an ARM processor, thus limiting it to only new Windows Store apps, Microsoft had created a version of the "Which came first, the Chicken or the Egg?" problem for itself.  They could have broken through by pricing the Surface aggressively to drive sales volume that created a pull on app developers.  But they didn't.  Consumers stayed away.Where the Surface showed some promise, and did gain traction after last fall's price drop, was amongst people who needed a Microsoft Office-centric productivity tablet.  Basically something even more into the Content Creation space than Microsoft's original positioning.  Unfortunately Microsoft was slow to follow-up on that limited success and has kept the Surface 2 priced much too high to build on last fall's traction with the original Surface.  It has been overpriced by at least $100.  A Surface 2 with the Touch Cover for $399 would be a compelling offering.  But at $530 it is a non-starter.  And the pricing of the LTE model is outrageously non-competitive.He's hoping for better things on 20 May, when newer (smaller?) Surfaces are expected.The uncomfortable truth at the heart of mobile gaming &gt;&gt; Mobile Opportunity:Michael Mace on how mobile (and other) games rely on "whales" who spend huge amounts of money while most people spend nothing:I think the code of conduct is a very good idea; without it, we could easily end up with government regulation of free-to-play gaming, and I can't imagine how that could be effective without destroying the category altogether. It would also be a very good idea to develop other new revenue streams to support mobile gaming. That's why I'm always interested when someone like Facebook claims they can fix mobile advertising. You may not love the idea of mobile games becoming like commercial television, but I think we'd all be a lot more comfortable pushing an occasional ad at every user rather than trying to extract $1,000 from 0.5% of them.A love letter to Twitter &gt;&gt; StopdesignDoug Bowman is leaving Twitter, and this is his farewell blogpost:As Biz says, Twitter is not a triumph of technology, it is a triumph of humanity. It all comes back to people like you and me who use the service, and what we continue to do with it. There is no other platform that offers what Twitter offers, and there is no other service that continuously reveals the collective pulse of our planet.Quite a contrast to hisfarewell letter to Google in 2009:I'll miss working with the incredibly smart and talented people I got to know there. But I won't miss a design philosophy that lives or dies strictly by the sword of data.Hachette says Amazon is delaying delivery of some books &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAmazon has begun discouraging customers from buying books by Malcolm Gladwell, Stephen Colbert, JD Salinger and other popular writers, a flexing of its muscle as a battle with a publisher spills into the open.The internet retailer, which controls more than a third of the book trade in the United States, is marking many books published by Hachette Book Group as not available for at least two or three weeks.A Hachette spokeswoman said on Thursday that the publisher was striving to keep Amazon supplied but that the Internet giant was delaying shipments "for reasons of their own."…For at least a decade, Amazon has not been shy about throwing its weight around with publishers, demanding bigger discounts and more time to pay its bills. When a publisher balked, it would withdraw the house's titles from its recommendation algorithms.Not specified: what the dispute with Hachette is. At what level does the US Department of Justice begin watching Amazon's behaviour?Why wearable fitness trackers are just a fad that's going to die &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJason Jacobs, chief executive of app firm Runkeeper:my views on how this market will play out are informed by my experience helping almost 30 million users to be active. And they are shaped by a consistent pattern the consumer electronics industry has followed for years.To be sure, there will be a place for very specific fitness trackers that go deep in one area or are geared toward advanced users. But for mainstream usage, fitness tracking will be handled largely by general purpose devices, whether smartphones or eventually a whole class of smart watches working independently or in concert with a phone.This pattern has played itself out before. Before the modern smartphone era began, music players, GPS devices, point-and-shoot cameras and portable video cameras all flourished. But the smartphone, with its combination of portable sensors, connectivity and apps, eventually replaced these dedicated devices for everyday use, relegating them to the sidelines. The same future awaits dedicated fitness trackers.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Amazon's new device is teeming with features and services that stream the latest movies and TV shows into the living room. Yet theFire TV, (out in the US now, and expected autumn/Christmas in the UK), is more than just another set-top box, as beneath its tiny casing lurks a powerful games console. It may not fit the bill for the hardcore gaming fanatic but not since the Wii has there been an affordable console that's suitable for the whole family.Here are five reasons why it might just be one of the most promising new games devices coming out this year.It's affordablePS4, Xbox One and Wii U are impressive machines with brilliant games, but they're also expensive – ranging from £250 up to £400. That means there's a gap in the market for a wallet-friendly games console.Fire TV will set you back just $99 (expect it to be between £80-£100 in the UK), and Amazon says game prices will average at little over £1.There are exclusive gamesFire TV is not the only set-top box that boasts video game functionality, but what separates Amazon's device is the exclusive software. The company has internal development studios, including the likes ofDouble Helix(the team behindKiller Instincton Xbox One). Amazon has got a number of Fire TV-only games, but the big exclusive isSev Zero. The hybrid tower defence/third-person shooter is visually lacking compared with some of the other titles on the platform, but it's been built specifically for the machine, runs smoothly, and even boasts local multiplayer options.It has a real controllerThe Fire Game Controller is available separately and at $40 (£23), not cheap, although it comes with a free copy ofSev Zero. But what Amazon is offering here is a robust controller that is akin to traditional game pads; in fact it even looks like the Xbox 360 controller (right down to the X, Y, A and B buttons). The controller means Fire TV can host "serious" games.Voice and tablet controlAs with Kinect on Xbox, Fire TV lets users search for content using voice. A microphone is built into the remote control and vocal commands are then sent back into the cloud, with the results presented in a matter of seconds. Fire TV also offers Wii U-like second-screen gameplay. There are a number of games, including the aforementionedSev Zero, that lets one player control the game on the TV, while another helps out using a tablet.Minecraft is comingSeveral publishers have committed to Fire TV, such as EA, 2K, Ubisoft, Sega and Square Enix, and there are a number of big games confirmed, such as the acclaimed adventureThe Walking Dead. But arguably the biggest release isMinecraft. The hit construction game has sold around 50m units across PC, Xbox 360, PS3 and smartphones worldwide, and it will be available from day one on Fire TV.
It's Monday! Manchester City are champions!
Mike O’Hara, 52Marketing consultant.ReadingThe Big Leap: Conquer Your Hidden Fear and Take Life to the Next Levelby Gay Hendricks."I’m reading this self-help book. My wife is an achievement and confidence coach and she has lots of these books that she recommends for me. I have them here on my iPad. There’s a brilliant book about mindfulness and another calledThe Charge. I do this journey about once every two months so reading is a good way of making use of my time."Ryan Csadorda, 11Student.Watching YouTube."I’m watching YouTube videos of people I subscribe to on my iPad. They’re usually videos of people playing the Fifa video game. They film themselves doing it. Friends told me about it and I’m a big football fan, so I find it interesting. I play the game myself but I like watching other people play it as well. Before I had an iPad I just sat there"Nassima Bouchenak, 21Studying for a masters in publishing.Reading the bookLiving Dead in Dallasby Charlaine Harris."I finished term and I wanted to read something light and it’s quite an easy book to read. It’s been made into a TV Show – True Blood – and I’m a fan of the series so I decided to read the book. The book is good but the series is better. If I’m going to read a really nice, pretty book, I’ll buy it, but if it isn’t I’ll read it on my Kindle. I use my Kindle while travelling because I’ve got a lot more options on it without having to carry lots of books"Andy Knapp, 48Fireman.WatchingIn the Fleshon BBC iPlayer."I download stuff on to my iPad at home to watch on my journey. I work in London but I live in Chorley [in Lancashire] so I commute a lot. Right now, I’m watching a new series calledIn the Flesh. It’s about zombies. I came across it when I was browsing and I thought if you don’t like it then you can just delete it. Before I got the iPad, I used to sit and read a book or the paper or look out the window. I’ll sit and read a book at home or at work, but on the train it’s nice to catch up with TV"Barbara Lowi, 57Works on the student help desk at Middlesex University.ReadingThe One Plus Oneby JoJo Moyes."I’ve played Scrabble on my iPad. I’ve also emailed my friends, been on Facebook, read a book and read press reviews for a play I’m going to see. I’m reading The One Plus One by JoJo Moyes for my book group. I do this journey often but this is the first time I’ve brought an iPad. Usually, I read a real book or I use my smartphone to go on the internet but I got an iPad for my birthday a month ago and this is the first time I’ve downloaded a book and I love it. You can have a library and it weighs next to nothing, plus it’s very easy to read"Styliano Chrysostomou, 10Student.Watching the filmThe Mask."It’s a long journey to Manchester and I’ve got my headphones so I wanted to watch something to pass the time and keep me company.The Maskis a really funny film and all my friends like it; it’s about this man who steals loads of money. When I’m on trains, I always either listen to music or watch films. I’m going to Manchester to see my cousins"Deigles De Souza, 30Student.Checking Instagram."Facebook is now getting boring – people post anything. But Instagram is more selective so I check it often, especially on train journeys. It’s just pictures and videos, so you can’t get bored. If I didn’t have Instagram right now, I’d probably be taking a nap. I’m on the phone all the time; even before I go to bed, I’m under the duvet checking my phone. Before, I used to interact with friends or read a magazine or newspaper. Now I’m constantly scrolling"Belle Kongplee, 21Student.Playing the gameHeads Up."Me and my friends are playingHeads Up. It’s a version of the game where your friends stick a celebrity name on your forehead and you have to guess who it is. When you’re travelling with your friends it’s more fun to do something sociable like play a game. Now that we have iPhones,  it means we don’t need to get a piece of paper and write things down. These days, when you’re travelling, you don’t see travelling as the activity in itself. If you’ve got internet on your phone it opens you up to a world of different things you can do"Laura Brierley, 30Works in HR.Playing the gameFarm Heroes Saga."It’s from the company that madeCandy Crush. Someone invited me to it on Facebook. If I’m travelling I always carry my iPad. I was reading my book but I’ve put that down to have a break. I do own a Kindle but I never read books on it – I like having the physical copy. I stare at screens all day, so when I’m reading a book I like to relax, away from a screen"Nadia Khomami and Antonio Olmos travelled on a return Virgin train between London and Manchester
1 Adventure - The original Easter egg"Easter eggs" are hidden items in games. Often they are but a playful nod to another release; sometimes they conceal complete playable experiences. More frequently, though, they are silly, absurd gags placed by a developer. And it all started with the 1979 Atari 2600 gameAdventure. Apparently agitated by the fact he would not get a credit for his creation, the game's author concealed a message in a room. It was buried so deep it was not until a year after release when a 15-year-old from Salt Lake City stumbled on the message "Created by Warren Robinett". After finding the code concealing the text, Atari eventually agreed it could stay and apparently coined the term from the obvious comparison with the hunt for treats at Easter.2Grand Theft Auto IV – Liberty's human heartObservant GTA IV players may have spotted a sign in the base of the Statue of Liberty that reads "No Hidden Content This Way". Best ignored, it marks a secret entrance to the colossal sculpture's insides. A quick clamber up a ladder and there hangs one of the Grand Theft Auto series's most peculiar secrets; a throbbing, fleshy human heart scaled up to suit the 151ft statue's size. A nod perhaps then, to the scene inGhostbusters 2when the lady comes to life and helps save the day.3Metal Gear Solid 3 – Snake's nightmareGame director Hideo Kojima has long made games packed with hidden features, playful destruction of the fourth wall, and sometimes disturbing, cryptic secrets. The most ambitious is undoubtedly the "Guy Savage" sequence inMetal Gear Solid 3.After protagonist Snake is tortured and a player save is forced, a reboot of the game will trigger a dream sequence realised as a playable hack'n'slash action game. Initially Kojima refused to recognised its existence, but eventually revealed that originally some element of Konami's shoot-'em-up Gradius was intended to make up part of Snake's dream. Another series highlight was exclusively for players of the firstMetal Gear Solid. In the boss fight when Psycho Mantis reads the console's memory card, certain existing game saves – most famously fromCastlevania: Symphony of the Night– would trigger character dialogue around the given game.4Uncharted 3 - The OverseerA discarded newspaper inUncharted 3sports a headline seemingly referencing the plot fromThe Last of Us. And the paper's masthead  looks awfully familiar too…Of course, nobody paid any attention at the time. On a bar top in a fictional pub in Naughty Dog's gameUncharted 3lay a newspaper. Named theOverseer, and sporting a front-page layout that may feel remarkably familiar toObserverreaders, the publication led with the headline "Scientists are still struggling to understand deadly fungus". Two years later, with ample hindsight, it became apparent it was an early allusion to the narrative of the next game fromNaughty Dog, the critically celebratedThe Last of Us.5Gone Home – Mitten's JournalCult indie gameGone Homewas saturated with mysteries and secrets. There were the benign, such as the "Levine's Own Thousand Island Dressing" bottle; a seemingly throwaway nod to the legendary games maker Ken Levine. Then there were those that were very much part of the game, such as abstract clues that together helped the player piece together the game's greatest mystery; what it was about. And there were the delightfully absurd, with one example shining through. Players that found and dislodged a purple basketball before carrying it to a particular room and tossing it through a hoop were rewarded with something magnificent; a cat's journal narrated in meows – and a little human giggling – while an in-game television set presented a slideshow of one of the the internet's most popular cultural currencies: pictures of cats.6Just Cause 2 – The Lost islandNot content with a subtle nod to theLostTV series, theJust Cause 2team built the show's entire island.If ever there was a TV show that could be argued to contain Easter eggs, it was the fleetingly captivatingLost, back in 2004. It's fitting, then, thatLostitself is the subject of a video game Easter egg. The game in question is action-adventure rompJust Cause 2, which doesn't just give the J J Abrams co-created show a subtle nod. Instead, it recreates the series's entire island and packs it with references to the show, down to the notorious hatch. How to get to the island? All it takes is a quick plane flight overhead, which triggers an inevitable, unavoidable crash. Called Hantu Island in the game, the area also features its own black smoke monster, a beached plane wreck and a sign pleading for rescue in the sand.TRENDSPOTTINGMobile VRBefore the Oculus VR company was acquired by Facebook for $2bn, its rift headset was the darling of many game-makers. Rift has not gone away, but its move to Mark Zuckerberg's empire has served to expose alternative VR systems. The most interesting are perhaps the mobile VR headsets. They are free from electronic components, making them remarkably cheap, and some, like the coming Altergaze, can be 3D printed. Each, including the VRase and the already released Durovis Dive, work much like that classic childhood plaything, the View-Master. But instead of slotting in a disk of stills, a mobile phone clips into the headset. The result is impressive, delivering interactive stereoscopic 3D worlds. Despite issues with controls and the number of apps available to support the systems, they have great potential as an alternative to Rift.PIXEL PERFECTOne of the most significant updates toNintendo's Game Boy line came in 2001, with GameBoy Advance. Thirteen years later, vintage GBA games are enjoying a new lease of life, having secured a place in the Wii U's online Virtual Console store.Yoshi's IslandandMetroid Fusionare the most well-known of the first wave of releases, but accessible military strategy gameAdvance Warsis the best of a good bunch.F-Zero: Maximum Velocitydelivers a thrilling serving of  futuristic racing, whileWario Ware Incprovides a compendium of 200 increasingly silly microgames. With more GBA games being added to the list, all at £6.29, the Wii U has cemented its position as a leading portal to gaming's rich back catalogue.
Sebastian Knutsson doesn't even like candy. Which is kind of sweet given that he is responsible for developingCandy Crush Saga, the computer game that has become a global phenomenon."I like chocolate," he says after due consideration, "but not necessarily candy."Knutsson, the Swedish creative director of gaming company King Digital Entertainment, has been the driving force behind the success ofCandy Crush. The game is deceptively simple: a player must match three or more brightly coloured hard-boiled sweets in order to win points and progress to the next level. It's a bit likeTetris, but easier and with fewer hard edges. The sweets seemed like a good idea at the time. Knutsson, 45, says he liked the bold, brash colours of jelly beans, sherbet lemons and barley sugars because they reminded him of the early 1990s arcade games he grew up with."I'm not the PlayStation generation that expects everything to be in 3D," he says. "I enjoyedTetrisand pinball machines: the games where you got stuck and you'd give it another go for 25p to try again."Candy Crushcame about because he wanted to recreate that sense of straightforward pleasure. But no one could have foreseen its impact. "No," says Knutsson. "We were surprised."Within a year of its release for Facebook in 2012,Candy Crushhad become the social networking site's most popular game, with 46 million average monthly users. Now it has been downloaded to more than 500 million mobile devices worldwide and 97 million of us play it every day. It was the most downloaded free app of 2013 and the optional paid-for extras (which help players move forward) generate $850,000 (more than £500,000) in daily sales.As a result,Candy Crushis now responsible for nearly three-quarters of King's revenue and analysts estimate that the company's annual turnover is around £300m. Despite concern at King's over-reliance on the game, it went public in March, valued at $6bn with shares priced at $22.50. After dipping below $17, they are now trading at more than $18.Not bad for a pile of animated sweets.Candy Crush's genius – and the reason it has shown staying power in a notoriously fickle market (rememberFarmvilleanyone?) – is that it is multi-platform: it can be played on social networks, on smartphones, tablets or home computers. A game can be picked up and continued whenever a player has a few minutes to spare – on the commute, in a lunch break, during a boring meeting or just before sleeping, in place of pillow talk. It is also social. A big part of the appeal is being able to compare your score with friends online.Playing Candy Crush Saga on a tablet computer.  Photograph: Philippe Huguen/AFPWhereas the popular stereotype of a computer gamer used to be a solitary teenage Goth hunched over a console playingWorld of Warcraftin a darkened room,Candy Crushhas capitalised on an emerging female friendly market that uses hand-held electronic devices to play and to engage with other players.Natalie Meehan, 26, a freelance writer from Brighton, is a fan despite readily admitting that she is "not your standard gamer" (the entirety of her previous gaming-related experience was owning a Tamagotchi)."I only downloadedCandy Crushbecause I'd finished the book I was reading on my Kindle and I had a long train journey to tolerate," Meehan says. "Everyone had been banging on about it, so I thought 'sod it'. I soon became hooked. It's crazily addictive! I have a reasonably short commute – less than 20 minutes on the train to and from the office – and I tend to play it both there and back every day."Intriguingly, she says that playing  increases her concentration levels. "I always listen to podcasts on the journey and I find that if I'm listening to, say,The Food Programmewhile walking to the station, my mind wanders and I end up missing parts of the broadcast because I'm thinking about what I'll have for breakfast, or what I'll write about that day. As soon as I get on the train and start playing the game, my attention focuses and I'm able to listen to the podcast properly."Meehan is not alone. There was a time, about three months ago, thatCandy Crushseemed to reach critical mass. Everywhere you looked – buses, park benches, cafes – people were obsessively jabbing their fingers at a screen of luminescent lozenges. A friend of mine started playing on her maternity leave in between feeds and nappy changes and reached level 500, which was then the highest (these days, King has a team working full time on developing new levels as fast as possible to keep pace with demand).Knutsson has reached only level 459. He says he realisedCandy Crushhad become special when he was travelling for business and flight attendants and customs officials started telling him they played it. Although King's core demographic is women aged 25-45, there appears to be no end to the game's appeal. Recently, he was in the back of a taxi, doing a phone interview, and the cab driver – "who was sixtysomething, grey-haired" – showed Knutsson his own smartphone with theCandy Crushgame frozen on screen. "It's hard to know when people will tire of it," Knutsson says.Or, indeed, if they will. The superficial simplicity ofCandy Crushbelies an extremely sophisticated design process. Riccardo Zacconi, King's CEO and co-founder, has a rule that new games must be built in no more than three months by no more than three people. They are tried out first onKing.com. With enough hits, the game will then mutate on to Facebook. If the game proves successful there, only then will it be made available on tablet or smartphone. It's an effective system that keeps costs low.And then there are the game mechanics: the canny ways in which King keeps people hooked.Candy Crushis easy to pick up but just stimulating enough to ensure a player feels they are improving. A player is never stuck for too long: if you fail to make a move within 10 seconds,Candy Crushwill offer you a hint. This motivates gamers to keep on playing, especially if they are comparing their progress with that of their friends. The first 35 levels are free; after that, 69p buys you 20 new levels."We're helping the players a lot and easing them into playing," says Caroline Krenzer, 29, the lead producer on King's new game,Farm Heroes Saga. "There's usually a tutorial which very quickly explains the main game element. We make sure you don't want to waste time trying to understand it."But the stroke of genius is the fixed interval.Candy Crushgives users five lives – and when you lose one, it takes 25 minutes to get it back unless you buy extra lives through the app."Once you accomplish one level, you want to immediately try to push yourself to see just how far you can go," says avid player Tim Nthambi, 31, an e-learning technician at Manchester Academy.Some critics say the repetitive nature of Candy Crush can lead to addiction. Photograph: Katherine Rose for the ObserverSome psychologists claim that, althoughCandy Crushis a so-called freemium game (which means it is free to play but other products are sold to users at a premium rate), it can lead to serious gambling problems. Concern over the spiralling cost of purchases via the app has prompted the Office of Fair Trading to investigate. According to research conducted by Ask Your Target Market, 67% ofCandy Crushplayers say the game has had an impact on their lives, 32% say they ignore friends and family, while 10% have argued over the time they spend playing.Professor Mark Griffiths, head of the International Gaming Research Institute at Nottingham Trent University, has said that games such asCandy Crush"introduce players to the principles and excitement of gambling. Small, unpredictable rewards lead to highly engaged, repetitive behaviour. In a minority, this may lead to addiction."For casual players like Tim Nthambi or Natalie Meehan, however, the repetitive behaviour is part of the fun.The offices of King Digital Entertainment in London do not look like the headquarters of a money-grabbing global gaming corporation exploiting addiction for profit.Set on the 10th floor of a trendy office building off Tottenham Court Road, its panoramic windows show an impressive sweep of the city. There are bowls of sweets and free KitKats in the meeting rooms. A computer tablet in reception allows you to try your hand at King products."This is an office where employees are actually encouraged to play games," says Krenzer, "because we're testing them before we get them out to the players."As I am shown around, I spy at least one room containing a table football game and another piled high with mattresses and beanbags where some of King's 665 employees presumably brainstorm. We stop at a shelving unit filled with what looks like the remains of a child's dressing-up box – cowboy hats, feather boas and comedy glasses. "That was from a party we had the other night," says the PR manager.Today, there is an air of quiet industry. The desks are occupied by super-bright creative types of varying nationalities sporting facial hair and ironic T-shirts. Everyone is hard at work developing King's next game:Candy CrushMark II, otherwise known asFarm Heroes Saga.Acting on the principle that if something isn't broken, there could be no conceivable need to fix it,Farm Heroesoperates along exactly the same lines asCandy Crush. It features cutesy animals instead of hard-boiled sweets.But again, in spite of the superficial simplicity, the attention to detail is astonishing. A considerable amount of work goes into ensuring the game looks exactly right: friendly, fun and accessible to a predominantly non-gaming audience."It's like if you see a picture on Facebook of a cute cat," says Sean Hayden, a senior games artist. "It's aiming for that same aesthetic."Everyone is encouraged to pitch in. An online forum is open for anyone in the company to comment as the game is evolving. Every so often, there will be an awayday "game jam" where people are encouraged to come up with ideas.Candy Crush Saga on an iPhone. Photograph: Carlo Allegri/ReutersAs a result, theFarm Heroescharacters have a distinct and minutely thought-through appearance. The baddie – a fox swathed in purple – is drawn with no shoulders in order to accentuate his "evil, weedy" appearance. The plucky piglet is called Amelia, after the pilotAmelia Earhart, and comes complete with a neckerchief and goggles."We wanted to make it look like she was the smart one, the one who could fix things," says digital artist Gabriel Loques. "Our player base is mostly women and we design games for people who didn't play games before so we never have anything too dark or too sad."The pressure is on to makeFarm Heroesa success. A wave of television advertising is set to whip up interest. When King started advertisingCandy Crushon Japanese TV in 2013, the game jumped from being outside the top-100 most downloaded iPhone games in the country to the number one slot in under a week.King is wary of the accusation thatCandy Crushcould only ever be a one-hit wonder but online gaming companies have traditionally struggled to stay the course. Zynga, the creator ofFarmville(Facebook's most popular app until it was ousted byCandy Crush) went public in 2011 with a $7bn valuation, or $10 per share. Today it trades at around $5.80 per share – a decline of more than 40% from its stock market debut andFarmville, once a viral sensation, is now seen as embarrassingly passé.Traditionally, hit games have a short shelf-life and can be passing fads (Angry Birds,BejewelledandGuitar Herodo not have the market presence they once did). Success is also highly unpredictable: King, for instance, had been making games for a decade before it hit uponCandy Crush.For now, though, there is no doubt thatCandy Crushhas captured the public imagination and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Play it once and you'll want to play it again. And like all the best games, it has an element of obsessiveness to it."I match things everywhere," says Krenzer. "Sometimes, I even dream about it too."It already dominates our every waking hour. It can't be much longer untilCandy Crush Sagacreeps into our subconscious lives too.
In 2002, an ambitious and technically literate BBC technologist pitched a visionary idea to senior bosses for BBC3, the digital TV channel that would be launched the following year."Too busy to catch every episode of your favourite BBC3 shows?" the proposal began. "Stuck on the train or bus? Working late or drinking early? Then use 3VOD – BBC3's streaming video-on-demand service to request a recording of any BBC3 programme to watch on the channel's website whenever you like, within the next three days …"It might seem unremarkable, a nod to the TV and film download and streaming we all now take for granted. But this was 2002; only 43% of UK homes had an internet connection and only 6% of those were broadband. There was no YouTube, no Facebook, no Twitter – and Yahoo! had just tried, unsuccessfully, to buy Google for $3bn. It was a very different time.The discussion between the heads of BBC New Media over this proposal was not a long one. The idea was largely laughed out of the room, with what now seems the damningly short-sighted comment that who in their right mind would ever want to watch telly on a computer. That this would eventually lead to high-definition, long-form programmes on a 40-inch plasma TV was unthinkable – and these were the people at the BBC paid to explore and exploit technology to serve licence-fee payers.Fortunately, those with the real vision and technical understanding had the persistence to match.They began, using the permissions BBC3 had been granted in its service licence, to build up the service from 3VOD to the iMP – the interactive media player – and eventually the iPlayer. In BBC legend, it took 84 internal meetings for the small team committed to the iPlayer to bring the idea to fruition.By March this year, corporation bosses haddecided to ditchwhat they saw as the peripheral BBC3 digital TV channel. The headlines were failure, closure, savings … tagged on was that the BBC3 content would still be available online.But this was a service designed for 16- to 34-year-olds, a generation that lives online. Why did management ever bother putting it on TV? Why did they not recognise that properly serving BBC3's core audience for the future would mean delivering content online?The technologist behind that proposal could see that in 2002. It took BBC management 12&nbsp;years to catch up, and even then the announcement was defined as loss of a TV channel rather the chance to be digital first.Is it a good thing that a very early idea for a very early market opportunity was not explored by our public service broadcaster? Is it a good thing that the space was instead left for commercial organisations to explore, and that the denominator for the BBC's ambitions was the conventional mindset of its executives? I'd argue not.The BBC was founded on exploiting the breakthrough technologies of the day to achieve the public service aims of education, information and entertainment.There have been stellar examples of this, even quite recently. BBC News Online set the standard for what was possible in online publishing for years before commercial rivals found their feet. iPlayer too brought catch-up TV to the mainstream, developing a public appetite for it. The engineers and technologists that built News Online and iPlayer moved on to startups and the wider tech industry just as they should, talent trained at the BBC.But what has happened since then? The badly handled BBC3 announcement is indicative of much bigger problems at the BBC. Many people in the UK still feel deeply committed to the principle of a public service broadcaster, and there is no small amount of affection and nostalgia for an organisation that, to some extent, reflects our national culture, our identity, our public discourse.Or it should do. This broadcaster – or whatever a broadcaster becomes in the internet era – is beginning to fail us.This is far bigger than a lack of technological strategy. Journalistically it is feeble – too terrified to follow up the NSA/GCHQ surveillance investigation by theGuardian, yet festering with articles such asthe four-sentence report on a toddler whose head got stuck in a toilet seat. Creatively, it seems defunct and derivative –When Corden Met Barlowanyone? Politically, it has no standing at all, and no one able to stand up to political intervention and the increasing threat to the licence fee. Whoever replaces outgoing BBC Trust chairman Lord Patten will play a key role in determining the future of the licence fee and charter renewal. But no one person can answer the question: what does the BBC do, and who is it for?What should a 21st-century public service institution with that Reithian purpose really look like?And if it were created today, would such an organisation be anything like the BBC is now? Once, it might have been enough to get those visionary engineers back in the room, but now the BBC's problems seem far more pervasive. This is our BBC. Where do we start?
Knowing exactly where your friends are all the time is creepy; only someone who works in surveillance has that data. Knowing roughly where they are, though, feels a lot more acceptable. That's the thinking behindFacebook Nearby Friends(being rolled out gradually), which will let your Facebook friends let you know roughly where they are – grouped by "ambient proximity", which splits roughly into half-mile or mile differences, but no more precise. The fascinating thing about "Nearby Friends" is that Facebook could tell youexactlywhere people are. Apple's "Find My Friends" app does that (if a friend gives you permission to track their location); Google's Latitude did the same between 2009 and 2013. But Facebook chooses not to be accurate. Even as our devices can tell the world more about us, with greater precision, we're choosing to be less precise.Foursquare, another location-sharing app (which encourages people to "check in" at locations to become "mayor") isalso releasing Swarm, which will group friends based on rough location. Rather than the radar accuracy that we imagined would be so desirable a few years ago, both Facebook and Foursquare are aiming for "good enough". But it's not that they don't know where you are. It's that they're intentionally blurring the signal.It's a fascinating conundrum, which also finds echoes in apps such asSnapchat– which creates photos and comments which are intentionally shortlived – andSecret, where people whom you might know (friends, and friends of friends) anonymously dispense truths, or lies, or something in between.It seems that we've crashed up against the absolute precision of 64-bit floating-point calculations that can be stored on the internet for ever, and we've decided that in some cases we'd prefer to be vague, and transient. Human meets machine – and retreats from what the machine can do.I suspect that "fuzzy location" will be a lot more popular than the precise version when it comes to sharing. You can turn on fuzzy location and not worry that a trail of friends who you hadn't actually wanted to meet just at the moment for whatever reason will track you down. In that sense, the question of why precise location-fixing isn't so popular pretty much answers itself: we don't want to feel that the smartphone in our pockets is going to be blabbing all about us to the world. We want to be in control. If a friend who's in the area sends an SMS and asks to meet, then you can say no. If they just turn up while you're having a heart-to-heart in the coffee shop because your phone was blabbing on the internet, you won't feel well-disposed towards the friend, the phone or the app that created the problem. Which is why Facebook is being smart in making Nearby Friends opt-in; you specifically have to enable it. The shift from precision to vagueness (Nearby Friends), from storage to disposal (Snapchat), and from identification to anonymity (Secret) are all examples of us making the systems that we use more human – more analogue, less digital. It's ironic that it seems to take very large amounts of processing power to be less accurate.Given that our smartphones, and the systems that feed into them and take data from them, are the most personal items that we have – laden with so much of what we know and plan and have done – there's a pleasing symmetry in that, as they become more powerful, we can make them more human: less precise when we don't want them to be accurate, more forgiving if we make a mistake (satnav systems are already endlessly patient when we miss a turn, but still lack the human ability to understand why and react appropriately). What's the next boundary for getting these little computers to be more human? Understanding automatically whom we do and don't want to receive phone calls from? Telling us we have "lots" of email rather than a precise figure? There are still sharp edges in computing. Sanding them down to human shape could take some time – but the power to do it is now available.
Have you the stomach for an evening of food-based wonder?ObserverTech Monthlyhas just the prize for you.Glasgow Science Festivalbegins on 5 June, packed with events, from a Speed Science night where scientists vie to win the vote for the best speedy scientific talk, to a "geek walk" taking in sights linked to the city's relationship with engineering.Now in its eighth year, the festival features a cornucopia of events, many of them free. And we have a pair of tickets to the culinary pick of the bunch: a night of gastronomic intrigue at the city's well-knownStravaigin restauranton 12 June, complete with a complimentary bottle of wine.Attending Tasty Science: Mystery Menu Dinner Party, you will hear from three food experts and enjoy a mouth-watering meal. But the identity of the dish will remain a mystery, to be solved by scientists armed with a DNA sequencing kit.For a chance of winning, email tech.monthly@observer.co.uk before 26 May, with your address and phone number, with the answer to the question: What do the letters DNA stand for? Winners will be chosen randomly.The event is not open to vegans and/or vegetarians. Any dietary requirements must be noted when applying.TERMS AND CONDITIONS1. The 'Win a pair of tickets to the Tasty Science: Mystery Menu Dinner Party competition' (the "Competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The Competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM", the "Promoter" or "We"), their group companies or family members, Glasgow Science Festival, their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected with the Competition. Given the nature of the prize this competition is not suitable for vegans and/or vegetarians.3. Entry into the Competition is deemed as acceptance of these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Competition you must email the correct answer to the question above to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk, together with your name, telephone number, postal address and any dietary requirements. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the Competition, please e-mail us at tech.monthly@observer.co.uk with " Tasty Science: Mystery Menu Dinner Party  " in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to us.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The Competition closes at 23:59 on Sunday 25 May 2014.  Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. One winner will be chosen from a random draw of correct entries.9. The winner will receive a pair of tickets for the Tasty Science: Mystery Menu Dinner Party, together with a bottle of wine, taking place on Thursday, 12 June 2014 at 7p.m. in Stravaigin, Gibson Street, Glasgow (the "Event").  More details of the Event can be found here: http://www.gla.ac.uk/events/sciencefestival/events/adult/.  GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize including, without limitation, travel to or from the Event, accommodation and/or meals.10. The winner will be notified by email by GNM on or before 28 May 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. Due to the time limited nature of the prize, if a winner does not respond within 7 days of being notified, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner (and that winner will have to respond to the email from GNM within 3 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If the winner rejects their prize, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be sent to the winner by GNM by 10 June 2014.12. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.13. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.14. The name and county of the winner can be obtained after 12 June 2014 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Observer Tech Monthly, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The winner may be required for promotional activity related to the Competition and each winner shall participate in such activity on the Promoter's reasonable request.15. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 14 above.16. No purchase necessary.17. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury as a result of its negligence.18. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition.19. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; entered into.&nbsp; GNM reserves the right to discount entries if it suspects fraudulent bulk Entries or multiple Entries have been submitted to inappropriately influence or manipulate the selection of the winner.20. GNM &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; circumstances amounting to force majeure.21. The Competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.22. Promoter: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
Are you a gadget fiend?Yes, though I try to fight against it, partly because of expense and partly because of the sheer amount of stuff. Fifteen years ago, most people just carried a Nokia phone, maybe a £25 Saisho or Aiwa personal stereo. Now I leave the house with a laptop, iPad, iPhone … Thousands of pounds worth of stuff. Then there's all the adaptors and chargers. This notion that we're all wireless now is nonsense. I've never been more wireful.How has technology changed  your working life?Scriptwriting software is brilliant. Final Draft is the standard industry program designed to let you keep typing rather than worry about fiddly formatting. As a writer, you don't want that flow interrupted, so that's incredibly useful. The web is a double-edged sword when you're working – it's way too easy to get distracted. You tell yourself, "I'll just go online and research this one thing" and next thing you're arguing on Twitter. No wonder they wrote huge novels in the old days – they were stuck in a house with no internet or telly. What else were they going to do?Have you tried internet blocking software?Yep, two programs that have benefited my writing are Freedom, which cuts off the entire web, and Anti-Social, which blocks social networks but allows you to check emails and go online, though there are glitches in that. For some reason, it won't let me go on theDaily Mailsite. I can't help hoping that's deliberate. Or maybe it's the first sign that technology's becoming sentient and saying, "No, it's not acceptable for you to read that."What's your favourite gadget?My iPad. When iPads first came out, I was onQIand talked to Stephen Fry. I didn't see the point but he described the iPad as a "delightful pleasure". Which it is, but it's also turned out to be great practically. I use mine with a Bluetooth Logitech keyboard and it's been life-changingly brilliant.Are you an Apple addict?Massively. When I was a kid, my dad had an Apple II at work. He's a doctor and sometimes we'd go into the lab with him and play this very basic game called Lemonade Stand. When I was a student in the 1990s, I had a Mac Classic. I go way back with Apple and have always been a huge advocate of their products.What's the most expensive gadget  you own?Is a piano a gadget? We bought a new wafer-thin telly, which looks lovely, but the sound was awful so we bought a Chronos soundbar. We also play Spotify through it and I've linked up my record deck to it. That's probably the flashest thing I own.Do you have a gadget that you bought but never used?I'm currently between juicers. Years ago, we bought this juicer. What a pain in the arse. So hard to clean, everything's sticky and all you've got is a dribble of juice. It sat in a cupboard for years and when we movedhouse, like the Imperial Fleet, we discharged the refuse before making the jump to hyperspace. So the juicer went. Now we've got kids, I'm tempted to buy another. I know what'll happen: I'll use it four times, shove it in a cupboard and bin it next time we move house. This cycle will repeat until all landfill sites are overflowing with juicers.What's your favourite app?I find apps a bit like juicers – I download them, use them twice and never again. I just use Spotify and appalling hipster filters that make your photos look like they're from the 1970s. I couldn't type recently due to tendonitis in my arm, so I downloaded the Dragon dictation app, which was fantastic for note-taking.Do you use text-speak  or emojis?Never. Maybe it's my age, but I can't bear them. In my stand-up show, I used to say, "Hands up if you punctuate and spell your texts correctly." About half the audience would raise their hands and I'd go: "Good. Fuck the rest of you." I'm not interested in  bizarre infantalised communication. If you put a round yellow winking face at the end of a message, everything you've said before is negated. That sounds pompous, but I don't care.Love or loathe Twitter?It's a love/hate relationship. I've been on Twitter for five years and for the first couple, it was so good-spirited. I've got to know funny, interesting people and it's expanded my world. It's harder work now but that's to do with sheer volume. The only reason I ever tune intoThe X Factoris to watch along with Twitter. And there's no greater night of the year on Twitter than Eurovision. We lay out a full smorgasbord and settle in for four hours of sheer, raucous joy.How about other social media?I've got two Facebook accounts: one for work, one personal. When you're on tour – a solitary existence – keeping up with friends is a godsend. But I don't understand Pinterest and Instagram, where you're sharing everything. Stop it! Every little decision I make and everything I look at online doesn't have to be public.  It makes the internet a roomful of people going, "I'm just looking at a blue chair now!" So what? I don't care.What are you favourite websites?I'm working onVeepand for American politics I enjoy Nate Silver'sFiveThirtyEightandWonkette, a sparky, funny, liberal DC blog which keeps an eye on the absurdities of the Tea Party and Obama administration. Otherwise I just follow links off Twitter.Open Culture,Brain Pickingsand Colossal are fantastic for that. That's one of the successes of Twitter — not only is it a communication tool but it allows you to curate your internet experience. Which is a terrible phrase. Twitter tends to be my gateway to the web. Which is another terrible phrase.What's your all-time favourite  computer game?I'm not much of a gamer, but as a kid, Elite on BBC Micro. It was about space trading and was one of the most absurd games ever made. Staggeringly dull, but astonishingly addictive. Me and my brother wasted weeks on it. I was obsessed with Chuckie Egg too.What gadget would you like  to see invented?A self-cleaning pond. We bought a house with an unnecessarily large pond and it takes an unbelievable amount of upkeep. I'm forever cleaning filters or doing chemistry tests on the water. I've got pipettes, little vials, pH adjustors, nitrate test kits, waders, a pond vacuum… Ridiculous. I want some kind of robot to sort everything out.Chris Addison's sitcomTrying Againis on Sky Living, Thursdays at 9pm
Q Why does my iPhone still make sounds when the mute switch is enabled?Jemima, via emailA The iPhone mute switch can be a misleading feature as its behaviour is not as you may expect. You would assume that enabling it would cause all sounds to be silenced, but it mutes only notifications, system alerts, game audio and similar. Things such as video, music and some application sounds will be still be played; if you need to silence these as well, you'll have to lower your volume too.Q I bought an external hard drive and it has less space than advertised, why is this?Leanne, via emailA The primary issue here is the difference between number bases. We usually write numbers using base 10 maths, using the symbols for 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. For example, 55 means 5 tens and 5 units. However, numbers can be written in any number base. For example, base 2 (or binary) is represented using only two symbols, 0 and 1, making it perfect for computers to represent using electrical signals. Just like Base 10, numbers have place value and columns represent powers of 10. So in Base 2, the columns represent powers of 2. Hence the number 110111 denotes (reading from right to left):1 one (20), 1 two (21), 1 four (22), no eights (23), 1 sixteen (24), and 1 thirty-two (25). Therefore, 110111 in Base 2 = 55 in Base 10.As computers operated in base 2, in the 1970s Microsoft adopted a 2n system for measuring storage capacity, using 1024 bits to a byte (210), 1024 bytes in a kilobyte (220) and so forth. However, since most consumers do not think in base 2 maths, drive manufacturers use a base 10 measurement system, using 1000 bytes to a kilobyte (103), 1000 kilobytes to a megabyte (106).This isn't too much of a problem with fairly small numbers such as a kilobyte, but each level of increase in the byte prefix also increases the total discrepancy of the actual space compared to the advertised space.So, if we measure this difference for a gigabyte, for every gigabyte a manufacturer claims, they are over-advertising by about 72 MB of disk space. If a manufacturer says a drive is 500 GB (500bn bytes) hard drive, the actual disk space is around 465 GB.Annoyingly, this isn't true for all drives and storage media on the market. Consumers beware. Most hard drives are reported based on the advertised values where a gigabyte is one billion bytes. However, most flash storage is based on the actual memory amounts, so a 512MB memory card usually has exactly 512 MB of capacity. More confusion, and it would be much better if all manufacturers began reporting on actual disk capacity.Q I saw something about a security flaw called "Heartbleed". Am I safe? How do I fix it?Adam, via emailA This bug is a vulnerability in the OpenSSL cryptographic software library used by most  web software. This allowed the stealing of information that is usually protected by the SSL/TLS encryption that protects secure internet traffic (wherever you see https:// or the green padlock in your browser).The purpose of SSL/TLS is to allow two computers to speak to each other without allowing others to see the conversation. SSL/TLS uses public key cryptography to secure communications for things like online banking, web services, online shopping, email and more.Heartbleed allows anyone on the internet to read the memory of the systems protected by the vulnerable versions of the OpenSSL library. This compromises the secret keys used to identify the service providers and to encrypt the traffic, names and passwords of the users and the content. This lets attackers eavesdrop on communications, steal data directly from the services and users and to impersonate services and users.Fortunately, an update to the library has been released and many services have updated to a newer version. Many have also regenerated their certificates and revoked old ones to prevent any that may have been stolen from working in the future (as long as your browser checks for revoked certificates).To protect yourself from any long-term effects, you  should change all your passwords in case they were leaked and recorded while the vulnerability was widespread. Thankfully, doing this on sites that are not yet updated would make the process futile. However, a web developer named Jamie Hoyle released an extension for Chrome called Chromebleed that checks to see if the site you're visiting is vulnerable to Heartbleed and notifies you if it is. You can find ithere.It is also a good time to switch to using a good password management system such as1Passwordto generate and store unique passwords for each site.Daniel Tomlinson is a freelance programmer for iOS and web. He is a student and has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador for Young Rewire State and can be found @DanToml. Email your tech problems to Daniel:tech.questions@observer.co.ukwith your name and address.
Offering up a dungeon-crawling RPG with an abundance of "cute" anime girls to befriend,Demon Gazesadly presents even fewer surprises than that overdone concept implies. As the amnesiac Oz, players use a magic eye to hunt down and tame demons to use in battle later. Essentially the bosses of the game, these creatures offer several elemental attributes to explore, providing some variety in an otherwise rote experience. Much like the Etrian Odyssey series, dungeons are explored in first person, with the map being charted as areas are explored. Difficulty is frustratingly high, and although it can be adjusted down, battles still feel wildly uneven. There's also a dearth of clear information as to the benefits of new equipment, or when and how new abilities are learned. Levelling generally feels far too slow, requiring much grinding to enable progression.Demon Gazedoes make nice use of the Vita's online functions, allowing for notes left between players advising of secrets or dangers, but it's not enough to make up for a resoundingly lacklustre package.
There is no doubting the popularity of gaming nostalgia – as proved by the current, vibrant retro scene. It's a popularity that platformerPutty Squadis looking to exploit, and for those who remember the game's SNES release in 1993, playing the new 3DS remake will probably evoke wistfulness for the sense of humour that was peculiar to games from the early 90s.Fond reminiscence is the best on offer here, however, asPutty Squadhas not aged gracefully and feels rather pedestrian by today's standards. The game sees the player command a viscous blob that can morph into various forms to make its way through 2D levels, while absorbing powers and abilities from the environment.The globule is let down by level design that demands little of its diverse skill set, instead offering the player banal arrangements of ledges and gaps. Equally, the graphical upgrade has only served to dull the original's crisp pixel art and the game's use of the 3DS's display abilities is underwhelming.Putty Squad's playful character, then, is perhaps better served in memory than through this modern overhaul.
Novel gameplay and an excellently bizarre premise makeOctodada game not quickly forgotten. Players control the cephalopod – beginning with his wedding day to a seemingly oblivious human female – and control is key, specifically in taking charge of individual limbs to awkwardly manoeuvre the creature. This must be achieved with care: draw attention to yourself and there is a risk of people noticing your true genus. The first task, for example, requires dressing for the wedding, but then the kids come along and the missions kick up a notch – mowing the lawn, chasing your son up a fiendishly frustrating kelp-themed jungle gym – with marine biologists on the lookout for rogue sealife, and the occasional interruption from an enraged chef. It sounds odd because it is, but the strange interaction between the burbling avatar – think a mute Dr Zoidberg fromFuturama– and his blissfully unaware family is much of the fun in this pleasingly odd gem.
The video-game giant Nintendo has apologised and promised to be more inclusive, after being criticised fornot recognising same-sex relationshipsin English-language editions of a life-simulator video game. The company said, however, it was too late to change the game.In a statement released on Friday, the Japanese company said: “We apologise for disappointing many people by failing to include same-sex relationships in Tomodachi Life.“Unfortunately, it is not possible for us to change this game’s design, and such a significant development change can’t be accomplished with a post-ship patch.”Nintendocame under fire from fansand gay rights organisations this past week after refusing to add same-sex relationship options to the game Tomodachi Life.The game was released in Japan last year and features a cast of Mii characters – Nintendo&apos;s personalised avatars of real players – living on a virtual island. Gamers can do things like shop, play games, go on dates and get married.Already a hit in Japan, Tomodachi Life is set for release 6 June in North America and Europe.The statement continued: “At Nintendo, dedication has always meant going beyond the games to promote a sense of community, and to share a spirit of fun and joy. We are committed to advancing our longtime company values of fun and entertainment for everyone.“We pledge that if we create a next instalment in the Tomodachi series, we will strive to design a game-play experience from the ground up that is more inclusive, and better represents all players.”
'How much?" I&nbsp;ask my girlfriend, after she's just driven this&nbsp;one across town. It's a little game I play with her each week: guess the price of the test car. You know, just for a bit of fun (it's so important to keep the fun in a relationship, don't you think?)."What?" she says, sounding bored (she does that, pretends not to be that interested, but I think she loves it really). "Oh, erm, 16 grand?"Sixteen grand! To be honest, she's never been very good at this game, but rarely quite so spectacularly wrong. Sixteen grand? That gets you pretty much exactly half of one of these. You can't even get the most bog-standard basic Golf for 16 grand.To be honest, she probably thinks it is the most basic Golf. Inside, it is quite plain, and outside it doesn't look so very different – she won't have noticed the little R, the 18-inch alloys, the four tailpipes, or the pleasing, manly burble emitting from them (she probably thinks it's emitting from me). She certainly hasn't put it in "race" mode, which pipes an even more macho note right into the cabin. She might have thought it was a bit harsh over the speed bumps, but she probably put that down to cheap suspension and knocked off a couple of grand.And actually, though you could say her estimate is an insult to the fastest production Golf ever made, in some ways it's also a compliment. Not only is it understated, unshowy, but it also has none of the jumpiness you might expect from such a highly tuned turbocharged engine. It's very possible to drive it in a civilised, sensible manner across town, as she has just done, blissfully unaware that there are 300 horses ready to spring into life at a kick from her right foot.Less than five seconds to 62mph – that used to mean Porsche, and the quickest Golf took nine. But hatches, like summers down under, just keep getting hotter and hotter. And this one is scorchio. Not an ill-mannered brute, though. See above decorum. Plus the four-wheel drive, which comes into effect when required, gives it an assuredness; the steering feels just right (that's a technical term), it's perfectly balanced and responsive. Obviously, to appreciate it properly, you'd need to take it out on a race track, which I'm not doing. I still love it, though.Until the crash. More of a bump than a crash, and it wasn't my fault, I wasn't going too fast, promise. Nor&nbsp;were they, but they pulled out from a side road, without seeing us. (I know it's not showy, but it's not so&nbsp;utterly invisible, is it?) Everyone's fine. But the car's much less lovable, all dented on the left-hand side. Sixteen grand is probably quite generous now.VW Golf R 2.0 TSI 300PS 6 Speed DSGPrice£31,970Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 4.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption40.9mpgCO2emissions159g/kmGreen rating5/10Cool rating8/10
How do we end up in the jobs we end up in? And why did we miss those opportunities we had set our hearts on? If most of us look back, the reality is likely to be as fraught with chance as any other aspect of our biography. Our working lives are essentially fictive constructs, born out of the fantasy and chemistry of CV and interview, the lucky break or wrong call, the age-old laws of square pegs and round holes, or, just occasionally, of "perfect fit".Where such randomness exists now, of course, "big data" – that amalgam of all that we and our fellow digital citizens do online, the gigabyte human traces we bequeath second by second to machines – is certain to follow.None of us would like to think of our essential self – our talents and skills, traits and quirks, education and experience, those all-important extracurricular passions and hobbies – as being reducible to a series of data points, a set of numbers and correlations. But what if such information could help us find our perfect workplace, our ideal match?One man trying to bring data to bear on our careers is Alistair Shepherd, an engineering graduate of Southampton University. In 2009 he won a place at Harvard Business School where he planned to develop an idea for a company based on a wave-power innovation he had created. But he was diverted by two things that his professor,Noam Wasserman, said to him. Wasserman is author ofThe Founder's Dilemmasand a guru of the reasons businesses go wrong.Entrepreneur using mobile phone in creative office space. Photograph: Hero Images/Getty Images/Hero ImagesHe told Shepherd that 83% of all new companies failed and that the evidence showed the primary reason for failure in two-thirds of those cases was not the quality of the business idea or lack of funding. It was a failure in the personal business relationship of the company's founders. Shepherd decided he would abandon his engineering project and attempt some social engineering instead.He is explaining some of this in his shared office on a floor of the Google incubator campus just off "Silicon Roundabout" at the junction of City Road and Old Street in London. The business he is trying to incubate is calledSaberr– tagline: "Optimise your workforce" – and it is one of the more interesting entrants into the increasingly crowded field of "people analytics", the attempt to apply big data to human performance, in an effort to optimise productivity, success (and happiness) in the workplace. Shepherd speaks with something of the infectious excitement of the early adopter.The social science of human interaction at work that Shepherd discovered at Harvard, he suggests, was a minefield of competing psychological models, mostly from the middle of the last century. As a would-be MBA, he was already familiar, for example, withMyers-Briggs(the model, based on the work of Carl Jung, that was initially developed by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers to assign appropriate jobs to women entering the workforce during the second world war) as well as the more evidence-based theory of the components of an ideal team researched from observation byMeredith Belbinat Henley College in the 1970s. Neither they, nor their later variations, however, had ever proved particularly useful in predicting real-world business success.Shepherd looked for a significant source of data on what might make successful teams. "Online dating," he says, "seemed to me a great place to start. It provides a digital record on a very large scale that answers a very simple question: which two people will have a successful relationship?"He spent months digging through what research he could access of the characteristics of the most successful online matches (which he defined as when both parties committed to cancelling their online dating accounts, settling for what they had). Using the kind of questionnaire that helped to make those matches in the first place – "Do you like horror movies?", "Would you have sex on a first date?" – stripping out as much romance as possible, and combining it with the latest academic thinking in behavioural science, he worked out a rudimentary algorithm for what might spark a successful business relationship.All he then needed was a forum in which to test his theory, culled from the data, that a measurable "resonance" of shared core values, rather than the grouping of any particular personality types, was the key driver of the most creative partnerships and teams – and that such a resonance could be predicted using analysis based on his blind online questionnaire.The first place he tried was at a business competition called the Bristol Spark, a week-long competition for young entrepreneurs in which there were eight teams of eight people. The people in the teams had never met before. The idea was to come together to produce business ideas by the end of the week and present them before a panel of investors. Several thousand pounds were at stake.Before the competition started, Shepherd got permission to have everyone answer the 25 online questions he had formulated from the dating research. Then he was told who was in each team, so worked out their "resonance" and, based on his "pretty scrappy algorithm", ranked the teams in order one to eight, presented the results to the judges in a sealed envelope and asked them to open it after they announced their decision.Shepherd never met any of the people involved. He had no knowledge of their skills, experience, education,  demographic or, crucially, what ideas they were proposing. He had nothing but their answers to questions such as, "Do spelling mistakes annoy you a great deal or just somewhat?" It turned out he was correct not only in predicting which team won, but also the exact ranking of all the other teams.He has refined his formula andrepeated the sealed envelope exercise many times at innovation competitions. "The longest we did was the Microsoft Imagine Cup," he says, "which is an eight-month student development competition for the Windows platform. We have a greater than 95% accuracy in predicting the ranking of teams." Last September, he did his trick at the LondonSeedcampcompetition, which won Saberr its office space at this Google campus, among other things, and the chance to see if it could make money from data-driven clairvoyance.Shepherd is at the very beginning of this commercial experiment, in the process of persuading companies to let him identify their high performers and engineer their most successful teams. He pleads innocence to the idea that he might just have created a monster – another way for companies to justify with data their "up or out" philosophies – and is some way from making it pay, but his ambition is to feed the growing appetite to apply quantitative rigour to some of the more intangible aspects of human potential.The advance of algorithms into recruitment and "talent management" – workplaceMoneyball– is the latest encroachment of the power of big data in areas traditionally policed, for better and worse, with a large element of human instinct and subjective decision-making. If you trace its history, you get back toDaniel Kahneman, the Nobel prize-winning psychologist, who, as he documented in his game-changing book,Thinking Fast and Slow, was tasked at 21 with the job of organising recruitment for the Israeli defence force.He proved that numerical analysis of a simple psychological questionnaire on its own was far more efficient in predicting successful candidates than the interview-based judgment of expert senior officers (for which, wonderfully, the correlation between actual and predicted performance of recruits was precisely zero).Digital applications of that insight have the advantage of huge data resources and programmable machine intelligence. They also have all of the dangers – to privacy, notion of the individual, to long fought-for rights in the workplace and beyond – that blind number-faith in arenas of complex human activity always involves. Any employee knows there are few more chilling sights than time-and-motion operatives with clipboards. As our work and our career path moves online, those anonymous monitors of our progress and productivity (or its perceived lack) are more and more likely to be embedded and alert to our every interaction.Proponents of big data invite us to think of the information gained from such insight as value neutral. They argue, with the persuasive clarity of the digitally born-again, that it will offer certainty in spheres of doubt. And what more dubiously scientific process is there than that of job recruitment?Lauren Rivera, a sociologist at Northwestern University in America, spent three years from 2006 studying the recruitment practices of global investment banks, management consultancies and law firms, which spent millions of dollars on apparently objective processes to secure "top talent", and concluded that among the most crucial factors in decision-making were "shared leisure interests". Squash players hired squash players. Golfers chose golfers. "Assessors purposefully used their own experiences as models of merit," she concluded.Listening to Shepherd talk about "cultural resonance", I wonder how his algorithm would counter such biases?"To achieve that shared spark," he says, "you use the data to maximise behavioural diversity, but to minimise value diversity." His interest is in the alignment of values rather than the values themselves. "When you see companies with the words 'integrity' or 'trust' written on the wall in big type you know straight away that's a load of nonsense, because how do you measure it? We all say we value trust and freedom but do we, say, value trust more than freedom? It is at those points that the data begins to let you see those fundamental values that allow very different kinds of people to work very successfully together." Shepherd is evangelical about the possibilities. "If you think of your workforce as a machine that delivers all your goals, then for you not to pay mathematical attention to how best it fits together is madness."That perceived attention deficit is being filled at a rapid rate. The science and the pseudo-science of business performance originated in the post-Henry Ford world of US commerce and it is there that most of the analytics pioneers are pimping their algorithms. Ever since there have been corporations and companies, leaders and managers have been invited to think of their employees – arguably always to the detriment of the latter – as numbers in a system.The complexity and sheer volume of those numbers is expanding exponentially. Max Simkoff is the co-founder of a fast-growing Silicon Valley company called Evolv whose website keeps a ticker of the number of data points its computers are assessing (489,562,868 as I write and rising by the second).Evolv– tagline: "The first predictive analytics app to proactively manage your employee workforce" – was created in response to a particular problem. Simkoff and his business partner worked for a small-scale private health company employing the majority of its workers on an hourly rate. The biggest and most expensive challenge the company faced was the fact that on average those entry-level staff stayed less than a year. Simkoff assumed there must be software packages available that analysed employee data and helped employers discover which attributes made the people they hired more likely to stay in the job.In 2006, he discovered there wasn't, really. "People were relying on intuition; looking at how many jobs someone had had, for example, and trying to decipher from that whether a person would be a productive and long-term employee," he says, with an analyst's disdain for gut instinct.Little was being measured, so Evolv set about measuring whatever it could. Its customers mostly supply internal company data daily: how many interactions each employee has had, whether they have sold anything, and so on. This is added to information about how long each individual has been at the company, how they have performed, who their managers have been, any pay increases, subjective appraisal and engagement scores, along with "ongoing macro-economic data on everything from regional labour markets to median home prices".And then, Simkoff explains, with the satisfaction of the statistician: "Every single night our machine learning engine runs hundreds of millions of reports to look at individual differences even within the same company – some explainable by cultural differences, some by regional differences."By morning, he says: "If a customer has thousands of people in similar job types, our system can predict accurately on a given day which individuals are most likely to quit." In response, Evolv then offers employers "what-if types of analysis" by which if they change certain incentives – a bonus, training scheme, change in environment – they can see exactly what effect it is likely to have on a particular person's behaviour. In this way Evolv advertises average reduced employee attrition rates among its clients, who include one fifth of Fortune 100 companies, of up to 15%.As well as apparently inveigling its way into all sorts of (anonymised) aspects of individual employee behaviour, Evolv data undermines certain truisms, among them the idea of the serial job-hopper. "The number of jobs you have previously had," Simkoff says, "and even whether you're employed or not at the time of application, has zero statistical correlation with how successful you will be or how long you will stay." The statistics also show, he suggests, counter-intuitive correlations, including evidence that former prison inmates are among the most reliable employees.Evolv has not attempted to use its model in professional salaried jobs because, Simkoff says, the data is less reliable as there are rarely hard and fast productivity measures. "Things get squishier in the professional end," he suggests. "But two-thirds of all jobs are entry level, so there is no shortage of opportunity…"One of the great challenges facing recruiters and job seekers at that squishier end of the market is the vast increase in the number of applications for positions in the few years since the process became digital. Steve Weston, group technology director at the global recruitment firm Hays, suggests that the number of applications per job has risen tenfold in the past five years. Hays sees 30,000 new CVs uploaded every day. Its algorithmic search engine can filter its 250m CV database in less than a second. The machine can learn precise keyword matches for education and experience; it can give precise location matches for individuals; but it struggles to find that Holy Grail of job qualification: culture fit. Weston suggests that is the "10 terabyte" question facing recruiters around the world; one solution, particularly for the new generation of job seekers might lie in "gamification".Among many companies attempting that particular quest (including Saberr) is another American startup, Knack, which this month established an office in London. Knack – tagline: "We're reimagining how people discover their potential, from education to work to innovation" – uses immersive online video games to collect data to quantify how creative, cautious, flexible and curious, etc, potential job applicants are, and offers thereby to funnel tens of thousands of applicants for clients. ItsWasabi Waitergame, for example, casts the applicant on service at a sushi restaurant with multiple demands on his time and many orders to fill.Knack began when its Israeli founder, Guy Halfteck, failed to land a job with a large New York hedge fund after an interview process lasting six months of interviews and tests based on the common fallacy that the more information human decision-makers have, the better judgments they can make. Beyond a certain point, the information just becomes noise, Halfteck argues, with a data-driven weight of evidence on his side. He looked for a different model, one that could "transcend resumés, transcend interviews, transcend what people say about themselves and cut to some data that is actually credible …"Wasabi Waiteris derived from economic game theory and because it aims to reveal how people behave and make decisions in real time "is not about what you say you do, but what you do". The data views the game as a stream of micro-decisions and micro-behaviours and micro problem-solving. "We collect thousands of data points in milliseconds," Halfteck claims, in the way that Big Data believers tend to.Wasabi Waiterwas developed by his (handpicked) Ivy League team of neuroscientists, data experts, researchers in artificial intelligence and gaming engineers.The game Wasabi Waiter was developed by an Ivy Leave team of data experts and neuroscientists."When you compare our data to, say, an interaction between a hiring manager and a candidate, it is orders of magnitude greater," Halfteck says. He has had much success in persuading companies such as Shell that his culture-fit games, and the algorithm that matches individuals to particular roles and particular organisations, are predictors of the future.Along with all the obvious caveats that such an innovation might require – not least the fact that the long-term efficacy of its model has yet to be tested – one potential advantage of using games is that, unlike in written or IQ tests, language and culture barriers are largely removed. Of the argument that the games favour game-playing "millennials", Halfteck can point to his inhouse research that suggests age has no impact at all on outcomes."To explain that, if you look atFlappy Birdsor whatever, it is a very broad demographic that successfully plays those games from five-year-olds to people in their 80s." What about that significant element of the population that has never held a games console? What about those who are more stressed by the thought of computers than they are by written tests? Halfteck is predictably adamant that it does not replace one barrier to entry with another.The premise of Knack games is that "the way you do something is the way you do everything". It claims to be a method of extending and smartly filtering the pool of talent from which companies can draw, by measuring intangibles not covered by paper qualifications."At the moment, at the top end of the market companies are competing for people from this very small competitive pool of people from Oxford or Harvard or whatever," Halfteck says. "We are suggesting a way that they can find others who have great or greater potential from way beyond that pool." Steve Jobs is often presented as the case in point. As a college dropout, the Apple founder would never have received an interview with most blue-chip firms.If the counter arguments are also quickly clear – why trust the evidence of a game over the centuries-old grind of academic pass and fail – Halfteck is not alone in envisaging a future in which "gamification" becomes the norm in applications of all kinds. "This year we will start living side by side with standard tests in many schools and colleges and universities in the States," he says. "Traditional scores only look at written test abilities. They do not begin to measure the factors likely to have most bearing on your success: social skills or personality traits – how you deal with stress, how you collaborate with other people, how much you listen…"The next logical step in such a philosophy is the extension of such "gamification" to all aspects of work and life. If this prospect sounds alarming – as alarming perhaps as the knowledge that governments and corporations have long been collecting the data of all our private moves on the internet and applying their algorithms accordingly – then that is already upon us. Closely monitoring and publicly sharing one's health information is part of a growing trend of "the quantified self" movement; motto: "Self-knowledge through numbers."It stems from the belief that the examined life is now made from data points: blood pressure, heart rate, food consumption, hours of sleep, quality of exercise, as well as the nature and range of our real and social media interactions, add up the precise data-set of who we are. Or so the belief goes. That philosophy also threatens to invade the workplace (and brings to mind a variation of that Neil Kinnock formulation: "I warn you not to be stressed, I warn you not to be unfit, I warn you not to be disabled or ageing or tired or having an off day…").Alex Pentland, professor of media arts and sciences at MIT, has gone a stage further than virtual world "gamification" in trying to collect data on real-time human performance, and what makes successful teams. He has gone into banks, call centres and research institutions and persuaded workers to wear an "electronic badge" that monitors the tone and range of their interactions and certain elements of body language and self-quantification over a period of months."What I decided to do is to try to study this behaviour in the way you would study ants or apes," Pentland tells me. The results of his work were published inNatureandScienceas well as theHarvard Business Review."We found that you could pretty accurately predict how well the group or individual would do without knowing any of the group or the content of their work."The data suggested that the success of teams had much less to do with experience, education, gender balance, or even personality types; it was closely correlated with a single factor: "Does everybody talk to each other?"Ideally this talk was in animated short bursts indicating listening, involvement and trust – long speeches generally correlated with unsuccessful outcomes. For creative groups such as drug discovery teams or for traders at financial institutions, say, the other overwhelming factor determining success was: do they also talk to a lot of people outside their group? "What we call 'engagement' and 'exploration' appeared to be about 40% of the explanation of the difference between a low-performing group and a high-performing group across all the studies," Pentland says.It was important that a good deal of engagement happened outside formal meetings. From this data, Pentland extrapolates a series of observations on everything from patterns of home-working (not generally a good idea) to office design (open and collegiate) to leadership. "If you create a highly energetic environment where people want to talk to each other right across the organisation then you have pretty much done your job right there."Doesn't the wearing of a badge monitoring your every move alter the way people behave, I wonder. Don't people become deliberately more gregarious and promiscuous in their conversations because they know Pentland's algorithm is "listening"?"Probably," he says. "But that's the outcome you're trying to achieve anyway."If that application and outcome sounds relatively benign, potential extrapolations are not hard to imagine. A German startup calledSoma Analytics– tagline: "Evidence-based mobile programmes to increase employee emotional resilience" – has identified some of them in pioneering a system to measure the early-warning signs of anxiety and sleep deprivation in individuals (and potentially employees) which they aim to sell as a pre-emptive strike against the number one enemy of global productivity – "stress-related illness".There is no data yet to support the idea that monitoring stress levels might itself be stress-inducing, still less to the privacy invasion that such "routine" data collection might violate. Perhaps it is sufficient to remember that the company shares its name with Soma, the drug that maintains the World State's command economy in Aldous Huxley'sBrave New World.The enemy of big data is always privacy. In the ideal world of people, analytics algorithms would have access to all possible "data points" of the lives of employees and potential employees. The argument is that this will ultimately be in the best interests of all parties; employers will recruit ideal candidates and form the best teams, employees will find their most productive role and be most fulfilled. You don't have to believe it for a moment.Shepherd is not alone in his faith that the best real-time data set by which to examine culture fit and resonance and to optimise teams would be "a semantic examination of email, which the company anyway owns" or uses of social media, which it doesn't, but to which it often has access. "To me," he says, "the ultimate system is not a questionnaire or a game or a badge but an analysis of data that we are already producing all of the time. We like to think of ourselves as special and unique, that a computer cannot tell me who I am, which is wrong because a computer mostly can."If any computer can do this, it might exist on the Google campus at Mountain View, California. Talking on the phone toSunil Chandra, Google's vice-president of global staffing and operations, I wonder if search central has any tools that can monitor the semantic code of personal emails? "Not that I know of," he says, a little guardedly.Google, regularly voted the world's best place to work (and not just for its share options), famously employs a team of industrial-organisational psychologists, behavioural economists and statisticians who use tools including the annual "Googlegeist" survey of every employee to experiment with each detail of campus life – the size of dinner plates, the space between screens. It begins with the data-rich process of recruitment ("Hiring is the most important thing we do," Chandra says. "Everyone is involved"). Google receives around two million job applications a year, and each is analysed systematically. "We certainly try to look at all of them," Chandra says. "We think of recruiting as an art and a science. We are known for the analytics side of it, but we really do have people also look at all the applications we get." The data tells them optimum outcomes are the result of four or five interviews. They used to do 10 or 12.The data also tells them that exam grades are not predictive of performance at Google at all, so they are disregarded. The urban legend used to be that a Google interview was laced with "brain teasers". "How much should you charge to wash all the windows in Seattle?" did for one candidate. "A man pushed his car to a hotel and lost his fortune. What happened?" for another. Chandra says that approach has also been retired. "It was not predictable performance, and therefore not predictable hiring"So how do they do it? "There is no secret algorithm," Chandra says. "We use structured behavioural interview techniques, rather than any kind of tests, to look for humble leaders, learners who can work in teams." They guard against bias by having all appointments tested in committee. "We look for cognitive ability, learning capacity and leadership capacity, particularly latent leadership. And then of course for what we call Googleyness …"As Chandra explains this, I find myself running through the relatively few job applications of my own career (even fewer successful ones). In particular, I'm reminded of my interview for a role at the literary magazineGranta, which involved the then editor Bill Buford pouring me a tumbler full of single malt whisky and employing his own behavioural interview technique which began with: "Do you like women?" My mumbled "yes" seemed to go a long way to convincing him I had the precise culture fit he required in his deputy.How would you define Googleyness, I ask Chandra."We think of it as a characteristic where folks can bring their whole self to work," he says.Can he imagine a situation where the machines can identify Googleyness without intervention from Googlers?"No," says the Googlegeister in chief, reassuringly. "We still believe there are a lot of things the data will not tell you."• This article was amended on 13 May 2014. An earlier version said that  Google receives around three million, rather than two million, job applications a year.
Bound By FlameXbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, PCIf you're partial to exploring dungeons, the pompously entitled Bound By Flame's eye-rolling, sub-Tolkien drivel, with its smack-talking musclebound knights, bearded necromancers, "hast thous" and "thou arts" might not be as grating. You may still find the awkward swearing and characters' frequent use of "godsdamned" gets on your nerves, before you've even started spotting the typos and missing punctuation in its subtitles. It's the videogame equivalent of a B-movie, crude and unintuitive action-RPG mechanics requiring caution in battle but lacking the precision needed to make every death your fault. If the thought that somewhere out there a digitally generated skeleton warrior might still need slaying keeps you up at night, Bound By Flame's couldn't-give-a-toss production values and blandly conventional monster-baiting might be for you.Focus Home Interactive, £39.95-£44.95Boom BeachiOSComing from Supercell, developer of the overwhelmingly successful Clash Of Clans, Boom Beach's mixture of tower defence, RPG-like upgrading and aggressive raiding of other players and AI-staffed beaches provides a knowingly orchestrated series of interleaving resource-management objectives, which you complete by manufacturing and pillaging gold, wood, stone and iron. Its battles require just enough tactical nous to make them skill-based, although still heavily reliant on upgrading units, a process that in the game's latter stages can take several days to complete for a single building or weapon. It's hugely addictive and your patience will continually be tested by the game's underlying mission: to shake you down for spare change.Supercell, free
Games out this week includeMinecraft: PlayStation Edition(PS3), which finally brings the magic of crafting, survival and amateur architectural design to PlayStation 3 owners; spooky survival horror sequelSlender: The Arrival(Xbox 360, PS3) proves that you can have too much of a good thing, its scares and mildly frustrating gameplay stretched to breaking point in an attempt to turn a free game into one you'd pay for;Killer Is Deadhas had its PC release pushed back a week to 23 May – its messy combat, disjointed plot and mystifying sexism make it well worth ignoring. Due for release in November,Call of Duty: Advanced Warfarewill star Kevin Spacey as the messianic boss of a private military contractor, its near-future setting providing an excuse for invisibility cloaks, personal exoskeletons and hover bikes, in yet another simulated invasion of north America.
Google faces a retrial over whether its Android software breaches copyright through its use of computer language &quot;hooks&quot;, known as APIs, in the Java computer language owned by database giant Oracle.Anappeals court decision released on Fridayin California struck down a decision by Judge William Alsup in the lower district court who declared in 2012 that application programming interfaces, or APIs, could not be copyrighted.If the new trial goes against Google, it could be liable to pay damages to Oracle for infringing copyright in its past use of Android, and potentially for its continued use of copyrighted APIs. Android is the most widely used mobile operating system, with more than a billion devices using it in the developed world, and about 500m in China. About 80% of the 1bn smartphones sold in 2013 ran Android, according to data from the research company IDC.By ruling that APIs – the &quot;hooks&quot; in computer code that are used by programs to access features of the underlying operating system or language – could not be copyrighted, Judge Alsup effectively ruled out the opportunity for the jury to find against Google over the question of whether Android infringed any copyright in Java.The jury determined separately that Google had not infringed any patents owned by Oracle, which acquired Java through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems in January 2010.Now though the three-judge appeal court has unanimously reversed Alsup&apos;s ruling. The decision is being closely watched in Silicon Valley, because it could have widespread impacts on companies which try to &quot;clone&quot; others&apos; services by mimicking the way that they work.Some software companies see the idea that APIs could be protected by copyright as a potential threat to the growth of the industry, because it could prevent them from creating similar functionality in their own work to that which exists elsewhere. By determining that the &quot;structure, sequence and organisation&quot; of computer programs is subject to copyright law, the appeal court ruling could make it hazardous for programmers to create programs that are functionally similar to existing ones.Oracle sued Google in 2010, claiming that Google has improperly incorporated parts of the Java language into Android. When the case came to trial, Oracle claimed that Android infringed its rights to the structure of 37 Java APIs, and sought $1bn in damages. The jury found that Google had infringed them, but couldn&apos;t decide whether it was legitimate under &quot;fair use&quot; – the branch of copyright law that allows limited copying of parts of works for other uses.Judge Alsup set that infringement verdict aside when he declared that APIs could not be copyrighted.The appeals court though has reinstated the jury&apos;s decision, and ordered a retrial before Alsup to determine whether Google&apos;s actions were protected by fair use.&quot;We are mindful that the application of copyright law in the computer context is often a difficult task,&quot; Federal Circuit Judge Kathleen O&apos;Malley wrote. &quot;On this record, however, we find that the district court failed to distinguish between the threshold question of what is copyrightable – which presents a low bar – and the scope of conduct that constitutes infringing activity.&quot;Oracle&apos;s general counsel Dorian Daley said in a statement to ZDNet that the company was &quot;extremely pleased&quot; with the decision and that the original ruling would &quot;drastically limit copyright protection for computer code&quot;. He called the decision &quot;a win for Oracle and the entire software industry that relies on copyright protection to fuel innovation and ensure that developers are rewarded for their breakthroughs.&quot;Google had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.
Apple has hired Ari Partinen, the head of Nokia&apos;s photography unit since 2007 who introduced its &quot;PureView&quot; system, to work on its iPhone camera systems.Partinen, who had worked at Nokia since leaving university – including the Lumia range running Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone software –said on Twitterthan &quot;today will be my last day working for the amazing #Lumia family. In June I will start a new chapter in Cupertino, California.&quot; He later confirmed that he is joining Apple.Today will be my last day working for the amazing#Lumiafamily. In June I will start a new chapter in Cupertino, California. Much love!&mdash; Ari Partinen (@Partinen)May 9, 2014Nokia has been famous for the quality of the camera software and hardware in its phone systems, although in the smartphone era it has seen little benefit from that lead. The Lumia 1020, released in summer 2013, has sold poorly despite having a 41-megapixel camera which can zoom in on minor detail inside a picture.But camera quality is increasingly seen as a feature that is used to distinguish between phones and phone brands.In hisLinkedIn profile, Partinen described his most recent role at Nokia as &quot;doing my very best making Nokia the best mobile imaging company in the world! Working in the fields of mobile photography, image quality verification, verification up-streaming, third-party management and collaboration, supplier collaboration and technical marketing in various multimedia segments.&quot;Partinen is one of the first high-profile defections from Nokia since it was acquired in April by Microsoft. The concern for Microsoft will be to retain talent at its new hardware division.Apple meanwhile has filed a number of patents for camera capabilities including hot-swappable lenses and add-ons that might enhance its position as a premium camera. With sales of digital cameras dropping rapidly as smartphones take over their capabilities, the acquisition of an imaging expert from Nokia could be a key move by Apple in trying to differentiate its camera offering from that of its rivals.•Nokia 1020 review: it&apos;s a phone, it&apos;s a camera - what a camera
You said recently that it is now impossible to buy a laptop with a good quality keyboard. I want to replace my old ThinkPad R50e. The keyboard is excellent – as is common with older ThinkPads – but a website that reviews laptops said that the keyboard on the ThinkPad T400 or T500 was squidgy and poor quality. I want to avoid one of those. When did ThinkPad laptops begin to have poor quality keyboards? Which older ThinkPad should I buy to ensure that I have a good quality keyboard?GordonMobile keyboards have been getting steadily worse for 30 years, if you judge them by the traditional standards established by IBM. For some people, the &quot;clicky&quot; IBM Model M mechanical keyboard from the 1980s represents a peak. However, keyboards are also a matter of personal preference, or habit. Those of us who grew up with clunky typewriters and clicky mechanical keyboards may think they&apos;re the best, but people who have mostly used flat &quot;isolated&quot; keyboards may well prefer them.The best idea is to try some of the different kinds of keyboard for a week or two to see which you like best. The problem is that if you prefer traditional keyboards, they are increasingly hard to find on laptops. Some gaming laptops have them, such as theMSI GT60 0NC, but they have disappeared from the ultraportable market.There are two main reasons for the &quot;decline&quot; in keyboard quality. The first is the move towards ultra-slim machines that just don&apos;t have room for a traditional keyboard. The second is the decline in laptop prices. Manufacturers no longer have the margin to pay for high quality keyboards. In factory quantities, I expect Chinese laptop keyboards cost less than $2 each.Keyboard designsThere are a lot ofdifferent types of keyboard design, and there is no easy way to tell which is which. The classic IBM keyboard had a patented &quot;buckling spring&quot; design, andUbicompstill makes this type of keyboard. (It got the technology from Lexmark, which was spun out of IBM.) Mass market keyboards usually had &quot;dome&quot; switches, where the key presses either a metal or plastic (polyurethane) dome to make the contact. These can be quite good, and they are quieter than buckling spring designs. Ubicomp offers dome-switch versions of almost all its IBM keyboards.I suspect yourThinkPad R50euses a more expensive variant of the dome keyboard with a scissor switch design. In this case, each key is supported by plastic cross-switches.Wikipedia&apos;s page on keyboard technologyhas a diagram. Scissor-switch keyboards have less travel but provide good tactile feedback and feel quite precise.However, most laptops now use membrane keyboards where the keys are just pressure pads. The advantages of membrane keyboards are that they can be made very thin, and they are very cheap to produce. The disadvantages are that they provide little travel and even less tactile feedback. Manufactures get round this by including either a scissor mechanism or a small dome. Generally, I assume keyboards with isolated keys -- often calledChiclet keyboardsafterChiclets, the American chewing gum -- have scissors while ones where the keys sit side by side are more likely to be dome-based designs. (But I might be wrong.)A mechanical design should work better than a scissor-switch design, which should work better than an isolated keyboard, assuming they are all made to the highest standards. But they aren’t. A very good isolated keyboard on an Apple or Sony laptop may not be as good as the best IBM ThinkPad keyboards, but it could be better than a scissor-switch keyboard on a cheaper laptop. You can&apos;t really tell just by looking at them.ThinkPad keyboardsWhen it comes to ThinkPads, the best laptop keyboards were on ThinkPads assembled in Greenock in Scotland and equivalent IBM factories. I used a ScottishThinkPad 240Xultraportable for several years and loved the keyboard. My next ThinkPad was an X31 made in China, which felt slightly worse, but there was very little in it. Similar keyboards were used on the T and W ranges, which had better specifications and were up-market of the budget R range.In 2005, IBM sold its PC division to Lenovo, the Chinese company formerly called Legend. It continued to use the IBM name until 2008, after which these machines were rebranded as Lenovo ThinkPads.But, as mentioned, prices were coming down and laptops were getting thinner. Lenovo therefore developed its own new keyboard, which first appeared in the cheaper ThinkPad Edge range and the ultraportable X100e in 2010. In its review,CNetwrote: &quot;With gently curved and slightly concave key surfaces and gentle but solid-clicking key presses, this keyboard surpasses anything seen by Apple or Sony and feels as good as an old-fashioned tapered keyboard.&quot;I reviewed the X100e hereand was less impressed, saying: &quot;By the normal standards of &apos;isolated keyboards&apos;, it feels exceptional, with responsive keys having plenty of travel. By ThinkPad standards (240X, X31/X41/X61), it&apos;s relatively poor.&quot;Lenovo started to use variants of this keyboard in other new laptops. For example, in 2011, the ThinkPad X220 had the older design, but the following year&apos;sX230-- assembled in the USA -- had the new Precision Keyboard. Again, it got good reviews, though not everybody thought it was an improvement. It wasn&apos;t what traditional ThinkPad buyers were used to.As far as I can tell, all the current ThinkPad models – L Series (budget range), E Series (small business), X Series (ultraportable), T Series (corporates) and W Series (workstations) – now use the new keyboard.You don&apos;t say where you read reviews of the ThinkPad T400 and T500, butNotebookreview.comsays Lenovo fixed the problem of the thin keyboard flexing too much (also a problem with some cheaper Lenovo laptops) with &quot;added bracing over open cavities underneath the keyboard&quot;. The review concludes: &quot;The keyboard itself is very comfortable to type on with precise action in the keys and positive feedback on each key press. Each key gives off a soft click when pressed, not as loud as the Chicony keyboard on my T60, but louder than the average notebook keyboard. Coming from someone who spends more than 10 hours on their ThinkPad a day I can easily say it is one of the best, if not the best keyboard you can find on a notebook.&quot;If you&apos;re keen to get another ThinkPad, then you will have to try the new-style keyboard to see how you like it. I&apos;d assume that all the mainstream ThinkPad ranges now use very similar if not identical keyboards, unless somebody out there knows different. If you don&apos;t like it, you will need to hunt down one of the older models with an R50e-style keyboard.Possible purchasesThe R series was on the market from 2002 to 2008, so your current machine probably dates back to 2004-6 and runs Windows XP. You could go for a ThinkPad T420, T420S or T520 running Windows 7 on an Intel Core iX processor. The T range switched to the new keyboard with the T430, T430S and T530 in June 2012. The W520 would be a more powerful, and probably more expensive, alternative. Again, the W520 switched to the new keyboard in 2012. As mentioned previously, the X220 would be your best ultraportable option, with the X230 sporting the new keyboard.The main drawback with all these x20 laptops is that they will mostly have second-generation Sandy Bridge versions of the Intel Core chips, but these would still be a huge advance on your current Pentium M or possibly worse processor. Otherwise, they should have reasonably competitive specifications. TheW520, for example, had 64-bit Windows 7, 8GB of memory, a screen resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels, Wi-Fi a/b/g/n, USB 3.0 ports and a built in fingerprint reader. You can get much worse machines today.There are plenty of secondhand ThinkPad T420 laptops floating around for £300 or less, including a 6-month guarantee. Large companies bought fleets of them, and they are resurfacing as refurbished machines.It might be somewhat tricky to buy a new old model, if you see what I mean. If you can get to London, then Shyamtronics (246 Tottenham Court Road, W1T 7QU) is famous for stocking discontinued ThinkPads. They are not particularly cheap by modern standards, but you can haggle. Although it no longer has a shop in central London, Morgan is another potential source. However, the only prospect it has at the moment is a refurbishedThinkPad X201iwith a 2.5GHz Core i5 and Windows 7 Pro for £199.95.Otherwise, there is a very simple way to get an excellent keyboard with almost any laptop: simply plug an external keyboard into one of the USB ports. This has the added advantage that you can raise the laptop screen to a more ergonomic height, reducing the strain on your upper spine. It&apos;s not the handiest solution if you want to use your laptop on a train or plane, but a ThinkPad R50e weighs about 2.5kg (5.5lb), so I suspect you don&apos;t do that often.Using an external keyboard means you can opt for a &quot;clicky&quot; model, or possibly one with a more ergonomic shape, or both. TheTruly Ergonomic Keyboardis an example, though not cheap at£215.95.However, there are dozens of options at £10 to £30, and you can probably try a few at Maplins or a local computer store.
We all know Facebook targets its advertising at individuals. If you click &quot;like&quot; on a charity appeal, you might start to see ads for Red Cross. If you change your relationship status to &quot;engaged&quot;, ads for wedding venues start popping up in the sidebar. We may not know the algorithm, but it&apos;s difficult not to see a cause and effect.But have you ever felt like Facebook might be looking at you a bit too closely? Have you ever checked out the specs on an Ikea bookshelf, only to have an ad for the very same bookshelf pop up on Facebook? Have you ever seen an ad on the Facebook sidebar that seems to be tailored so specifically to you that you wondered... how did they know that?We&apos;d like to hear your stories and experiences of Facebook advertising getting too close for comfort.Feel free to share photos, videos and screenshots via GuardianWitness– but please make sure they don&apos;t contain anyone else&apos;s personal information.We are hoping to investigate your submissions, and use the most interesting ones in our coverage.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
Apple isreported to be buying Dr Dre’s headphone brand Beats for $3.2bn, in a deal that would be the Cupertino-based company’s largest acquisition to date. But what does Beats offer Apple that the iPhone manufacturer can’t do itself?Beats is one of the most high-profile brands in headphones. The designs are big, flashy and bold; an excellent example of brand and style over substance, as Beats headphones demand a large premium formiddle-of-the-road sound quality. Their sound generally does not match competing products from Bose, Sennheiser or a plethora of smaller manufacturers.Two music powerhousesLaunched by the rapper Dre and and music producer Jimmy Iovine in 2008, the Beats brand headphones were first manufactured by Monster, then a boutique audio and cable manufacturer. The success of Beats can be put down to Dre and Iovine’s ability to market the brand.The duo used their high profile among hip-hop artists to ensure that Beats headphones appeared in every influential music video possible – which quickly launched them into the consciousness of the rap and hip-hop buying public.The genius behind Beats was to make wearing big, bulky and showy headphones cool again. Lots of manufacturers had &quot;cans&quot; – over-the-ear models – but until Beats came along and showed celebrities wearing them, they weren’t a fashion accessory in quite the same way that they are today.HTC&apos;s flingBeats shed Monster as a manufacturing partner at the end of 2012, building the headphones itself. Mobile phone manufacturer HTC paid $309m for a 50.1% controlling stake of Beats in 2011. The acquisition gave the Taiwanese firm exclusive rights to make smartphones with Beats branded audio systems, which included the company’s 2013 HTC One flagship smartphone which shipped with Beats audio - the DSPs (digital signal processors, which turn digital data into music) and audio amplifiers - inside.HTC then sold back half of its stake in Beats to the company for $150m in 2012, with Beats buying out the final 25.1% HTC stake in September 2013. In that time Beats launched a new range of headphones and portable speakers, designed and manufactured in house, and then in January 2014 the company launched Beats Music – a music streaming subscription service built upon the company’s acquisition of a similar service called MOG in 2012.So what is Apple actually buying?In acquiring Beats, a deal that is currently still speculation –although boasts by Dre of being the “first billionaire rapper”seem to suggest theFinancial Times&apos; reportis accurate – what Apple is buying, first and foremost, is a brand.This would mark the first time that Apple has bought a large brand that many consumers have heard of. Historically, Apple has bought much smaller, innovative companies for technology, products and talent, but they&apos;re in no way part of the mainstream public consciousness. Apple&apos;s previous biggest known acquisition was Anobit, an Israeli company with expertise in solid-state chips, for $390m in December 2011. Itsbest-known was Siri- the &quot;digital voice assistant&quot; - though that was in 2010, well before the Siri name was publicly familiar.It will have also bought a marketing powerhouse. The double team of Iovine and Dre have significant sway in the music industry, and together have proved they have the ability to create a brand from nothing and bring it to the mass market in developed nations like the UK and US in the space of six years.Beats also has a history of clever, if somewhat unorthodox marketing strategies. Its beginning, with product placement in music videos was key, but a standout was the (alleged) circumvention of 2012 London Olympics sponsorship agreements that barred brands from being advertised during the Olympics that were not official Olympic sponsors.It&apos;s said Beats got around the ban bygiving specially decorated headphones to key athletes, who duly wore their brand new headphones walking out to events. At one point almost every swimmer in certain finals came walking out to compete wearing large Beats cans, presumably replacing whichever headphones they would have normally worn as part of their isolation and warm up strategies.HeadphonesBeyond the brand, Beats also poses a range of headphones and speakers, many of which are already sold in Apple stores.Apple sells two models of its own headphones: the EarPods, which ship in the box with the iPhone, and the Apple In-Ear Headphones, which are more traditional in-ear “canalphones” costing £65.In purchasing Beats, Apple would then own seven lines of headphones, three lines of earphones and four lines of speakers.Apple, like all other smartphone manufacturers, isstaring down the barrel of smartphone saturation in developed marketslike the UK and US. At that point gaining new customers is difficult, and growing sales becomes difficult unless Apple can woo customers away from other mobile manufacturers.In some markets such as Japan,where 97% of mobile subscribers have smartphones, saturation has led to price wars, fluctuating sales and fierce competition – which Apple is unlikely to want to face without a backup.Apple may see Beats as a way to expand its mobile device ecosystem beyond computing products like the iPhone, iPad and Mac computer line. Beats sits in an tangential market to smartphones. They are inherently linked because the smartphone powers most of what is listened to on the companies headphones, but they are an accessory or an addition to the smartphone and therefore something Apple can sell to people who already own a smartphone.Beats Music: the missing link?In addition to the brand and hardware Beats produces, there is also theBeats Music service.Apple has the incredibly successful iTunes store, but its model is one where consumers buy music, rather than renting it under a subscription model.Downloads are slowing, while streaming services such as Spotify have shown that paying a monthly subscription for music and streaming it from a large library is a viable alternative. It is certainly eating into the bottom end of the music retail market.Apple launched itsown iTunes Radiomusic streaming service in the US in 2013 – a free ad-supported service available to all iTunes users. iTunes Radio allows users to listen to pre-defined “stations” or to generate a playlist based on a single artist with songs by them, plus others. So far though it&apos;s only available in the US and Australia.Beats Music (also available only in the US and Australia) is a direct competitor to Spotify, offering both on-demand music streaming and a radio-like service, which combines algorithm and human curation to generate playlists based on artists or moods and events.The service has 20m songs available in its library, and also has the backing of both high-profile and independent artists, with Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails acting as Beats Music chief creative officer.Beats Music also acquired Topspin Media, a company dedicated to a direct-to-fan model that gave music artists a direct relationship with fans circumventing recording labels. Beats Music is perceived as friendly to music artists in a way that other music services are not, especially Apple’s iTunes, which some of the music industry blames for the decline of revenues.With Beats Music, Apple would get another line into the music industry that made the original iPod and iTunes into a market leader. It also gives Apple access to both curation and music artist talent like Reznor and Beats Music’s Julie Pilat, who leads the music curation team, having previously been a broadcast radio music director.Fits like a brickTo say that it is unclear quite how Beats and Apple would fit is be an understatement. The news that the two were in acquisition talks has prompted head-scratching around the world. On the face of it, they&apos;re not a good business fit: iTunes Radio directly competes with Beats Music, the Beats brand status as expensive but average-sounding headphones does not match up with Apple’s premium-quality experience, and Apple’s brand in music and mobile technology far exceeds that of Beats.If confirmed, Beats would be the largest acquisition Apple has made to date, and while it will have certainly bought itself a powerful brand, it is difficult to see what justifies the large $3.2bn sum.Perhaps Apple has just bought another company with revenues in excess of $1bn and intends to leave it operating as a separate entity. But if so, that would be the first time it has done that, and is certainly uncharacteristic.Apple has refused to comment on the acquisition. Beats has yet to reply to request for comment.•Beats Studio Wireless review - expensive headphones with lacklustre sound
American politicians can now take bitcoin as legal political contributions, but not anonymously, after a ruling by the US federal election commission.The Federal Election Commission (FEC) has ruledthat politicians and political action committees (Pacs) – independent political campaign groups which don&apos;t have their contributions capped – can accept bitcoin, which must then be treated like other in-kind donations such as stocks and shares.This means that groups and individuals who accept the currency must convert it into US dollars, and deposit those dollars into a campaign account, rather than spending the bitcoin directly.But the much vaunted anonymity of bitcoin will not help US politicians: the commission still requires donors to list their names, addresses and occupations before they can donate the digital currency to politicians.The ruling was made in response to a request by a Pac called Make Your Laws, whichcampaignsto replace representative democracy with a &quot;liquid democracy&quot; in which individuals are more directly involved with the legislative process.The Pac had also asked for the ability to spend bitcoins directly, but was rebuffed.&quot;The Commission concludes that MYL may accept bitcoins,&quot; the report says. &quot;The Commission also concludes that MYL may purchase bitcoins, but MYL must sell the bitcoins it purchases and deposit the proceeds into its campaign depository before spending those funds. The Commission could not approve a response by the required four affirmative votes as to whether MYL may acquire goods and services with bitcoins it receives as contributions.&quot;Because the commission only ruled on the specific request that Make Your Laws made, the only explicit limit on bitcoin donations is $100, which is the amount the Pac decided to cap donations at. The question of whether or not larger donations could be made, potentially up to the $2,600 limit for US candidates, is left open.The ruling also does not explicitly address other crypto-currencies, such as Litecoin or Dogecoin, but does set a precedent. The Dogecoin community in particular has an active charitable sector, raising money for such causes as clean water in Kenya, sending the Jamaican bobsleigh team to the Winter Olympics, and sponsoring an up-and-coming Nascar driver.•Dogecoin raises $55,000 to sponsor Nascar driver
Congratulations to alexandra1108 who shared this wonderful image of a rusty iron thresher as part of our elements project. Take a look at our other favouriteshere.This month the theme is Forces. So whether it is a horse pulling a cart or pulleys hoisting a load, share your photos and tell us how you took the shot. Our favourite will be seen in the June issue ofObserver Tech Monthly.To contribute your images, click on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons, or you can download theGuardianWitness smartphone app. We will print our favourite in the next issue ofTech Monthlyand compile an online gallery to boot. Closing date is 26 May 2014.
In April 2013, Facebook acquired Parse, a little-known company which provides services to mobile apps developers.One year on and Parse, which has announced its first European office in London, is at the core of Facebook&apos;s plan to become a platform for developers in its own right, bypassing squabbles over Android, iOS, or Windows Phone.&quot;Parse is the easiest way to add a back end to your mobile application,&quot; is co-founder James Yu&apos;s elevator pitch for his product. &quot;You can do this without having to know anything about servers, about network protocols, about caching, about all this stuff you usually have to deal with when doing something as simple as saving high scores for you game.&quot;That pitch won round Facebook, which made Parse its first non-consumer acquisition in a deal that TechCrunch reported to be worth $85m. And after the acquisition, Facebook let its new prize carry on doing what it did best. The firm&apos;s software is now used by firms such as Harper-Collins, Topshop and French music service Deezer to put together more than 260,000 new apps with minimal effort, and in the past year the Parse team has doubled in size.At this month&apos;s F8 developer conference, Parse introduced offline functionality, letting developers use it to build apps which can host some of their server-based info locally – that high-score list could keep the top 50 worldwide on the device, so the player can see it even on the tube.But the team has also been working with Facebook internally. The most obvious outcome of that collaboration is in the company&apos;s recently announced App Links project, which aims to restore some of the openness of the web to mobile apps.Announced by Mark Zuckerberg at F8, the standard for App Links was developed jointly by Parse and Facebook. It&apos;s a concept which could never have been introduced by Parse alone, because key to its success will be a large number of launch partners, brought to the table by Facebook&apos;s influence.&quot;It&apos;s sort of a chicken-and-egg problem,&quot; says Yu. &quot;If you have App Links, and no-one&apos;s using it, it&apos;s hard to get it kickstarted. So that&apos;s where it makes sense for [Facebook] to promote the standard, but also conform to it from the feed, which is one of the largest linkers in the world.&quot;But App Links is just one part of what Parse has brought to Facebook. While Yu is keen to emphasise that the two companies remain separate – &quot;You can build on Parse without Facebook, and you can build on Facebook without Parse, but it goes very well together&quot; – integration is where the real aim is. For instance, if a developer is building an app for Facebook, Yu argues that &quot;Parse is the easiest way to use Facebook login, and that&apos;s the tightest technology integration we have.&quot;The more developers integrate with Facebook, the less they have to do themselves. Using Facebook login means they don&apos;t have to go through the hassle of building their own authentication servers, while using Parse for the backend means that the cloud aspects of their service are taken care of too. If the app is simple enough, it can even run in the Facebook app itself, letting them bypass nearly all of the app development entirely.It&apos;s easy to see what the advantage is for Facebook: social networks may come and go, but if an entire ecosystem of apps are built on top, then users are likely to stay for the long haul – and log in more and more frequently.But, as Yu makes clear, there&apos;s no small advantage for the developers themselves. Even when Parse was being put together in the run-up to its launch, he recalls that beta testers &quot;would ask us &apos;hey, can we pay for this now?&apos;&quot;&quot;You can skip us, and try to do it yourself, but it&apos;s really a lot of work. It&apos;s like every time you do that process, there&apos;s a hundred small decisions you need to make. Things like choosing a database, choosing a server technology, hiring people to design that sort of system for you. Building an application is a maze of different turns and twists, and we show you one pathway.&quot;It&apos;s like using an Apple product: it just works, because they own the whole chain of hardware and software.&quot;•What do regular Facebook users need to know about the F8 conference?
Smartphones have changed photography for ever: in addition to the continual improvements in each generation of camera hardware, the unrestricted touchscreen canvas has enabled developers to grant us a wealth of apps that allow us to edit images captured by these tiny lenses and sensors, performing a never-ending selection of post-processing tweaks and adjustments.If your first reaction to "photography apps" is to think "vintage filters", think again.While some of the apps in this list do feature presets and filters – some of which aim to reproduce the look and feel of film photography – the amount of fine-grained control available to edit and adjust all  aspects of the light captured in an image, along with some incredibly unique tools which enable capturing images the devices aren't capable of natively, goes way beyond the stereotype. As with any top 10 list, the constraint makes it impossible to list all the best apps, or even most of them; every photographer has their own preferences for editing tools and workflow, and I'm no different, so this list represents the top apps I have on my own devices. The ones I most frequently use and recommend to other smartphone photographers.AfterlightiOS 69pAfterlight is typified by high-quality presets (including some by well-known "guest" smartphone photographers), frames, light leaks, textures, a "clarify" tool for equalising an image's exposure, and editing tools featuring some of the most precise controls of any app.AntiCropiOS 69pWhenever I demonstrate AntiCrop, it elicits the same reaction: a variation of "bleep me!" It does one thing insanely well and is the only smartphone app of its kind: like content-aware fill for Photoshop, it can extend elements of an image to give more of what you missed.AverageCam ProiOS 69pLong exposures and night exposures (as well as combinations of the two) are impressive, and Average Cam Pro does them on an iPhone. Blurring of moving water or people is easy, and as a bonus, the app also averages out sensor noise in low light scenes (tripod recommended).CortexCamiOS £1.99This app was explained as "a handheld AverageCam Pro" – CortexCam excels at capturing low-light images, removing sensor noise on old and new iPhones alike (I use it on my 4S and 5s), magically creating a higher-res image than the default camera in the process.FadediOS 69pFaded is not just another filter app – its presets are expertly crafted, and its approach to adjustments centres on easily reproducing your edits on future images. You can save all your edits on a specific image and apply that combination to a new image with one tap.InstagramAn obvious choice, yes, but also necessary when discussing the 'top' photography apps: I – and other respected smartphone photographers – would not be shooting every day if not for Instagram's vibrant and supportive community, and having a place to share everything we shoot. It continues to change the world's relationship with photography.SKRWTFans of architecture and parallel lines rejoice: a brand-new app, SKRWT, is going to change the way you process your images. Launching on 18 May (€1.89), SKRWT's tools allow you to easily correct for parallax and lens distortion (eg in a photograph looking up at a building).SnapseedWhen Google acquired the makers of Snapseed, they did everyone a favour and lowered its price to free. One of the most powerful editing apps on Android or iOS, Snapseed's unique interface allows a lot of fine control and its Selective Adjust feature is unparalleled.TouchRetouchiOS 69p Android 59pNot content with creating just one magical app, the makers of AntiCrop also created TouchRetouch. Using a combination of healing and clone tools (very familiar to Photoshop users), there's no easier way to remove unwanted items from your images, and it's also the only touch app that shows you what's under your fingertip.VSCO CamUsed by many of the most-followed photographers to polish their images, VSCO Cam (pronounced vizco) saves images in its internal camera roll, allowing non-destructive editing with film-inspired presets, split exposure and focus points when shooting, and adjustment tools.
