One of the by-products of the Sony reshuffle (below) is that Ken Kutaragi, the "father of the PlayStation", lost his seat on the Sony board. This is a bit of a shocker because Sony has been kept afloat mainly by the PlayStation's huge success, and because Kutaragi's strong opinions have given him a high profile in the press. Indeed, as thisReuters storynotes, he was "once regarded as certain to succeed current CEO Nobuyuki Idei", not be upstaged by Sir Howard Stringer.Kutaragi will continue as chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment: I can't imagine him quitting with the PS3 on the way.I've criticised Kutaragi (egbelow) for over-promising and under-delivering, and pointed out that he's probably as responsible as other Sony executives for the company's failure to get its numerous divisions working together. For example, the people in Sony's VAIO business must wince every time he tries to put the boot into the PC industry.It was therefore somewhat amusing to read Idei's comment on why Ryoji Chubachi got the No 2 job at Sony, ahead of Kuturagi."I cannot compare them, but Mr Chubachi is a good listener... He is a man who listens to various people's opinions carefully and makes the right decision at the right time," said Idei.
Virgin Radio is taking its breakfast show directly to the iPod generation by launching a daily "podcast".Pete Mitchell and Geoff Lloyd's breakfast show will be the station's first foray into the emerging world of podcasting, and is believed to be the first daily show to be made available in this format from one of the major radio groups.Virgin's half-hour podcast will consist of the "best bits" from the breakfast show every day, but will contain only Pete and Geoff's spoken links and not the music they play.Including music on podcasts is sticky issue. Internet download services such as Apple's iTunes have copy protection and pay the record labels royalties for every song bought. But - unlike traditional radio - no system is in place to plough money back to the labels from podcasts, which, if they included music, could amount to illegal downloading.One of the country's biggest advertisers, the government's Central Office of Information, is sponsoring the podcast alongside online travel company Expedia, allowing it to be offered free of charge.The sponsorship was brokered by OMD's Opera sales house and is being dubbed as the UK's first "'podvertising" deal.Lee Roberts, the Virgin sales director, said the deal proves the commercial viability of podcasting."Radio stations have to adapt to the changing market and new platforms in order to create new revenue channels, we're proud to be the first with  podvertising" he said.Podcasting is gaining popularity in the UK after its launch in the US.  It is a simple way to place audio on the web, enabling listeners to download shows and then listen to them at their convenience.After downloading a free application and subscribing via the Virgin Radio website, the Pete and Geoff show will be automatically downloaded on to listeners' iPods or MP3 players.The BBC already podcasts a weekly show, Radio Five Live's Fighting Talk quiz, after a trial last year that  allowed listeners to download MP3 files of Melvyn Bragg's Radio 4 show, In Our Time. More than 70,000 users picked up the podcast.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I went to the Masonic Auditorium last night to join a sell-out crowd at theNobuo Uematsugig, where theSilicon Valley Symphony Orchestraperformed the greatest hits of the Final Fantasy music. It was a surreal event, and not just because the majority of the audience were under-30 year old FF fanatics (some in costume!), but also because the classical music that was performed was strangely out of context in the arena in which it was played. While it's exciting that Uematsu's compositions are exposing a new audience to classical genres, the disjointedness of the pieces made it seem like we were party to a different kind of pop gig.The response of the audience was rapturous, but I wonder how many of the attendees would have reacted to a more traditional concert, with movements, arias and other standards of classical fare. The whole product seemed strangely jumbled together, with no real sense of consistency. Sure, the individual songs were dramatic and featured everything that they're traditionally celebrated for, but all together the concert was something a games fan would appreciate more than a season ticket holder to theChicago Pops.What really stood out was the difference between game music and compositions created for other media. Game music is far more repetitive, needing to react to the gamer at a moment's notice, while film music, for example, has the opportunity to lead a viewer through a consistent and extended emotion.Or maybe that's Uematsu.Ultimately, it was an interesting experiment. If it proves successful it may change the shape of classic concerts and their audiences in the future.Now I'm just waiting for the audience withDanny Elfman.
Many of you imported it, and maybe one or two of you blagged one, but theNintendo DSis finally launching in Europe this week. And you know what? I'm a bit worried for it. Yes, there's some great games available – Mario, WarioWare, Rub – and yes, it is aimed at slightly different audience to the PSP. But nobody I know who isn't a Nintendo fan has expressed any interest in my DS – yet they will enthusiastically ask about the PSP. Of course, when I show themProject Rubor some of the Mario mini-games then they get interested, but why the reticence in the first place? For most of them it's how the thing looks – and they're right. DS is an ugly, plastic monstrosity – the fact that it has some unique games is almost lost behind the cheap facade.I undertook a highly scientific experiment yesterday. I spent 20 minutes in a busy London entertainment store watching the DS demonstration pod that allows people to have a go on the system. Now potential punters may have been put off by my frequent glances in their direction – being a spy clearly involves more than quaffing shaken Martinis - but I didn't see one person have a go. This was in a prominent position on a busy Monday lunchtime. Looking at the pod itself you could probably see why. Garish and childish imagery made it unlikely to appeal to teenagers, let alone adults. Although lets face it, nonchalantly browsing through theKillersor Kaiser Chiefs CDs looks infinitely cooler than frantically rubbing the screen with WarioWare. Although not as much fun, of course.So what can Nintendo do then? I'm sure they would argue nothing. The DS hassold wellin the US and Japan and they have a large marketing budget for Europe. I've reviewed the DS for this Thursday's Online supplement in the paper, and apart from the way it looks this is a good handheld, with the potential to host some unique games. But I'm not sure that will be enough in Europe, and especially not the UK, where the gamer love affair with Nintendo has become strained due to years of tardy releases and shoddy conversions. They will have a huge battle on their hands when the PSP launches and I can sadly see Nintendo's core audience in Britain shrinking even further. So good luck in your European Tour, DS – I think you're going to need it.
I came across this crab at theMonterey Bay Aquariumthe other day. It's aDecorator Crab, so called because of its penchant for accidentally picking up whatever is lying around on the ocean floor with the contours of its rough shell and "wearing" them. Perhaps this little fella was the inspiration forKatamari Damacy?
"You get respect with this," says Gennadi Lazurin, an aviation millionaire, as I drive his Kombat armoured tank-ette along the roads of St Petersburg. As frightened faces stare at me and our looming vehicle from their greying, battered Ladas, I see what he means.The Kombat T-98 closely resembles a large Securicor van with lots of extra shiny knobs and lights. The car was designed to protect objects of vast wealth - namely Russian businessmen - from kidnapping, assassination, or estranged wives. The brainchild of Dmitri Parfenov (owner of the St Petersburg design factory Autokad), this Kombat is one of only nine in existence. Prices start at &#163;82,000, rising to &#163;180,000 for the most heavily armoured version, which can shrug off an anti-tank round. Autokad is now planning to make 100 of these luxury vehicles in the UK to compete with the American Hummer.Gennadi, who's about six-feet tall and three-feet wide, has kindly agreed to let me test-drive his T-98, which can withstand incoming from a light Russian-made Makarov pistol (but not a Kalashnikov). The windows are about 5cm thick. They don't even wind down fully. It's like looking at fellow drivers through a riot shield. I had decided earlier that Gennadi is better off not knowing that I am an appalling driver, who wrote off a hire car and another car in America six years ago, and whose wife is reduced to trembling hysteria whenever he takes the wheel.The sheer size of the Kombat is initially unnerving, but the St Petersburg highway clears before it, allowing the driver to enjoy the vast roar of the engine and surprising lightness of handling. On the asphalt, its brakes can take it from 50mph to a standstill in about 10m, easing some of my fears at being in charge of the SUV equivalent of a Challenger tank. The leather seats, Bose stereo, endless 4x4 controls around the wheel and clear lines of sight eased my heart rate, too - and, after about 15 minutes of driving on the highway, I had enough confidence to go as close to "off road" as is sensible.We head down a side road that leads into some woodland. As if part of a previously arranged obstacle course, three identical, large Russian Kamaz trucks appear and head towards us. We show no fear, and keep on the road towards them - and all three pull to one side, terrified.The Kombat's acceleration is worryingly responsive. I like it just a bit too much. Light-headed after a few bursts on the highway, I decide to try it on the dirt road, and feel Gennadi wince as we ramrod over a big dip in the mud. The Kombat handles it remarkably well, its suspension yielding mild discomfort, like taking a speed bump in a Lada at 20mph.The "Dzheep" is now part of Russian culture. All over Moscow, blackened Hummers park ungracefully on the pavement, but their thick windows and shells don't provide the same protection as their predecessor, the military Humvee. The Kombat is, according to Parfenov, a high-performance, high-protection, homemade version for Russia's ridiculously wealthy. The heavy armour, which can bring the car's weight up to 4,250kg, may seem like a neurotic's indulgence. But traffic accidents are one of the more harmless risks on Moscow's roads.Assassinations are commonplace, and armour can make a difference. Boris Goldman, an advertising executive, was killed last April when a biker placed a bomb on the roof of his armoured Volvo C80. The bomb - set by the assassin's employee to detonate immediately, thereby killing the biker too - tore through the only weak spot in the armour, killing Goldman and his passengers.Gennadi, 48, a former Aeroflot pilot, lives in Estonia, a few hours from St Petersburg, and faces no such daily risk. His firm Eminex charters airliners across Europe. When they started out, he drove an Opel. As testament to his success, he now drives the Kombat T-98 after his son spotted one in a magazine."It looks aggressive but kind," he says. "It smiles." He says that it handles the same as his Mercedes S-class, and that Russian traffic police, notorious for demanding bribes for trumped-up offences, often pull him over just to have a look at the dashboard.Beneath the bonnet - you need both arms to lift it - is an American Vortec eight-litre engine, enabling it to go from 30mph to 80mph in about five seconds. The armour is mostly Swedish, the glass Finnish, and it can come with a mini-bar, DVD player, three TV monitors and a navigation   system. Parfenov plans to open an assembly plant in Britain, to sell to the European market without paying hefty Russian export-import taxes.The T-98 handles beautifully. I can only compare it to a Cherokee Jeep I drove six years ago (it survived),   whose centre of gravity was so high it bounced about like an elaborate Space Hopper. The Kombat is a much more serious toy, a Space Hopper weighed down with Kevlar - making you the biggest, baddest kid in the playground.The lowdownKombat T-98Price:£82,000Top speed:110mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 10 secsConsumption:13mpgAt the wheel:Sergey Billionaireovich,
source of wealth unclearOn the stereo:Alexander Rosenbaum
(Russia's Chris Rea)En route for: Anywhere it wants
Vivendi Universal announced on Friday that it will be producing a game based around rap star 50 Cent, due for release in late 2005. Entitled 50 Cent: Bulletproof (no doubt a reference to the number of times the rapper has been 'capped in the ass'), the game puts you in control of the eponymous hero as he takes part in a free-roaming crime adventure. As the press release explains:50 gets caught in a web of corruption, double-crosses and shady deals that lead him on a bloody path through New York's drug underworld. Working with the unlikeliest of allies, the streets heat up as 50 Cent takes on the most dangerous crime families in the city, uncovering an international conspiracy with devastating implications. The streets are watching as 50 Cent blasts his way to the truth.Following Def Jam Vendetta and more pertinently Def Jam Fight for New York, this is another game that places real-life Hip Hop artists within a fictitious gangland setting. It's an interesting sub-genre, trading in on the mythologies that many rappers build around themselves in their lyrics, album art and endless feuds - fantasies of gun violence, rivalry and retribution. You couldn't imagine artists from any other genre inhabiting the videogame world so comfortably. Radio Head in a platform adventure about the futility of existence? Can't see that one flying off the shelves at Game. But a rap star brandishing an AK-47 from the window of a Lincoln Continental? Christ, we can all relate to that!It's no coincidence that the first Def Jam title, Vendetta, was effectively a wrestling game – the comic book showmanship of the label's mainstream roster of rap superstars has echoes in the world of WWE, and perhaps even in the Marvel menagerie of super heroes. Larger than life characters from difficult backgrounds, triumphing over evil, dodging bullets…Will 50 Cent: Bulletproof represent an interactive version of the complicit gangsta fantasy world constructed between rap artist and listener? Or will it simply be a fun GTA-style crime romp with a compelling pop figure at its centre? Brecht once said we get the heroes we deserve. Nowadays that means millionaire ex-drug dealers. Trust me, I'm not complaining. I'll take that over people who get bitten by radioactive spiders any day.
Sir Howard Stringer, a Welsh-born former journalist, has been appointed top dog at Sony. As today's Guardian notes,it's a break with tradition:Few had expected Sony to break with tradition and appoint a New York-based Brit to the top job. He will become the first non-Japanese speaker and the first without a background in engineering to head the company. Sir Howard, 62, is a self-confessed non-gadget guy.It's certainly caused a lot of speculation in the technology industry, and in the business pages.Sony has been a company plagued the ghosts of its own success - the Walkman in the 1980s, the PlayStation in the 1990s - which lent it a misplaced bravado in entering other markets and bred a complacency over the innovation which made it so successful.Many commentators believe it must return to those trend-setting roots to rebuild itself. Indeed, today's Financial Times runs a leader on the Japanese firm under the sub-heading "The company needs to become an innovator again".Reviving Sony is not an impossible mission. Sony achieved world-class success by developing brilliantly engineered "must-buy" products that created completely new markets. Its decline set in when it lost that single-minded focus. If the company is to rise again, it must avoid being sidetracked by ill-conceived diversification and rediscover its roots.It's a big time coming up for Sony: the PlayStation Portable and the PlayStation 3 are on the horizon, and its ready to enter a battle for High Definition TV and the new Blu-Ray DVD format.What's your advice to Howard Stringer?
Film distributor Lions Gate Entertainment hasannouncedthat it will be releasing 12 movies on the PSP's UMD format - the first non-Sony owned company to do so. Among the selection will be new releases such as Open Water and The Punisher, and back catalogue wares like Total Recall and Rambo. It seems Lions Gate has a very clear idea about the sort of people who are going to buy Sony's handheld console...These movies join thelistpreviously announced by Sony, and it's clear that a reasonable if not particularly representative selection of releases will be available.But the key question remains - will anyone buy movies on UMD if the same movies are available more cheaply on DVD? Presumably, if youwantto watch films on the go, you'll be able to download movie files from your PC onto a PSP memory stick. In which case, why buy the DVD and the UMD of the same movie?In the past Sony has hinted at providing exclusive extras on its UMD movie releases, and this may well boost interest in the format. A movie release that comes with a selection of playable mini-games, or files that unlock elements of the tie-in PSP title, would be welcome. A UMD movie could also download its soundtrack to your PSP's music folder as a bunch of MP3s. The problem is, how many third party studios are likely to plow the extra costs and resources into developing unique content for UMD releases?There's a familiar Catch 22 possibility: consumers won't buy UMD movies in siginificant volumes until the discs begin to feature exclusive extras, but movie studios won't see the benefit in providing those extras until more consumers start supporting the format.We may have been here a few times before...
Built-in cameras have turned many mobile-phone owners into handy photographers, but soon they could be turning the camera on themselves.With Britain now home to more mobiles than people, phone theft is an increasing problem - more than 1.3m phones were stolen in 2003. One Japanese software company is offering a face recognition system aimed at deterring robbers.Omron Corporation's system lets phone owners snap a self-portrait and save the image on the handset. Whenever the phone is activated, users take a fresh picture of themselves. By comparing the two images, the phone can determine whether it has been stolen or is being misused."Mobile devices are carrying increasingly personal information, including address books, schedules and payment information," said Masato Kawade, senior manager of Omron's sensing technology laboratory in Kyoto. "This technology has been designed to protect this information even when the phone is lost or stolen."The verification process takes less than a second and works by analysing the distances between key points on the face. The makers have reported a 99% success rate, though some experts say highly accurate systems are too complex for a mobile phone to handle."It depends on the conditions that the picture can be taken in - usually you've got to hold it very straight," said Keith Kendrick, a professor of neuroscience at the Babraham Institute in Cambridge. "Building the necessary algorithms to recognise faces at an angle or in profile can be pretty heavy going. But I see nothing wrong with this as an approach - the only problem would be if you'd just seen your plastic surgeon that morning."Figures from the Metropolitan police show that half of all street robberies include the theft of a mobile.
I'm sitting in the Speaker's Lounge on the first day of theGame Developer's Conferencehere in sunny San Francisco reflecting on my utter lack of computer gaming over the past week or so. Well, I say utter lack, I have been dabbling with some unusual apparatus while in transit and at thePenny Arcademuseum onFisherman's Wharf. Playing so-called "Casual" games on the airplane and fiddling with old style mechanical entertainments has offered a brief window away from the bling of graphics, sound and other so-called essentials for contemporary computer games and a small reminder of what gaming is and should be all about: play.It's a strange thing to be thinking at the outset of the 2005 game developer shindig, where so much of the event is set on exploiting technologies in order to get more eye-and-ear candy from the systems. How far has the games industry moved away from simple pleasure and towards a high-end business model?Certainly some recent games have emphasised good old fashioned fun.Katamari Damacyis one - and one of the only. It has been suitably lauded and rewarded for its almost retro gameplay feel. Surely there are others which aim to be mere distractions rather than full surround sound experiences?I'm still awaiting a copy from the publishers, but I'm hoping game design guru Raph Koster's bookA Theory of Funmay have a few answers. Other sources of play interest can be found in Gonzalo Frasca's essay,Ludology meets Narratology, where he questions the absence of game theories in lieu of in-depth considerations of game narrative.But really, how much of the push towards deep thinking about computer games, from so-called "serious" games to those which ostensibly encourage learning and socialisation, have spawned from a kind of cognitive dissonance experienced by grown-ups who feel they have to validate the countless years they've spent in front of the console?I'll be checking this out and more over the next couple of days. First step, theSerious Games Summit. Perhaps I'll also get the chance to ask Keita Takahashi, creator of the aforementioned Katamari Damacy, what he thinks about play.
Copy of Halo 2? Check. Xbox Live activated? Check. Super-strength caffeine products to hand? Check. Great, you have all you need to enter the first European Halo 2 championship.Registration begins todayand lasts until the 20th March when eight finalists will battle it out to be UK champ. The winner then goes through to the Euro and World finals with some good prizes (camcorders) and some odd (Master Chief statue) up for grabs. Still, at least playing in this comp means avoiding 14 year old Americans who clog up too much of Halo 2 Live.
A quick couple of mobile game stories to start the week off. First of all, Gameloft has signed up to produce a Java game based around the forthcoming Spielberg/Cruise blockbuster, War of the Worlds. No word yet on gameplay, but as Gameloft's output is uniformly excellent (the forthcoming Splinter Cell Chaos Theory conversion is another gem) I'm expecting more than just a speciously relevant shooter.Also, budget games publisher Play It has announced that it's moving into the mobile sector, with ten titles on the way. First of the bunch will be conversions of hit eighties titles James Pond and, wait for it, International Karate - almost everyone's favourite 8bit beat 'em up.I'm pretty sure that Play It CEO Mark Cale also holds distribution rights to the absolutely fantastic 2D fighterGuilt Gear X. Could this be coming to mobile too, or I have I got my wires jumbled up? It is monday, so frankly this could go either way.
The value of computer equipment claimed by schools through Tesco's Computers for Schools promotion is substantially lower than six years ago, analysis by the Guardian has established.The fall contrasts with soaring sales and profits at Britain's biggest supermarket in the same period, and despite a steady rise to over 24,000 in the number of schools collecting the vouchers.Analysis shows that, in terms of pure value of equipment, the scheme peaked in 1999, when schools claimed &#163;10.5m of equipment.In 2002 and 2003, schools claimed equipment worth only &#163;7m. The figure recovered to &#163;8m last year, but Tesco's sales in the UK have grown by 56% since 1999 and its UK profits by 65%.Tesco will launch this year's Computers for Schools pro motion in its stores today, and can be confident that, measured as a slice of sales or profits, the scheme will again cost it less.In 1998 and 1999, the value of computer equipment given to schools equated to 1.14% of the company's UK profits. That ratio has fallen every year since, and was as low as 0.52% last year.Computers for Schools works by offering customers one voucher for every &#163;10 they spend over a 10-week period. Shoppers donate the vouchers to schools, which can redeem them against a range of products that Tesco sources from RM Group, one of the country's biggest suppliers of computer equipment to schools.The company describes the scheme as "the main way Tesco invests in local communities", and its chief executive, Sir Terry Leahy, has called it a "win-win" for the supermarket and its customers.The principle is that if Tesco's sales increase, more vouchers should be issued and the value of equipment generated for schools should also rise.Tesco confirmed that, in popularity terms, Computers for Schools is as successful as ever: the percentage of customers collecting the vouchers has been rising steadily through the years.The supermarket may therefore face accusations that the purchasing power of the vouchers in real economic terms - ignoring movements in the retail price of computer equipment - has been gradually reduced.In the computer market, price deflation is often the norm. Products tend to get cheaper as innovation makes once state-of-the-art equipment redundant.In a statement to the Guardian, Tesco did not directly address the issues of purchasing power and price deflation, but said: "Computers for Schools remains the biggest and best education initiative of its kind and continues to give millions of pounds worth of equipment to schools every year."It said that schools needed to collect no more vouchers to obtain a product this year than they did for the equivalent product last year or the year before."The reason why the cost of the scheme to Tesco has not increased more rapidly is because we are buying better and because the price of IT equipment has come down over the years. Schools and customers have benefited from this."Whatever way you look at it, schools are still receiving much-needed equipment that they would not otherwise be able to afford, through a scheme that basically offers something for nothing."
Today the Guardian has taken a look at thelegal status of bloggersin the wake of theApplecourtbattle.But there's some other legal wranglings going on that could affect bloggers... Limp Bizkit singer Fred Durst is taking action against sites - including Nick Denton's famedGawkergossip blog - for posting a stolen sex video of him. Here's theNew York Daily News, for what it's worth:Limp Bizkit lead singer Fred Durst struck back at the Web sites that posted X-rated video clips of him romping with an ex-girlfriend with an $80 million lawsuit yesterday."The Video was never intended by either participant to be shown," the lawsuit states.Durst, who explained in court papers how he "held the camera," said computer hackers stole the video from his hard drive and posted it without his permission.Gawker seems to have recognised that it was a poor show to post the video itself - they took it down pretty damn quickly, and before they received any legal notice from Durst's lawyers. Now they're taking thedefensive line:Honestly, though, we don't know why you're so mad at us. The situation is really rather simple. Someone sent us a link to a video of your penis, we went into shock, and we shared it with the world for about 2 hours. Then we wept, found God, took a hot bath, and removed the video from our site.Journalist and bloggerFelix Salmonpublished a long diatribe saying thatGawker jumped the sharkwhen it hosted the video rather than just linking to it. He blames Nick Denton for the posting, which he says reflects the site's increasing tabloidisation - going from being a media gossip site to being a celebrity gossip site:Wwhen a video appeared today featuring Limp Bizkit frontman Fred Durst having very explicit sex with an unidentified girl, Gawker was more than happy to link to that... so long as you're a celebrity, there's nothing that Gawker won't link to.The real shark-jumping, however, came later in the day, when Gawker decided to host the video themselves. Anybody going to Gawker's Fred Durst Sex Tape page was immediately confronted with the full two-minute video, and quite possibly put off their dinner for the rest of the day. The irony is that the title of the page was "The Fred Durst Sex Tape You Never Wanted" – well, if you went to that page, you got it whether you wanted it or not.Privacy is, of course, an eternal celebrity news question. But this time it could be a big deal for bloggers as a wider group of publishers - especially since internet law is so flaky most of the time, and when it does make a decision it is often incorrect or badly applied.
"The digital cameras fitted to many modern cellphones already provide a nifty way to capture and share low resolution images with others. But Omron, based in Kyoto, Japan, has developed software that it hopes could turn these built-in cameras into a useful security tool," reportsNew Scientist."The OKAO Vision Face Recognition Sensor software was created for existing phones with a digital camera fitted. After taking a picture of their face for reference, a user can configure their handset to lock itself or limit its functionality until another picture is taken."The software works by measuring key parameters, such as the distance between the eyes, nose and mouth. Omron says the software takes up just 370 Kb of a cellphone's memory, and takes about one second to perform the check. In testing, it correctly recognised its owner's face in 99 out of 100 attempts, the company claims."Comment:Read about OKAO Visionhere.Update:And Bobbie's report ishere.
"Google is set to launch on Monday an updated version of its desktop search tool whose enhancements include the ability to search the full text of Adobe Systems PDF files and the metadata of multimedia files, a Google executive said."Until now, the product could only index the names of PDF and multimedia files, such as image, music and video files. But the new version improves on this by indexing the entire content of PDF files and the metadata of multimedia files, such as song and artist names in music files, said Nikhil Bhatla, a Google product manager."IDG News Service has morehere. There's alsoReutersetc.
The internet age has heralded something of a journalistic free-for-all. There are now millions of "bloggers" around the world, and while much of their material is utterly unreliable, some of it is beginning to rival the traditional media for attention.But fame comes at a price, and some of the more ambitious amateur hacks are finding they are not immune from the kind of legal tangles that have plagued traditional journalists for years. Nick Ciarelli, a 19-year-old blogger from the US, is the latest to find himself at the receiving end of some unwelcome legal attention. Despite his youth, he has made a name for himself as a source of reliable information about future product launches from Apple computers.Ciarelli, who styles himself "Nick dePlume" on his weblog,thinksecret.com, broke the news about Apple's world beating music player, the iPod, a week before it was launched in 2001. More recently, he announced that Apple was producing a pared down computer, the Mac mini, shortly before it was released. His activities have clearly antagonised Apple, which has issued legal proceedings against him in an attempt to discover the identity of his sources. In response, he claims he is a journalist and proposes to assert a journalist's right not to reveal his sources. Apple won the first round of tis legal battle at the end of last week when a Californian judge ruled that online publishers could be forced to reveal their sources.The case raises the question of who, in the age of the internet, can properly be described as a journalist and rely on the special legal protections journalists enjoy. In its legal action, Apple states that Ciarelli's website illegally solicits its employees to violate confidentiality agreements by disseminating secret company information. In the US, as in Britain, where breach of confidence can be shown, the law requires any person receiving secret information to disclose who provided it, so appropriate action can be taken. Apple wants Ciarelli to disclose his contacts.However, journalists enjoy a privileged position: the First Amendment gives considerable protection to reporters who want to protect their sources. Ciarelli claims this protection should be applied to him. "I employ the same legal newsgathering practices used by any other journalist," he has said. "It is crucial that a reporter has the ability to maintain the confidentiality of his or her sources."The difficulty is whether a web blogger should avail himself of this benefit. Some say that since web contributors are not obliged to obey the same code of ethics as print or broadcast journalists, they should not get the same privileges. Although blogs have had some notable exclusives (the notorious Drudge Report blog first revealed Bill Clinton's relationship with Monica Lewinsky), much on there is wholly unreliable and there appears little comeback for such inaccuracies. There have also been some well-publicised episodes of celebrated bloggers being surreptitiously paid for their endorsement, for example, of a political candidate. This uncontrolled web reporting cannot be considered in the same category as traditional journalism, the critics say. Moreover, if simply posting material on the internet was sufficient to invoke the protection, surely any malevolent company could procure sensitive and secret information from a rival but be excused the obligation of telling who provided it by placing a few pages on the web.British journalists also enjoy a number of legal advantages over ordinary mortals including a degree of protection regarding sources. A reporter (or indeed anyone) may not have to disclose "the source of information contained in a publication for which he is responsible". This would seem broad enough to cover ad hoc internet blogs as well as more traditional and recognised media. However, this protection can be set aside if it is in "the interests of justice" to do so. A court is much more likely to consider this to be the case with an internet blog than with a journalist on a reputable newspaper.Another important and relatively new protection for journalists is in defamation law. In the past few years the traditional defence of qualified privilege has been developed so that journalists may have a defence to a libel action for a story if its publication was in the public interest and they employed responsible journalism (in terms of checking out the facts and putting the allegation to the victim) in its preparation. However, the courts have taken a restrictive line with this defence, requiring a high standard of journalistic professionalism before allowing it to succeed. It seems unlikely that a court would see most web bloggers as sufficiently rigorous for the defence ever to apply to them.Journalists also enjoy some exemption from the provisions of the Data Protection Act. This complex piece of legislation governs the use of information relating to living people. It limits what can be done with such information and gives individuals a right to access information being held about   them. However, information being processed with a view to the publication of journalistic material is largely free from these onerous conditions. What constitutes "journalistic material" for these purposes is so far untested in the courts. Nonetheless, it is not at all clear that bloggers would qualify for this protection and they may find themselves much more subject to the Act's provisions than a traditional journalist.Another legal area where the media have special protection is copyright. It is not a breach of copyright to reproduce material fairly (not including photographs) for the purposes of reporting current affairs. Here bloggers may rank much more equally with traditional journalists. Provided the blogger used the material fairly and for reporting news, there seems no reason why the defence should not apply.Ironically, one blogger over here, Joe Gordon, who was sacked from Waterstones after criticising the firm on his blog, is claiming that his website cannot be compared to a newspaper or magazine and so he should not be treated as though he had taken his revelations to the media.However, most bloggers would like to benefit from the legal privileges accorded to journalists. The courts will face a tension: they want to ensure that these protections are the quid pro quo for responsible journalism, but will not want them to be seen necessarily as for the benefit of an exclusive club of traditional print and broadcast media organisations. If bloggers want to rely on any of these protections, they would be well advised to think carefully (and to set out on their blog) the standards of journalistic professionalism they propose to adhere to. If they do not, the courts are unlikely to see them as journalists.&#183;Dan Tench is the head of public law and a media partner at Olswang
Well, hooray for the Advertising Standards Authority. This week the watchdog decided that a TV advert that encouraged young people to rampage through city centres committing random acts of violence could not be shown before the 9pm watershed. Good on them, that army recruitment ad was beginning to make me feel inadequate. "Be the best" indeed. I jest, of course. In fact the adverts that have so upset the ASA are for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas - easily the most violent computer game since Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. Apparently the ads included "general scenes of violence and the use of guns" as well as a "threatening atmosphere" and as such have attracted a staggering eight complaints.Eight! The people have spoken!Of course, it is easy to find fault with the ASA's decision. The idea that in this war-soaked age children can be shielded from "scenes of violence" on television is ludicrous - heaven forbid any of them should stumble across the lunchtime news. But there's an even greater problem with trying to stop kids seeing violent ads during the day: it's called the internet.A casual surf reveals that there is barely a teen community site that has not reviewed GTA: San Andreas, and barely a teen chatroom in which it has not been discussed or promoted by visitors. You want violent images? Check out the screenshots that accompany the reviews. A threatening atmosphere? Ooh, here are some downloadable trailers from the official GTA site.The web is laughing in the face of the watershed and what is the ASA doing about it? Sitting at home fretting about a medium that young people are abandoning in their droves.Whether we like it or not, the   web is a truly global medium and, as such, censorship on a national level is unrealistic. Yes, content that is illegal can just about be controlled thanks to collaboration between police forces in different countries - but content that is just in poor taste or likely to upset young children? Forget it.At least official trailers and semi-official review sites tend to exercise a degree of self-censorship to ensure that they do not contain extremely graphic content. But thanks to the plummeting price of digital video equipment we are seeing a growing trend of horrifically tasteless spoof ads appearing on the web.Earlier this year two "renegade" (read: desperate) filmmakers called Lee and Dan posted a spoof ad on their website featuring a suicide bomber driving a Volkswagen Polo. The payoff was that the bomb exploded, killing the driver but failing to make a dent in the car - the tagline: "Polo: Small but tough." Naturally the clip went ultra-viral and was posted on forums and blogs across the web with nothing to stop children seeing it. In fact it was the children themselves that were responsible for much of the forwarding.Fast-forward to five years from now. The ASA continues to ban violent pre-watershed TV ads. Children continue to hear about the bans and head straight for Google to track down the offending adverts - along with all the far more graphic ads that only the internet can provide. Advertisers realise that there is no point in advertising controversial products on TV any more and simply transfer the budget to producing online trailers, which are promoted on websites rather than broadcast on TV. Television becomes a lovely fluffy world of child-friendly advertising while the internet continues its descent into commercially funded depravity.This dystopian future is great news for internet publishers - God knows we'll take advertising dollars from anyone - but it's a truly terrifying prospect for anyone concerned with the welfare of children.Perhaps it is time for the ASA (and by extension the government) to stop worrying about a violent TV ad that attracts eight complaints and start worrying about how they can police online advertising. And then perhaps it is time for them to realise that they cannot do anything of the sort. The best they can hope to do is to educate parents about the type of advertising that can be found on the web and to make them realise that the only sure way to prevent their children from accessing it is to take away their PCs and to encourage them to do something more constructive instead. Watching TV, perhaps. Or playing Grand Theft Auto.&#183;Paul Carr is editor-in-chief of The Friday Project (www.thefridayproject.co.uk)
While the rest of the broadcasting world was digesting the contents of the government's BBC green paper on Wednesday, BSkyB was unveiling its own vision of the future of TV that could have equally profound ramifications. In the same way that music fans have down the years got used to forking out for better quality formats and more convenience, from vinyl to CDs to digital downloads, now the visual medium is trying the same trick.Richard Freudenstein, BSkyB's chief operating officer, last week told the DVB World conference in Ireland that the company remained on track to launch high-definition TV (HDTV) next year. The pay-TV giant is betting big on the fact that as the country moves to a fully digital broadcasting environment, customers will be happy to shell out not just for more television but for better quality picture and sound.When the launch was announced last year, it was overshadowed by the simultaneous confirmation that Sky would introduce a FreeSat service, offering 200 channels without subscription to compete with Freeview. "For us at Sky, that was a shame. Internally, we were of the view that, of the two initiatives, HDTV was of greater significance and would have more far-reaching consequences in the long term," said Freudenstein. "I still believe that is the case, even though free digital television and analogue switch-off continue to make bigger headlines."The technology that is getting Sky executives and technophiles excited   has been around in various forms for a while, but only now, with the mass consumer take-up of digital television and advances in compression, has it become economically viable for broadcasters and programme-makers to think about launching the format.Brian Sullivan, director of customer products and services at BSkyB, says: "It's a completely different visual experience. The sharpness and clarity of the picture is almost jarring in how much better it looks." It is generally argued that HDTV broadcasts are four times better quality than standard definition pictures. Sullivan believes it is the biggest step change since the introduction of digital TV in 1995, which he points to as proof that people will upgrade as much for the quality of their picture as for the movies, sport and extra channels available. "The first two or three years after the launch of Sky Digital, we tracked our customers constantly and almost every time, they said the quality of the picture and sound was one of the top reasons for subscribing. That's why people continued to come to Sky, it's what took us from 3.5 million to 7.5 million," he says.The one rather large hitch in this grand vision is that subscribers will have to splash out on a new television to take advantage. But Sky points out that with the upsurge of interest in DVD and home cinema, we are in the middle of a "natural replacement cycle" that will only accelerate as we move towards digital switchover.A quick trip to any high-street electronics retailer will confirm that TVs are getting bigger and flatter, with high-end plasma and LCD displays flying off the shelves. At present, only 420,000 HDTV compatible plasma sets are in living rooms around the country, but Freudenstein last week confidently predicted this would rise to two million by the end of next year, adding: "We estimate the majority of UK households will have at least one high-definition screen by 2010."BSkyB is backing its HDTV gamble with hard cash. When its chief executive, James Murdoch, announced last year that the company was spending &#163;300m on upgrading facilities, many scratched their heads over how many pot plants that sort of money would buy. Now, it is clear that a big chunk will be devoted to the launch of HDTV. Studios and outside broadcast trucks are being kitted out and HDTV set-top boxes are about to go into production. The company is preparing to broadcast shows for which the benefits will be most apparent - sport, movies, natural history documentaries - in the new format from the off. Sullivan says it has yet to decide a pricing strategy.The BBC has promised to make all its shows high definition by 2010. A spokeswoman says that, while a decision has yet to be taken on whether to transmit all its channels in the format, it will begin to experiment as soon as Sky launches its service. The forthcoming disaster documentary Supervolcano was filmed in HDTV, as is the new dramatisation of Dickens's Bleak House. ITV and C4 are yet to reveal their HDTV plans but are also likely to start producing some programmes in the format soon. Most imports from the US, where the format is already taking off, are compatible. Last week, Freudenstein predicted that the 2008 Olympics or even next year's World Cup could provide the tipping point when HDTV moves from early adoption to mass acceptance.Amid all the hi-tech mumbo jumbo, it is clear that HDTV represents a crucial flank in Sky's ongoing battle to persuade existing customers to pay more for premium services and convince those so far immune to its charms to succumb. "It is an unfounded but nonetheless real perception that pay-TV represents quantity over quality," said Freudenstein. "Those discerning customers are precisely the audience that is likely to be interested in a high-end proposition that focuses on the quality of the content and the viewing experience." The theory being that, as Sky starts to sell more low-end packages to families it will also wring more cash out of premium subscribers with HDTV, Sky Plus, multi-room and other innovations. HDTV will also be a crucial differentiator for Sky from Freeview - the bandwidth available on the digital terrestrial service will not support many high-definition channels. Even Greg Dyke, the former director general who launched Freeview as a bulwark for the BBC against Sky in the digital age, said recently that it may find it hard to compete once HDTV comes along.The move is a calculated risk for Sky, but given its track record for gambling and winning, few would be willing to bet against Freudenstein's prediction that we will all be watching pin-sharp pictures by the end of the decade.
We're 150 miles north of the Arctic Circle, it's pitch dark and the temperature is dipping to -20C. I'm also naked except for a pair of grey woollen socks - never a good look. My pink flesh seems to be steaming slightly. Two minutes ago I was sitting in a smoke sauna and now I've crunched 200m across a frozen lake to an ice hole for the 'polar plunge'. I ask our Finnish guide why on earth I should hurl myself into the dark water? 'Because,' he says, 'you will feel vital in all of your body.' I glance at him dubiously, and then, Damien-like, slither into the icy hole ...To put both myself, and Volvo's extraordinary XC90, through these extreme-weather conditions, I've flown to the frontier town of Saariselk&#228; in the northernmost part of Finland. Deep in the heart of Lapland, this was once a gold-mining outpost. Now its snowblasted forests are home to the local S&#225;mi people, tourists who come for the stunning, freeze-dried scenery and, on this particular weekend, a planeful of Volvo drivers.With the XC90, the clever people at Volvo have created a uniquely gifted off-roader and, understandably, they're keen to show it off. It's built to be driveable at -40C, it features revolutionary traction-control and braking systems. With its studded wheels, it can be driven flat out on the sheet ice of a frozen runway, it can slalom without skidding across enough black ice to host a figure-skating competition and it can power up and down snowy slopes as if you were merely looking for a space at your local multi-storey. If Pingu's parents were in need of a family car, this should definitely be it. It must break the engineers' hearts that most owners will never know what their 4x4 can really do. Even Volvo's own research shows that most people who buy the XC90 are couples with children and that the vehicle's most desirable trait is not, in fact, its sure-footed all-wheel dynamic stability system, but its seven seats. Things are changing among Volvo drivers, though. The XC90 is the only model for which owners do not list golf as their favourite sport. Whatever next? Naked potholing?The model we're testing is the massively powerful 4.4litre V8, which won't be available in right-hand drive until next year. At a thirsty 20.9mpg, it's really been developed for the US market, where a third of all Volvos are sold. Here, you'd be better off opting for a diesel, the 2.4D5, which will give you 34.4mpg, and at £34,000 still save you enough money to renew your green fees at Wentworth.On the final morning, we paired off and headed into the hinterland, following snowy trails through the frosted forests. On either side, the snow lay piled in 5ft drifts, white tendrils of dry ice blowing through the trees and across our path. At one point we saw a pair of white elk, we spotted snow grouse in the pine branches and then, just short of the Russian border, we watched in awe as a herd of more than 50 reindeer picked their way across our track. Sitting in the warm embrace of the XC90's heated seats, I knew then what it was to really 'feel vital in all of my body'.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Tom Lehrer famously said that satire died the day Henry Kissinger was awarded the Nobel peace prize. Well, here are two more candidates for that auspicious day. According to the  New York Times , Carly Fiorina - sacked ex-CEO of Hewlett Packard - and Paul Wolfowitz - deputy secretary of defence in the Bush administration - are the leading candidates to replace James Wolfensohn as president of the World Bank. (Note: the World Bank is an organisation created to help poor people in areas of the world where dysentery is a way of life.)Although they come from   different worlds, these two have one thing in common - their capacity for destruction. Wolfowitz need not detain us long. Suffice to say that his political views make Donald Rumsfeld look like St Francis of Assisi. Along with Dick Cheney, he is widely credited with being the 'brains' behind the strategy of invading Iraq without having any coherent plan for the aftermath. The chaos in that benighted country is thus Wolfowitz's prime gift to civilisation.The case of Fiorina is more interesting. She took an innovative and much-admired technology company and eviscerated it with a kindergarten-MBA strategy that alienated thousands of the most dedicated staff in the technology business - not to mention leading many more to take early retirement or pursue exciting new careers in the fast-food industry. Given this record, we may ask: what have the world's   poor done to deserve this?Hewlett-Packard was a legend in the electronics world and effectively founded Silicon Valley. It was set up by two Stanford engineers, David Packard and Bill Hewlett, in a Palo Alto garage nearly 70 years ago. From the beginning, the company was   engineering-led rather than market-driven. Its founders gave it a civilised, egalitarian, cerebral ethos. Even when it became a very large company, Packard and Hewlett occupied modest offices. HP was the antithesis of the kind of organisation that lays on executive suites, corporate jets, New York apartments and gold-plated shower fittings for its senior executives.HP made superb products - beautifully designed, exceedingly robust and accompanied by operating manuals written in flawless English. It manufactured instruments primarily for medical, electronics and engineering applications. When electronic calculators became feasible, HP calculators were objects of wonder, rather as iPods are today. They were exquisitely engineered, crammed with clever functions and designed to feel natural to the engineers who were their target   market. They were also expensive, but that was part of their charm: you felt you were getting value for money.The arrival of the personal computer in the early 1980s created problems and opportunities for HP. The problem was that the PC was destined to become a consumer product, and HP didn't really do consumers. The opportunity came with the laser printer - a complex, expensive device only corporate customers could afford. HP focused its capacity on making printers that were robust, reliable and technically sweet. The result was the Laserjet, one of the greatest electronics products of all time.HP remained uncertain about what to do about the   PC . It manufactured personal computers (beautifully but expensively), but never made serious headway in the business. As the madness of the internet boom of the 1990s took hold, the perception grew in Wall Street that HP was rather dull - all those middle-aged engineers thinking about quality and spending fortunes on R&amp;D and being nice to one another. No thrusting, MBA-wielding brats in sight. But in the end, the board was persuaded and appointed just such a brat - Fiorina.You can guess the rest. The abrasive new CEO - who had, in the words of one seasoned observer, 'the worst case of testosterone poisoning of any CEO I've ever seen'   - set about shaking up this nice but dull organisation. HP had to become market-focused rather than engineering-led. Various bits (like the R&amp;D labs) had to be sold off. And the problems of HP's personal computer division were to be solved by a takeover of Compaq.The merger has been a disaster. HP's corporate culture has been damaged irretrievably. Thousands of devoted employees have gone. And a company which once had a fantastic printer business and an indifferent PC business now has a fantastic printer business and an indifferent PC business with two brand names instead of one. Fiorina has departed with a $21 million payoff. Billions of dollars of shareholders' money and five years have been wasted.So, stand by, World Bank. Your turn next!
Ebay, the internet auction site beloved of everyone from Cherie Blair to ex-soap star Daniella Westbrook, is being used by record numbers of small shopkeepers and market traders to shift excess stock.It started out as a way for people to sell anything from outgrown children's clothes and unwanted furniture to antiques but new research shows that some 3,000 small traders are piggy-backing on its success.Ebay has 10 million registered users in the UK - outnumbered only by those in the US and Germany - and 135 million worldwide, a customer base that has already pulled in a handful of household names such as Vodafone, Hewlett Packard and Thomson holidays.Now the Royal Mail has launched a joint venture with an e-commerce company, Marketworks, to provide small traders with everything from storefront design on Ebay's site to product warehousing and delivery. It is part of the Royal Mail's attempt to find new income streams in the face of deregulation in its traditional markets.'We knew that small traders were using Ebay but we did not realise 3,000 of them were doing it until this research,' said Ebay's new small business manager, Azita Qadri.'At the moment they are retailers with just one or two shops, or perhaps market traders. We do not think that this dilutes the spirit of Ebay, which has always been about selling stuff that you do not want any more at a good- value price.'We think there are thousands of traders who have excess stock that they cannot shift in their own, very local marketplace. There comes a point when they would just have to write it off, so it makes sense to put it on the web.'This way, they do not have to pay for website design or marketing or security. We are not going to differentiate between businesses and individual traders. They all pay the same costs and have the same conditions.'Ebay is becoming a natural home for so-called 'grey market' goods: end-of-stock lines, often designer brands, that find their way to street markets or discount stores, although Qadri downplayed this aspect.
"Last week's blog on the state of videogame writing, and the possible solution offered by New Games Journalism, attracted plenty of debate, but many of you wanted to see a few more examples of the NGJ style," writes Keith Stuart on the Guardian'sGamesblog."So I got together with Kieron Gillen (veteran games journalist and comic book writer, responsible for the NGL manifesto), Ian 'Always Black' Shanahan (writer of seminal NGJ article 'Bow, Nigger'), Jim Rossignol (another veteran games journo and NGJ stalwart), and Mark Donald (editor of PC Gamer) and drew up a list of ten articles available online and indicative of the New Games Journalism approach...."
"The teddy bear sitting in the corner of the child's room might look normal, until his head starts following the kid around using a face recognition program, perhaps also allowing a parent talk to the child through a special phone, or monitor the child via a camera and wireless Internet connection," reportsAP."The 'Teddy' project was one of about 150 projects on display at Microsoft's TechFest, a two-day event that gives Microsoft's worldwide team of researchers the chance to show product developers their sometimes far-flung creations, and perhaps find a fit for the projects in a future, marketable product."Comment:Last year, I wrote an Online cover story on "life caching" calledHow to save your life. One of the things I mentioned in passing was that "in 1992, usability guru Don Norman wrote about everyone having a personal Teddy: you would get it when you were two or three years old, and it would store all the experiences you ever had." Rather than being a simple spy, this is a much more complicated idea, which you can read abouthere.
They wouldn't say whether I Fought The Law (And The Law Won) was one of the offending tracks. But British record labels yesterday revealed that 23 individuals accused of illegally swapping songs over the internet had agreed to pay out more than &#163;50,000 in court settlements.While the offenders were not named, they included a local councillor, a company director, students and several parents forced to pay settlements of up to &#163;4,500 each on behalf of their children. The British Phonographic Institute said it would take a further 31 cases to the high court and warned that anyone caught swapping a single song illegally on a filesharing network could be next."These settlements show that we can and will enforce the law. No one should be in any doubt that we will continue to do so," said BPI general counsel Geoff Taylor.The original legal actions launched in October last year were the first time that British labels had followed the lead of their American counterparts in suing individual filesharers for swapping music tracks over the internet. At the time, they said they were targeting "major uploaders" - those who make libraries of thousands of tracks available to share on peer to peer networks such as Kazaa, Soulseek and Grokster.The 23 settlements, which included an undertaking not to share pirated tracks again, involved internet users from around the UK. The number of files being distributed by each ranged from hundreds to 9,000. The 17 men and six women, aged between 22 and 58, were not named. They agreed to pay an average of &#163;2,000 each to settle, although two paid more than &#163;4,000.The BPI said it was "highly likely" that some of those targeted settled on behalf of their children. "It's true to say that some parents have been genuinely shocked to discover what their children have been up to," added a spokesman.The court actions are part of a two-pronged approach by the record industry to get to grips with the problem of online piracy that threatened to cripple it in the late 1990s. As well as taking action against persistent downloaders, it is encouraging consumers to use legal services such Apple's iTunes Music Store, Napster and MSN instead.UK singles sales have slumped by more than 50% since 1999, when downloading took off on the internet. The BPI cites research showing that illegal downloaders spend as much as 32% less on albums and 59% less on singles.But UK album sales have bucked the global trend by continuing to rise, adding to the debate over whether individuals illegally sharing songs online are detrimental to the industry. An estimated 9 million songs were sold though le gal download services in 2004 and next month online sales will be added to the official singles chart, but the BPI said that millions of people were still downloading songs illegally.It added that its campaign appeared to be working, with users on one of the most popular file sharing networks, Fast Track, down 45% from its peak in April 2003. The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry has said that the number of files traded across the world fell by 30m in 2004 to 870m.
Police and children's charities yesterday called on the government to set up a national centre to investigate computer child porn as it was revealed that the number of internet paedophiles arrested had quadrupled in two years.Latest statistics from the Home Office showed that 2,234 people were cautioned or charged with such offences in England and Wales in 2003, compared with 549 in 2001.John Carr, internet safety adviser for NCH, the charity formerly known as National Children's Homes, said he feared the figures were not exceptional."Child pornography on the internet is a modern curse," said Mr Carr. "These astonishing figures reflect the arrests made during Operation Ore. But, given ongoing police activity, the worry is they represent not a blip but a new normality."Many police admit they are only touching the tip of a very ugly iceberg. The internet provides a path for people to go down, a route they may never have taken before."Operation Ore was set up when FBI agents passed on to police forces worldwide the credit card details of 250,000 people suspected of using a Texas-based web portal to access child abuse sites.Of the 7,250 people traced to the UK, British police have arrested more than 3,500 and charged almost 2,000.British Telecom records 60,000 attempts a day to access child porn websites, while detectives catch 300 paedophiles a month by logging their details when they try to access a fake website.The National Crime Squad is part of a global virtual taskforce which also includes the FBI, Royal Canadian Mounted Police and Interpol. Its members patrol internet chatrooms to try to protect children from paedophiles.Jim Gamble, the National Crime Squad deputy director, said: "We are raising awareness that we are out there and that the internet is not a lawless place."But a constabulary inspectorate report this week found police forces in England and Wales were spending a lot of time investigating internet child porn while lacking training and resources.Mr Carr also urged internet service providers to do more to protect children. "BT alone is blocking 60,000 hits a day and that's just one ISP. There are a couple of hundred ISPs out there, nine or 10 of them very big ones. "Getting them on board is really important because if people cannot access the websites in the first place they cannot download the images and therefore the gangsters making these images will have to stop, because there will be no one to buy them."Stuart Hyde, of the Association of Chief Police Officers, backed the call for a national centre, which he thought could be funded by the Home Office "moving budgets around".
This year, Britons are expected to buy more than 2.5m cars, and as Harold Macmillan once said, you've never had it so good.The world's car manufacturers are making more cars   than they can sell, while brokers are undercutting the main dealers, so it means there has never been better time to upgrade your car.Certainly there are some great deals out there, but if you want to buy new you'll probably have to shop outside the traditional dealer network to get a really spectacular bargain.One car being sold by main dealers that does offer great value is the new Mitsubishi Colt. This is by all accounts the super-mini of choice at the moment. The motoring press   has universally praised its interesting and versatile design and its room for five coupled with low running costs.It comes in two and five door guises and, crucially, is being offered at attractive prices - the base models start at &#163;7,500 but if you can   manage &#163;8,600 you'll get a satellite navigation system and air conditioning.Across the board the prices at dealers have failed to rise in line with inflation - several of the manufacturers now offer discount schemes on their own dedicated websites. However, few can match the prices offered by the discount brokerages that list brand new cars, or models that have been pre-registered and are "as new".One of the better known isUK-car-discount.co.uk. It claims to have the UK's cheapest Citroen Picasso 1.6 HDI (110) people mover for &#163;12,182 - this is a car that has a list price of more than &#163;17,000.If you don't need the latest diesel engine and are happy with a 1.6i petrol, Citroen will sell you one direct for &#163;9,995 (a saving of &#163;3,400 off the list price) if you can do the deal before the end of March. However, another broker,Drivethedeal.comhas the same petrol car for &#163;9,165.If you are in the market for a cheap small car with unspectacular performance but good reliability and low running costs, you might want to consider a Nissan Almera. Nissan is selling the three-door 1.5SE on its website for around &#163;9,995.However, if you are prepared to accept a car with a slightly lower spec, UK-Car-Discount is selling brand new cars with full three-year warranty for &#163;6,800. It also has Mazda 6 1.8 estates for &#163;15,000 (a saving of &#163;2,800) and the last VW Passat (Highlines) with the sought-after TDI 130 diesel engine for &#163;15,000, which is a saving of &#163;2,800.Renaults, Fords, Peugeots, Rovers, Vauxhalls and some Toyota models can all be bought in this way for large discounts.Falling new car prices don't just benefit those buying new - they also help people who are buying a one or two-year-old car. In fact,   these probably represent the best value of all. Cars lose a huge amount in depreciation over the first few years - and as a result such models represent real bargains.The huge used car centre Trade-Sales in Slough specialises in selling such cars - they typically have 10,000-15,000 miles on the clock and can be bought for around 66% of the car's original purchase price.It is selling 2004 Vauxhall Zafiras for &#163;8,999, and one-year-old Renault Meganes 1.4 with air conditioning and power steering for &#163;7,700.An 18-month-old Rover 75 1.8T Club SE can be bought for &#163;8,000 - which must be close to half the price the car was originally bought for. Trade-Sales also has Almeras with 10,000 miles on the clock for &#163;5,200.In fact, anyone wanting to understand the impact that age and increased mileage has on used car prices needs to look no further than the forecourt of one of the big suppliers of used cars. Cargiant in West London offers   4,400 cars at a range of prices and ages, and a quick scan down the price list reveals the devastating toll that depreciation exacts.Someone looking to buy a brand new Ford Mondeo 1.8 LX will pay a dealer just over &#163;13,000, or &#163;12,000 to a broker. Cargiant is currently offering a one-year-old Zetec with a slightly higher specification and 15,000 miles on the clock for &#163;9,000 - a saving of &#163;3,000-&#163;4,000.However, when you look at a two-year old model, and push the mileage up to 36,000, the Cargiant price falls by a further &#163;2,000 to &#163;7,000. The same three and a half year old car that's travelled 60,000 miles sells for just over &#163;5,000.Most cars bought in this way come with the balance of the original three-year warranty intact - buyers simply need to make sure the car was not imported prior to sale and that it has been serviced in accordance with the manufacturer's schedule.&#183;Some of the prices quoted are subject to administration fees which can add up to £150 to the windscreen price.The finance optionsWhether you choose to buy new or used, your chosen method of finance will have almost as big an influence on your purchase's real cost. The message is simple - don't be persuaded by the dealer to take their finance package without getting a quote for an alternative loan, which will almost certainly be cheaper.According to research by moneysupermarket.com, a driver buying a new Ford Mondeo, costing &#163;18,680 and taking Ford's finance deal (currently at 15.1% APR paid   back over three years, with a 10% deposit) would repay a total of &#163;22,598.If they opted for the most competitive personal loan on moneysupermarket.com - currently 5.9% with Lombard Direct Online or Alliance &amp; Leicester - the total amount repaid would be &#163;20,221.16, a saving of &#163;2,377.63.Richard Mason, director of personal loans atmoneysupermarket.com, said: "Accepting the deal offered in car showrooms could be costing motorists a lot of money."Buying privatelyThose who are happy to buy nearly new cars privately will be able to make even greater savings, as the seller can often be keen to get rid of the financial tie.However, such buyers should disregard the prices some private sellers advertise, according to the used car database, Cardata (cardata.co.uk).It trawled through the small ads and found sellers overpricing their vehicles by almost a quarter, with an average asking price of   &#163;1,716 over the recommended book price.The biggest discrepancy came from a Mercedes E-Class with &#163;4,360 on top of the industry recognised value. Other excessive prices include a Renault Megane at 104% over value, a Fiesta at 78% and a Peugeot 307 at 72%.Just don't forget to do an HPI check (costing around &#163;30) to establish the car is free from outstanding finance. Used Car Checks will check its condition for &#163;99 - call 08700-468-602.Who to callAnyone looking to buy a new or nearly new used car should log on tohonestjohn.co.ukand look for the link to the week's best buys. This site regularly compiles a 22-page list of who's selling cars for   what. UK car discount can be phoned on 0161-499-7007. Another big broker, Drive the deal, is on 020-8446-0800. Trade Sales in Slough is on 08701-222-980 and Cargiant is on 0208-969-5511.
Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake EaterPS2In a prequel to the Metal Gear series' usual sneaking around and giant robotchasing antics, Snake Eater takes you back to the 1960s for a spot of pre-digital espionage and antecedent gadgetry. Stealth is once again the best way to take on guards, who are here assisted by attack dogs. Unlike previous outings, this time you also have to use camouflage to stay hidden and sterilise, suture and bandage your own wounds, burn off any leeches that attach themselves to you, and, as its name suggests, chow down on local fauna before your rumbling stomach attracts the wrong kind of attention. Laced with references to previous games, Snake Eater is a rich dose of Cold War-era bellycrawling.&#183;Konami, £40Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater - The Official Guide BookIn most games, barging your way rudely through each level until you sit back and watch the inevitable closing cut scene is the only viable approach. The Metal Gear series has always encouraged you to be more playful, with secrets (referred to as Easter eggs) dotted all over its complex and well-crafted maps, as well as countless non-essential moments of discovered fun and silliness. Although potentially ruinous if used too soon, the official guide helps with general tactics and tough boss battles and highlights the game's myriad joyous touches. Like other Piggyback guides, this one conforms to the publisher's near-religiously high standards.&#183;Piggyback, £10.99Ace Combat: Squadron LeaderPS2In an effort to defibrillate what has become a distinctly turgid genre, Ace Combat: Squadron Leader's take on flight simulation emphasises plot as well as nice, simple, arcade-style flight mechanics. As a fighter pilot, defending your home country from attack involves witnessing vast tracts of sub-Hollyoaks grade acting and in-air histrionics that, at times, actually seems to drown out the roar of your Vulcan cannons and high explosive ordnance. In flying terms, there's a long list of real and imagined aircraft as well as a reasonable variety of over 30 missions, and the familiar follow-the-arrow mechanic helpfully points out your nearest target. While skilfully put together, pulling off loop after mindless loop tracking enemy cannon fodder soon feels starkly joyless.&#183;Sony, £40
Several years before Eats Shoots And Leaves became a bible for grammar nit-pickers, The Apostrophe Society (apostrophe.fsnet.co.uk) was formed to preserve the much abused punctuation mark. Their site has a brilliant gallery of punctuation crimes on public signs, websites and best of all, tombstones. Their members would probably have seizures if they visitedengrish.com, which celebrates badly translated English in Japan - where you really can buy a CD by Eric Crapton.For signs of a more homely nature go toshophorror.co.uk, where the best of the worst British shop names awaits including a Chinese takeaway called Wok This Way. Finally, words aren't required atswanksigns.org/gallery.asp, which mocks danger signs from around the world. We love the one warning of impending hippo "splatter" storm.
New Games Journalism, BAFTA scandal - it's been a busy week. Here's what happened.MondayOh my God, they've bought Kenny!TuesdayBAFTA Games AwardsBAFTA ResultsWednesdaySo much to answer for?BAFTA Gamecube travestyThursdayPlayboy interviewBecome an eighties programmer 20 years too lateWhat games can teach us about learningTen unmissable examples of New Games JournalismReviewsFridayGizmondo incoming
UK record labels have forced 23 internet users to pay fines worth a total of more than £50,000 after they admitted to illegally downloading music.The organisation that represents UK record labels said it had agreed the fines with 23 people - including a local councillor, an IT director and parents of child downloaders - who had downloaded tracks from filesharing sites such as Kazaa, Grockster and Bearshare.At the same time the British Phonographic Industry  said it was bringing 31 new actions against other "illegal" filesharers as it accelerated a campaign to clamp down on copyright infringements.These filesharers, aged between 22 and 58, agreed to pay fines each averaging around £2,000 after they were targeted by a BPI monitoring project designed to identify people involved in the large-scale download of music tracks.The BPI refused to confirm that children were among those fined, but admitted that some of the downloaders were parents and said it was "highly likely that they settled on behalf of their children".The organisation said the negotiated settlements represented a victory for the music industry in its battle to prevent what it routinely describes as "online theft"."We are determined to find people who illegally distribute music, whichever peer-to-peer network they use, and to make them compensate the artists and labels they are stealing from," said the BPI's general counsel, Geoff Taylor."These settlements show we can and we will enforce the law. No one should be in any doubt that we will continue to do so."The BPI said the 23 users had downloaded between a few hundred to "many thousands" of tracks with two of the heaviest downloaders each agreeing to pay more than £4,000.Although the BPI said the average fines represented more than a month's salary, they are dwarfed by the £6,800 fine slapped on a French teacher last month.French record labels took the unprecedented step of taking out adverts in Liberation and Le Parisien, two of France's best selling daily newspapers, in a warning shot to other unauthorised downloaders.The BPI said it would go to the high court today in a bid to unearth the identities of 31 other individuals and widen its search to other sites."If illegal filesharers think that they can avoid getting caught by staying away from the most popular networks like Kazaa, they're wrong," said Mr Taylor."We are going to continue bringing cases against people who distribute music illegally, whichever filesharing network they use, for as long as it's necessary."Legitimate music services can only prosper if we continue to fight the theft of music on the internet."The move comes less than a month before users of the most popular peer-to-peer networks - so called because they route music and other downloads between individual computers rather than relying on a central server - plan a week of direct action urging people not to buy any CDs.Scheduled for the last week in April, the move is designed to send a message to the studios and record labels that are cracking down on online filesharing."The wealthiest, nowadays, decide what we listen to and watch using staggering public relations campaigns; most releases are 'format' productions where talent, passion and creativity come after profits and greed," says a message on the organisers' website."Most of us feel that they should look into wider availability and more affordable pricing instead of claiming higher moral ground as an excuse to prop up an outdated and failing business model."&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Here's one for the little guy. America's Federal Communication Commission has brought a halt - in one case at least - to theblocking of VoIP calls.A North Carolina telecommunications company accused of deliberately blocking Internet phone traffic has reached a deal with federal regulators to halt the controversial practice.The Federal Communications Commission said Thursday that Madison River Communication will "refrain from blocking" VoIP, or voice over Internet Protocol, calls and will pay a $15,000 fine to the government. [...] VoIP provider Vonage confirmed that Madison River was the broadband provider it complained to the FCC about earlier this month, leading to the FCC's investigation."We're very pleased that the commission took very swift action to address the concerns that we had regarding an Internet service provider's ability to block our customers' communications with each other," Vonage CEO Jeffrey Citron said. "This sends a clear message that port blocking will not be tolerated."So, Madison River - which has a revenue of nearly $200m a year - trampled over a new technology, a technology which wasn't making them any money (even though it saves customers wads of cash).If you didn't think telcos were scared stiff by internet voice calling, then surely here's the proof that it's brown trouser time.
I played with a prototype at E3 last year and feared it may never appear, but now it looks like theGizmondois finally coming out. The UK launch date is the 19th March and will coincide with the remarkably brave/foolish opening of a "flagship store" on Regents Street in London. The Gizmondo is an odd-looking, but feature-packed handheld that includes a decent 3D graphics chip for gaming, plus MP3 and Mpeg4 music and video capabilities. But the real appeal is in the addition of a GPS chip which throws up some interesting gaming avenues. At £229 it is almost certainly going to cost more than the PSP, but the Gizmondo has the spec to be a contender and I predict cult status by next year.
"In a case with implications for the freedom to blog, a San Jose judge tentatively ruled Thursday that Apple Computer can force three online publishers to surrender the names of confidential sources who disclosed information about the company's upcoming products," reports theMercury News."Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg refused to extend to the Web sites a protection that shields journalists from revealing the names of unidentified sources or turning over unpublished material."In its court filings, Apple argued that neither the free speech protections of the United States Constitution nor the California Shield Law, which protects journalists from revealing their sources, applies to the Web sites. The company said such protections apply only to 'legitimate members of the press'."Comment:Unfortunately, Apple regards bloggers as illegitimate members of the press. ....
To celebrate its 10th birthday, Yahoo has done a 10 years/100 moments"netrospective"usingJonathan Harris's brilliant10x10.Comment:Before anyone says "Why not do that for Online's 10th birthday?", the answer is that Online's 10th birthday was last year....
Hospitals should prescribe a hefty dose of computer gaming to help patients overcome their pain, a study in the journal BMC Paediatrics suggests.Scientists in Australia found that children distracted in a   virtual world of guns and mean monsters experienced less pain than those given only painkillers.Debashish Das and colleagues at the Adelaide Women's and Children's hospital tested the effect of computer games on seven children aged five to 18 who were   being treated for acute burns. The most distressing part of their care involved changing dressings. All were given painkillers, but on set occasionswere allowed to immerse themselves in a monster shooting game while their dressings were changed.The children were then   asked to rank how much pain they experienced by pointing to cartoon faces indicating different states of distress.The researchers found that the average pain score was 4.1 out of 10 with painkillers alone, but 1.3 when the children took painkillers and played the computer game.
The number of people arrested and convicted for downloading child abuse images from the internet has more than quadrupled in the last two years, a children's charity revealed today.Home Office figures obtained by the charity NCH showed 2,234 people were cautioned or charged with online child abuse offences in England and Wales in 2003, compared with 549 in 2001 - a rise of 307%.The charity, together with the Association of Chief Police Officers, today called on the government to establish a new body - dubbed the UK Internet Safety Centre - to investigate online child abuse.The agency, first proposed last year by the children's charity Barnardo's, would be staffed by police, child protection experts and computer analysts.NCH internet safety adviser John Carr said: "There is now widespread agreement about the need for a new, high-powered national centre to tackle internet crimes against children."The only thing there is not yet an agreement about is who should pay for it. We hope ministers can resolve this very soon. What NCH says is that we want a new national centre - and we want it now."NCH noted that the number of people cautioned or charged in 2003 was 64 times greater than the 35 recorded in 1998 - the first year these offences were recorded. Between 2002 and 2003, the number of offences rose by 157%.A report by the government's police watchdog warned this week that the increasing amount of time individual police forces were spending on internet paedophilia investigations was sometimes to the detriment of other types of child protection. The Inspector of Constabulary for England and Wales added that child protection officers lacked sufficient training and resources to tackle online child abuse offences.Mr Carr put the huge rise in the number of arrests and convictions down to Operation Ore, the police investigation set up to track down people who paid to download child abuse images from a website based in Texas.The investigation was launched after the Federal Bureau of Investigation supplied UK police with the credit card details of 6,500 Britons who accessed the US pay-per-view Landslide website to download child abuse images.Mr Carr said: "These new and astonishing numbers reflect the arrests made during Operation Ore. But given on-going police activity, the worry is that they represent not a blip but a new 'normality'. Many police admit that they are still only touching the tip of a very ugly iceberg."NCH also called on internet service providers (ISPs) to follow British Telecom (BT) and Vodafone in blocking their subscribers from accessing known child pornography websites.The charity will be asking the home secretary, Charles Clarke, to investigate how many UK-based ISPs have yet to block access.Mr Carr said: "Child pornography on the internet is a modern curse and ISPs have a critical part to play in stamping it out. BT and Vodafone showed the way. We want everyone else to follow or, I am afraid, legislation compelling them to do so will be inevitable."BT, Britain's largest high-speed internet provider, last year announced that it was blocking 23,000 attempts to access child abuse websites every day.
Atari in five-star shocker! Yes the company formerly known as Infogrames came up trumps in this week'sreviews, with Atari Anthology scoring full marks. And after a dreadful year - did any major publisher have a worse line-up than Atari in 2004? - the company has seemingly come good with its latest release. But don't get too excited - this isn't sparkling new IP. Atari Anthology contains 85 "lovingly recreated" versions of classics like Asteroids and Battlezone. Of course, 83 of these games usually entertain only as it long it takes to say, "Brilliant! I remember bunking off school to play this...ok, bored now, what's next". But Mike Anderiesz was smitten by nostalgia enough tooffer 5 stars. "With so many titles to choose from, you really can't go wrong" he said.Bounty-hunting romp Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath looks pleasingly different, and Steve Boxer was certainly impressed. "Stunningly good graphics, a smattering of humour and a high level of attention to detail generate a gameplay experience that is fresh, immersive and, at times, challenging" he said. And lets face it, it's good to see EA publishing a game without a numeric suffix.Last up was my review - Star Wars Republic Commando, the second in what is likely to be a lengthy list of Force-related games this year. But this is a decent first-person blaster that will keep fans at least partially busy until the new film in May. Gritty, dark and visceral are three words that describe Republic Commando. Equally useful are "not" "quite" and "Halo". Nonetheless, it comesrecommended.
"The programmer generally credited with building the basis for Microsoft's landmark computer operation system has sued an author who alleges the software was simply a "rip-off" of another man's work," reportsAP."Tim Paterson, who created the software later known as DOS and sold it to Microsoft, filed a defamation lawsuit Monday against Harold Evans and the publishers of his book, They Made America."The lawsuit is over a chapter in Evans' book about Gary Kildall, who founded Digital Research and died in 1994 at age 52. The book claims Paterson's software was simply a "slapdash clone" and "rip-off" of Kildall's CP/M operating system, developed in the 1970s."Comment: The book was blogged here with reference to a Business Week Online story,The Man Who Could Have Been Bill Gates,below.
"Secure Signature Systems(SSS) has been busy developing this Bio-Pen that's been designed for use with laptops and PCs to prevent unsavoury types from logging onto wireless networks and VPNs. The chrome ink pen uses biometric technology to identify users via their signatures, providing a wire-free security system," reportsTech-Digest."According to the SSS people, it has a false acceptance rate of just 0.01% and it's currently being trialled by 'some of the UK's largest financial institutions'."Comment: It's for Windows only and plugs into a PC via a USB port. Let us know if you have seen one in your local bank!
Mac?I'm afraid not, although I would like to try out one of those sweet little Mac Minis. I love the way they dispense with what I had supposed to be prerequisites to a useful computer: keyboard, mouse and screen. Not quite sure how this works in practice. Do you have to get some sort of Bluetooth implant at the Prof Kevin Warwick Clinic of High Bandwidth Surgical Modifications?Google?Marvellous, isn't it? So quick. Mostly I use it, as everybody does, for running searches on my own name. The first reference to me, as opposed to other Verity Stobs, is page 9 entry 5   from when I was in this lady's shop and it wasn't flooded, and my next is page 17 entry 2 from when I was unfortunately in court. I think most people would be very proud of Page 9 entry 5, if they had a common name like mine. The earlier pages are all about a Verity Stob who is a pharmacist in Petersfield. I don't see what is so important about her. Just standing behind the counter at Boots and saying "There's a 45-minute wait at the moment" and "Can I just check your address, please?", I feel I could do that quite easily.Firefox?An exemplar of slick and elegant programming and a jewel in the open source crown. I particularly like the way it displays perfectly the website of its archenemy,www.microsoft.com, yet garbles the spiritual home of its main supporters,http://slashdot.org. Mere commercial organisations might have yielded to the temptation to fix this   after a year or so, but not the Firefoxen. That's what I call integrity.BlackBerry?Pah! Texting for suits.Texting?Sony Ericsson kroWkcolc kIl rOlf Nhctik d xa nur tad NEC 338 z1 nworb lttil - @lf ym n ecim og evI 3G not yet ready for the mainstream.VoIP?"Be the first person you know to get Skype." So I was. Not that many callers, so far.Radio?We use the BBC's Listen Again a lot to check contested decisions in the Today programme cricket, which we play most mornings. You score a single if a politico says "we've made it very clear", and a four if he or she breathes mid-sentence so as to have enough puff to gabble on through the next full stop and so deprive the interviewer of the chance to interrupt. You   forfeit a wicket if James Naughtie can't find the weather, or Garry Richardson claims that Radio Five Live's forthcoming coverage of greyhound ice hockey from Roehampton is "for you".Email?Google again, I'm afraid. I use Gmail. Marvellous. Incidentally, if any of your 400,000 readers wants an invite on to the beta programme, I still have one left. If my sister Parity doesn't want it.Visit:http://masl.to/?F1AE5229AVerity Stob's favourite linksNTKwww.ntk.netThe Registerwww.theregister.co.ukBetter than wareZ, because you get to finish writing the program yourselfhttp://sourceforge.netJackanory theme at TV Creamhttp://tv.cream.orgThe Gallery Of "Misused" Quotation Markswww.juvalamu.com/qmarksFlash animation of Tom Lehrer's The Elementshttp://masl.to/?E25112527&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
There's a debate going onbelowabout the Gates Foundation. so I thought I'd throw in some excerpts from a recent ABC News television interview where Peter Jennings goesOne-on-One with Bill Gates.The facts are that Gates has identified the world's greatest inequity -- the death of third world children, often from preventable diseases -- and decided to devote almost all his wealth to doing what he can to save their lives. You really have to wonder what sort of person could possibly object to that....JENNINGS:You have been a big advocate of travel. And you have on occasion said that Americans who spent more time traveling in Africa, for one, would learn something. What would we learn?GATES:Well I think there is a lot of compassion when you see people in a very tough situation. When you see parents dying of AIDS, you see orphans, you see malaria. If you don't see it — if you are just reading the statistics its hard to relate to and its hard to think of it as something that you need to help change. So actually getting out to India, to Africa, that's critical to me to make sure my foundation is doing effective work and you know renews my commitment to take all the wealth I have and make sure it goes back to causes like world health......JENNINGS:And are you very, very aware that your children are terribly privileged? I shouldn't say terribly privileged, very privileged and that you have to fight that with them for the future?GATES:I think that's one of the biggest challenges that Melinda and I face is that our kids will grow up in a nice house and we don't want them to take things for granted. We're looking forward to taking them on a lot of these foundation trips so that they will see what life really is like for most people on the planet and they'll have an understanding for why we're giving our wealth to those causes......JENNINGS:But you could have chosen other issues. Why were so intent in making a difference in communicable diseases?GATES:Well, I looked at what is the greatest inequity in the world. The U.S. is very oriented towards solving inequity — gender inequity, racial inequity. In fact, you'd have to say, the great inequity is that we let people die of these diseases. We treat their lives as being worth less than a few hundred dollars because that's what it would take to save them. And so there's a huge disparity and bringing the advances in science to those diseases can change that in a big way. So, my goal was to pick the thing I thought was the greatest inequity in the world, focus on that as our top priority and that's world health and then take the greatest challenge for the United States and make that also a priority and that's the work we're doing in education.
The arts minister Estelle Morris has confirmed that the arts and heritage project Culture Online will receive an additional £3m to spend on interactive projects in 2005/06.In addition to commissioning new projects, Culture Online's team of technical and creative specialists will offer consultancy support to other government departments and non-departmental public bodies.The news follows a series of BAFTA Interactive wins for Culture Online projects, announced last night.Stagework won the top prize in the best factual and best learning categories and Headline History won the children's learning category.Established in 2002, Culture Online commissions a portfolio of creative projects to extend access to the arts and culture. Many of the projects encourage mass participation and inspire people to interact with arts, heritage and cultural organisations in an innovative way.Ms Morris said: "Culture Online has enjoyed a strong year, gaining praise for both its creative programme and its robust approach to managing risk. Culture Online and its partners have produced an array of top-notch cultural and educational online resources and I'm looking forward to seeing the new projects in the coming year.     It's great to see creativity and effective risk management running hand in hand."The director of Culture Online, Jonathan Drori, said: "You can create something rather special when you combine innovative technology with a real understanding of audiences. That's certainly been our experience at Culture Online. It's been a privilege to work so closely with the  country's top cultural organisations alongside the technology companies that have helped us to deliver compelling interactive experiences. This funding means we can create new projects with new partners. I'm also delighted that we have been invited to offer consultancy support to other government departments and NDPBs."
BBC News isn't known as a hotbed of blogging but Helen Bushby's very entertaining"Reporter's Log" of the Oscarscould have been a blog. The main difference is that her reports look as though they were edited and put on the site y the BBC's Web staff, rather than being posted directly by the reporter. However, it does seem to me that this is a crucial difference. Even if the words remain the same, you get more immediacy if the reporter posts directly to the audience -- and the frisson that comes from the increased risk....
Last week'sblogon the state of videogame writing, and the possible solution offered by New Games Journalism, attracted plenty of debate, but many of you wanted to see a few more examples of the NGJ style.So I got together with Kieron Gillen (veteran games journalist and comic book writer, responsible for theNGL manifesto), Ian 'Always Black' Shanahan (writer of seminal NGJ article'Bow, Nigger'), Jim Rossignol (another veteran games journo and NGJ stalwart), and Mark Donald (editor of PC Gamer) and drew up a list of ten articles available online and indicative of the New Games Journalism approach.This is a varied bunch, but I think what connects them is emotion, insight, and often a narrative rather than methodical structure. Whatever, just read and enjoy.A Rape in CyberspaceWritten by Julian Dibbell back in 1993, I'd possibly describe this as 'proto-New Games Journalism' if I were a pundit on Late Review. I'd then go on to point out that the article juxtaposes nicely with 'Possessing Barbie' as an examination of the moral questions surrounding online society.Possessing BarbieFirst published in PC Gamer, Ian Shanahan's follow up to 'Bow, Nigger' is another riveting one-on-one online encounter, this time taking place in the morally ambiguous world of graphical chatroom,There.Dreaming in an empty room: a defense of Metal Gear Solid 2Written by Tim Rogers, this idiosyncratic 'review' of MGS2 appears on the games site, Insert Credit, and is, according to Kieron, "highly discussed and fairly brilliant".Shoot Club: Saving Private DonnyI could have chosen any of the quirky 'Shoot Club' pieces written by Tom Chick for the Quarter To Three site, but this, apparently, is Ian Shanahan's favourite so we'll go with that.ZangbandTK: Confessions of a Dungeon HackA thoroughly involving PC Gamer piece by Kieron Gillen, which looks into his initial experiences with theRoguelikeRPG, ZangbandTK. This esoteric sub-genre is something most mainstream gamers will know nothing about - but by the end of the article, they'll almost certainly want to find out more.The Great ScamNightfreeze's epic and highly subjective account of life in the massively multiplayer title, Eve Online, is attracting a lot of interest. "Strikes me as New Journalism AND investigative journalism AND travel journalism," says Kieron.Prince of Persia: The Sands of TimeAn example of Edge Magazine's usually excellent Time Extend section, which sets out to assess and examine the impact of 'significant games'. This impassioned article looks at POP: SOT's brilliant time-travelling structure.Going PlanetsideAn NGJ-defining article by Jim Rossignol, reporting from the front line of Sony Online Entertainment's massively multiplayer FPS. It's an utterly personal account of what itfeelslike to be involved in this astonishing game.Red Eye #114Groundbreaking to some, pretentious nonsense to others, Edge's Red Eye column nonetheless forces the reader to form an opinion – and very little games journalism bothers to eventryto do that. Here's a fine example, penned by Ste Curran and selected by Jim.Sex in Games: Rez + VibratorA fabulous, funny and candidly lascivious article describing the masturbatory delights of the Rez 'Trance Vibrator'. "I remember I liked it for its openness and unashamed animal delight at the game," say Ian Shanahan. I concur.
James Paul Gee is one of the primary proponents for games in education. Originally a theoretical linguist, he has become a literacy educator, emphasising the important aspects of learning in game playing. He wroteWhat Video Games Have To Teach Us About Learning and Literacyand will be presenting at next week's Game Developers Conference in San Francisco. Gamesblog caught up with him before the event to talk games and education.What stands in the way between current teaching practices and a system in which games are welcomed into the classroom?What stands in the way is what I call the "fact fetish". This is the idea that learning an area—let's say biology—is all about learning a bunch of facts and repeating them back on tests. For me, learning an area like biology should be about learning how to "play the game" of biology, that is, learning to think, act, and value like a biologist (of a certain sort) by doing biology with support and mentorship from people who really know how to be and do biology. At some level, this can be done with even young children—who, after all, in SimCity are urban planners. When you "play the game" of biology, then, of course, you learn and use lots of facts, but not just in and for themselves, or for a test, but to accomplish your goals in biology (to "win" the game). Lots and lots of research shows that quite often kids with A's in things like physics and biology can pass tests, but cannot apply their knowledge to solve any real problems.In what way are they educational?Good video games are not "educational"; rather they involve players in engaging in deep learning as a form of engagement and fun. Good video games—like Rise of Nations, The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind, Deus Ex, and many more—are complex designed systems that players have to learn to engage with reflectively and strategically if they are to "win". Of course, you can say that what players are learning is how to play the game.World of WarCraft and biology are both role-playing games. For me a video game is a distinctive complex (virtual) world in which a person (player) takes on a distinctive identity connected to distinctive skills to accomplish goals, goals which reflect the design of the world and the player's desires. Biology is a similar thing when seen as a distinctive way to view and interact with the world and not just a set of facts for a test.How is a consumer products like GTA or Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs) educational?GTA is a good (great) game in just the sense I have dealt with in the last question. An MMOG like World of WarCraft is too, but here something else is added. When people play as groups (a team) in a game like this, they are functioning as a "cross-functional team" (just as in new capitalist modern workplaces), each bringing distinctive skills to the group, but having to share enough knowledge of the other players' skills to integrate with them as a well-functioning team. Knowledge is distributed among the group members (and the virtual characters they are playing—which are "smart tools" in the sense of having knowledge built into them, e.g., your character knows how to use certain weapons and engage in certain skills like hiding). Cross-functional teams, distributed knowledge, and smart tools—this is the stuff of contemporary modern high-tech new capitalist workplaces—alas, not schools.Why should computer games be encouraged in classrooms?Games are simulations in which people have to learn to think about complex relationships and unintended outcomes in a critical and reflective way if they are to become any good at the game. Players can modify games, so they can produce and not just consume. If kids learned science as something they could actually do and critique (even redesign, i.e., "mod"), we would have a critical citizenry that would not elect people like George Bush.What does government need to know about computer games before they begin encouraging educationalists to use games?Parts of the government already knows all it needs to know—the military uses very sophisticated games to teach and makes America's Army, a great game. The rest of the government has to get over regular and ignorant Baby-Boomer prejudices towards video games.
The world's first legal mobile phone peer-to-peer (P2P) music sharing service, which lets users download full tracks and swap them with friends, will be launched in Europe this month.In December, the Spanish operator Telefonica licensed a mobile music solution with Melodeo, a US-based company delivering music software to mobile phones, and the P2P service will soon launch in Spain. Mobile phone operators will offer it to UK users within three months, with the US to follow.Melodeo has also signed the industry's first global licensing agreement with Warner Music Group for full-length music tracks to be downloaded to mobiles.The technology is similar to online P2P music services. Once users have the Melodeo Music Solution software on their mobiles, they can search an on-phone catalogue of up to 10,000 songs. If they find one they like, they purchase the full track and download it from their mobile network. The cost of the track is charged to their monthly phone bill or, if they are pre-pay customers, deducted from their credit.Users can beam the track via Bluetooth to friends, who can hear a 30-second preview and also buy it. Their mobile phone operator sends it to them and manages the payment.Sounds simple enough. But its success depends on how well the service is picked up in Spain and how it is implemented by operators in the UK. Telefonica is charging &euro;1.49 (&#163;1.02) per track, but it is not known whether the UK price will rival the 79p per track offered by online services such as the iTunes Music Store.It is also unclear whether or not users will have to pay extra to download the Melodeo software. Duncan Ledwith, general manager Melodeo Europe, says: "Cost is entirely down to the &#91;individual&#93; operator." But he is doubtful users will have hidden costs, saying: "We will have pre-loaded &#91;the software&#93; on to a number of European handsets."If mobile music services such as ringtones are anything to go by, then the majority of users are likely to be young, so extra costs would put this service at a disadvantage.On the plus side, Melodeo is keen to offer a wide variety of music. "Early innovators in the market are likely to be the younger crowd, which is why we are focusing on independent labels as well as the majors," says Ledwith. Dance music, in particular, is likely to be popular, reckons opera and punk fan Ledwith.Users can also search Melodeo's server, which holds Warner's catalogue, including labels such as Atlantic, Elektra, Warner Bros and Word. Melodeo aims to add significantly to this portfolio in the coming weeks.As well as listing songs by title, artist and album, Melodeo is in the process of building more detailed searches, where you can filter new releases and Top 20 tracks. It is also working on a personalised service, similar to that offered by Amazon, where a recommendation engine tracks your preferences and offers suggestions of songs you might like according to previous purchases.Melodeo is using AAC advanced audio coding for the music files: aacPlus, from Coding Technologies, produces files between 500K and 750K, which is smaller than a typical MP3 file, and can be downloaded rather than streamed, thereby saving bandwidth.While the number of songs a user will be able to store depends on each phone's capacity, Melodeo advises that with 64MB of memory, you should be able to store between 75 and 125 tracks.The downside is that you can only listen to the tracks on your mobile. You can transfer them to a computer via Bluetooth, or store them on a memory card, but if you want to listen to them again, you have to transfer them back to your mobile.File encryption and Melodeo's digital rights management (DRM) system are used to protect each track."We expect that as the service grows, it will not only be a significant source of revenue for artists, publishers and labels, but will also bring music to new audiences," says Don Davidge, a senior vice president of Melodeo. "Ultimately, we anticipate that sending a song will be as common as sending a text message or making a call."If users pick it up with the same fervour as they have other mobile music formats, and it comes to rival online P2P services, portable music players and music carried on laptops, then record labels and mobile phone operators can expect to make a lot of money from the technology.Telefonica believes the mobile is the best way to avoid music piracy, while Mariano Perez, president of Warner Music Spain, thinks the one-track download will inspire more sales in other formats.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Michael Howard, the Conservative party leader, has reportedly told colleagues that they can win the election assumed for May 5 by focusing on just 838,000 people. Technology could, in theory, make it even easier.According to data from retired Keele University lecturer Richard Kimber, Labour's 167-seat majority in 2001 could have been removed if just 136,108 voters in 83 of the most marginal Labour seats had cast their ballots for second-placed candidates. Such precise switching is unlikely, but it demonstrates why both main parties are making substantial use of Mosaic, a digital database that profiles every postcode in the country.Mosaic, owned by Experian, is used by retail chains to tailor stock to the local population's needs. Political parties could use it similarly to localise their national campaigns.Britain's electoral system encourages parties to target fragile constituencies. The Conservatives will prefer to tackle Dorset South's Labour majority of 153, for example, than Sheffield Brightside's 17,049. Labour will win the latter regardless of Conservative efforts.Constituencies contain thousands   of disparate people, but tighter focusing is possible with Mosaic, which groups the UK's 1.7m postcode areas - each of which holds about 15 households - into 61 categories.Mosaic's system was developed by Richard Webber, a visiting professor at University College London's geography department. He says socio-economic classification based on job title, such as A or C2, has been weakened by a proliferation of work grades, along with an increase in dual-income couples and pensioners."The key thing is, &#91;Mosaic&#93; is multidimensional," he says. While many of its categories are concerned with job types (such as "corporate chieftains"), others focus on housing ("Coronation Street"), age, family structure, ethnicity ("south Asian industry") and whether the area is urban or rural.Of the data fed into the system, 54% comes from the 2001 Census, with other sources including the edited electoral roll, Experian's credit database, house price data and government research. Actual postal addresses can also make a difference.Webber says using regularly updated information allows early notice of change - by examining names to spot an increase in ethnic minorities,   for example, or by identifying married couples by finding men and women at the same address with the same surname.He concedes that this involves some incorrect assumptions, "but when you add data up for a level of geography, those errors tend to cancel each other out", he says.Webber has compared the Mosaic classification with the socio-economic groupings for 60 kinds of consumer behaviour. The database best predicts purchases based on property, followed by wealth and ethnicity, and is less strong on the age of residents.But can it predict their politics? A Mosaic profile of Norwich South, the constituency held by the home secretary, Charles Clarke, shows how it might. The constituency's largest   Mosaic category is "caring professionals", who make up 13.5% of the seat, compared with 1.08% across the UK. The next categories are "new town materialism" (large families on recently built council estates) and "older right to buy" (older lower-income people, most of whom have bought their council houses).Different groups have different views. Experian's profile, which cross references data on voting intentions, says some voters want stronger controls on immigration - but such messages will alienate the "caring professionals". A party could decide to send different messages to different Mosaic postcode areas.This system is challenged by Paul Whiteley, a professor of government at Essex University. "It's fallacious to assume that, say, individuals in rural   areas will vote Conservative," he says.There are other problems. A Labour spokesperson says parties have long emphasised different parts of their manifesto for different audiences, but adds: "The one thing you can't do is give contradictory messages, as it would destroy your credibility and wreck your campaign."The Conservatives declined to comment on Voter Vault, their Mosaic-driven voter database.While Webber says Mosaic could find voters who are likely to change their minds and build on remote communication in the way party workers going door-to-door have always done, others are sceptical. As Whiteley says: "You buy this system as a surrogate - it's better than nothing. But the best way of doing it is with troops on the ground."Making of MosaicIn the mid-1970s, Professor Richard Webber categorised deprived areas of Liverpool with the aim of delivering government services, but funding dried up after the Conservative's election victory in 1979. Webber then worked on commercial classifications, CACI's Acorn and then Experian's Mosaic. He says the Post Office realised it could use segmentation to encourage companies to add postcodes to their files, and to boost postal marketing."If you examined your own customers' postcodes, you could go to organisations such as Experian and rent names and addresses that matched those," he says, as well as profile existing customers or sales leads. Retailers use such systems to decide where to open new shops. Having helped create the concept behind the system, the state sector is now using Mosaic.Customers include police forces, NHS bodies and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, which is identifying areas underserved by food retailers so it can encourage new shops.LinksRichard Kimberwww.psr.keele.ac.uk/area/uk/ge01.htmExperian's Mosaicwww.business-strategies.co.uk/Content.asp?ArticleID=566Acornwww.upmystreet.comRichard Webberwww.casa.ucl.ac.uk/people/Richard.htmPolitics Unlimitedhttp://politics.guardian.co.uk/localgovernment/story/0,9061,1342811,00.html&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Once the preserve of first-class business lounges, the mobile internet is fast becoming a reality. Last month, Southern Trains announced it was rolling out Wi-Fi access along its London to Brighton route. For about the cost of a bacon sandwich, commuters will soon be able enjoy internet access as they race across the Ouse viaduct. Not to be outdone, service station operator Moto said it was installing Wi-Fi hotspots at 43 of its motorway locations and you will even be able to check email at 35,000 feet: Boeing is installing Wi-Fi access points in its new fleet of long-haul aircraft.Wi-Fi, short for wireless fidelity, is the branding given to interoperability-tested products based on IEEE 802.11, an industry standard that allows data to be sent over the radio spectrum rather than through a cable or phone line. Now a standard feature on all but the cheapest laptops, the protocol is coming pre-packaged in a variety of electronic devices including mobile phones, palmtop computers and even the latest Nintendo games console.Until now, only a patchy blanket of disparate wireless networks has allowed these devices to connect to the internet and it has been difficult for users to roam between those networks since most cover only small geographical areas.But that is changing. Philadelphia is steaming ahead with an ambition to become the world's most wired - or unwired - city, with a $10m (&#163;5.5m) plan to bathe 135 square miles with wireless coverage - potentially accessible by 1.5m residents. Over the next 18 months, more than 4,000 wireless antennae will be attached to the city's lampposts, trans mitting free internet access into the city's parks and public places. But, more controversially, Philadelphia's residents and businesses will also be tempted with wireless broadband for about the cost of a dial-up connection. According to the mayor, John F Street, Philadelphia is "singularly obsessed" with bringing the benefits of high-speed internet access "anywhere, anytime, to anyone that needs it".Cities as diverse as New York, Taipei, Calgary and Adelaide are competing to launch similar "muni nets". Smaller scale networks have been deployed on corporate and university campuses and, more recently, in large shopping areas, such as a 42-square block section of downtown St Louis, Missouri. Smaller US cities, such as Salem and Austin, offer city-wide wireless access, while in Europe, the genteel Dutch city of Leiden offers a foretaste of the wireless city.The UK picture is more parochial, though no less passionate. A patchwork of smaller wireless networks, often funded by local councils, is beginning to blossom. Yesterday, Access to Broadband, a pressure group partially funded by the government, reported to the Department for Trade and Industry that there were at least 550 smaller scale wireless networks operating in towns and villages across the UK. Nearly 90% employ wireless networking. These tiny, cooperative projects are in remote corners, but what they have in common with Philadelphia is that they have been established in the wake of the market's failure to deliver affordable high-speed internet connections to everyone who needs it. The rural outposts going wireless are those that feel they are poorly served by BT.There are also moves to furnish London with city-wide wireless networks. Lewisham council is building a wireless network in south London, while the closest Britain has to wireless Philadelphia is a three-mile ribbon in central Bristol.What unites these groups is the belief that cheap wireless access has the power to even out the inequalities inherent in the network society. But not everyone is convinced by such egalitarianism. In Philadelphia, critics have argued that local government-run networks will result in poor service and be a waste of taxpayers' money. Far from being an anti-poverty weapon, say dissenters, municipal networks are more likely to be aimed at attracting hi-tech businesses. As Scott Wallsten wrote in the Philadelphia Inquirer last week: "Does anyone really believe that impoverished families are going to run to the store and plunk down more than $500 on a computer just because they can suddenly save a few   bucks a month on internet access?"The mayor's office responded swiftly, saying its pilot projects had engaged with low-income groups, citing the People's Emergency Centre (PEC), a homeless shelter in beleaguered west Philly, as an indication of how wireless networks can reach the poorest. Three years ago, PEC created a small wireless network for the surrounding area (average annual family income below $20,000) and offered to share its leased internet line with local residents for $5 per month - roughly a quarter of the commercial rate.The network - which remains popular - was supported by courses, whose successful students could buy a refurbished computer with a wireless card for $120.So far, so good. But city hall soon ran into serious problems that could stifle the wireless dreams of municipalities across the world. US cable companies, which see citizen-funded networks as a threat to their   commercial fiefdoms, backed a bill that effectively outlawed municipal wireless in the state of Pennsylvania. In December, the state passed a bill forbidding any municipality in the state from running an "information network". Only a last-minute deal with Verizon, the state's de facto monopoly provider of broadband, saved Philadelphia's vision. Verizon promised to allow the city's network, but at the expense of the rest of the state. At least 15 US states are considering similar telco-backed bills to ban municipal networks.To Dianah Neff, Philadelphia's chief information officer, municipal wireless is no mere luxury. Neff, a veteran public servant, sees municipal networks as a potential leveller in a city where 70% of state school children receive free school meals. "We have a vibrant downtown," she says, "but we need to make sure all our neighbourhoods can compete in the knowledge economy."We are not using taxpayers' dollars to build the network," she adds. "We will finance it through taxable bonds or bank financing." Moreover, Neff believes the network will be cost neutral, meaning that the start-up costs will be offset by a reduction in the cost of civic services. "We need outdoor access for our field operations, whether that's building inspectors, health and social workers or public safety. Our inspectors need access to engineering diagrams in the field if there's a water main break," she explains. "DSL or cable doesn't meet our needs."Chris Clark, chief executive for BT Wireless Broadband, said the UK's biggest broadband supplier would not be taking the same approach as Verizon. "The community wireless projects, which started in an environment of concern about rural service, are evolving into providing all sorts of innovative services," he says. "It would be a pity to see such innovation stifled. More recently, a number of metropolitan wireless projects have been in the pipeline. BT is fully supportive of these initiatives."While such sentiments will be welcomed by broadband campaigners, some wish to go further and establish truly free wireless networks. If municipal wireless represents a leveller approach to the network society, then the "free networkers" represents its diggers. The idea of a free, wireless network to "act as a direct counter strategy to top-down, telecom-provided monopoly networking", was born in Southwark nearly five years ago.Julian Priest, then a web designer, posited the idea that the wireless protocol could be used on a city-wide   scale. His company wanted to share its spare internet bandwidth with Backspace, a community of digital artists working over the road. However, it is illegal to stretch an overhead cable across a street. Priest and James Stevens, of Backspace, solved the problem by connecting the buildings with wireless technology. The realisation that the network could be extended followed quickly.The pair's idea to float a "data cloud" over London inspired a generation of free networkers to take to the roofs armed with antenna. Ad hoc free networks have since been established across the world, as far away as Indonesia, Nepal and Tanzania. Priest is lobbying Ofcom - the industry regulator - to establish a "spectrum commons" that would set aside certain frequency bands for public use. 802.11 has grown out of the thin sliver of the spectrum given to public use, "but it has to share that space with everything else," says Priest. "It's become an incredibly noisy and chaotic channel and we need more space."Free networkers, like Priest, believe that the transit of data through the air should be free. Not just in terms of cost but in terms of content. "People need to take responsibility for their own network," says Pete Gomes, of Wireless London, a pressure group established in January to promote free networks in the capital."Because of the scale of London, the possibility of creating a unified wireless system from grass roots activity is complex. We are in a position where we are embedding infrastructure for the future and if London doesn't realise that, we could easily be left behind."LinksWireless Philadelphiawww.phila.gov/wireless/Wireless Londonhttp://wirelesslondon.info&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
