The bitter rivalry between Samsung and Apple will expand beyond smartphones and tablets to smart wristwatches next month with Samsung first to market on 4 September with a device called the Galaxy Gear.Due to be unveiled just before the start of the IFA consumer electronics trade show in Berlin, the device is likely to connect wirelessly to a smartphone to access the internet.It is thought to be able make voice calls, access emails and surf websites.Although an on-sale date has not been confirmed, the Galaxy Gear is almost certain to beat Apple's long rumoured "iWatch" to market, although it will not be the first smartwatch to go on sale.Sony's second device, the SmartWatch 2, went on sale earlier in the summer. US startup Pebble Technology, meanwhile, raised $10.3m (£6.6m) via crowdfunding to make its Pebble smartwatch, which has been pre-ordered by more than 275,000 people.Research firm Canalys expects more than 500,000 smartwatches to be sold this year, followed by 5m in 2014 as Samsung, Apple, Google and other technology companies launch their own models.Frequent leaks and patent filings have hinted at these companies' plans. Apple is thought to have a 100-strong team working on its smartwatch, and in June applied for the iWatch trademark in Japan.The flurry of activity is part of a wider excitement within the consumer electronics industry about wearable gadgets, which also include wireless fitness tracking devices such as the Fitbit and Nike's FuelBand, and eyewear comparable to Google Glass.Research firm Juniper Research expects more than 18m smart wearable devices to be sold in 2013, rising to 170m by the end of 2018.
Every significant change to a free web-based service provokes a backlash from some users, from Facebook and Twitter to The Guardian and Gmail. This week, it's the latter taking flak from disgruntled users.In October 2012, Gmailintroduced a new interface for composing emails, but until this week it was optional. Now it's beingrolled out for all users of the webmail service, whether they like it or not.The key change is that when you compose a new email or reply, Gmail pops up a chat-like window which sits on top of your inbox, rather than filling the browser window by default."We're always trying to make Gmail faster and easier to use, so today we're introducing a completely redesigned compose and reply experience that does just that," wrote product manager Phil Sharp when it was first introduced.A few weeks ago, Gmail added a full-screen option back in, but as thestrong opinions on this forumshow, that hasn't dampened down the new feature's fiercest critics.With more than 425m Gmail users worldwide, these changes have a wide impact. So if you use Gmail, what do you think of the new compose window? If you're enjoying it, why? If you're unhappy, how do you think it should be improved?If you're not using Gmail, what do you like about the composing experience of your chosen email software or webmail provider? What's your wishlist for how email interfaces should evolve in the next few years?And, because it's impossible not to think about these issues in 2013, to what extent do issues like privacy and security govern your choice of email provider, as opposed to their user interfaces?The comments thread is open for your views.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Plants vs. Zombies 2 (Free)This hotly-anticipated game sequel sees you placing plants to defeat an array of zombies, working your way through levels set in ancient Egypt, pirate ships and the Wild West. The game's switch from paid to a freemium title has been controversial for some players, but the in-app purchases aren't pushed aggressively.iPhone / iPadBBC CBeebies Playtime (Free)This official CBeebies app offers mini-games for four of the pre-school TV channel's main shows: Octonauts, Alphablocks, Something Special and Tree Fu Tom. The games are high-quality, with light educational elements underpinning the gameplay.iPhone / iPadESPN UK (Free)During a cracking summer of sport, and with the football and rugby seasons to come, ESPN has launched its new app for the UK, offering news, scores, videos and social media feeds for a range of sports. Personalisation is a big feature too, from individual sports to favoured teams. It also makes canny use of push notifications to keep you updated.iPhoneDisney Action! (Free)This is the first mobile app spawned by Disney Infinity, the studio's ambitious new cross-platform game / virtual world for children that brings lots of its famous brands together. In this case, the app isn't a game: it's a tool for recording videos incorporating characters like Mr Incredible, Sulley from Monsters Inc. and Jack Sparrow.iPhone / iPadKICK: The Exclusive Barclays Premier League Digital Football Trading Card Game (Free)"Got got got need got got need need got got got got got need got got HOW DID YOU GET A NOTTINGHAM FOREST BADGE?" That's my school playground activities as a boy summed up. But how are football trading cards and stickers evolving in the apps era? Topps is the company behind this app, which gets people unlocking and collecting "digital trading cards" of Premier League stars and interacting with friends. Needless to say, in-app purchases (for virtual coins) are funding the habit.iPhoneInfiniScroll (£2.49)This app is described as an "open-ended storytelling tool" for children, presenting them with a scrollable feed of drawings, ready for them to record their own voices telling a story about the pictures, then share it with friends and family. A nice, creative idea that's neatly done.iPhone / iPadThinkstock by Getty Images (Free)This is a new app from photo library Getty Images, serving up more than 10m of its images for browsing on your iOS device. You can zoom in on every shot, browse galleries picked out by Getty's editors, and save images to your lightbox account on Getty's main service for later use.iPhone / iPadFull (£0.69)The latest app for anyone diving into quantifying themself is Full, which promises to help you "track, measure and visualise what's important to you". Which doesn't mean Fitbit-style measuring of your steps and calories burned, but more self-measuring actions: how many times you've walked to work, gone to the gym, read a book or "called mom".iPhoneSago Mini Pet Cafe (£0.69)iOS-owning parents are certainly being spoiled this week with a series of impressive new apps. This comes from developer Sago Sago: a colourful and well-crafted collection of three mini-games for toddlers. They're all based on running a cafe for cartoon animals, and help practise counting, sorting and colour recognition.iPhone / iPadPirate Legends TD (£2.49)Pirates are already the subject of a treasure chest-full of good iOS games, and Pirate Legends TD is a worthy addition to their ranks. It's a "nautical strategic defense game" that pits your pirate ship and its crew against the British navy, unfriendly tribes and fearsome Kraken. It's very good fun.iPhone / iPadJetpack Journeys: Space Exploration for Pre-Schoolers (£2.49)If you have children who are fascinated with planets beyond Earth, Jetpack Journeys may be just the thing to cater to their galactic interests. Aimed at younger kids, it gets them to choose a character, drag and drop pieces into place to build a spaceship, then go exploring eight planets to see what they can find.iPhone / iPadSoundFocus (Free)SoundFocus is a music app with a specific focus: people with hearing loss who want to listen to music "in full fidelity". It uses a one-minute test to gauge your hearing pattern, then tuning the sound frequencies accordingly. It plays songs from your iTunes library, but also from Spotify if you have a subscription to the streaming music service.iPhoneWriting Wizard (£1.49)Another high-quality app for children, this time with a specific educational focus: learning to trace letters through a mixture of exercises and games. It supports upper and lower-case letters as well as numbers, and can be tweaked to suit an individual child's experience and ability.iPadDrync (Free)This app has already been described as "Shazam for wine" thanks to its ability to take a photo of a wine-bottle label, identify the plonk, and then "save, rate, share and buy in seconds". The app promises a big database of wine to draw on for identification, too.iPhoneSave the Children Magazine (Free)This is charity Save the Children's official iOS magazine, delivered through Apple's Newsstand (the subscription is used to ensure you get an alert when a new issue is published). It provides news and features around the charity's latest campaigns and activities.iPhone / iPadXfinity Games powered by Origin Controller (Free)This is US-only, and seemingly experimental, but if you follow the games industry it's pretty fascinating. The app is from cable provider Comcast, working with Electronic Arts. It "delivers console-quality video games from Electronic Arts directly to your television using your Comcast X1 set-top box" and then uses your iPad as the controller once a game is launched on your TV. An intriguing glimpse at Comcast and EA's plans for cloud gaming.iPadGoldfrApp – Tales of Us (£0.69)Is it too far-fetched to suggest that Goldfrapp's new iPhone app might be an Instagram-killer? Well, obviously yes. But as a creative marketing idea, the band's new app is quite fun. It gets fans to take two photos then combine them and share on social networks, with a hashtag to ensure the best get showcased on Goldfrapp's website.iPhoneDoodle.ly (Free)Drawing app Doodle.ly has been on iPad for a while, but this week marks its debut on iPhone too. It's a bit like Draw Something but without the gaming elements: a way to scribble digital drawings then share them with friends.iPhone / iPadThe Human Body by Tinybop (£0.69)Aimed at children aged four and up, this is a (virtual) working model of the body, letting them explore the skeletal, muscular, nervous, circulatory, respiratory and digestive systems. What's nice about it is the app is designed for parents and children to use together, complete with a voice-recording feature encouraging you to ask one another questions.iPhone / iPadGorilla Band 3D Story Book with Music (£0.69)One last children's app to round things off, and its name gives the game away: it's part story, part songs, with a band made up of... lions! No, okay, gorillas. The animated 3D elements look spiffing, and the combination of words and music is very engaging for young readers.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).BBC CBeebies Playtime (Free)This is the BBC's first official CBeebies app for Android, offering mini-games for four of the pre-school TV channel's main shows: Octonauts, Alphablocks, Something Special and Tree Fu Tom. The games are high-quality, with light educational elements underpinning the gameplay.Frankenstein (£2.99)The idea of interactive fiction can make some literary purists a bit grumpy, but Dave Morris' adaptation of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein isn't a gimmick. It sees you influencing the decisions of Frankenstein himself (yes, NOT the monster) as the story goes on.Middle Manager of Justice (Free)This quirky strategy game from Double Fine Productions sees you managing an office full of superheroes, sending them off to fight crime while upgrading facilities and kit. Like The Avengers meets The Office (a bit) with satisfying resource-management gameplay.Toca Kitchen (£1.25)iOS-owning parents swear by Toca Boca's playful digital toys, but in 2013 the company is turning its sights on Android too. Toca Kitchen is its second app for Google-powered devices, and gets children cooking a range of foodstuffs for four cartoon characters. As learning-through-play apps go, it's one of the best.ESPN UK (Free)During a cracking summer of sport, and with the football and rugby seasons to come, ESPN has launched its new app for the UK, offering news, scores, videos and social media feeds for a range of sports. Personalisation is a big feature too, from individual sports to favoured teams. It also makes canny use of push notifications to keep you updated.One Today by Google (Free)This app from Google is US-only for now, and comes out of the tech giant's charitable side. Each day, it highlights a different project from a non-profit organisation, and encourages people to donate $1 to the ones that they like – sharing details on social networks to get friends involved too.Friendly Fire! (Free)Developer Red Robot Labs made its name with a series of strategic location-based games. Its latest title follows in their footsteps with a military theme, as you build an army, protect your base and battle other players from around the world – all based on real-life locations.avast! Mobile Backup (Free)Something less fun, but more useful, is this new Android cloud-backup tool from avast, focusing on contacts, text messages and call logs, but also photos, music, videos and apps – although the latter three categories require the premium version of the app.Fraggle Rock Game Day (£1.94)Fraggle Rock has returned this year in the form of a series of apps from developer Cupcake Digital. This is the third: a storybook with animation, mini-games and digital colouring, starring Red, Wembley and the rest of the Fraggle Rock cast. It's aimed at children – likely children whose parents have fond memories of the original TV show.FreshBooks Cloud Accounting (Free)Because cumulonimbus clouds have to do their tax returns too... No, this is a useful tool for accountants to create invoices and estimates while out on the job, import expense receipts via the camera, time meetings, manage timesheets and handle other business duties.The Mortal Instruments (Free)Mobile games publisher PlayFirst is responsible for this, the official game of movie The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones. Expect "bloodthirsty monsters and horrific demons" to hunt, lots of magic to cast, and some impressive visuals to goggle at along the way.Graphing Calculator by Mathlab (Free)Smartphones! They're calculator-killers! Etc. Flippancy aside, this is a slick graphing calculator app with plenty of functions, a neat design, and the option to buy multiple licences for schools or other organisations. An in-app purchase removes its ads and upgrades to the Pro version.Animal Voyage (Free)"Explore mysterious islands and rescue stranded animals that need your help!" Then come back home and play mobile games. Oh, wait: that's the theme of this latest free-to-play game from Pocket Gems. It's part exploration, part resource management and part in-app purchases to help keep your animals safe.Fractions Reference App (£0.64)Back to maths for this app from Wolfram Alpha, a company that knows its onions when it comes to pretty much anything numerical. The app, which draws on the company's computational knowledge engine, can visualise, convert and reduce fractions, while helping out with maths problems. It's actually one of aflurry of new educational appsfrom the company this week, too.Fractal: Make Blooms Not War (£1.99)Keeping up the (sort of) mathematical theme, Fractal is a puzzle game from developer Cipher Prime Studios, whose Splice remains one of my favourite Android games. Here, your job is to "push, combo, and chain your way through a pulsing technicolor dreamscape while expanding your consciousness at 130BPM". Just another Friday night for some of us.Telekinesis Kyle (Free)And more Android puzzling here with this game starring Kyle, "a nerdy, awkward kid with one special talent". You may have guessed what it is from the title. The game sees you moving sundry objects to escape a dastardly military experiment, with seven levels free before you're prompted to pay to unlock the rest via in-app purchase.Your Wealth (Free)How much are you worth, really? That's one of the questions this financial planning app may get to the bottom with, helping you analyse your income and outgoings, figure out savings, pensions and house prices, and get financial news from various sites.Elysium (Free)If ashes on the mantelpiece don't suit your late loved ones, how about blasting them into space? That's going to be the goal of the Elysium memorial spacecraft, which will send ashes into orbit for a few months. This is its official app, which shows a simulation of how it'll work – and once the spacecraft is operating, will let relatives track its progress.PlayKids TV (Free)More US-only appage, I think (if you're wondering why they're included, plenty of Americans read these weekly roundups too). This is an app providing cartoons for children, including parental controls to stop them exiting the app and finding possibly-inappropriate content elsewhere on the phone (or mum/dad's email inbox, which may be even worse news). Videos can be downloaded for offline access, and it's paid for via subscription.Way2ride (Free)And one last app for Americans – or at least those in New York – which enables you to scan a credit card then use the app to pay for taxi rides, saving receipts and maps for expenses purposes. It can even contact cabs if you've left an item in them, or suggest where hailable taxis are hanging out in the city.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
"He almost called it subversive. Then he realised as he was sitting there: no, that's exactly the attitude we're trying to dispel."Games critic Jenn Frank is recallingan articlecovering the event she has organised –the Boobjam– an ongoing competition to make a game about breasts. The writer Ben Kuchera gave his feature the headline: "Why making games based on the experiences of half the world isn't subversive". But why would anyone think it subversive, for women to make creative works about their own bodies?"What if you had to watch a sexy video game character also buy bras, cry softly when she can't find one that fits, and go in for mammograms," Frank mused on Twitter, back in July. This one thought, articulated, started a phenomenon: Frank's followers immediately welcomed the idea as a way to reclaim breasts from the straight male perspective. "It shouldn't be such a steep challenge," she says. "Which is why I think reactions from people who maybe feel left out or marginalised or angry or confronted by the Boobjam message are interesting. I hope I've gone out of my way to say that everybody is welcome just so long as it satisfies this one challenge."I tell Frank I'm inspired by the variety of game suggestions she gets on Twitter, and that in another guise as a game maker I plan to make one about Wonder Woman forgetting to put a bra on in the morning. "There's so much here," she exclaims. "I can't believe how much is here: I'm surprised constantly by the tweets that I see or the emails that I receive. I don't even know who was first to hashtag Boobjam [on Twitter], but I finally started following the #Boobjam hashtag myself, and you could just take a peek at that and see what other people have announced they are working on."She's right: just a cursory glance at the hashtag reveals a devlog forGrand Titons, 'a cross between metroid/mega man/another world/oddworld … and is a weird abstraction about being trans'. There are suggestions about a game where you figure out the best way to put on a bra, while Mike Bithell, maker of Thomas Was Alone, even speculated on a 'Bravissimo store waiting room awkwardness' simulator.All these ideas, and yet breasts in games are often relegated to two little cherries on top of a violent masculine-coded pie. The Dead Or Alive series of games have whole physics systems dedicated to breasts, as do many fighting game series (Ivy and Taki from Soul Caliber, and Poison from Final Fight are key examples) and the God of War series has a main character who not only gets to ogle many breasts but also battles a woman whose breasts are literally mountains. Duke Nukem 3D had a part where you could spend money to see strippers flash you, and in the Japanese title Asura's Wrath, players can even earn an achievement for looking at the breasts of a serving girl.Recently, the portrayal of a sorceress in fantasy role-playing game Dragon's Crown led to an argument between a writer at US game site, Kotaku, and the male artist at Atlus who had drawn her. Noting the character's very large, jiggling boobs,Jason Schreier suggestedshe seems, "designed to be ogled and leered at as a sexual object". The artist claimed to have exaggerated both the male and female models so that the visual design would stand out amid a crowded market of Tolkien-inspired fantasy titles.Dragon’s Crown’s unrealistic depiction of a sorceress in the gameTits happenJenn Frank thenwrote an articleto reclaim the subject:Too much of the ongoing 'character design debate' seemingly hones in on what the breasts mean. I hate this. People, tits happen. My tits aren't 'communicating' anything. They're just fucking here, you know?Claire Hosking has alsowritten lucidly on this issue: "The implication that larger boobs are a liability to well-presented, deep characters makes me nervous because, well, how many stacked women get to have complex stories in popular media? I can think of Joan Holloway and …?"Hosking goes on:Video games have certainly fed the first part of the stereotype, that 'e-cup women are playthings', but wouldn't only giving empathetic roles to C-cup-or-less women just reinforce that? (It's also implying small-boobed women can't be objectified because they're insufficiently sexy. The beauty of this system is no one wins!)...This is a call for better character design, better character criticism: Just as we should avoid establishing a new category of 'serious and therefore worthy' games, we should avoid establishing a new consensus on the body type of a deep woman.Every body type deserves to have a deep and nuanced parallel in gaming. And it's not enough that characters are seen as noble in spite of their bodies. Games if anything, so mechanically based on constructing the abilities of characters and allowing that to dictate their approach to the world, should understand that bodies aren't separate from characters. Growing up with a particular body interacts with a character's own personality to inform their destiny. That's something that's understood for male characters (it's a large part of Chief's story), but still patchy for female characters.For all I know, Lara was a talented gymnast whose dream of Olympic gold vanished when she grew into the wrong body type, and, sick of the side-eye she got for being too bouncy whenever she ran or danced or jumped, said: 'Fuck you all' and decided to use her talents to kick ass. And given how hard it is to navigate women's clothing choices to pick something that's attractive but not too sexy but still friendly but professional enough but not too expensive or I'll get bashed for vanity, and the sheer waste of time this takes up for me, if I had a choice I'd make like Cortana too."I wondered when it would happen," Frank says to me. "The Boobjam was finally discovered by an MRA (Men's Rights Activist) forum."Poison, from the 1989 arcade game Final Fight. Image: GamespressReversing straight-male rhetoricA light suddenly comes on in my head: we are steeped in the old ways, the ways of classifying women's behaviours and bodies, attitudes that were solidified and compartmentalised in the Victorian era. The cultural conversation is dominated by a straight male rhetoric that suggests that the conversation about how women's bodies relate to sexuality should belong to men. Existing in western culture, you'd think men's desire for women is the only desire that exists: there is no gay desire, there is no women's desire for men, there is just breasts and how men can interact with them sexually. What breasts mean to men is all we ever talk about. My colleague Tom Hatfieldcomplains ofhow he is forced to take part in this conversation unwillingly, as a straight male, by the video games he plays.Why don't we listen to other perspectives?Boobjam is about what boobs mean to everyone: especially to the people that rarely get a platform on which to participate in this conversation. Trans women and their relationship to breasts is a complex and important thing we never discuss: Anna Anthropy has submitted a game called**(o)(o)**to Boobjam, a game about what it is like to have sensitive nipples as a side-effect of taking oestrogen (music, aptly, by 'Nippleback'). Frank tells me she is making a 'Jenn Frank simulator', in which she investigates how to choose the most insulting comment about her sizeable rack to elicit the win state of having the character Jenn Frank, leave in tears."One thought I keep coming back to," Frank says to me, "is our overwillingness to overpolice even fictitious bodies. And straight men's overwillingness to do that, especially. And you see that in healthcare legislation … There was this wonderful viral YouTube commercial – it was an advertisement for a tampon delivery service specifically aimed to little girls.""So in the YouTube comments, under this absolutely adorable video people who are mostly men, are calling the advert disgusting, and complaining that the little girl who narrates the ad doesn't look to be old enough to have her period. Which is astonishing to me that somebody would make that judgement, since the little girl is obviously somewhere between the ages of eight and 13. So we can't even stop ourselves from policing how young we think is too young to have a period … When a woman tries to tell another woman about her body, a man arrives to kind of mediate."This trend of men co-opting the discussion on women's sexual health is political. It reaches into the upper echelons of US state legislature on healthcare. One Boobjam entry,The Curse, is a roleplaying game written in the Danish freeform style by US author Lizzie Stark – it's about BRCA mutation (a proponent of hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome), hereditary illness, and preventative mastectomies. It is about having to negotiate health options.Reality checkAs Frank explains this Boobjam game to me, I express to her my worry: that should BRCA mutation be detected in a US citizen, the cost of having this monitored regularly by a doctor would be astronomical under US healthcare insurance. This game would not be easy to play, both the Lizzie Stark version and in reality. "Or go to a free clinic," Frank tells me. "But you know, we have this war on free or low-cost clinics because those are the ones that also provide birth control services and family planning services. And as soon as you say 'family planning' to anyone in the US, a significant portion of our population is immediately up in arms, because 'family planning' is code for an abortion. So there's no way to talk about the rest of women's health without …"Frank sighs heavily."The US is very strange," she elaborates. "PCOS [polycystic ovary syndrome] affects 10% of all women of childbearing age: it's a significant and really very common problem. And the first best defence, any doctor will recommend, is birth control. But we are so accustomed to sexualising women's bodies that you can't even treat a legitimate collection of symptoms without people wanting to keep you away from birth control because you're obviously a slut. That's how much we sexualise the human body. I just want my hormones to be fixed … I've never had a prostate exam, but I'm not sure as soon as you walk through the door, someone says, 'So, you're sexually active?'"Boobjam isn't about stifling anything, just broadening the conversation. Allowing people whose bodies these appendages really affect to be heard, and understood. Watching Texas state senator Wendy Davis's filibuster an anti-abortion bill for 12 hours in front of a whole room full of men really brought home the idea that women's bodies need more representation by women themselves. And traditionally that conversation is co-opted or ignored. Perhaps the first place we can try to address this is through creative works.But there's still more inclusion to be welcomed: Frank also tells me that there is an interesting tack on Boobjam that she initially skirted, which was the issue of male boobs. "From the straight male faction, the question of gynecomastia as a possible subject of Boobjam … Increasingly I am feeling that this might be something that is more commonplace than I realised – that is something that is not culturally discussed. Now I'm just going on the record as: yes, that is absolutely a suitable subject, because there's a lot of overlap there, with gender dysphoria or discomfort with one's own body."So there you go. Boobs for everybody, by everybody.You can follow Boobjam's progress, and submit your own games onthe website. Jenn Frank is also on Twitterhere.
The starting gun on the next generation console race hasn't fired – with apologies to Wii U – and yet with a scant few months to go Microsoft finds itself playing catch-up. The Xbox One, successor to the much-loved Xbox 360, had a disastrous E3 showing that was followed by a series of reverse ferrets. So many in fact that, excepting the machine's dimensions, Xbox One now bears very little relation to the Xbox One revealed a few months ago.Microsoft's Xbox division has been deeply harmed by this, because with hindsight the original Xbox One looks like an anti-consumer land-grab that went badly wrong. The stringent digital rights management (DRM), for example, was a licence-based approach designed to throttle second-hand trading – but also made it impossible to loan games to friends unless you registered them. This has been removed.The always-online requirement, which meant the console wouldn't operate without checking in with Microsoft every 24 hours, has been removed. The restriction on developers self-publishing their titles has been removed. The Kinect camera was required for Xbox One to function, we were told, and now it isn't. Hell, Microsoft even backtracked on the headset; now generously included with your £429 Xbox One.In the future, Xbox One will be used as a lesson in marketing courses – the epitome of what not to do when launching high-tech hardware. Microsoft has one more opportunity to sell the idea of Xbox One before its release, which comes on Tuesday 20 August at itsGamescomshowcase. The last 20-odd months for Xbox One have been an ambiguous muddle, and this is the last chance to deliver a clear and simple message before launch; to convince us that the PS4 isn't the obvious choice. Here's the five things Microsoft needs to do to give Xbox One a fighting chance.1. Honesty is the best policyJust as harmful as the actual backtracking over Xbox One is the perception it has left of Microsoft's executive team – they told a lot of porkies about the machine's architecture when trying to justify the original functionality. These range from minor conflations of the truth, such as the claim Xbox Live's cloud processing would use 300,000 dedicated servers (just think about it), to obfuscation over issues like DRM and always-online. Then there are outright whoppers like "Xbox One and Kinect are one and the same." Turns out they weren't.So it's time for some straight-talking: because after all, these people are trying to convince you to part with a lot of money. One advantage for Gamescom is that Don Mattrick, who led the original reveal of Xbox One, has since left Microsoft and so the event offers something of a fresh start. But major execs like Phil Spencer and Phil Harrison are now in the unenviable position of trying to convince people that everything they're sayingthis timeis true. The combination of ambiguity, question-dodging and hedging on display inMicrosoft's E3 interviewsneeds to go. A little more humility, and a lot more honesty, would go a long way.2. Kinect – use it or lose itFew outside of Microsoft are convinced by Kinect and, by forcing consumers to pay for one as part of an Xbox One purchase, it's past time the case was made. So far we have been told that Kinect 2.0 improves on the original in every way conceivable (not hard), but the crucial point is that Kinect was oversold and under-supported. The idea of Kinect is brilliant; the reality is bitterly disappointing.If every Xbox One owner is going to have a Kinect, then it's time for Microsoft to show why you should want one – because playing the same old Minority Report montage is really old. No onecaresabout changing TV channels by waving their hands – this is a peripheral that needs a range of good games and showcases, but instead has Kinect Sports Rivals, aka the sequel no one wanted. At the moment Kinect feels like Xbox One's most acute problem, because it's a major cost factor, and at Gamescom, Microsoft will need to …3. Justify the priceSony has attacked Xbox One directly with PS4 – Jack Tretton had the smile of a man knocking in open goal after open goal at E3 – and one of the most important distinctions from that press conference still remains. A PS4 costs £350, and an Xbox One costs £430.Putting the daft arguments about which console is 'better' to one side, the fact that should terrify Microsoft is gamers face a choice between two machines that will, let's be honest here, largely be used for the same things. And so far, there's no convincing explanation for why Xbox One represents an extra £80 of value. Kinect? Not yet, maybe not ever. The controller? It's a bit nicer than the Dualshock 4, but not £80 nicer. Xbox One feels overpriced next to the PS4, and Microsoft has to engage with that and come up with some strong justifications – because pretending Xbox One exists in a vacuum isn't convincing anyone.4. Declare Independent's DayIn the current generation, no platform holder supported indie development like Microsoft did – with Xbox Live Indie Games, the 360 was the first modern console to offer a feasible route into the home. Xbox One, following a few climbdowns of course, now makes things even better for indie devs – but you wouldn't know.Every Xbox One console can become a development kit, with the appropriate software. This is gigantic. PS4 devkits allegedly cost $2,500 (£1,600), though Sony is "handing them out like candy."But sweet intentions simply cannot compete with an off-the-shelf console, and Microsoft has so far been rather evasive and muted about this amazing feature – as well as the specific indie devs they're wooing. Gamescom is a chance to clarify the self-publishing model and, more to the point, give us a little glimpse of the variety and vitality indie devs will bring to the console.5. It's a games console, stupidI don't give a toss about having a 'media centre' in my living room, and if there's one thing Xbox One lacks that's more worrying than all the above, it's a truly exciting 'next-generation' title.Microsoft have boasted of 15 exclusive games for the launch year, but that's first of all another little lie: what this means in several cases is either a short period of exclusivity or simply an Xbox One version (e.g. Minecraft). And these titles include the likes of World of Tanks, Zoo Tycoon, Fable Anniversary, Forza 5, Dead Rising 3 – games that we've either played already, or series we know well.It's not all familiar though. Capybara Games are a first-rate studio and its ambient rogue-like Below could be incredible. This sits alongside unknown quantities like Sunset Overdrive, Project Spark, Crimson Dragon, and D4, with the likes of Ryse bringing up the rear.But Xbox One needs a monster – and not just another Halo or Gears of War. It needs something inspiring, the kind of title that looks and feels truly next generation rather than the same old stuff with a lick of paint. Microsoft Studios boss Phil Spencer has teased a "unique exclusive" for Gamescom, and the Xbox One needs a system seller – so bring it on. Show us that the backtracking and confusion and anti-consumer policies are a thing of the past, and that Xbox One can still light up gaming's future.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBlackBerry patent portfolio worth $2bn to $3bn &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThe company currently has 5,236 active U.S. patents and about 3,730 active applications in the wireless communications space. And, according to Chris Marlett, CEO of MDB Capital Group, an IP-focused investment bank, they're pretty valuable. Marlett figures that BlackBerry's IP is worth $2 billion to $3 billion if it were to be acquired by a consortium in some sort of cross-licensing deal. "$2 billion to $3 billion ... is easily justified ... as there are approximately 9,000 patent assets with probably 100,000 claims that someone could take a shot at you with in a lawsuit," Marlett told AllThingsD.Dell reports decent Q2 earnings as company future still looks uncertain &gt;&gt; ZDNetCFO Brian Gladden glossed over the hubbub, remarking, "In a challenging environment, we remain committed to our strategy and our customers, and we're encouraged by increasing customer interest in our end-to-end solutions offerings and continued growth in our Enterprise Solutions, Services and Software businesses."Google follows Amazon with auto-encryption of cloud data &gt;&gt; The RegisterGoogle has tossed a crumb of reassurance to people with cloudy security concerns by adding automatic server-side encryption to Google Cloud Storage. The free security measure was announced by Google on Thursday and spun as a way to "make securing your data as painless as possible," according to a blog post by the company.Microsoft: the limits of Google's openness &gt;&gt; TechnetTrouble brewing in paradise as Google and Microsoft fall out over an app. Can't they keep it together for the children?You may be wondering what happened to the YouTube app for Windows Phone. Last May, after we launched a much improved app on our platform, Google objected on a number of grounds. We took our app down and agreed to work with Google to solve their issues. This week, after we addressed each of Google's points, we re-launched the app, only to have Google technically block it.The great Apple iPhone 5 question: China Mobile or not China Mobile? &gt;&gt; ForbesWhichever new models Apple comes out with next month, the really interesting challenge will be how it tackles the challenge from China.Even if Apple does bring out hardware which is compatible with the China Mobile network, the company still has to persuade China Mobile to take it. And that's not going to be entirely easy.Why Ubuntu's creator still invests his fortune in an unprofitable company &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMark Shuttleworth is worth half a billion dollars, and funds Canonical out of his own pocket:What may surprise some people is that Canonical could be profitable today if Shuttleworth was willing to give up his dream of revolutionizing end user computing and focus solely on business customers. Most people who know Ubuntu are familiar with it because of the free desktop operating system, but Canonical also has a respectable business delivering server software and the OpenStack cloud infrastructure platform to data centers. Canonical's clearest path to profitability would be dumping the desktop and mobile businesses altogether and focusing on the data center alone.Legitimate study finds using Facebook makes you sad &gt;&gt; The Next WebThe study, which has U of M Emotion and Self-Control Laboratory director Ethan Kross listed as the lead author, sent regular surveys to 82 young adults asking how they felt and how much they had been using Facebook. The results found that Facebook use predicted a "decline in subjective well-being", irrespective of whether the time spent on Facebook was viewed as supportive.App.Net turns one year old &gt;&gt; The Next WebDevelopers are passionate about the vision, and praise Caldwell and his team for the support they are providing. Caldwell says App.net is paying out $30,000 per month via its Developer program -- a system that measures feedback from users -- while many of the apps are paid-for, providing another income stream. "We are just getting started," Caldwell writes in a blog post, which also announces the company has raised a further $2.5 million to show it is "on strong financial ground and here to stay".Oz bank closes Bitcoin business' bank accounts &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe Commonwealth Bank, Australia's largest bank, has close accounts belonging to Australian Bitcoin payment processor CoinJar. CoinJar, which offers tools to buy or sell Bitcoins, and accept them as payment, has blogged about its experiences. The post says it has experienced some dodgy transactions, but no more than most e-commerce outfits.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Newspapers regularly preserve the anonymity of correspondents with the formula "name and address withheld" (Letters, 15 August); the Guardian, at least, makes a serious effort to confirm the identity of correspondents before publication. Online publishers (and, whatever the CEOs of Facebook et al claim, that's what they are) should be compelled to do likewise. Banks won't open accounts without serious ID checks. All this (especially establishing the IDs of existing users) would cost, hitting the online publishers' bottom line, but where's the harm in that?David LewinOxford• Nick Woolverton's suggestion of blocking access to trolls on the basis of their IP addresses wouldn't work. While every device does indeed have a unique IP address, those addresses are mostly assigned dynamically. So each time a troll logs on to the internet, he/she will probably have a different IP address. So, block an IP address because a troll's been using it and you'll cut somebody else off.Tony GreenIpswich, Suffolk
It was the tweet that added $17bn (£11bn) to Apple's share price and will no doubt encourage a new generation of activist investors.In fewer than 140 characters, veteran corporate crusader Carl Icahn sent the iPhone maker's shares to a six-month high and made himself $50m in a day."We currently have a large position in APPLE. We believe the company to be extremely undervalued. Spoke to Tim Cook today. More to come," he said via Twitter on Tuesday.Icahn is one of the most prominent US activist investors – fund managers who buy stakes in companies and put pressure on management to increase returns to shareholders or shake up operations. So far, his discussions with Cook, Apple's chief executive, seem cordial. A follow-up tweet said they had "a nice conversation". But Icahn is prepared to get personal, the same approach he has taken in his battle to thwart Michael Dell's attempt to buy back the computer maker he founded.Icahn wants Apple to borrow money cheaply to buy back shares despite the company already announcing a $100bn shareholder payout – comprised of buybacks and dividends – after pressure from another activist investor, David Einhorn.Icahn has a spring in his step. Figures from Activist Insight, an information service, show that the average return on investments bought by Icahn since 2010 is 41.6%, compared with a 19.2% gain by the S&amp;P 500 index over the same period. Those returns have been powered by Icahn's investment in Netflix, which has jumped 176% in value since he took a stake in October 2012.Icahn's success is probably all the sweeter when compared with the fortunes of rival activist investor Bill Ackman. The pair have had a hostile relationship in the wake of a disputed deal a decade ago. Since 2010, bets by Ackman's Pershing Capital Management fund have performed better than Icahn's. But Icahn's recent performance is stronger after Ackman made two particularly bad calls.This week, he left the board of JC Penney, the clothes retailer, after making losses of $700m on his investment and hiring then firing former Apple retail boss Ron Johnson as chief executive. Johnson's failed revamp caused a 25% fall in sales and a $1bn loss last year.More embarrassing still is Ackman's decision in December to "short" Herbalife, a US nutrition and weight-loss company, by buying and selling $1bn of shares he did not own in the belief they would fall. The bet pitted him against Icahn and George Soros, who bought shares in Herbalife instead. Those shares have gained 77% since the end of March and Icahn has gloated that Ackman faces the "mother of all short squeezes", because he faces the prospect of buying back Herbalife stock at a vastly inflated price.In a TV bust-up in January, Icahn called Ackman a "cry baby" and a "major loser" who tried to manipulate the market by shorting Herbalife and talking down the shares. Ackman responded that Icahn was a "bully" and "not an honest guy". This may be entertaining but debate is raging on Wall Street about whether activist swoops give a welcome jolt to complacent boards or are opportunist raids that force harassed companies into decisions that are bad in the long run.Martin Lipton, the doyen of US corporate lawyers, argues that activists disrupt companies and threaten to weaken the economy by forcing boards to choose risky actions and investor payouts over long-term investment. "No company is too big to become the target of an activist, and even companies with sterling corporate governance practices and positive share price performance, including outperformance of peers, may be targeted," he wrote in a recent blog.Activist Insight said the number of activist raids in the US was not rising at present but they were happening to bigger companies. Cheap debt markets and large corporate cash piles provide an obvious rationale for calling on boards to pay out more to investors. "Activists are now more likely to seek dividends or share repurchases compared to targeting poor corporate governance or business strategy," Activist Insight's managing director Kerry Pogue said.The UK has a less entrenched tradition of using rapid stake-building to pressurise boards. The most high profile assault on a UK company in recent times was Knight Vinke's campaign against HSBC in 2007. Eric Knight's fund used a small stake in the bank to call for boardroom and pay reform and the axing of unprofitable businesses in HSBC's sprawling empire.HSBC attempted to shrug off Knight's campaign but his stance struck a chord with fund managers who found HSBC high-handed. The bank brought in fresh directors and a new management, which has shut or sold peripheral businesses.Julian Franks, a professor at London Business School, said activism generally increased the share price of the target company. "The activist on average does what the market would like them to do. The question is not whether the activist is too short term but whether the market is too short term. Whether markets put enough weight on long-term investment is an important question but I'm not sure I blame the activist." The impact can last longer than 140 characters.Key playersCarl Icahnmade his estimated $20bn (£13bn) wealth in old-style corporate raiding, but the 77-year-old is embracing new technology.His tweet announcing his Apple stake promises to be one of many. Icahn has also focused on other tech companies.In 2011 he turned his attention to Motorola, which then sold itself to Google for a 63% premium. On top of his stake in Dell, he has made more than $1bn from his stake in Netflix.Raised by teacher parents in Queens, New York City, Icahn graduated from Princeton with a BA in philosophy and started work as a stockbroker four years later. He founded his own firm in 1968 and began taking stakes in individual companies 10 years later.His hostile takeover of airline TWA in 1985 cemented his reputation as an aggressive operator as he sold the carrier's assets to pay off the debt he had used to buy it.Bill Ackmanhas made losses of $1bn on JC Penney and Herbalife, but do not write him off yet.His 21-year investment record is littered with big gains and crunching losses. His $1.8bn loss for investors on a stake in retailer Target in 2007 was "one of the greatest disappointments", he said. But in 2010 he made $1.5bn by helping rescue US mall owner General Growth Properties, while last year's boardroom coup at Canadian Pacific railways preceded a near-tripling of the share price.The 47-year-old launched his first investment firm, Gotham Partners, after finishing his Harvard MBA in 1992. A failed joint bid for the Rockefeller Center attracted investors and Gotham took off. But he wound the fund down in 2002 before launching Pershing Square two years later. Many big bets and a $1.2bn fortune later, Ackman is unbowed.
Carl Icahn's arrival on the shareholder roster at Apple may be an unwelcome distraction for its chief executive.Tim Cook is preparing what could come to be seen as the defining months of his time at the top of the world's largest technology company. Designers and programmers are working around the clock, preparing to unveil Apple's first low-cost smartphone, alongside the next iteration of the iPhone, on 10 September. Many expect these will be followed by an internet-connected watch and a revamped television service."A new device will have a much longer impact not just on sales but as a testament that Apple can deliver under the new leadership," says Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi. "There are still doubts that Apple can be as strong without Steve [Jobs] as it was with him. Stock buyback cannot get rid of those doubts; a new product certainly can."Share buybacks involve a company acquiring and cancelling its shares, and are designed to increase the dividend per share for those stocks that remain in the market. They can also help increase the price. Cook has committed Apple to spending $60bn (£38bn) on buybacks in the biggest return of cash to shareholders in history. Icahn wants that spend more than doubled, to $150bn.While many on Wall Street have been banging the drum for bigger distributions to shareholders, others believe the coming product launches will have more impact on Apple's shares and whether they return to the $700 peak reached last year, against their current price of $500.Success with a cheaper phone is important. Unit shipments of smartphones will reach 1.6bn by 2017, according to a forecast by IDC, up from 1bn this year. Many of those new phones will be sold into developing markets, or to younger and less affluent buyers in the west.Since Apple reinvented the smartphone in 2006 it has been losing share to rivals, while Samsung has captured an ever larger part of the market."This period is crucial for Tim Cook and the company in general," says IDC analyst Francisco Jeronimo. "If Apple launches a cheap iPhone, the second wave of adopters will probably buy one instead of any other brand. If they sell a cheaper phone to this second wave, they will be potential new buyers of the very expensive new iPhones in the future."Horace Dediu at Asymco believes that neither a buyback nor that more elusive goal of the next game-changing invention will shift Wall Street's view of Apple. "What will do most for the share price is a change in the perception that Apple is not going to survive as a going concern," he says. "It's a consequence of being dependent on breakthrough products for its survival. No matter how many breakthroughs it makes, the assumption is that there will never be another."Icahn's timing, ahead of Apple's biggest wave of new releases since Cook succeeded Jobs, can be no coincidence. His Twitter page says he makes money from "studying natural stupidity". But for now Icahn's stance is friendly. He described his conversation with its chief executive as "nice". Should the iWatch and other inventions fail to set the world on fire, Icahn could use his rumoured $1bn investment to agitate for bigger changes.
Just two days after Microsoft relaunched its YouTube app for Windows Phone smartphones and thanked Google for its "support", Google has once again blocked the app from working.The app had originally been removed from the Windows Phone store in May after Google complained to Microsoft about its ability to download videos to the device, as well as preventing video advertisements from playing.It relaunched this week, but now Google has blocked it again. "Microsoft has not made the browser upgrades necessary to enable a fully-featured YouTube experience, and has instead re-released a YouTube app that violates our Terms of Service," aspokesperson tells The Verge."It has been disabled. We value our broad developer community and therefore ask everyone to adhere to the same guidelines."Google's views contradictMicrosoft's public statementsafter the app was relaunched on Tuesday (13 August), when the company said it "provides the great experience our consumers expect while addressing the concerns Google expressed in May, including the addition of ads".At the time, Microsoft also talked about "Google's support in ensuring that Windows Phones customers have a quality YouTube experience" and expressed hopes for "continuing the collaboration".Those prospects seem somewhat less hopeful now. Microsoft laterpublished a longer blog postby its vice president and deputy general counsel, David Howard, explaining exactly why the app has been blocked again.According to Howard, Microsoft bowed to Google's wishes by re-enabling ads, removing the ability for users to download videos, and also stopping them from watching "reserved" videos on YouTube."There was one sticking point in the collaboration. Google asked us to transition our app to a new coding language – HTML5. This was an odd request since neither YouTube's iPhone app nor its Android app are built on HTML5. Nevertheless, we dedicated significant engineering resources to examine the possibility.At the end of the day, experts from both companies recognized that building a YouTube app based on HTML5 would be technically difficult and time consuming, which is why we assume YouTube has not yet made the conversion for its iPhone and Android apps."Microsoft went ahead and re-published its non-HTML5 YouTube app for Windows Phone while "committing to work with Google long-term on an app based on HTML5", but Howard says Google decided to block the short-term app nonetheless."It seems to us that Google's reasons for blocking our app are manufactured so that we can't give our users the same experience Android and iPhone users are getting," wrote Howard. "The roadblocks Google has set up are impossible to overcome, and they know it."Howard's blog post concludes with a request for Google to stop blocking the app, although there are more menacing hints elsewhere in the post when he refers to antitrust investigations against Google ("some of which are still ongoing") where the company "has reiterated its commitment to openness and its ability to stick to its openness commitments voluntarily".It remains to be seen whether the current spat finds its way into a future antitrust complaint. It's not the first time YouTube has been a pawn in wider clashes between Microsoft and other big technology companies.YouTube used to be preloaded in Apple's iOS software for iPhones and iPads, but was removed from iOS 6 and onwards due to Google and Apple's licensing deal not being renewed. Google later launched a standalone version of the app through Apple's App Store.Mobile is increasingly important to YouTube, accounting for more than 25% of its global watch time, and more than 1bn views a day.In June, Wedge Partners analyst Martin Pyykkonen estimated that video ads shown on mobile devices could begenerating as much as $350m of revenues per quarter for YouTube.For its part, Windows Phone has been growing as a platform over the last two years. Research firm Gartner estimates that7.4m Windows Phone handsets were sold between April and June this year, giving it a 3.3% share of the global smartphone market, overtaking BlackBerry for the first time.
Google has confirmed reports of a weakness in Android's Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA) that has left bitcoin wallets generated on Android devices vulnerable to theft.The issue came to light last weekend, with reports thataround $5,700 worth of the bitcoin cryptocurrencyhad been stolen as a result of the vulnerability on Android."We have now determined that applications which use the Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA) for key generation, signing, or random number generation may not receive cryptographically strong values on Android devices due to improper initialization of the underlying PRNG," explained Android security engineer Alex Klyubin in apost on Google's Android developers blog."Applications that directly invoke the system-provided OpenSSL PRNG without explicit initialization on Android are also affected."The Bitcoin Foundation, which oversees the bitcoin economy,warned developers of Android wallet apps to update themover the weekend, while also encouraging users to update their apps when possible, or transfer their bitcoins to more secure wallets on their computers when not."We recently learned that a component of Android responsible for generating secure random numbers contains critical weaknesses, that render all Android wallets generated to date vulnerable to theft," explained the Foundation's blog post."Because the problem lies with Android itself, this problem will affect you if you have a wallet generated by any Android app."Google's Klyubin has published instructions for developers on one way to update their applications to fix the vulnerability, and announced that Google's Android team have developed patches to "ensure that Android's OpenSSL PRNG is initialized correctly" and provided these to handset partners.Earlier in the day, security firm Symantec claimed that hundreds of thousands of Android apps – not just bitcoin wallets but games, productivity, music and other categories of apps – may be affected by the vulnerability in Android's SecureRandom component for generating secure random numbers.Symantec's chart showing the breakdown of Android apps potentially affected by the SecureRandom vulnerability"Looking at Norton Mobile Insight data, we have found over 360,000 applications that make use of SecureRandom and over 320,000 of them use SecureRandom in the same way the bitcoin wallets did,"explained a post on Symantec's blog."We strongly advise users of Android bitcoin wallet apps to check whether their applications are affected and to follow the steps outlined by bitcoin.org to make their funds safe."According to the Bitcoin Foundation, the total value of all bitcoins in circulation is more than $1.3bn, with its website boasting that there has been "only one major security incident in the protocol which was fixed in August 2010".Bitcoin-sceptics are likely to point to this week's events as a further reason to be cautious about bitcoin as a currency, but supporters are more likely to focus on the speed with which the vulnerability was identified and addressed.
Apple is cracking down on free iPad and iPhone games aimed at children that have left some parents facing huge credit card bills for the purchase of virtual items.Under new rules published by the technology firm, developers making apps aimed at under-13s will need to include a "parental gate", such as a password or pin, before anything can be bought in-game.Apple faced criticism after a flurry of high-profile cases in which children spent large amounts on virtual items within mobile games without their parents' permission.In March, police officer Doug Crossan told reporters how his teenage son had unwittingly run up a £3,700 bill on his father's credit card on games such as Plants vs Zombies, Hungry Shark and Gun Builder. In one game he had bought a virtual chest of gold coins costing £77.98.The UK's Office of Fair Trading is currently investigating in-app purchases within children's apps and is due to publish a report by October exploring whether such games are "misleading, commercially aggressive or otherwise unfair".In February, Apple agreed to settle a class-action lawsuit in the US for $100m, agreeing to refund parents in cash or credits for its iTunes Store. The US lawsuit was launched after concerns raised by the parents of a nine-year-old girl from Pennsylvania who bought $200 (£132) of virtual money from three free games.The new rules are also aimed at protecting children from inappropriate advertising and data collection within iPhone and iPad apps."Apps primarily intended for use by kids under 13 must get parental permission or use a parental gate before allowing the user to link out of the app or engage in commerce," the new guidelines explain.They also bar developers from including "behavioural advertising", where ads are shown based on tracking what a child has been doing within an app, and state that any app aimed at children under 13 must include a privacy policy.The changes are tied to the upcoming launch of a dedicated "Kids" app category on the company's App Store. Apple is hiring an editorial team to curate the new section and provide recommendations for parents, and wants children's app developers to clearly understand the criteria for being selected.The new rules have grey areas. Some of the App Store's most lucrative games – such as The Simpsons: Tapped Out, Clash of Clans and Candy Crush Saga – are aimed at all ages rather than just children, so will not be covered by the new rules.Developers are hoping the combination of tighter rules and better promotion on the App Store will boost business at a time, according to  Ofcom, when 91% of British parents who own tablets say their children either use the devices or have their own."I think that it is positive that app developers who haven't been behaving ethically are being forced to do so," said Kate Wilson managing director of British app and book publisher Nosy Crow."It's what's right for children, it's reassuring for parents and it's good for those of us who aren't doing the sleazy stuff to have the whole market clean and credible."
Android is big. Really big. According to research firm Gartner,79% of all smartphones sold between April and Junethis year were running Android: 177.9m handsets compared to Apple's 31.9m iPhones.Another research firm, IDC, estimates that62.6% of tablets that shipped to retailersbetween April and June were running Android: 28.2m devices versus 14.6m iPads.Meanwhile, Google says that more than 1.5m new Android devices are being activated every day, it's nearing 1bn activated in total so far, and that by the end of this year that total will include more than 70m Android tablets.Big. Yet a lot of apps still come out for Apple's iOS first or even exclusively. Right now, if you own an iOS device, you can play Plants vs. Zombies 2, Clash of Clans and Worms 3, but Android owners can't.Instagram launched on Android 18 months after iOS. Nike's Nike+ FuelBand still hasn't made the leap. Mailbox and Tweetbot are still no-shows, and while much-praised children's app-maker Toca Boca has 18 apps available on iOS, only one of them is also on Android.This week, yet another research firm, Canalys, fuelled the flames of this debate by pointing out that 30% of the 50 top paid and 50 top free iPad appsaren't also available on Android– although 11 of the 30 un-ported apps were made by Apple, so their Android-less status is hardly a surprise.So what's going on? If you're one of the millions of new Android users wondering why you can't get some of the apps your Apple-owning friends can, here are some of the reasons, analysis of whether they're fair, and some optimistic thoughts on why this may change.Developer concerns about costs and complexityWhat?Developing iOS apps means ensuring they work nicely on a small range of iPhones and/or iPads: generally 6-8 different devices depending how far back the developer wants to go.On Android, it's a different story:nearly 12,000 different devicesout there in the hands of people, with a wider range of screen sizes, processors and versions of the Android software still in use.Many developers' lack of enthusiasm for Android is down to concerns not just about the costs of making and testing their apps for it, but also the resources required to support them once they're launched, if emails flood in about unspotted bugs on particular models.Is this fair?Fragmentation, as it's called, may not be solved, but it's become a more-manageable problem – and thus a less-convincing excuse for avoiding Android altogether.Improved development tools are making porting easier, and there's more data (including Google's own) to help developers decide which Android devices to focus their energies on first. If they're upfront with users about which phones and tablets their app will work on, the support queries aspect becomes less daunting too.That said, many developers still prefer to launch on iOS, iterate their app over a couple of updates in response to feedback from their users, then tackle Android – with extra time for testing to ensure the app works well, and has Android-specific features (widgets, for example).You could argue that these developers are making more of an effort to serve Android users, not less. But that may not make the wait for some apps less frustrating.Developer concerns about profits and piracyWhat?When developers are slow to support Android, it's often not just about the money and time they'll spend getting there – it's concern about the money they'll make once on the platform.It tends to be a two-pronged thing: first, the perception that Android users are less likely to spend money on or in apps, and second, the belief that paid apps in particular suffer from crippling levels of piracy on Android.Is this fair?Piracy on Android is a fact: developers of paid apps who keep a close eye on their analytics often notice lots more people using them than have actually bought them on a store like Google Play. Games suffer in particular from this.Yet a.) piracy is also a fact of life on iOS through some elements of its jailbreaking community, b.) it's always difficult to work out how many pirates represent genuinely-lost sales – would they have bought the app otherwise? – and c.) if an app is free (or freemium) then piracy is much less of a headache.On the Android-users-less-keen-to-pay point, it's true that iOS is still more lucrative for developers. Apple has paid out more than $10bn to its developers, while Google hasn't given comparable figures.Analytics companyDistimo estimatedthat in April 2013, if you added the revenues from iOS' App Store and Android's Google Play together, their respective shares would be 73% and 27%. But a year before, that had been more like 81% and 19%.It's improving, in other words, and as it does, more apps come out for iOS and Android simultaneously, or at least take less long to jump from the former to the latter.Developers are still in Apple's back pocketWhy don't some developers support Android? Because they're lickspittle Cupertino-loving blinkered Apple fanboys, as are the journalists who write about their apps, and anyone else who praises iOS and/or criticises Android. Or so the theory goes.Is this fair?Obviously not, although I'm probably being paid by Apple to write that...No, seriously, some iOS developers focus on that platform alone because they like Apple and/or aren't that keen on Android. But for others it's more a resources issue – small studios and startups picking one platform when they're just starting out (see: Instagram).And there is an element, I suspect, of some app developers wanting to stay in Apple's good books by supporting its devices first or exclusively: hoping for promotion in the App Store, a fleeting appearance in Apple's ads, and maybe even a slot on-stage at one of its press launches.It's no secret that Apple likes developers who use (appropriately, obviously) the whizzy features of its devices, and the new elements of its annual software update for iOS. Choosing to prioritise iOS over Android is sometimes part of this desire to keep in the company's good books too.But things are changing...Owning an Android device in 2013 is less bleak on the apps front than, say, in 2009. The problems outlined above have all been improving – or at least becoming less of an issue – over time. Meanwhile, the sheer scale of Android is making it worth many more developers' while to get their apps onto Google-powered devices as quickly as possible.That improvement can be seen in the Canalys study. Stripping out the Apple apps, 19 of the 100 most popular iPad apps aren't on Android. A year ago, that figure would have been much higher.Industry analystBenedict Evans put it neatlyin a blog post earlier this month."Developers are starting to move from creating new products on the basis 'iPhone, then maybe Android' to 'iPhone and then Android' or even 'iPhone and Android at the same time'. Cool little apps from seed-funded companies are still iPhone-only, but most big well-funded businesses are doing both.Android is no longer optional for any publisher seeking real reach. This applies even more if your app is free, since Android download rates are much closer to iOS than are Android payment rates (and of course 'free' doesn't mean no revenue)."Evans thinks the balance may tilt even further, and that more developers will go Android-first in 2014 unless Apple takes action – hence the prospect of the company launching a cheaper iPhone to grab some market share back from Android.So yes, if you own an Android device, you still get some apps late or not at all. But it happens less than it used to, there's a huge pipe of interesting stuff being released – see this blog's50 best Android apps from 2013 so fararticle, or theweekly roundup of 20 new Android appsfor evidence there.But stepping outside the ill-tempered flame wars about Apple versus Google, iOS versus Android and Cupertino fanboys versus Mountain View apologists...The bigger point here is that the competition between these two platforms is good news for users of both, as Apple and Google battle to win the hearts, minds and roadmaps of app developers with better devices, more features and improved ways for us to find the apps that they create as a result.
Do the recent revelations about privacy issues – egGoogle: Gmail users shouldn't expect email privacy– change your recommendationto link one's email account to Gmail?And if one wanted a more secure arrangement but with similar benefits, could you recommend a solution?VicaroThe press has been piling on to Google in the past couple of days using the quote that "a person has no legitimate expectation of privacy in information he voluntarily turns over to third parties". However, this is somewhat misleading without further explanation.In a lawsuit, Google's attorneys werequoting a court case from 1979, Smith v. Maryland, where the court noted that "persons communicating through a service provided by an intermediary (in the Smith case, a telephone call routed through a telephone company) must necessarily expect that the communication will be subject to the intermediary's systems".So, Google isn't saying that its staff are free to read your emails, but that all your emails will pass through its systems, and be scanned by its computers as part of the normal process of delivering them. All, or almost all, email providers do this anyway: it's one of the ways they identify spam emails and put them in a junk folder. In Google's case, and some others, your emails are also scanned for keywords that trigger the advertisements shown against them. I assume most Gmail users already know this, and they may agree with Google that it's better to have relevant ads than irrelevant ones.The wider problemUnfortunately, the privacy problem is much more serious than reading emails. First, email generates a lot of metadata about which people you email -- and which people they email -- that goes far beyond the contents of email messages, which are mostly harmless. SeeWhat your metadata says about you, a Boston Globe interview with MIT Media Lab professor César Hidalgo.Second, last year, Google changed its privacy policy so now it can cross-reference data across all of its services. This prompted someclass-action lawsuits. If Google can tie together what it knows about you from your email and calendar, the directions you get from Google Maps, and so on, then you might as well just use Google Now and forget you ever had any privacy at all.Several times I've warned against putting all your digital eggs in one basket, and this applies to Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, Apple and any other giant service provider. If you have your email hacked or blocked, you don't want to lose access to your photos, documents, music storage, blog, social network, digital wallet etc etc at the same time. Using different suppliers for different services is now even more important because it helps protect your privacy as well.A couple of years ago, switching away from Google would have been a bit painful, but now there are products and services that are roughly as good and sometimes better. These include the Firefox 23 browser, DuckDuckGo andStartPagefor search, Nokia's maps (athere.com), Dropbox, and the Microsoft Office apps in SkyDrive. The only things I can't manage without are Google's time-based web searches, and "search by image".I'm still using Gmail (along with Outlook.com and Yahoo Mail), but I use it in a private browsing tab in a separate browser. Also, I've long since deleted all myGoogle search history(I never log in to Google search), and opted out of Google's DoubleClickadvertising trackingandGoogle Analytics, among other things. It's not perfect, but by today's standards, I think this provides an acceptable level of privacy when using Gmail.Alternatives to GmailIf you still want an alternative to Gmail, then Microsoft's Outlook.com does the job, and it will even import all your email from Gmail. This is worth doing if you only use it as a backup. However, Microsoft is just like Google in using a single ID for multiple services, and its privacy policy says: "information collected through one Microsoft service may be combined with information obtained through other Microsoft services". Same problems. (Microsoft has a"data dashboard"for privacy settings.)Since both Google and Microsoft are based in the US, then as a non-US citizen, your data is vulnerable to American snooping, and I wouldn't expect Microsoft to put up more of a fight than Google. Just the reverse, in fact. However, it's a moot point. Following the Snowden revelations, no data held online by any American company can now be considered private, and this could include any site running in the .com domain. Given the apparent complicity of the British secret services, I'd assume it also applies to data held online by any UK service providers as well.You could, of course, encrypt all your emails, or use a secure mail service provider. One of the simplest ways to encrypt emails is to use the PGP-basedMailvelope, which uses a Firefox plug-in or Chrome browser extension. It comes preconfigured for popular web-mail services including Gmail, Outlook.com and Yahoo Mail. However, it uses public key cryptography, so you can't send someone an encrypted email unless you know their public key. That limits it rather a lot.Finding a secure service may be even harder. Last week, Lavabit's owner shut down his email service,saying: "I have been forced to make a difficult decision: to become complicit in crimes against the American people or walk away from nearly ten years of hard work by shutting down Lavabit. After significant soul searching, I have decided to suspend operations." Silent Circle promptly followed suit,saying: "We see the writing the wall, and we have decided that it is best for us to shut down Silent Mail now."Try FastMailAt the moment, if you want an alternative to Gmail, your best bet is probablyFastMail, which is owned by Opera Software (Opera is Norwegian), registered in Micronesia (.fm), and based in Australia. Unfortunately, according toWikipedia: "Its servers are located in New York City with a backup in Norway." However, I've recommended FastMail numerous times here, since a reader, Frank Jordans, suggested it in2004.FastMail is a commercial service, and if you want to use your own domain name, it costs $39.95 a year. This includes 10GB of email storage. There are cheaper options, and you can sign up for a 60-day free trial.Several people have written about their experiences switching from Gmail to FastMail. Examples includeFrom Gmail to FastMailat ReadWriteWeb, andSwitching from Gmail to FastMailby Max Masnick. Though it's US-based,Zoho Mailis also worth a look. Even the free service doesn't have adverts, so your email won't be scanned for keywords.Presumably, someone will see the commercial attraction of providing a secure, private email service hosted somewhere that makes life harder for America's NSA, CIA and FBI, and Britain's GCHQ. Kim Dotcom – victim of anabsurd FBI-inspired raidover his MegaUpload cyberlocker – might do it. (Sorry, Angela Merkel, I wouldn't trust"E-Mail Made in Germany".)I'm certainly interested in an alternative to Gmail, not because of any privacy concerns but because Google keeps changing it for the worse. The latest downgrades include tabs (still optional) and the awful "compose box" (now obligatory). The Guardian's Oliver Burkeman recently posted some tips for"fellow change-hating old-Gmail aficionados"like me, and we're not alone. Venture capitalist, essayist, philosopher, painter, programmer and Hacker News founder Paul Graham justtweeted: "Gmail's bad redesigns keep pushing me closer to funding a new email co just so I can use it."Y Combinator'sprevious investmentsinclude Airbnb, Dropbox, Disqus, Justin.tv, Ninite, Posterous, Rap Genius, Reddit, Scribd, and Xobni. I'm sure he could make a go of it.
A lot has changed since Plants vs. Zombies was released for iPhone in February 2010, famously selling more than 300,000 copies and making $1m for its publisher PopCap in its first nine days on the App Store.Since then, the mobile games market has flipped to freemium, with free-to-play games dominating the upper reaches of Apple and Google's top-grossing charts. PopCap is now a subsidiary of Electronic Arts after a $750m acquisition in 2011.Today's release ofPlants vs. Zombies 2, which is freemium, is a big deal on several grounds, then. On gameplay grounds, because the original game has lots of fans who've been waiting patiently for a sequel.But also on business model grounds, after EA fielded asignificant amount of criticismearlier in the year for the way it switched another acquired mobile-game brand – Real Racing – to freemium for its third incarnation.In other words, where the anticipation around Plants vs. Zombies 2 might have been mainly "What's new?", that's now spiced with a big dose of "And have they ruined it?" trepidation from some gamers.And have they? Thankfully, no. I've been playing through the finished version of Plants vs. Zombies 2 since last weekend (via a promo code supplied by EA), and the switch to free-to-play has been handled sensibly and sensitively.The game is split into three sections: Ancient Egypt, Pirate Seas and Wild West – each with their own unique zombie enemies and new plants for players to use to kill them off.The gameplay now includes a mix of power-ups and virtual coins which can be earned through gameplay and/or bought through in-app purchases, with players also able to purchase a few specific plants and unlock the Pirate Seas and Wild West sections early through IAP too.The game doesn't feel aggressive in its promotion of the IAP, nor does it feel scammy in terms of making levels so hard that you feel you have to keep hammering power-ups (and thus buying more coins).If you're determined not to pay, there's a bit of grinding required in the first Ancient Egypt section to earn enough stars  – between one and three are awarded per level for completing challenges – that unlock the Pirate Seas.Personally, I paid £2.99 to unlock that section early, and was pleased to discover that my star total carried over, meaning much less grinding required to unlock the third Wild West section. That's comparable to what I paid for the first game."The free-to-play model for this particular game is the PopCap way," says Adrien Yorozu, UX director for Plants vs. Zombies 2 at PopCap, in an interview with The Guardian."There are no pay-gates, you can get through all the content on the map without paying a thing. Paying is your choice, if you want to accelerate through certain level progressions or use additional power-ups. You have that opportunity, but it's not required."PopCap will surely have watched the response to Real Racing 3 carefully when fine-tuning its strategy for Plants vs. Zombies 2.While EA has hailed the former game's success – 45m downloads by the end of June and an average of 2m daily active players – an early backlash to its system of timers (making players spend virtual currency to speed up mechanical repairs to their cars) did force changes.Players can unlock new worlds by earning stars or paying real moneyPlants vs. Zombies 2 is following Real Racing 3 in another way: the game at launch is just the start of its plans."We're building this as a game of service. We will be launching new content over time, including new worlds," says Yorozu. Based on the spaceships in the teaser silhouette in the game's world-select screen, the game's fourth world will have a futuristic theme.One of the noticeable steps up between the first and second Plants vs. Zombies games is the character animations, from the peashooters puffing their cheeks before spitting to the swaying sunflowers and snoozing spring beans.PopCap has a team that focuses purely on the characters now, unlike the first game. There is already a Plants vs. Zombie comic and a range of merchandise – from plush toys to zombie-yeti watches – but it's tempting to wonder whether it might also follow Angry Birds into the TV world."We've had conversations, but nothing has been quite right yet," says Yorozu. "It's not really our goal when putting the characters together, but if it's right, we'd love to see where they can go."It's going to be interesting watching the reaction to Plants vs. Zombies 2, particularly the freemium aspect, but also its iOS exclusivity at launch.It makes sense for a few reasons: promotion from Apple, and a chance to ease the game's server-side infrastructure in before opening up to the potentially much-larger number of Android users.But EA and PopCap's unwillingness to even talk about when an Android version is coming – which it surely is – risks alienating some of the franchise's keenest fans on that platform. Now the game is live on iOS, perhaps more information on its Android plans will emerge quickly.Even so, as a free-to-play game, Plants vs. Zombies 2 will find a much bigger audience than its predecessor – it's a sign of how the industry has developed since 2010 that 300,000 downloads in nine days is relatively small (spring) beans for a freemium game in 2013."Our goal is to be able to get to the broadest audience possible, and give them the opportunity to play," says Yorozu. "There's no doubt a free-to-play game is going to reach a lot more players than a paid game, but we're still our own worst critics when it comes to quality levels."
Apple has paved the way for the launch of its new Kids category on its App Store by adding new rules for children's apps to its developer guidelines.The newly-added"Kids Apps' sectionof Apple's App Store Review Guidelines sets out the company's policy on privacy, advertising and use of in-app purchases in iOS apps aimed at children younger than 13.It comes after several months of news stories about children racking up big bills buying virtual items in mobile games without their parents' knowledge, and ahead of the publication this autumn of areport on children's apps by the UK's Office of Fair Trading.Apple's new guidelines cover four key points:24.1Apps primarily intended for use by kids under 13 must include a privacy policy24.2Apps primarily intended for use by kids under 13 may not include behavioral advertising (e.g. the advertiser may not serve ads based on the user's activity within the App), and any contextual ads presented in the App must be appropriate for kids24.3Apps primarily intended for use by kids under 13 must get parental permission or use a parental gate before allowing the user to link out of the app or engage in commerce24.4Apps in the Kids Category must be made specifically for kids ages 5 and under, ages 6-8, or ages 9-11The rules aren't a huge surprise for children's app developers, with many having added privacy policies and implemented parental gates in their iOS apps in recent months, in response to private feedback from Apple.Apple has not set guidelines on how children's app developers may use analytics tools to gather information on what their young users are doing, although developers in many countries are governed by existing laws in this area – for example, the recently-introducedChildren's Online Privacy Protection Act(COPPA) in the US.Clause 24.4 is interesting for another reason: it sets out how Apple's new Kids category on the App Store will be structured, with the three age buckets.The new category was announced atApple's WWDC conference in June, and will be introduced on Apple's store as part of its new iOS 7 software this autumn.It will provide a single point of discovery for parents to find apps previously scattered between the Books, Education, Games and Entertainment categories. Apple is currentlyrecruiting an App Store Kids &amp; Education Editorbased in its London office to assist with the curation of the new category.The children's apps market is bustling with activity, from major brand-owners including Disney, the BBC and Nickelodeon to independent firms like Toca Boca and Nosy Crow.A recent report from UK telecoms regulator Ofcom claimed that 91% of parents with a tablet say their children either use it or have one of their own, with 41% saying their kids use the device every day.
The latest Google doodle pays tribute to the celebrated children's author Edith Nesbit, who was born 155 years ago on 15 August 1858, with an illustration of her best known work The Railway Children.The story, published as a novel in 1906, concerns three children, Bobbie, Peter and Phyllis, who along with their mother are forced to downsize from their comfortable middle class London home and go and live in a much smaller house in the country when their father is falsely imprisoned for selling state secrets.Now regarded as a classic of children's literature, the book has never been out of print and owes much of its enduring popularity to TV and film adaptations, most famously the 1970 Lionel Jeffries film, starring Jenny Agutter as Bobbie – a perennial staple of UK Christmas television.Nesbit is also well known as one of the first children's writers to blend fantasy and magic with realistic elements in novels such as Five Children and It and The Phoenix and the Carpet, which have also been adapted for TV. In this regard her work is considered a major influence on later children's writers, including JK Rowling.Born in Kennington in south London, Nesbit married bank clerk Hubert Bland in 1880, with whom she had five children. She and her husband were founder members of the Fabian Society and their friends included George Bernard Shaw and HG Wells.
When the coalition first looked at ways of cutting excessive costs, it didn't take long for them to fix their gaze on IT procurement, long seen as a byword for red tape and shady, excessive, backroom deals.Rohan Silver, the former government adviser on Tech City, said he was surprised at how close the relationship between big business and government was and how few government contracts were awarded to small and medium enterprises (SMEs).In 2010, 70% of IT contracts went to just seven companies. The rules put in place by the previous government – rules that made this figure possible – were scrapped by the coalition, which in turnpromised to award25% of IT contracts to SMEs.That 25% is an achievable and respectable figure. But despite the government's pronouncements on the UK's burgeoning digital production and creative sectors, the Guardian has previously exposed a clear bias towards London – specifically Tech City – forfundingandsupport.Recently, business secretary Vince Cable, spoke encouragingly about expanding the government's focus toorganically grown tech clustersaround the UK: "What I want to do is develop the concept of a cluster of clusters. [Tech City head] Joanna Shields is very keen not to see Tech City in a parochial sense, but to see it as a UK phenomenon, and to build on the strengths of other parts of the UK. And I'd like to build that with her."In practice, Tech City, London and the south-east still dominate the government agenda. As part of its transparency promise, the government developed the 'Contracts Finder' website, which details all government procurement opportunities, since 2010, over the value of £10,000.Half government IT spend is on firms in the south-eastAccording to theONSthere are currently 129,165 IT firms in the UK , of which 32,710 (25%) and 28,785 (22%) are in London and the south east respectively. In the north west there are 9825, the south west houses 10,435, the north east has 1995 and the west midlands plays host to 8515. Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have a combined total of 10,175 IT firms.Of the 1,034 IT contracts listed on the site, 587 (56%) went to companies in the southeast, of which 264, or 25%, were based in London. The gulf is most striking when you compare those figures to similarly sized tech clusters such as Manchester and Bristol, which have been awarded 21 and 22 contracts respectively.Smaller clusters such as Newcastle, Leeds and Birmingham had a total of 50 contracts awarded in the last three years. The remaining contracts were awarded to companies scattered around the UK and other countries, including Ireland, Germany, Holland and Kenya.Questioned over London bias, the Cabinet Office deferred to the progress it has made in moving away from the £20bn a year previously being spent on an "oligopoly" of large suppliers: "We've created a more open and competitive marketplace by breaking down the length and size of contracts to no more than £100m, sharing procurement needs earlier and simplifying entry requirements and application procedures – this opens up opportunities to dynamic SMEs and encourages innovation in government IT."We want to make sure that we get the very best value from every contract, and where long-legacy IT service contracts are still operating, we're reviewing, renegotiating and improving them. Over half a billion pounds was saved last year alone."The Cabinet Office was also keen to point out that it is making important changes to IT procurement by introducing a system calledG-Cloud, which was set up with the specific purpose of advertising the government's IT contracts and promoting suppliers."There are over 800 companies on G-Cloud at the moment – 83% of them SMEs. Sales through CloudStore are increasing across government and 63% of purchases to date have been from SMEs."The Cabinet Office did not suggest ways in which the government is working to encourage bids from SMEs outside London."The hurdles are impossible for SMEs"Vin Summer, founding director of a Manchester-based software solutions company,Clicks and Links, has had numerous problems with attempting to secure government IT contracts both inside a large company and as part of an SME."I have given up on trying to get government contracts myself because of the difficulties," he told the Guardian. "Despite some attempts at changes, government procurement remains a complex and lengthy process which requires far more time than most SMEs have. The process seems designed to discourage, and the hurdles that you have to jump over – accreditations, accounts, policies, legal documents, etc – are fine for large companies that have departments dedicated to such things, but impossible for SMEs."He also pointed to "London-centred thinking" among government departments and Intellect, the IT trade association he has chosen to leave. "They are supposed to work together to widen access, rather than protect incumbents. There is little effort to reach out to other locations. Central government seems to also give the impression that the only small tech companies in UK are in Shoreditch – as opposed to Manchester, Salford, Cambridge, Bristol and the rest."Where's the government support for local IT firms?Shaun Fensom, founding director of independent trade association,Manchester Digital, believes that a more bespoke approach is needed to get more non-London IT companies onboard: "The way procurement is done needs to change. An example is the idea of inviting ideas from SMEs that are not part of the main delivery, but which could lead to savings, efficiency improvements, etc, then selecting the best ideas and funding the SMEs to develop them. This runs in parallel with the main procurement."Fensom said a group of local digital businesses had discussed the idea of a local procurement event with Liam Maxwell, the government's chief technology officer, which would provide an open forum to discuss the challenges and requirements of government, as well as meet local firms.Despite Maxwell's enthusiasm, Fensom says the idea has gone nowhere.The coalition was clear about saving money through a less costly procurement process and opening it up to SMEs, which, to its credit, it has done and continues to do so.Despite the encouraging rhetoric, the figures still show that many UK IT companies are still struggling to penetrate the London-centric attitude to procurement in central government. Without proper acknowledgment, there is a continued danger that the government is missing out on access to skilled and innovative suppliers.
People sending email to any of Google's 425 million Gmail users have no "reasonable expectation" that their communications are confidential, the internet giant has said in a court filing.Consumer Watchdog, the advocacy group that uncovered the filing, called the revelation a "stunning admission." It comes as Google and its peers are under pressure to explain their role in the National Security Agency's (NSA) mass surveillance of US citizens and foreign nationals."Google has finally admitted they don't respect privacy," said John Simpson, Consumer Watchdog's privacy project director. "People should take them at their word; if you care about your email correspondents' privacy, don't use Gmail."Google set out its case last month in an attempt to dismiss a class action lawsuit that accuses the tech giant of breaking wire tap laws when it scans emails sent from non-Google accounts in order to target ads to Gmail users.That suit, filed in May, claims Google "unlawfully opens up, reads, and acquires the content of people's private email messages". It quotes Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman: "Google policy is to get right up to the creepy line and not cross it."The suit claims: "Unbeknown to millions of people, on a daily basis and for years, Google has systematically and intentionally crossed the 'creepy line' to read private email messages containing information you don't want anyone to know, and to acquire, collect, or mine valuable information from that mail."In its motion to dismiss the case, Google said the plaintiffs were making "an attempt to criminalise ordinary business practices" that have been part of Gmail's service since its introduction. Google said "all users of email must necessarily expect that their emails will be subject to automated processing."According to Google: "Just as a sender of a letter to a business colleague cannot be surprised that the recipient's assistant opens the letter, people who use web-based email today cannot be surprised if their communications are processed by the recipient's ECS [electronic communications service] provider in the course of delivery."Citing another privacy case, Google's lawyers said "too little is asserted in the complaint about the particular relationship between the parties, and the particular circumstances of the [communications at issue], to lead to the plausible conclusion that an objectively reasonable expectation of confidentiality would have attended such a communication."A Google spokesperson said on Wednesday evening: "We take our users' privacy and security very seriously; recent reports claiming otherwise are simply untrue."We have built industry-leading security and privacy features into Gmail — and no matter who sends an email to a Gmail user, those protections apply."Simpson, a long-term Google critic, said: "Google's brief uses a wrong-headed analogy; sending an email is like giving a letter to the Post Office. I expect the Post Office to deliver the letter based on the address written on the envelope. I don't expect the mail carrier to open my letter and read it."Similarly, when I send an email, I expect it to be delivered to the intended recipient with a Gmail account based on the email address; why would I expect its content will be intercepted by Google and read?"• This story was corrected on 14 August to make clear that Google's court filing was referring to users of other email providers who email Gmail users – and not to the Gmail users themselves.
The BBC has launched a free iOS and Android app for its CBeebies pre-school channel, with mini-games based on four of its most popular shows.BBC CBeebies Playtime is available foriOS,AndroidandKindle Firedevices in the UK. On iOS, it joins the CBeebies Magazine app, which was released last year by the broadcaster's commercial division BBC Worldwide."We see this as a window on channel-defining CBeebies brands," said Patrick Healy, head of product, BBC Children's, in an interview with The Guardian. At launch, those brands are Alphablocks, Octonauts, Tree Fu Tom and Something Special.Parents can create profiles in the app for up to four children, and also access a "Grown-ups" section with instructions, educational information and a feature to record messages for their children.The BBC worked with Bristol agencyMobile Pieon the new app. It complements the existing CBeebies website, which has more than 20 HTML5 games that also run on tablets and smartphones.Joe Godwin, director, BBC Children's says that the mobile-friendly web games and new app are a necessary step forward for CBeebies."It's about the changing landscape of consumption and device use. We've just had to come to terms with the fact that linear television is not – although this is some way ahead – going to be the dominant way people consume CBeebies going forward, said Godwin.He cited research from UK telecoms regulator Ofcom indicating that 35% of UK households with children owned tablets in 2012, while 70% of British parents owned smartphones."We're not leading the audience to a new place: we're following them, although we're trying to be hot on their heels. They're moving quite quickly," said Godwin.Amore recent piece of research published by Ofcomthis month found that 91% of parents with a tablet say their children either use it, or have one of their own. 41% said their children use a tablet daily.Ofcom also found that 71% of children using tablets are playing games on the devices, the most popular use by far ahead of watching short video clips (44%), browsing the internet (40%) and watching TV shows or films (37%)."The stats have just blown us away," said Godwin. "Children's preferred way of looking at stuff is still the telly, but their second preferred way is now the tablet."The BBC's public service remit dictated that CBeebies Playtime would need to be available on Android devices (of which the Kindle Fire is a distinct sub-category, with its own app store) as well as iOS from launch."From a BBC policy point of view, we're not here just to super-serve the super-served. CBeebies' reach is what makes it the UK's most popular children's channel, and we've got to continue that in the mobile space," said Godwin.The Tree Fu Tom mini-game in CBeebies PlaytimeOver the next 12-18 months, new games and possibly new brands will be added to the app, although Healy said the BBC is aware of the fact that independent producers may be working on their own apps too.For example, Something Special star Justin Fletcher hasreleased two of his own Justin's World apps, while shows including Mister Maker, Rastamouse and Mike The Knight also have independently-published apps."We have tried to see this app as a window across the brands, rather than 'here's two really deep experiences on, for example, Tree Fu Tom and Alphablocks'," said Healy."We don't want to step on anybody's toes. We see this as being a showcase of brands, and we engaged the brand owners from a really early stage. They've really bought into the premise of this app, and have been engaged at every step of the process."With this being a BBC rather than a BBC Worldwide product, CBeebies Playtime was always going to be a free app, thus neatly sidestepping the debate around in-app purchases within children's apps, which is currentlythe focus of an Office of Fair Trading investigation."There are commercial opportunities around CBeebies properties, and BBC Worldwide is looking at that, but we were clear that in the UK, CBeebies should be a free public-service offering," said Godwin. "It's not a shallow little taster to make you go and buy something."For now, there are no plans to integrate the BBC's iPlayer catch-up TV service into the app for children to watch shows as well as play games, although Healy accepted that this may be  a desirable feature for some parents."A lot of parents hand their devices over to children, and we've had a percentage of parents asking us to build something even more locked down than the iPlayer app," he said, while noting that a growing number of parents are using that app to download CBeebies shows to their device, or listening to CBeebies podcasts through the separate iPlayer Radio app.The recent Ofcom report suggested that tablets are increasingly playing a role as an "electronic babysitter", but Healy was keen to stress that CBeebies Playtime is as much about a shared experience between parents and children."We wanted this to be an interactive app that brings parents and children together," he said, before returning to the theme of CBeebies following its audience to new devices, rather than jumping ahead of them."We are talking about the digital generation, and these devices are the crayons," he said. "Children don't see them as complex or complicated. They're the early adopters."
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMeet the Dread Pirate Roberts, the man behind 'the eBay of hard drugs', The Silk Road &gt;&gt; ForbesTor made it possible but Bitcoin made it pay - behind The Silk Road.Roberts also has a political agenda: He sees himself not just as an enabler of street-corner pushers but also as a radical libertarian revolutionary carving out an anarchic digital space beyond the reach of the taxation and regulatory powers of the state-Julian Assange with a hypodermic needle.Judge halves $30.2m infringement award against Nintendo &gt;&gt; ReutersA US judge on Wednesday ruled that inventor Seijiro Tomita can take half the $30.2 million in damages awarded him after a jury found Nintendo infringed one of his patents, or risk getting nothing.Bill Gates still helping known patent trolls obtain more patents &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaGates's patent filings show that (at least as of 2012) he hasn't slowed down his involvement with Intellectual Ventures even as patent trolls are viewed in an increasingly negative light throughout the technology industry. Gates famously criticized technology patents and their impact on the industry in 1991, but he's displayed a much more favorable view of patents since.Facebook's 'move fast and break things' philosophy comes to Instagram &gt;&gt; The VergeFacebooker Peter Deng has been installed as director of product for Instagram, which Facebook bought a while back.Deng witnessed Facebook grow from 80 engineers to several hundred, and could see the same happen to Instagram as it hires up to keep pace with its active million-plus user base.Google search gets more personal &gt;&gt; ReadWriteThe company is rolling out a new update to its search engine that gives users "quick answers" to personal queries--for instance, when their next flight leaves, or when a package is due to arrive--made in the search bar. And if the info is in your Gmail, Google Calendar or Google+ accounts, the relevant answers pop up at the top of the search results.With its website offline, The New York Times begins posting articles on Facebook &gt;&gt; EngadgetWith its website inaccessible due to "an internal issue," The New York Times began posting content to Facebook today, beginning with an article on Egypt. That included directing 9m Twitter followers to its Facebook site.Bitcoin won't escape regulation for long &gt;&gt; ReadWriteAs Bitcoin's popularity steadily increases, more and more government bodies will seek to regulate it. New York's efforts come in the wake of at least one cease-and-desist from the state of California. Even if Bitcoin's proponents insist that illegal activity is uncommon through the currency, it's impossible for regulating bodies to tell for sure without, well, regulating it.Twitter tests a 'TV Trending' box at the top of timelines &gt;&gt; TechCrunchTwitter's next ad format looks set to be a trending TV element.hTe company appears to be is testing out a new feature where links to popular TV shows appear as Twitter cards at the top of your Timeline, complete with related Tweet data and show information.The case for a new lower-cost iPhone &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber on the sense and sensibilities of iPhone 5C speculation.The 5C is not about selling a piece of junk to some sort of unwashed masses; it's about continuing to push the price down to expand the iPhone's market without changing what the iPhone brand stands for. Siri is now a big part of that brand. If Apple thinks the iPhone 5S needs "protection", then the 5S (and Apple itself) has problems.The underground market for spam Twitter accounts &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyThe dark underbelly of Twitter audience.Because Twitter abuse is reported after the damage has been done, the researchers from George Mason University and UC Berkeley were looking for ways to detect automatically created accounts before they're used for fraudulent purposes. Working in collaboration with Twitter, they spent 10 months buying 121,000 spam accounts from 27 underground sellers. The cost per 1,000 accounts ranged from $10 to $200.Flickr co-founder Stuart Butterfield launches workplace communication tool Slack &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSlack is built for teams of five to 150 people, and combines persistent chat rooms, private messaging and ways to integrate various work tools so teams can discuss notifications from them. Butterfield said he does not yet know how much it will cost, but for now it's free.How the Xbox One controller has changed &gt;&gt; KotakuFor more than two years, 105 people at Microsoft have been trying to improve the video game controller. The results go on sale this fall in the form of the Xbox One's gamepad. The new controller sports changes big and small--but, thankfully, it won't emit smells. Yes, they actually tried that.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
In a giant marquee on the rooftop of a car park in downtown LA, Activision has splurged all the details on the Call of Duty: Ghosts multiplayer mode. Due out on 5 November, the latest title in the 100m-selling shooter series is shaking up the online component in what Mark Rubin, studio head of developer Infinity Ward is calling, "the biggest overhaul of multiplayer since the original Modern Warfare".Among the most significant changes are the new squad set-up which replaces the customisable character classes of old. Now, players will be able to create and fully personalise up to ten individual soldiers, all with custom loud-outs, gear, clothing and appearances. According to Activision, there are over 20,000 combinations – and players will be able to select female character models. Every player starts with just one soldier, but as they level up, they earn new unlock points which can be used for items, or for opening up a new soldier. Every soldier can be prestiged just once, and now, when they prestige, they keep all their items. It's an interesting, more personal twist on the familiar class-based system, allowing fans to build a team of humanised characters, rather than anonymous class-based automatons.Load-out options include more than 30 new weapons and a complete new weapon class, the marksman rifle, which operates either as a scoped sniper rifle or a single-shot assault. The game also features a dual render technology so when using sights, you still have peripheral vision around the eyepiece. Through the game, players earn squad points which can be used to unlock new weapons – but unlike in previous instalments, these can be attained in any order – you just need to have the right amount of points for the item you want.Similarly to the Black Ops II ten-point system for load-outs, Ghosts gives players a budget to be spent on primary and secondary weapons, items and streaks. Perks now have a value from one to five points each and players have eight points to spend on each soldier, although sacrificing the secondary weapon or some items adds more perk points to the wallet. As usual it's all about working out your play style and balancing everything accordingly. "This will be really interesting," says Ali Aiken, AKA'Ali A', a Call of Duty YouTube broadcaster with over two million subscribers. "You can have a load of low-level perks or just a few high level ones; it's going to be about what youreallywant and need, what are you aiming to do in that particular match – and then balancing out your distribution based on that."There are 20 new kill streaks, including the ability to call in Riley, the game's highly trained spec-ops dog. Your canine scout will hunt and attack enemy players, and also bark when they're close, acting as a sort of tracking system. Other more familiar missile and aerial attacks have been re-tuned. "It seems that they've been designed so that they can be shot down quite easily," says Aliken. "I think Infinity Ward is trying to focus more on gun-to-gun combat rather than too much hectic stuff happening in the air. They're trying to balance it out a little more."Strike packages are back from the Modern Warfare series, in their usual Assault, Specialist and Support flavours,  though the number of air-based options have been lowered in favour of ground items. A new satcom station, for example, replaces the old airborne UAV, making them more vulnerable – unless they're well hidden. Oh and Death streaks have been removed – an announcement that drew a loud series of whoops from the audience.For some CoD veterans though, it was the newly refined physicality of the characters that impressed. CoD soldiers are now able to mantle over walls, cars and other obstacles without losing speed; on top of that a new contextual lean system lets you look around objects by depressing a single button, while the knee slide facilitates the speedy drop into a prone position or behind a piece of cover.Another YouTube presenter, Jack Mason, who hosts theJackFrags channel, echoed the view that the Ghosts multiplayer feels more about refining than utterly re-thinking the experience. "It still has that CoD feel – it's much more evolution than revolution. There are a lot of cool little features that enhance the gameplay. The movement stuff in particular is cool – I'm sure we're going to get lots of videos on YouTube of fancy sliding kills."Aiken agrees. "I think these are the most exciting changes," he says. "The way you traverse across the maps in Call of Duty has been pretty much the same since the beginning, but this year the knee slide is great to get behind cover nice and quickly and the lean in feature, which has been available on PC but never on console, will really change the way everyone plays the game."As for maps, Infinity Ward elaborated on the destructible environments it chatted about at the Ghosts reveal event earlier this year. Every location will feature interactive elements ranging from small traps to map-changing kill streaks. During a demo, we see one section in which a train carriage is hit by a missile, blasting it off a cliff edge into a chasm – with several soldiers inside. In another sequence, the roof of a petrol station collapses on an unlucky player. This is, of course, an extension of the stuff that Black Ops and Modern Warfare have already been toying with, and mirrors Dice's plans for Battlefield 4 – but it's interesting none-the-less, and may add some tactical complexity to the action.Activision also showed off a range of new multiplayer modes. 'Cranked' is a team deathmatch derivative in which getting a kill triggers a timed sequence in which your soldier has increasingly accelerated movement – the catch is, they need to get another kill before the clock hits zero or they explode. "It's going to really play into the hands of the aggressive players – the ones that like to charge around the maps like mentalists," says Mason. 'Search and rescue', meanwhile, operates a little like the Kill Confirmed mode in Black Ops – players drop dog tags when killed and these can be snatched by allies to revive their comrade or whipped away by enemies to keep them out of the game.Ghosts is also debuting a whole new Squads mode, which will pitch you and and a personal squad of up to five of your soldiers against the squads of AI enemies and other players. At any point during play, you'll be able to swap out one of your AI-controlled squad members for a friend, providing a seamless mix of solo, co-op and competitive play. Apparently, AI combatants will do all the stuff human players do including corner camping and jump shooting.Outside of the main game, there's also a new Ghosts smartphone app. This can be tied in with your Call of Duty Elite account to store all your stats including KDRs and hours played. However, it can also be activated as a second screen companion to the main action. This will allow you to, say, select an alternate squad member to switch to during an online match - something you'd have previously done by bringing up a menu on your main screen, placing you in a vulnerable position. It's a small feature, but it's a nice subtle integration of trendy TV/smartphone interplay. The app will also feature a Clan Wars meta-game, which feeds multiplayer competition data into a huge online map – clans can win territory by beating opponents at online matches, with each territory representing a different multiplayer mode. It's a bit confusing and rather arcane at the moment, but more should become clear on playing.Vitally, too, your Call of Duty account can be accessed from any console or PC allowing you to take your squads and loud-outs to friends' houses. Furthermore, if a gamer buys a season pass, providing discounted access to the usual four DLC map packs, they'll be able to transfer the pass if they upgrade from a current-gen to a next-gen console – free of charge.Activision ended the global reveal event with news of the game's Prestige edition which comes complete with a head-mounted HD camcorder – like those used by soldiers in the game. "You can't count on much in this world, but you can count on Call of Duty," said Activision CEO Eric Hirschberg from the stage. And in a lot of ways he probably didn't mean, you sure can.Anyway, Ghosts multiplayer extends and plays with the raw Modern Warfare experience without bending it out of shape entirely. Infinity Ward has learned a few tricks from Treyarch, but with the edition of squads and personalised soldiers it has moved things on a little in its own way. From here, it'll all be about the experience of playing – whatever shiny new additions are promised, that is the acid test. CoD has a particular feel, with its 60fps framerate and small, tight maps. In enclosed spaces, amid the noise and tension, balance is everything.• Call of Duty: Ghosts is released from 5 November on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, Xbox 360 and Wii U. Keith Stuart attended a press trip with other journalists from Europe, with transport and accommodation supplied by Activision
Ian Flintoff (Letters, 12 August) is not the first to suggest that people should only be allowed to post on social media using their legal names and information. The problem is that this might damp down some trolling and abuse, but would also make sure that the most vulnerable people would be effectively barred from using the platforms.Talking publicly about issues such as domestic violence and life on the run from an abusive ex, sexual abuse, racism, homophobia and misogyny, poverty, life as a transgendered person, life with disabilities, or homelessness, would be impossible for most. Their online support networks would fall apart (and for many, this is all the support they have). They'd lose the chance to make their voices heard, and we'd lose valuable insights into the lives of people who are already pushed to the margins. For many vulnerable people, pseudonyms are the only protection they have from harassment, abuse, discrimination in the workplace or in accessing public services, and more.There seems to be growing evidence that very few people actually troll or become abusive online, and that those people tend to bad behaviour offline. They appear more numerous online than off simply because we only encounter a limited number of people face-to-face on a daily basis, and because they're distributed across the world. Both anonymity and transparency are double-edged swords, and the big question for me is: which is most helpful to those in the most vulnerable positions?Karen AbbottMacclesfield, Cheshire• It seems relatively simple to reduce the extent of trolling etc given that all devices have a uniqueIP addresswhich is known to the service provider. If a report of abuse led to immediate suspension of an IP address, pending appeal, trolls would be unable to continue with that device. The thought of losing the use of an expensive device, perhaps permanently, would, I think, cause most to think twice before they type. Obviously they could borrow a phone or use an internet cafe, but in this eventuality most would police the use of their devices. It would need social media sites to get on board – but recent events have suggested that advertisers have the power to ensure this.Nick WoolvertonHereford
The chief executive of AOL has apologised to his entire staff for publicly sacking an employee in front of 1,000 colleagues during a company conference call.An audio recording of the incident generated an internet firestorm after it was leaked at the weekend, prompting AOL boss Tim Armstrong to issue a 330-word email explaining his actions.Armstrong admonished the creative director of AOL's Patch news service, Abel Lenz, who was apparently filming an internal meeting that took place in a room full of employees with hundreds of others listening in on a conference call.On the recording, Armstrong can be heard saying: "Abel, put that camera down right now. Abel, you're fired. Out." After a pause, he then continues his speech.Lenz posted a "no comment" on Twitter on Friday, telling followers he could be found at Manhattan's Old Town Bar. AOL said Lenz would not be hired back but the chief executive had contacted him to apologise.The recording became a viral sensation after being posted on the website of media bloggerJim Romenesko, where it has been heard over 980,000 times.The sacking took place during a conference organised by Armstrong to rally his troops ahead of a round of redundancies at Patch, which has struggled to gain traction. It also took place in the same week that Patch's top executive, Steven Kalin, was replaced."I am writing you to acknowledge the mistake I made last Friday during the Patch all-hands meeting when I publicly fired Abel Lenz," Armstrong said on Tuesday in the memo, which was leaked to a series ofnews outlets. "It was an emotional response at the start of a difficult discussion dealing with many people's careers and livelihoods. I am the CEO and leader of the organisation, and I take that responsibility seriously."The recording of internal meetings by staff appears to be something of a trend in Sillicon Valley, where the sharing of traditionally private information is changing social norms.Meg Whitmanrevealed that in one of her first internal meetings as Hewlett-Packard chief executive, she was told by one employee: "Your comments are being live-blogged."AOL has spent more than $300m (£193m) developing Patch's collection of 900 community news websites, as part of its drive to increase advertising revenues and reduce the company's reliance on a dwindling number of dial-up internet subscribers.While Patch's revenues have more than doubled to just under $35m, it is not yet profitable, with annual costs having risen as high as $162m. Now AOL is considering closing or finding partners for some of the Patch sites.In the recording of the conference call, Armstrong can be heard warning employees that if they do not believe in his decisions or use Patch as a product, they should leave the company. He also says he will not be deterred by stories placed in the press."Leaking information or anything around Patch isn't going to bother me, doesn't bother me, I'm not changing direction," says Armstrong.In Tuesday's email he did however insist that meetings between staff should remain private."Internal meetings of a confidential nature should not be filmed or recorded so that our employees can feel free to discuss all topics openly," he wrote. "Abel had been told previously not to record a confidential meeting, and he repeated that behaviour on Friday, which drove my actions."
US startupSyntelliahas raised $3m to continue developing its text-input technology, following critical acclaim for itsFleksyapp for iPhone and iPad.Venture capital firms Highland Capital Partners, Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers and Middleland Capital chipped in to the Series A round alongside other investors.Fleksy launched for iOS devices in July 2012, with anAndroid version currently being beta testedby early adopters. The typing app combines a stripped-down virtual keyboard with a predictive-text engine.Its founder and chief operating officer Ioannis Verdelis told The Guardian that the funding will fuel Syntellia's plans to "seriously disrupt the text input space on mobile", including expanding Fleksy's Android beta, and redoubling its efforts on iOS.Android has traditionally been the first port of call for developers of keyboard-replacement apps, because Google allows such apps to replace its default keyboard, while Apple does not.Apps like SwiftKey and Swype have built large userbases on Android, but Fleksy bucked the trend by launching on iOS as a standalone app, capable of pasting text into other applications, as well as posting to Facebook and Twitter.It is a common misconception that a text input company cannot thrive on iOS. The ability to provide keyboard experiences has been there on iOS for quite some time," said Verdelis."We have already agreed partnerships with application developers to bring our technology to the hands of millions of users. We will be the first player to enter and succeed on this platform."Syntellia's first such partnership with a "leading" iOS app developer will go live in the App Store this autumn, according to Verdelis, who added that Fleksy has been downloaded "hundreds of thousands of times" on iOS, while 30,000 people are involved in the Android beta.Highland Capital's investment in Syntellia comes from its recently-launchedLeap Fund: a $25m fund that is investing in companies making applications for the Leap Motion gesture-control for computers, which went on sale in July.That's a hint at Syntellia's ambitions beyond smartphones, with Verdelis saying that the company is already working on deploying its technology to Leap Motion, Google Glass, smart-watches and other wearable gadgets."There is a need for input technologies to fit the needs of these upcoming devices. It is not a coincidence we have the support of Leap Fund in this mission," he said.At one point in its development, Fleksy was intended to be primarily an app for blind and visually-impaired smartphone owners, before Syntellia decided it could benefit other people too."We didn't actually start off looking at accessibility, we started off looking at typing on a smartphone, and whether there was a better way to solve that problem,"Verdelis told The Guardian in August 2012."At a later point, when the prototypes were delivering that, we decided to go after the visually impaired market, where the technology might have the most impact."When it launched in July 2012, Fleksy was a £10.49 download on iOS, but switched to a freemium model in August that year: free to download, with a £2.99 in-app purchase unlocking all its features. In February 2013, it went fully free."We feel that making Fleksy part of the daily lives of many more people will help us continue to showcase how smartphones can be made both more accessible and useful for everyone," explained the company at the time.
Sports Interactive has announced Football Manager 14, the latest addition to the long-running management simulation series. Due out this winter on PC, Mac and Linux, the game will feature "more than 1,000 improvements", including updates to the 3D match engine, tactics and the all-important transfer negotiations.In a first for the series, FM 2014 is set to feature "cloud save", allowing fans to pick up and play a single career from any computer to which they have access. Offices around the world should probably already be taking steps to block it from their work machines. Football Manager is well known for its addictive qualities – a fact currently being celebrated in Tony Jameson's Edinburgh Fringe comedy show, Football Manager Ruined My Life.The title is also supportingSteam Workshop, a selection of tools that enable player-created content for compatible games. FM 2014 owners will be able to edit and supply their own logos and photos as well as set up custom tournaments and in-game challenges.Elsewhere, there are further refinements to the contract and transfer negotiation and media elements. Managers are able to drill right down into player deals, with more complex cash and loan offers, a live transfer system and the ability to loan back transferred players to their old clubs – a feature perhaps inspired by Manchester United's signing of Wilfried Zaha in January, which involved him being lent back to his old club Crystal Palace for the rest of the season. Developer Sports Interactive has also promised to evolve the user interface with new pages for transfers, training and news.Finally, the press release promises that "the language employed throughout the game has also enjoyed a major overhaul and now corresponds more closely to the language of real world football." Fans will no doubt be over the moon.
Rockstar Games has launched a travelogue for the eagerly-anticipated fifth instalment of Grand Theft Auto, released on 17 September. Don't be fooled by the characters front and centre – in GTA the city is always the star. This time around Los Angeles and Southern California are seen through the looking glass of Los Santos &amp; Blaine County. It's a world of failed dreams, squalid politics and oh so many criminal enterprises that need exploring – so let's take a look at what to hit first.1.Los Santos CustomsGTA 5: follows GTA: San Andreas in offering customisation. Photograph: Rockstar GamesGoodbye respray and hello refit! LS Customs lets players pimp out their virtual rides with new wheels, body parts and of course paint jobs. Mounting a pavement full of pedestrians has never look quite so stylish, and the desire to get your money's worth from that shiny new bull bar means you're more focused than ever!2.Bob Mulêt's Hair &amp; Beauty SalonGTA 5: The names are so good that the logo design often doesn't get as much credit as it should. Would you get a haircut from this man? Photograph: Rockstar GamesThere's nothing more gangsta than high-class grooming, and that little accented 'ê' gives it away – step forward GTA's version ofJosê Eber, hairstylist to the stars, a man who will charge you thousands of dollars for a few minutes with his scissors.  Do not miss the travelogue's many customer testimonials, which are GTA at its finest: "There are animals in nature that will increase their size to scare predators. I do the same with my hair. I will drop a fool in a second."3.The Los Santos Learning CentreGTA 5: Thewebsite for the Epsilon Programis brilliant, one of its best features being the multiple donation options. Photograph: Rockstar GamesThis language echoes perfectly Scientology and its Life Improvement Centres, but of course The Los Santos Learning Centre is not at all about fleecing the credulous. Just kidding! GTA 5's resident wingnuts promote the Epsilom Program, a life-altering religious experience that puts you at ease and requires a bare minimum of thought. Rockstar North's most scathing satire is always on the largest targets, and one can only pray those Scientologists notice and tries to sue – we'd soon find out the price of peace of mind.4. Underwater!GTA 5: Scuba diving is definitely on the cards, but I won't be happy until I can nuke Bob Mulêt's Hair & Beauty Salon from beneath the waves. Photograph: Rockstar GamesThe waters around Los Santos host all kinds of flotsam and jetsam, but it's the promise of "submersible equipment" and shipwrecks that really get me wet. One can only hope there's a jack-able nuclear deterrent lurking somewhere in the deep.5. The Great OutdoorsGTA 5: How can you tell that Rockstar North, the genius studio behind Grand Theft Auto, is Scottish? GTA 5's stock market gives the game away: BAWSAQ. Photograph: Rockstar GamesGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas had a particularly special quality – you could get in a car, stick the radio on, and just drive on dirt roads for ages. Rockstar North has never really done that since, but the world of GTA 5 is, we are told, larger than San Andreas, GTA 4's Liberty City and Red Dead Redemption combined. I've put this at 5 because it's not really a destination proper – but the first thing I'll do with GTA 5 is get in a car and drive nowhere in particular for hours. It takes a very special game to make you look forward to that.
Apple's reported acquisition of video discovery startupMatchamay be the latest element in the company's ambitions to disrupt the TV industry as it did the smartphones market.The US startup launched an iPad app in March 2012 to act as a guide to TV shows and films on digital services including iTunes, Netflix, Hulu and Amazon. It shut down with little notice in May 2013.An acquisition by Apple, rather than commercial failure, is thought to be the cause, with VentureBeat reporting thatApple bought Matcha for between $1m and $1.5m.Apple has dead-batted questions about the acquisition with its traditional "Apple buys smaller technology companies from time to time, and we generally do not discuss our purpose or plans" response, but Matcha looks like a good fit for the company's emerging TV business.Apple chief executive Tim Cook said in May that the company had sold 13m of its Apple TV set-top boxes, with around half of those sales coming in the first five months of 2013.Cook had regularly described Apple TV as a "hobby" for the company until late 2012, when he told NBC thattelevision was "an area of intense interest" for Apple, and criticised current TV interfaces as making him "feel like I have gone backwards in time by 20 to 30 years".While analysts and journalists alike continue to speculate that Apple may launch its own television set in the next year or two, Matcha seems an obvious fit for Apple TV in its current form.The set-top box enables users to access TV shows and films from iTunes and Netflix, as well as YouTube, Vimeo, Sky News, Major League Baseball, Wall Street Journal Live, Crunchyroll and Quello. In the US, Hulu Plus and HBO Go are also supported.Matcha's technology could be used as an on-screen way to browse content and get recommendations across these services, and/or be revamped and re-released as an Apple-branded iPad app for controlling Apple TV – similar to the way music-player software SoundJam MP was bought by Apple in 2000 to form the backbone of the company's first iTunes application the following year.In May,Matcha's chief executive Guy Piekarz told TechCrunchthat "the hardest thing, by far, in the new direction we're going was taking down the service, which we've been building for the last couple of years", but promised to " provide something better in the future".All eyes will be on the next version (or perhaps the version after that) of Apple TV's software to see how that "something better" shapes up, as well as on the App Store to see if Matcha reappears in some form for iPad.
The founder of Lavabit, the encrypted email service used by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, has said he's not planning to relaunch it from outside the US."I don't think I can continue to run Lavabit abroad as an American citizen. I would have to move abroad, effectively, to administer the service," said Ladar Levison in aninterview with news site Democracy Now."As an American citizen, I'm still subject to the laws and jurisdiction of the United States, particularly as long as I continue to live here."Levison – accompanied by his lawyer during the video interview – said he is legally unable to talk about the full circumstances of hisdecision to shut down Lavabit, which had 410,000 registered users when it closed last week."I can't talk about that. I would like to, believe me. I think if the American public knew what our government was doing, they wouldn't be allowed to do it any more," said Levison, who described the closure as "the lesser of two evils"."There's information that I can't even share with my lawyer, let alone with the American public. So if we're talking about secrecy, you know, it's really been taken to the extreme," he said."It was a very difficult decision. But I felt that in the end I had to pick between the lesser of two evils and that shutting down the service, if it was no longer secure, was the better option."Lavabit is one of two US-based encrypted email services to have shut down abruptly this month, withSilent Circle also having closed its Silent Mail service"to prevent spying".In his original blog postannouncing the Lavabit shutdown, Levison said his company was already "preparing the paperwork" for a legal challenge in order to "resurrect Lavabit as an American company".In the Democracy Now interview, Levison expresses the desire for the US Congress to "act and change the laws that put me in this circumstance to begin with", warning that the impact will be felt well beyond the encrypted-emails industry."There's a real need in this country to establish what the rights are of our cloud providers, and unless we take actions to ensure that we can continue to operate secure, private services, I think we're going to lose a lot of business over the next few years," he said.Canadian serviceHushmail, Switzerland-basedNeomailboxand Swedish firmCountermailare among the non-US services available as alternatives to Lavabit and Silent Circle.Meanwhile, Mega – the new company of Megaupload founder Kim Dotcom – has said it isworking on secure email and voice servicesin the hope of "making true crypto work for the masses".
Smartphones have outsold more basic handsets worldwide for the first time, with demand for the high-tech devices surging in the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America and eastern Europe.Handset makers sold 435m mobile phones in the second quarter of the year, according to data published by research firm Gartner on Wednesday, with smartphones accounting for 225m of those purchased.With the telephone increasingly replacing laptop and desktop computers as the means by which populations around the world access the internet, sales to end-users of smartphones increased 74% compared to the same period last year in Asia-Pacific, and 56% in Latin America. In eastern Europe, 32% more of the devices were sold."Smartphones accounted for 51.8% of mobile phone sales in the second quarter of 2013, resulting in smartphone sales surpassing feature phone sales for the first time," said Gartner analyst Anshul Gupta.Samsung reinforced its leading position, selling over 71m internet-enabled handsets in the three months to 30 June this year, compared to nearly 56m in the same period last year. Its market share by units sold grew from 30% to nearly 32%. Apple increased sales from 29m to 32m, but its market share fell from 19% to 14%.Lenovo, the Chinese manufacturer best known for making personal computers, made a determined push into mobile by more than doubling its unit sales – from 4m to nearly 11m. This allowed Lenovo to take fourth spot after South Korean rival LG Electronics in the global smartphone vendor rankings.However, Lenovo continues to rely heavily on its home market, with sales in China representing 95% of the total. "It remains challenging for Lenovo to expand outside China as it has to strengthen its direct channel, as well as its relationships with communications service providers," said Gupta.Sony's well received Xperia smartphone range helped the Japanese technology giant sell over 2m more handsets – both smartphones and basic 'feature' phones – than last year, nudging its market in mobiles to 2.2% from 1.7%. Huawei sold 1m more phones, but its all-mobiles market share remained at 2.6%.Nokia retained its position behind Samsung as the second largest manufacturer globally, but its share is now 14%, behind Samsung's nearly 25%.Microsoft has overtaken BlackBerry for the first time among the most popular smartphone operating systems, largely thanks to improved sales of Nokia's Lumia range, which uses the Windows Phone software.Microsoft's market share edged up to 3.3% from 2.6%, and 7.4m handsets were sold, compared to 4m in the same period last year, lifted by a multimillion dollar marketing budget for Nokia's Lumia phones and a wider selection of handsetsNokia has trained its sights on the budget end of the smartphone market, bringing better screens and cameras to lower priced handsets with the Lumia 520 and 720.BlackBerry's high-profile relaunch, with the first devices running on its improved BB10 operating system, failed to halt the company's decline. Its market share fell from 5.2% to 2.7%, and the number of units sold from 8m to just over 6m.Gartner forecasts 1.82bn mobile phones will be sold this year.
BitTorrent may still be a dirty word for many TV industry execs, when they think about the technology used by popular piracy sites to power millions of unlicensed downloads of shows likeBreaking BadandGame of Thrones.BitTorrent the company, though, is keen to be seen as a friendly, legal marketing and distribution partner for show creators and production companies. Witness its latest partnership with US firmConverge Studios, around the pilot for its new show Fly or Die.The show – a scripted drama that "documents the inner workings of the music industry" – is a collaboration between Converge and music producers Rock Mafia, complete with cameos from musicians including Gavin DeGraw, Vanessa Hudgens and Jesse McCartney.BitTorrent is making available a "bundle" of content through its network of 170m monthly active users, offering Fly or Die's trailer and a music video to anyone who downloads it.If they then enter their email address, they'll get more behind-the-scenes videos, but also "an invitation to join the community that will creatively shape the Fly of Die's future: impacting everything from storyline to distribution".It's the latest BitTorrent bundle in the company's scheme to team up with creators from various industries. Previous partners have come from the worlds of music (DJ Shadow, Pixies, Alex Day, Public Enemy), TV and film (Epic Meal Time, Pioneer One, L5) and books (Tim Ferriss' The 4-Hour Chef)."We were working on a project and wanted to go direct-to-fan. We were looking at different ways to make that work; everything from YouTube, to social media, to celebrity channels," explains Converge's chief executive Tim Staples inBitTorrent's blog post announcing the Fly or Die bundle."We came to BitTorrent with a crazy idea – a new way to get content developed and distributed. For us, it was an opportunity to take a great show and test it; to develop iteratively, together with our audience."The BitTorrent bundle scheme is currently in "alpha" with carefully-chosen partners, although the company is planning a wider launch later in the year that will enable more creators to make and launch their own bundles through its network.BitTorrent's vice president of marketing Matt Mason is keen to stress the creator-friendliness of the BitTorrent community: a network not of pirates, but of collaborators."Today's viewer is as much a contributor as a straight-up content consumer. Reddit shapes plot lines. Twitter is a writers' room. American Idols are chosen via text. Youtube is our film school," he writes in the blog post."Is series development something that should be open-sourced? What if you opened up the pilot process to the people of the Internet? What if a TV series started acting like a startup?"It's fair to say many rightsholders – broadcasters, music labels and film studios for example – still struggle to separate BitTorrent (the company) from BitTorrent (the technology).That's why most of the participants on the alpha program have been creators who own the rights to the works being distributed, and are thus free to experiment. For its part, BitTorrent has been sharing stats to show its potential distribution scale.Ferriss' BitTorrent bundle including the first chapter of his ebook wasdownloaded more than 2m times, with more than 880,000 people clicking through to its page on retailer Amazon.Alex Day's bundle  – a mix of older tracks and remixable stems to promote his latest album – has beendownloaded nearly 2.8m times, with 163,000 people clicking through to his iTunes page, and 52,000 visiting his website.For Converge, the Fly or Die BitTorrent bundle is at one level just another way to get eyeballs on the trailer and drum up interest in its new show. It's the email signups and the promise of true participation – if followed through – that makes the partnership interesting."This is television, built for the Internet," claims Mason. At a time when YouTube is sinking $300m into its Original Content initiative, and Netflix and Amazon are both commissioning new scripted dramas, there are opportunities opening up for producers on this front.
20m people in the UK areusing a smartphone or tablet to access Facebook, according to the social network. Now it's working on making it easier for celebrities to follow suit.Facebook is testing new mobile features for its most famous users to check updates and chat to fans, with whatAll Things Digital is describing as a "VIP app"that aims to get stars more engaged with its service."The idea: If a star pushed out a status update to fans that caused a rather large amount of chatter — like, say, Kobe Bryant's late-night torrent of scattered thoughts from a few months ago — the new app would make it easier to see the swirling commentary from fans, and mix it up with them."Facebook hasn't confirmed the exact details, but told journalist Mike Isaac that "we are currently testing some mobile features designed to help public figures interact with their fans", and that "a small group of partners" is currently involved.The tests are part of a wider drive from Facebook to get individual celebrities more involved with fan chatter on the social network, as opposed to just their managers and/or social media teams, who can already use the Facebook Pages mobile app to post and check analytics from their smartphones.It follows the social network's launch in May 2013 of"verified" pages for celebrities and brands, using a similar blue-tick icon to the one Twitter embeds on its notable users' profiles to distinguish high-profile accounts from fakes.Meanwhile, in March 2013, Facebook introduced the ability forpage owners to reply directly to commentsleft by their fans, and then have these conversation threads bubble up to the top of their posts.Both those features hint at Facebook's likely strategy with any new "VIP" app: encouraging more celebrities to interact with their fans on Facebook, rather than merely broadcasting updates at them.This may in turn ensure their updates are seen by more fans. Facebook has been criticised in 2013 by some page owners who've seen the number of views and shares of their posts drop sharply over the last year.In early August,Facebook promised more transparencyabout how it manages its news feed, explaining that every time someone visits Facebook "there are on average 1,500 potential stories from friends, people they follow and Pages for them to see", with Facebook's news feed algorithm currently prioritising around 300 of them every day.The company also announced an update to that algorithm that will see "organic stories that people did not scroll down far enough to see" reappear higher up their news feed "if the stories are still getting lots of likes and comments".The appeal of any app or new mobile features that make it easier for celebrities to pile into their page comments and keep the conversation going should thus be clear.
Half-Life 3 does not officially exist. It could pop up on Steam tomorrow, but at the time of writing it is a ghost. All we can say with certainty is that the sequel to Half-Life 2, Valve's 2004 FPS masterpiece, is the subject of obsessive speculation and internet sleuthing at its 'finest' – a situation that must be looked on with no small amusement, and perhaps some trepidation, from the company's Seattle HQ.It's easy to conclude that this feverish anticipation simply comes down to fandom. After all, gaming at the big-budget end is overwhelmingly a case of sequels and 'known brands' because this is what the mainstream audience responds to – or, as Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter puts it: "The easy answer is that absence makes the heart grow fonder, and it's been so long since HL2 that people have been anticipating HL3 for almost nine years. Valve's successes with Left 4 Dead and Portal remind everyone how great they are. I think it's just a case of a huge fan-base hungry for more."Pachter is a bête noir of the biggest gaming communities for such sane views. But while what he says is undoubtedly true, it doesn't factor in just how weird and huge the anticipation around HL3 is. Last month, the UK magazine PC Gamer mocked up an elevator from Valve HQ on one of its pages – which had, next to Floor 13, a scribbled-over Half-Life 3 sign. As gags go this is pretty mild stuff, but gamers took it so seriously that the publication was forced into the excruciating position of having toexplain a joke.Surgeon Simulator 2013, which is not a simulation, made a Half-Life reference in Korean and found itself at the centre of amedia storm. It had nothing to do with HL3.These are bizarre events, and contain the two staples of HL3 speculation. The first is the complete absence of concrete news. The second is the belief that, somehow, every new 'clue' is linked to an overarching Augmented Reality Game (ARG) that will eventually reveal HL3's existence.Valve's refusal to provide information-on-demand absolutely baffles the internet. Not that it stops things: instead, every site relies on a merry-go-round where no link is too tenuous. Beyond the fact that Valve have an internal email group called 'Half-Life 3', there is not enough evidence on Half Life 3's existence to fill one good article, but it has been the topic of countless thousands and leaves some writers resenting Valve'ssheer effronteryin the face of their desire to know. The game has almost become of secondary importance to confirmation of its existence.We could spend all day combing through six years of HL3, but perhaps what speaks most eloquently to this is the meticulous list of rumours curated by users ofValve's Steam forums. That's the third thread in that time, over 500 pages long, and you could also look at the Neogaf forum or a hundred other gathering points on any given week of the year.PLEASE NOTE: This image is from Half-Life 2 – not the non-existent Half-Life 3. Sorry about that.Just for laughs"Half-Life 3's more internet meme than product," says Tyler Malka, founder of Neogaf. "It's a running joke by both sides, with Valve dropping endless hints and teases, keeping hope alive and fuelling exaggerated responses from fans. As much as Valve co-founder Gabe Newell may sigh every time he's asked about the number three, there's bound to be an evil grin hidden just under the surface."This is true inasmuch as Valve's employees are not immune to teasing the fans – company co-founder Marc Laidlaw isespeciallyexpert. Even those loosely associated, such as Garry Newman – the creator of Garry's mod, one of Steam's most popular mods – join in the fun. Back in January 2012, Newman tweeted a photograph of anHL3 T-shirt, saying "Yay valve sent me a T-shirt", and less than 20 minutes latersaid he was kidding. Too late; the T-shirt has since become a part of countless theories.Many of Half-Life 3's rumours have been started by individuals whose only fault was having too much time on their hands, but as the anticipation levels rise there's a willing audience for those who like to bag a sucker. This ranges fromscam sitesto the endless bogus theories based on thin air and an ARG.Fans persist in their belief the latter is ongoing, thanks to Valve having previously dabbled in such with the Portal series, but even those within the company grow weary of everything being taken as a clue – writer Chet Faliszek made astraight-shootin' postaddressing the most recent: "You are being trolled. There is no ARG […] There has been no directive from Gabe to leak anything. That is all false. I just want to say this so there is no confusion. This is the community trolling the community, nothing more."Will this stop the hype train? Nothing can stop it. The need to believe in Half-Life 3 is so strong that it overrides reason, and Valve has to live with everything they do being taken apart in the hopes of a clue. In the last few weeks areddit threadof photographs from a Valve visit turned out to include one of an employee's screen; which was promptly dissected and turned out to confirm both the development of Left4Dead 3 and the Source 2 engine. The latter's been known about forsome time, and is the most plausible explanation for Half-Life 3's extended development – 'Source 2' will be the studio's third major game engine. And the first two were launched with Half-Life (GoldSrc) and Half-Life 2 (Source) as their showpieces. Or asGabe Newell put it last year: "We've been working on Valve's new engine stuff for a while, we're probably just waiting for a game to roll it out with."Half-Life 3 confirmed! Occam's razor, right? But perhaps of more importance than the engine is Steam: or to be more specific, how Half-Life 2 changed Valve from a gaming company into a gaming and services company. Half-Life 2 was sold exclusively through Steam at launch, and instantly popularised what has since become the de facto standard for PC gaming, an automatically updating and always-online digital store. It changed Valve from a remarkable game developer into something almost equivalent to a platform holder, a benevolent gatekeeper, but a gatekeeper nonetheless. And it has made this private company cosmically, stratospherically rich.Part of that is the licence fees, but also Valve's new approach to making money from its own games – the brilliant Team Fortress 2, for example, switched to a free-to-play business model a few years after release, which resulted in an incredible leap in profits from a dedicated community.This 'Mannconomy' is built almost entirely around selling virtual hats. Because of this success, Dota 2, Valve's newest game, is free-to-play from the off, and will doubtless prove just as lucrative. And this is important because it makes Half-Life's audience uneasy."Millions of people are playing Dota 2, Team Fortress 2, and the various Counter-Strike products, but those games don't fill the Half-Life-shaped void," says NeoGaf owner Tyler Malka. "I don't think it's necessarily about the desire to see episode two's cliffhanger resolved, though that definitely plays its part. Fundamentally, Half-Life 3 would be an assertion that Valve is still a game development studio and not just a service company, that Valve isn't vaccuming up talent from around the globe in order to analyse the best methods for deploying new hats. There's something to be said for a game that is the realisation of authorial vision, rather than a clever means to trojan horse long-term monetisation schemes."More disappointment … this is also from Half-Life 2. Pretty though, isn't it?We want to believePerhaps the real question isn't why Half-Life 3, but why Valve? Not because of the long list of platitudes you could throw at them – but at the fact people have such faith, and so nakedly bind their hopes to a company at all. The more you think about various perceptions of Valve, the more you come to see them as a kind of totem pole for PC gamers. It is with no small amount of humour that those awaiting Half-Life 3 echo the old X-Files slogan: "I want to believe." But it's still telling.PC gamers are a diaspora of course, not all of whom are obsessed with the G-Man, but Valve represents something important and fundamental to a huge cross-section of these communities.The PC gaming ecosystem should really have been nurtured, and in a business sense owned, by Microsoft. But that company has proven itself comically incapable of doing so, and ironically its gaming future now lies with Xbox. Perhaps gaming's most interesting alternate timeline is the one where Newell doesn't leave Microsoft in 1996 – though it's an unworkable fantasy because, in most of the ways that matter, he helped build the anti-Microsoft.This is crucial in understanding what Valve represents. The company has made wildly unpopular moves in the past – Half-Life 2's release being bound-up with Steam was one of them. But when everyone else saw the future of gaming in consoles, Valve doubled-down on the PC as a platform; not just creating one of the best games of all time, but unifying the whole business of buying and releasing and patching the things at the same time. There can be grumbles about aspects of Steam's functionality, but it was, and continues to be, a revolutionary creation.In some ways those awaiting Half-Life 3 want lightning to strike twice – that same sense of impact, at least. "Speculation runs the gamut," says Malka. "I'd like to see Valve integrate both the gravity gun and the portal gun, and also throw in a trans-dimensional layer reminiscent of Bioshock Infinite on top. Go wild. Inspire us. We don't need any more tightly scripted cinematic hallway shooters." This is a routine level of expectation. If Valve listened too much to the hopes and dreams of its audience, it might go crazy.Gaming communities are tribal, and Half-Life 3 is their favourite fetish. Who knows what the thing itself will turn out as? The only thing you can say for sure is that, even if Valve produce the greatest piece of software in history, it will be met with a crazed wall of intensity followed by ever-building disappointment.I remember listening to Smile, the long-lost Beach Boys album designed to topple Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Heart Club Band, and finally released in 2011. Pretty great, but of course a disappointment because of my unreasonable expectations. What creator would deal with such an audience? No such drama, we assume, lies behind the development of Half-Life 3 – though one day the object of such feverish lust will have to be exposed. I want to believe. But I'm preparing for unforeseen consequences.
Android gaming has been one of the slow-burning apps trends of 2013. There have always been good games available for Google-powered smartphones and tablets, but it's the increase in the quantity of quality titles that's been significant this year.Yes, Apple's iOS still gets a fair few games first and/or exclusively, but Android is noticeably higher in many developers and publishers' priorities, leaving the virtual shelves of Google Play and Amazon Appstore well stocked.Here's a reminder of some of the best Android games released in 2013 so far, which will hopefully provide a few download ideas for veteran Android gamers and newcomers to the platform alike, whatever your gaming tastes, drawn from The Guardian's weekly best Android apps roundups.All prices are correct at the time of writing, and bear in mind that (Free) almost invariably means (Freemium), so expect in-app purchases.Rymdkapsel (£3.29)There's something rather marvellous about Rymdkapsel: an addictive, accessible game that offers a twist on the real-time strategy genre. The emphasis is on building a space-base through Tetris-like block-placement, while fending off waves of enemies. It's simple in all the best ways.Real Racing 3 (Free)EA's racing threequel was controversial due to being the first freemium game in the much-loved series – free to play, but you pay to speed up repairs and unlock new cars faster. The game sees you racing more than 45 cars over 900 events, upgrading as you go. The graphics are spiffing, the handling works beautifully, and updates have provided extra content since its release.Bejeweled Blitz (Free)Another freemium game from EA, but this time one offering match-three puzzling based on the famous Bejeweled brand. This re-engineers the game as a series of 60-second rounds where you have to score as many points as possible, using power-ups to bump up your performance, and comparing your efforts to friends.Tiny Thief (£1.99)Tiny Thief was the latest game from Rovio Stars, a new publishing business that's part of Angry Birds-maker Rovio. No birds or pigs here, though: it's inspired by classic point'n'click adventure games, with the teeny-burglar hero exploring six quests to uncover delightful puzzles and surprises.The Room (£1.49)Atmospheric puzzler The Room has been taxing brains on iOS and Android alike, getting you to explore a carefully-crafted 3D room solving puzzles. Everything's designed around touchscreen controls, and the puzzles themselves are genuinely brain-frazzling, providing a decent challenge.Nimble Quest (Free)Having made its name with Tiny Tower and Pocket Planes, Nimblebit's latest freemium game was more of an action title, blending Snake gameplay with RPG-style characters and upgrades. You swipe your party of heroes to guide them through levels of increasing difficulty. It's very one-more-go-even-though-it's-2am addictive.Temple Run 2 (Free)Endless runner Temple Run has been a massive hit on smartphones of all stripes, and its sequel added new features without spoiling the basic premise: swiping to jump, slide and turn your way through scenery to escape an angry, giant monkey. A recent update added sprinter Usain Bolt as a playable character, too.Crazy Taxi (£4.02)Sega's Crazy Taxi has thrilled as an arcade game, a console game and now a mobile title too. The game – a port of the Dreamcast console version – sees you speeding through San Francisco-esque streets collecting and delivering passengers in the most hair-raising way possible, with two modes and a bunch of mini-games to prolong the action.Galaxy on Fire 2 HD (Free)Fishlabs' Galaxy on Fire space epics have always been reliable sources of mobile entertainment, and the latest installation is no different. It sees you shooting and trading your way across the galaxy, with more than 10 hours in its main campaign mode, and additional quests unlocked through in-app purchases.The Simpsons: Tapped Out (Free)This is now one of publisher EA's most successful game franchises on any device, putting you in charge of rebuilding Springfield after a nuclear meltdown. There are appearances from all the TV show's main characters, with in-app purchases used for virtual donuts to aid your progress.HundredsHundreds (£3.25)Circular puzzle game Hundreds sees you tapping on circles in each level to make them (and the numbers inside them) bigger – adding at least 100 points overall without them touching. Which sounds slightly tortuous written down, but the game's genius is its stripped-down simplicity, wedded to stylish visuals and fearsome addictiveness-factor.Where's My Mickey? (£0.64)Disney had a big hit with its Where's My Water? and Where's My Perry physics-puzzle games, before applying the formula to Mickey Mouse. The game sees Mickey collecting water over more than 100 levels split into five episodes, with more available as in-app purchases.Spelltower (£1.32)Word game Spelltower involves swiping tiles of letters to make words as they rise from the bottom of the screen, a bit like Boggle meets reverse-Tetris (I said a bit). Five modes offer depth, and the gameplay is very moreish indeed.Blip Blup (Free)Blip Blup is a hypnotically-addictive puzzle game from UK studio ustwo, which gets you tapping to fill a screen-full of tiles with colour. The complication being walls and obstacles that get in the way of your colour-pulse's path. There are more than 120 levels to work through, with an in-app purchase used to remove the game's advertisements.Fieldrunners 2 (£2.01)The original Fieldrunners remains one of the best tower-defence games for mobile devices, and its sequel adds plenty of new features. If you're new to the genre, it involves placing towers to fend off increasingly tough hordes of enemies, building mazes to contain and destroy the marching troops before they reach your base.CSR Racing (Free)Freemium drag-racing game CSR Racing was one of the biggest iOS hits of 2012, but its Android version has been justifiably popular this year. The game sees you buying, upgrading and racing a range of cars from Audi, BMW and other manufacturers, with an emphasis on customisation – and in-app purchases used to fund the action.Cut the Rope: Time Travel (£0.62)Cutesy monster Om Nom appeared in this, his third Cut the Rope game for Android. This time round, there's a time-travelling theme as he tries to feed sweets to his ancestors. The gameplay remains cutting ropes to solve physics-puzzles across six locations, although this time there are two on-screen monsters to feed, not one.Sine Mora (£3.99)This visually-impressive shoot 'em up won bags of critical acclaim on console before its Android debut. It's a horizontally-scrolling game whose graphics would blow you away, if there weren't lots of enemies trying to do exactly that. It also does a good job of catering to more casual shmup players while a well-tuned scoring system gives experts a lasting challenge.Despicable Me: Minion Rush (Free)Gameloft's official endless-runner game for the Despicable Me movies has been (apologies for this) a runaway success. It puts you in the shoes of a scampering minion for this Temple Run-style game, leaping, sliding and dodging obstacles and enemies, while earning (or buying) power-ups and costumes to boost your chances.Super Hexagon (£1.99)I remain dreadful at Super Hexagon, spending most of my time with the game fighting the urge to throw my phone through the nearest window in frustration at my ineptitude. This is precisely why a fervent fanbase of hardcore gamers love it: a "minimal action" game that demands fast fingers and razor-sharp thinking.Ravensword: ShadowlandsRavensword: Shadowlands (£4.63)Crescent Moon Games has won plenty of fans for its Ravensword RPG games, which are one of the franchises aiming to provide Skyrim-style open-world thrills on mobile devices. The latest sees you exploring a vast fantasy world, fighting and questing as you go.Dropchord (£1.93)The heyday of Guitar Hero and Rock Band may have faded on console, but mobile is seeing a resurgence in innovative music games. Dropchord is the work of Double Fine Productions (of Kickstarter fame) that sees you manipulating an on-screen laser beam while dodging scratches and collecting notes. Neon-tastic visuals and a 10-track electronica soundtrack add to the fun.Tetris Blitz (Free)The huge popularity of Bejeweled Blitz persuaded EA to try the freemium formula for the most famous puzzle game of all: Tetris. The Blitz element means two-minute sessions to score as many points as possible, boosted by power-ups, while competing against Facebook friends' performances.Pixel Defenders Puzzle (£1.39)As someone with a long-term Triple Town habit who's also played an RPG or 17, I fell hard for Pixel Defenders Puzzle. It involves matching pixels and characters to make more-powerful characters, who then attack enemies at the top of the screen. Basically it's Triple Town (also amazing, but released before this year so not in this roundup) with extra fighting, and a fantasy-RPG theme.Diner Dash (Free)Billed as "the world's #1 hit time management game", Diner Dash took its time to come to Android, but was worth the wait. The game involves seating, serving and saying tara to diners as efficiently as possible to collect tips. It's a freemium game, so in-app purchases are used for boosts and upgrades.1941 Frozen Front (Free)This excellent strategy game from publisher HandyGames is set on the eastern front of the second world war, letting you play as either the German or Russian forces. It's a turn-based wargame with infantry, tanks and bombers to command, with pass-the-device multiplayer supported as well as a campaign mode.Ionage (Free)Ionage is a real-time strategy (RTS) game set in space "where you use giant floating space platforms to do battle in a steampunk themed story of galactic conquest". It's also exclusive to Android, and while it plays nicest on tablets, developer Twice Circled claims it's been "resourcefully optimised" for smartphones too.Real Boxing (£0.99)Great boxing games are few and far between on console, let alone mobile. Real Boxing was a palpable hit, though, with its 30-fight career mode, 20 beefy boxers to duff up, and very impressive graphics – particularly if your device is packing a Tegra 3 processor.Pac-Man +Tournaments (Free)The freemium bug is infecting the most famous of game characters, as shown by Namco Bandai's reboot of Pac-Man earlier this year. It mixes the original arcade game with a new Tournament mode with online leaderboards. In-app purchases are used to buy virtual tokens to play the weekly tournaments, but if you're not fussed about those, you can play for free.Toy Story: Smash It! (£0.64)If Angry Birds went 3D, with the birds replaced by Buzz Lightyear and the pigs replaced by aliens, it might look like Toy Story: Smash It. Disney's game makes for colourful knock'em down fun as you scoot around 60 levels chucking balls at the aliens' defences. In theory, it's for children. In reality, parents won't be able to resist sneaking a go.Punch QuestPunch Quest (£0.63)Punch Quest is the first game (to my knowledge) that lists one of its key features as the ability to "punch an egg that turns you into a magical gnome". It's a quirky, creative action game with a stripped-down control system that works perfectly on touchscreens.My Muppets Show (Free)It's time to play the music... This game from Disney turns the Muppets into a free-to-play resource management game, with a musical twist. It involves recruiting a house band from more than 20 Muppets, then keeping them happy and levelling up their skills to make beautiful music. Optional in-app purchases of virtual diamonds help to keep things swinging.Tekken Card Tournament (Free)And another freemium revamp for a much-loved brand, with beat 'em up franchise Tekken transforming into a card-battler game. You build a deck of moves, then battle virtual and real opponents – with a range of real-world collectible cards due to join the fun too.Mushihimesama Bug Panic (£2.99)This is an old favourite from Japanese developer Cave, with bullets flying all over the shop, a punishing-yet-rewarding difficulty curve, and three control systems to suit your playing style. As shoot 'em ups go, it's one of the toughest for casual players, but rewarding nonetheless.Ninja Village (£2.99)If you're looking for time-sucking addictive games on Android, anything by Japanese developer Kairosoft is a good bet. This game sees you building a ninja clan and sending them into battle, while also building their village into a prosperous settlement.Deep Dungeons of Doom (Free)This pixelly-retro action game was one of the launch titles on the Android-based Ouya console, and has also been making friends on iOS. The Android version is very fun indeed, getting you to plunge down dungeons fighting and looting in a touchscreen-friendly format.Sonic The Hedgehog (£2.36)Sega is certainly cashing in on its fleet-footed blue hedgehog: the original Sonic game follows two episodes of Sonic 4, Sonic CD and Sonic Jump onto Android. The famous Mega Drive game has been accurately ported across, with extra Tails &amp; Knuckles, a remastered soundtrack and a new Time Attack mode.Kingdom Rush (£1.30)There are lots of tower defence games on Android, but Kingdom Rush more than holds its own in the crowd though. The game has a fantasy setting, all orcs, elves and wizards. You'll be protecting your kingdom against more than 50 enemies, with all manner of upgrades and abilities to fuel your strategy.Gentlemen! (£1.99)Described as a "Victorian era head-to-head arcade battle for tablets", this two-player game sees your dapper duellists hurling knives, bombs and even homing pigeons at one another in a fight to the death. One of the best share-the-device multiplayer games on Android.Pet Rescue Saga (Free)People are playing Candy Crush Saga (also out before 2013) in their tens of millions, and while this follow-up hasn't yet reached those heights, it's well worth a look. Synchronising with the existing Facebook version of the game, this offers 72 levels of block-puzzling action – with cutesy animals and social leaderboards thrown in.Dungeon Hunter 4 (Free)Gameloft's dungeon-crawling adventure is back for its fourth iteration, and like the third instalment, this is freemium. Expect more fantasy-themed hacking and slashing, as you wander through sprawling underground environments laying waste to enemies.Into the Dead (Free)Into the Dead is yet another zombie apocalypse game – Android is flush with these – but one with plenty of creativity and originality at work as you fend off the shambling undead. A cross between an endless runner and a first-person shooter, with plenty of charm.The Sandbox (Free)The Sandbox is one of a clutch of pixel-art creation-games to have appeared this year, inspired by Minecraft but with an emphasis on 2D worlds rather than 3D. The game offers 71 levels to work through, as you trigger chemical reactions, generate lifeforms and try to build the Pyramids.Brave Heroes (Free)This colourful action-RPG sees you putting together a team of heroes, carefully balancing their skills and devising tactics to fend off foes, levelling up as you go. Released by Korean firm Com2uS, it's got plenty to love for Western gamers as well as players in its home country.Frozen SynapseFrozen Synapse (£2.50)If you like a real challenge with your games, then Frozen Synapse is £2.50 well spent this week. It's a turn-based strategy game originally released for computers, as you guide your squad through a succession of levels. 55 missions to play by yourself plus five multiplayer modes make this a treat.Angry Birds Friends (Free)Angry Birds Friends isn't a new game, as such: it's been available to play on Facebook for some time. Both that and the mobile game give Angry Birds a social refit so that you're competing in weekly tournaments against your Facebook friends. Bragging and gifting is built in, as are in-app purchases.Might &amp; Magic Clash of Heroes (£2.99)This game may come from a well-established RPG game franchise, but its Clash of Heroes incarnation is a more modern beast: a puzzle-RPG. That means you'll be battling monsters and looting dungeons, but with the battles built around match-three puzzling. Publisher Ubisoft promises more than 20 hours in its campaign mode, plus multiplayer modes to challenge friends.Chuck's Challenge 3D (Free)Chuck's Challenge comes from the same brains that invented popular puzzler Chip's Challenge. That means 125 levels to find your way through, overcoming obstacles and solving puzzles as you go. The game also includes a level creator to make your own and share them with other players – or just browse and play what the community has been creating.Magic 2014 (Free)Trading card game Magic: The Gathering continues to have a large and devoted fanbase. They'll be the people excited about this latest digital version, updated for 2014 with new cards, opponents and campaign levels to test your skills. As a free download, the game comes with three decks with five unlockable cards each, but more decks, cards and content can be bought via in-app purchase.Plants War (Free)Finally, another engrossing game from South Korea, this time from publisher Gamevil. It's a game based around plants defending their forest home from invading beasts. Which might sound a bit like Plants vs Zombies, but instead this is a meaty real-time strategy game with depth in (again, sorry) spades.Now it's your turn: Cross at your favourite games being left out, or want to explain why one or more of the ones included are essential downloads? Please do pitch in with a comment.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSilicon Valley's secret, failed bid to save BlackBerry &gt;&gt; The VergeYesterday, entrepreneur and angel investor Robin Chan posted a slide deck for "Project BBX," a now-abandoned plan to turn around the company with a small product and engineering team. With BlackBerry now officially exploring a sale, Chan's plan offers a glimpse of what BlackBerry might have become -- a purely business-focused company with no BlackBerry 10, fewer devices, and no reason to hire Alicia Keys as a creative director.Bloombergalso reported earlier that a buyer had been sought for Blackberry since 2012, and then there'sthe new 9720 model- clearly the press team thought it may as well plough ahead anyway...Facebook testing VIP app with celebrities &gt;&gt; AllThingsDTwitter's done well giving celebrities privileges on its service and now Facebook wants a piece of the red carpet action. Cue niche app:Facebook is to some degree playing catch-up in this area on the consumer side. The company released a number of Twitter-esque features over the past few months -- Hashtags, Trending Topics, Embedded Posts -- in an attempt to surface more public-facing Facebook activity.BitTorrent begins legally distributing TV shows &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyBitTorrent, which has been aggressively courting Hollywood and the music industry despite (or, let's face it, because) of its associations with piracy, is entering into the television program distribution business. Fly or Die, which launched today, is the first television show to use BitTorrent's bundle tech, which gives creators detailed metrics on exactly who's watching or listening to their content--and also gives BitTorrent an easy way to generate future revenue through paid products analytics.Carl Icahn makes a large investment in Apple &gt;&gt; AllThingsDInfamous investor Carl Icahn pushed Apple's share price up $17 on 13 August to $484. That's against a background of a 12% drop this year and a chunk less than the all time high of $700.09 in 2012.The billionaire activist investor trying to take over Dell, has made a large investment in company behind the iPhone and the Mac. Icahn announced via Twitter that he has made a "large position" in Apple and thinks it is "extremely undervalued." He didn't disclose how large his position in Apple is nor what he thinks the company is actually worth. Presumably that information will come to light in regulatory filings.How the Xbox One controller has changed &gt;&gt; KotakuFor more than two years, 105 people at Microsoft have been trying to improve the video game controller. The results go on sale this fall in the form of the Xbox One's gamepad. The new controller sports changes big and small--but, thankfully, it won't emit smells. Yes, they actually tried that.Amazon initiates TOTAL MOBILE DOMINANCE cloud strategy &gt;&gt; The RegisterUpgrades to the Amazon Web Services cloud's Simple Notification Service (SNS) were announced on Tuesday and see Amazon give developers a method for sending push notifications to a variety of mobile devices through one, unified API. This tightens competition with Microsoft, which already had a similar service in place, and puts both companies ahead of Google's cloud, which is for now Android-only.Larry Ellison: Google is evil but the NSA is essential &gt;&gt; The RegisterOracle CEO Larry Ellison has nothing but praise for the US National Security Agency's domestic surveillance programs, but he's far less kind when it comes to Google - and in particular its CEO, Larry Page, whose behavior he describes as "evil." "I know his slogan is 'don't be evil,'" Ellison told correspondent Charlie Rose... By "this one time," Ellison meant Google's decision to use Oracle's Java language and tools as the development platform for its Android smartphone OS, which has been the subject of an ongoing court battle between the two companies.Could Google Glass track your emotional response to ads? &gt;&gt; Fast Company | Business + InnovationGoogle Glass could get a lot creepier if the company's latest patent is any indication. Published Tuesday by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, a gaze-tracking system proposed by the Mountain View, Calif.-based search giant could monitor the pupils of those wearing a head-mounted device to infer emotion and track what advertisements they're looking at. In short: Google sees all.Troubled Zynga restructures - three execs step down &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIn one of the first major acts under newly named CEO Don Mattrick, sources said Zynga plans to announce on Tuesday a shake-up of its top ranks as part of a larger management restructuring, resulting in the departure of three C-level executives. Chief operating officer David Ko, chief people officer Colleen McCreary and chief technology officer Cadir Lee will step down from their positions and leave the company as a result, according to sources.Twitter University: Building a world-class engineering organization &gt;&gt; Twitter BlogTwitter has bought an open source training company called Marakana.As Twitter has scaled, so too has our engineering organization. To help our engineers grow, it's important for them to have access to world-class technical training, along with opportunities to teach the skills they've mastered. To that end, we're establishing Twitter University.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Facebook is undergoing a mobile revolution with four out of five of the 24 million Britons who log on each day using a smartphone or tablet computer to sate their social appetite.More than a third of the UK population now visit the site every day, and of the daily users some 20 million – 83% – use a smartphone or tablet to check updates on Facebook.Facebook released its number of daily users in the UK for the first time on Wednesday, in part tocombat data showingthat its growth has reached saturation point. "It's to make clear our audience is growing both in size and engagement," said James Quarles, Facebook's regional director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.However, the social network declined to release up to date figures on monthly users. Facebook's monthly active users stood at 33m in December, and a spokesman said that no new number was available.Facebook also declined to publish the number of daily users for prior periods, so it is not clear how fast daily engagement is increasing.Quarles said the UK was leading a "massive shift to mobile" among its 1.1 billion registered global users."People start the day with Facebook and especially in the UK, which is a very big mobile market, there is a very high percentage of people signing in on smartphones," he said.Facebook released its number of daily users in the UK for the first time on Wednesday, in part to combat suggestions that its growth has reached saturation point.The social network has dismissedreports of a drop in visitorsas "unrepresentative" and said that mobile usage of Facebook in the UK had grown 20% compared with last year. "It's to make clear our audience is growing both in size and engagement," said Quarles.The social network is also beginning to emphasise users' mobile engagement in a bid to drive advertising to people's handsets. Mobile usage of Facebook in the UK has grown 20% compared with last year.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has pinned the site's future prospects on its ability to capitalise on the rapid shift to mobile – and this year the focus appears to have started to pay off.Revenue from mobile now makes up 41% of its total $1.6bn second-quarter advertising revenue, compared with just 3% in the same quarter of 2012, according to the company's latest financial results released earlier this month.Quarles compared Facebook's mobile reach of 20 million daily mobile users to television juggernauts such as The X Factor, which made over £100m for ITV at its audience peak in 2010."If you think about tentpole television events like Britain's Got Talent or The X Factor, 20 million available throughout Facebook daily is double what that audience would be," he said."We want to reflect to marketers that mobile is now a big part of the first screen. We have absolutely seen significant demand for it and as they consider places to follow time spent, the graduation to mobile is increasingly going to happen."Facebook's December number of 33 million users in the UK dwarfs the latest figure reported by rival social networks such as Twitter, which said it had 10 million registered users in the UK last December, and eBay's 14 million active users.• This story has been updated to reflect new information on the time period covered by Facebook's mobile data.
The billionaire investor Carl Icahn revealed on Tuesday that he has taken a "large position" in Apple. The 77-year-old is known for his often contentious battles with big companies, but so far relations with Apple boss Tim Cook appear cordial."We currently have a large position in Apple. We believe the company to be extremely undervalued. Spoke to Tim Cook today. More to come," Icahn said, via Twitter.Icahn appears to be pressing Apple for a larger share buy back from the tech giant. He did not immediately reveal the size of the holding and as yet it does not appear to have been disclosed in any regulatory filing. After the news, Apple's shares hit a six-month high of $494.66.In a statement, Apple said: "We appreciate the interest and investment of all our shareholders. Tim had a very positive conversation with Mr Icahn today."Icahn's investment comes months after the company got into a public fight with another investor,David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital. Apple has close to $147bn in cash and other short-term investments and Einhorn sued the company, demanding it give more money back to investors.In April, Apple mollified Einhorn and other investors by announcing plans to hand $100bn to shareholders. The company said the move marked the largest single share repurchase authorization in history. It is expected to be executed by the end of the calendar year 2015.While Apple is sitting on a huge cash pile, only $40bn of that money is in the US and Cook has argued US tax law makes it prohibitively expensive to repatriate the cash.Apple is not the only tech firm in Icahn's sights. On Friday, he will go to court to attempt to block Michael Dell's plans to take private the eponymous computer firm he founded. Icahn is trying to head off a shareholder vote on the $24.9bn takeover by Dell and Silver Lake Management which is set for 12 September.In the past, Icahn has clashed with management at companies including Yahoo, Time Warner and BlockBuster.
Only two years ago, the BlackBerry was a communication device so powerful it was credited with enabling a revolution in Egypt. During the riots that engulfed London in the summer of 2011, politicians called for the BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) service to be switched off. But today, users are pulling the plug.BlackBerry's global market share has collapsed from around 50% in 2009 to less than 3% today. At its peak in 2008, the company that invented the smartphone by creating machines that could serve up emails on the go, had a stockmarket value of $55bn. Today, it is worth just $6bn.While a hard core of older corporate users still prefer its physical keyboard to the touch screens of the typical modern smartphone, the once noisy BBM grapevine is falling silent as younger customers switch to other handsets."BBM is dead ..." writes teenager James Gooderson – on Twitter. "The last broadcast I had was about 14 months ago … The survivors? … Yes there are some ... we're only a shell of what we were ..."Gooderson blames BlackBerry's failure on the lack of apps, the collections of programmes that serve up everything from ebay's auction platform to computer games and weather forecasts.Today's smartphones are pocket computers from which to access the wider web, and . Without what the industry calls a healthy ecosystem, no smartphone interface can survive.For several years following Apple's invention of the iPhone in 2007, BlackBerry executives continued to believe the consumer research that told them nobody wanted phones with no keyboard, battery life of &nbsp;less than a day, and screens&nbsp;that broke on impact with the ground.The older generation of BlackBerrys could read email, but click on a web link and they crashed. Beyond sending and receiving messages, they were of limited use.Eventually, an investor rebellion at BlackBerry saw founder Mike Lazaridis and co-chief executive Jim Balsillie moved aside, and Thorsten Heins promoted from within.&nbsp;Instead of adopting Google's Android platform, already popular with millions of consumers, Heins spent a year developing BlackBerry 10, a new interface that couldto deliver all the web had to offer.Founded by Lazaridis in 1984 in the Canadian town of Waterloo, Ontario, BlackBerry had made pagers before it worked out how to link mobile phones to email servers. With one successful reinvention under its belt, BlackBerry believed it could deliver another.The first device using BB10,&nbsp;a touch-screen handset called the Z10, arrived in January, shortly followed by a version with a physical keyboard, the Q10. But despite ebullient roadshows and generous financial incentives to encourage developers to create apps for the new platform, its ecosystem was&nbsp;far from thriving. Spotify, Tumblr, the Temple Run and Candy Crush games are just some of the notable missing titles and several high-profile games were missing. By June, it became apparent that the relaunch was losing momentum. BlackBerry announced to investors that it had shifted just 6.8m of the new-generation devices, a fraction of those shipped during the same period by Apple and Samsung.On Monday, the company formed a special committee to consider all options, including a sale or break-up of the business. Prem Watsa, whose investment fund Fairfax Financial owns a 10% stake, resigned from the board citing conflict of interest. He is now considered a likely candidate to organise a private-equity buyout.Microsoft, Samsung and Dell have all been mentioned as potential buyers. Chinese computer maker Lenovo has already expressed an interest, but it is likely BlackBerry could lose its lucrative US government contracts given fears about Chinese sponsored cyber-spying.Benedict Evans at Enders Analysis believes a sale to another manufacturer is the least likely outcome, and that a break up would generate most value. BlackBerry's patents could be auctioned, while its messaging services could be sold to IBM, Hewlett-Packard or the outsourcing group Accenture. "BlackBerry just makes phones no one wants," says Evans. "I can't see any handset maker who could buy BlackBerry wanting anything that they've got."
The investment tycoon known as Canada's Warren Buffett is emerging as one of the leading bidders for BlackBerry, as analysts point to the likelihood of a private equity buyout for the beleaguered smartphone maker.Prem Watsa, the boss of Toronto-based Fairfax Financial Holdings, resigned from BlackBerry's board on Monday, just seven months after joining, and is now expected to try to orchestrate the company's stockmarket exit.Having spent an estimated $880m (£570m) buying nearly 10% of BlackBerry's shares at an average price of $17, the 61-year-old is the company's largest shareholder and he is sitting on a potential $270m loss.But the Indian-born chemical engineer has made his fortune from championing apparently lost causes, having left his home for Canada with $8 to his name. Fairfax was one of a small group of institutions that bought a 35% stake in Bank of Ireland from the Irish government during the height of the eurozone crisis, and has earned a positive return on its investment. Now Watsa is betting on a Greek recovery, declaring recently that "a bottom has been reached" in the decline of the European Union's most troubled economy.He was an early sceptic on the US property market, predicting the sub-prime housing collapse years before it happened, and used the proceeds of that bet to invest in the shares well before their recent rebound.Watsa's investment nous means his firm's stockmarket value of $8.3bn is now greater than BlackBerry's, which has crashed from a pre-credit crunch height of $55bn to $6bn today."Hearing the announcement from BlackBerry accompanied by Prem's departure from the board should indicate something will happen this time on the strategic front," said Todd Johnson, a portfolio manager at Winnipeg-based BCV Financial, which owns Fairfax debt. "We have a lot of respect for the investment acumen and long-term track record Prem Watsa has established at Fairfax."Industry watchers think a sale to another handset maker or technology company is unlikely. Despite the company's determination to reinvent itself under chief executive Thorsten Heins, observers say a trade bid would have emerged by now if rivals were truly interested in the wake of the sidelining of founder Mike Lazaridis and his business partner Jim Balsillie 18 months ago.Watsa's move is therefore being seen as the first tangible sign of a financial solution to BlackBerry's woes. "We believe Fairfax along with other Canadian pension funds and banks are considering taking BlackBerry private," said Peter Misek, an analyst at Jefferies bank.On Friday, Mark Wiseman, the chief executive of the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, a BlackBerry shareholder, expressed support in a Bloomberg interview. "It's safe to say that any large deal in Canada or elsewhere is something that we would make sure we took a hard look at," Wiseman said when asked about BlackBerry.Wiseman's fund holds 0.2% of BlackBerry shares. Should other home grown pension investors chose to throw in their lot with Fairfax, between them they would control 17% of shares, according to Misek."To have Prem Watsa resign from the board is a very positive thing because it would give him the freedom to pull together a club deal," said Vic Alboini, an activist investor in BlackBerry via his fund Jaguar Financial, who is hoping for a sale at $15 a share.Watsa is no corporate raider. He is a chancellor of the University of Waterloo, like Lazaridis before him, and has described BlackBerry's founder as a "good friend". Both men are known to want to protect the technology community that has grown up in Waterloo around BlackBerry.Seeking to reassure clients over the investment in a company that has seen its global smartphone market share shrink to 3%, Watsa explained his thinking in his letter to shareholders this year.Among its virtues, he listed the brand name, BlackBerry's respected security system, a "huge" patent portfolio, a subscriber base now numbered at 76m, and almost exclusive usage by governments in Canada, the US and the UK. Attributes which Watsa said made BlackBerry "Canada's greatest technology company".Watsa has taken wrong turns in the past, most notably over media company Canwest, which eventually filed for bankruptcy. But his shares in Bank of Ireland, bought in 2011, have already delivered a handsome return.
This time last year I ran into the sea in my shorts. I saved my daughter from drowning but killed the BlackBerry in my pocket. It was the end of an era. No longer would I yearn for toddler's fingers to type emails effectively on the BlackBerry Curve's functionally laughable keypad.Phoneless in Devon, I consoled myself by realising that the must-have smartphone of the previous decade had become passé. I read anarticleentitled "10 celebrities who still use BlackBerrys" – that "still" encoding the sneer of someone who understands which phone the right-thinking hipster should fetishise and which should be consigned to the bargain bin of history."BlackBerrys haven't been hot since the first time [Lindsay] Lohan went to jail," it said. Which in celebrity years is, like, before dinosaurs. Who else remained faithful to this loser device? Kim Kardashian, Paris Hilton, Justin Timberlake, Cristiano Ronaldo? Sheez. No wonder the BlackBerry stopped being a CrackBerry and became a LackBerry, a SlackBerry, a WhackBerry.No wonder either that this weekBlackBerry is begging someone to buy up the company, revolutionise its business model and thereby elude its manifest destiny of joining Rumbelows, Comet, Woolworths, HMV, (to name only recent British retailing loser brands) as a fitting subject only for lame consumerist nostalgia.Like Nokia, the Finnish company that practically invented texting (legend has it this was because Finnish geeks, God love them, were too shy to ask for dates face to face and so invented SMS to overcome their SPDs, ie socio-psychic deficiencies), BlackBerry had its years of phone-based cachet. But they are over. My BlackBerry, once the spinning jenny to my Nokia's hand loom, that made all previous phones seem stupid, had become obsolete.Nowadays even Barack Obama, the last BlackBerry user whom intelligent hipsters might admire, reportedly deploys iPads for security briefings. Today when Sasha and Malia send iPhone pictures of themselves to their oldster pop, they no doubt wonder if his phone can display their images properly (probably not: BlackBerry camera functionality has always sucked).Ah, I thought nostalgically as I sat on the beach in damp shorts, remember when the BlackBerry was the last word? In the early 00s, the New York Times outedAl Gore, Michael Dell and Bill Gatesas BlackBerry users suggesting: "BlackBerry is the choice of a hi-tech and financial elite."Remember too whenJack Bauer tapped at his BlackBerryand detonated a terrorist's vest bomb on 24? False memory syndrome: it wasn't a BlackBerry but a Palm Treo with which Jack took out the terroristic trash. But it looked a lot like a BlackBerry (right down to the bodger-confounding keypad), hence my confusion. But Jack was just the kind of guy who should have been a BlackBerry user: he was butch, connected (to Chloe at CTU) and working (albeit in a rogue capacity) for the government.Bauer and BlackBerry once made history; now they were history. It was time, I realised, as the sea claimed my communication device, to move on. Or was it? Wasn't the very fact thatthe London riots of the previous summer had been catalysed by BBM(BlackBerry Messenger) indicative of the fact that the BlackBerry was enjoying a funky, antinomian afterlife as the authentic rebel's go-to smartphone? Maybe.The BlackBerry had become the rioters' communication tool only because it had lost its lustre among the business demographic for which it was devised and become as cheap as the pay-as-you-goburners the drug slingers used on the Wire.How ironic: the built-in encryption that made BlackBerrys the mobiles of choice for governments and corporations was harnessed to transmit riot timetables untraceable by the Met.The day BlackBerry lost any remaining appeal for me was on 10 October 2011, when worldwide users couldn't send or receive emails and even badass rioters couldn't use BBM. I was, as always when the integrity of my manifold virtual interfaces is compromised, absurdly angry. How could I be a functioning media drone without 24/7 access to emails? I would have binned the bloody thing there and then but I still had 10 months to go on my contract.So when the sea claimed my BlackBerry, it gave me licence to roam. But which new phone would I buy? My brother-in-law swears by his Samsung Android but then his leading lifestyle choice is to be a Birmingham City season ticket holder, if you catch my drift.Not an iPhone, I told myself. Anything but an iPhone.For years, I'd been irked by those smug iPhone users on the other side of the bus. Where did they get off? Not the Nag's Head, that's for sure. Look at them, over-involved with their phones, sweeping often impeccably manicured, overwhelmingly female fingers across their gestural interface – like pint-sized digital simulacra of Tom Cruise's screen-surfing hands in Minority Report. How I loathed them. How, at the same time, I envied them. iPhone users, that is, not their fingers.This loathing might be connected with latent misogyny. One might suppose iPhones are for women, BlackBerrys for men. You stroke an iPhone as though you're giving it an aromatherapy massage. You biff BlackBerrys with butch fingers as if you were Hemingway banging out a story on his typewriter.That latent misogyny found expression a few years ago, inan ad for Verizon's Motorola Droid, which described the iPhone as "a tiara-wearing, digitally clueless beauty pageant queen", a "precious porcelain figurine of a phone" and "a princess". The Droid, meanwhile, was a "racehorse duct-taped to a Scud missile", fast enough to "rip through the Web like a circular saw through a ripe banana".For all the macho insanity of this ad (what sort of mess would a circular saw spray on my shirt if it sawed through a ripe banana, I worried? Isn't duct-taping missiles to horses very wrong?), it has a point: men flee what women endorse.Or do they? Today I'm halfway through my two-year contract with an iPhone 4. How come? Two things. One starry night in Suffolk my sister held up her iPhone to the heavens. On her screen I saw theStar Walk appand suddenly the heavens were mapped in sublime colours. I was inducted thereby not just into the glories of the empyrean, but into the phantasmagoric world of apps. My BlackBerry was exposed as a CrapBerry. Sure BlackBerry has an app store, but its apps weren't as bewitching, useful or as moneyspinning as those iPhone users downloaded. I may be symbolically castrated and daily suffering buyer's remorse, but I made my choice.We can't help but invest brands with such gendered, political, or even theological resonances. In 1994, Umberto Eco suggested that Apple was Jesuitical, while Microsoft was Calvinist. Apple was "cheerful, friendly, conciliatory; it tells the faithful how they must proceed step by step to reach – if not the kingdom of Heaven – the moment in which their document is printed. It is catechistic: The essence of revelation is dealt with via simple formulae and sumptuous icons. Everyone has a right to salvation." Microsoft by contrast "allows free interpretation of scripture, demands difficult personal decisions, imposes a subtle hermeneutics upon the user, and takes for granted the idea that not all can achieve salvation." Thus interpreted, who would choose Microsoft over Apple?Since 1994, Apple's dominance over our mindsets and handsets has grown unremittingly, even though its shiny products are made by Chinese workers who slog their guts out for a relative pittance so the rest of us can bask in its – what was that again, professor? – "cheerful, friendly, conciliatory" aura.No matter. Apple is like the British empire 100 years ago, on which the sun never sets; while BlackBerry is like London now, on which the sun scarcely rises. Samsung fights a rearguard court action against Apple's claim that it stole its best functions. The latest BlackBerrys look, to my eyes, like wannabe iPhones. Apple has taken over the world or at least the world of phones.BlackBerry, not Apple, was once the celebrity fruit of choice. If we learn nothing else from BlackBerry's collapse, it is that even the most zeitgeiesty brands are destined to go bad. But when will Apple, similarly, rot? Let's hope soon.
The first batch of secret service documents about Aaron Swartz has been released amid a legal battle to publicly share the 14,500 pages the government has amassed in its investigation of the internet activist.A report of his suicide, evidence documents and a memorandum of an interview with an unidentified acquaintance are included in the 104-page cachepublished by Wired's Kevin Poulsen on Monday.Swartz was federally indicted on 13 charges including computer fraud, theft of information and wire fraud for downloading 4m articles from the JSTOR database through the Massachusetts Institute of Technology computer network. He was facing up to $1m in fines and 35 years in jail for these charges when he killed himself in January.The documentsshow that the secret service was interested in a document penned by Swartz and others calling for open information – the Guerilla Open Access Manifesto.Some, including a congressional aide, believe this document was used to establish "malicious intent" in the government's case against him.A considerable portion of the documents are evidence logs detailing the equipment seized by the government or handed over by Swartz, including computers, storage equipment and earnings statements from Google and Harvard University.Swartz was present for at least one search of his Cambridge apartment, according to a February 2011 document that reads: "While the search was conducted, Swartz made statements to the effect of, what took you so long, and why didn't you do this earlier?"Nearly every page included in the release is redacted in some way, primarily obscuring names of investigators or those who were interviewed by government officials about Swartz.Two groups that have impeded the release of the documents, JSTOR and MIT are not mentioned in the released files.The groups are seeking approvalto get an advance review of the documents, following a court order for the files to be released.It is unusual for a private group to interfere in a request for government files, thoughMIT released its own report on Swartz two weeks ago. Poulsen, whose request for the files to be released initiated the court case, said his lawyers are in discussion with the two groups' lawyers.The US secret service initially denied Poulsen's Freedom of Information Act request for files it had on Swartz, along with an appeal. With attorney David Sobel, Poulsen filed a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit against the secret service's parent agency, the Department of Homeland Security.Poulsen is a former hacker and had worked with Swartz on the Deaddrop project,an open-source drop box for leaked documents unveiled in May.The government said it will take six months to process the documents, which are being released on a rolling basis.
Ever left your laptop on the table in the coffee shop while you nip to the loo, or order another flat white?Google's Chrome browser, we now know, makes it pretty easy for someone who briefly gains access to your desktop to see your saved passwords - for email, social networks, auction sites and the rest.I set myself an experiment to see just how many passwords could a speedy attacker really get hold of.Here's how many: 52 passwords in 57 seconds. And I'm an amateur at this hacking stuff.This is a hack any amateur could do. Open Chrome, open settings, and a couple of clicks later you can show the passwords one by one. So unless you're able to perform your ablutions or fill your cup at an Usain Bolt-rivalling speed, you could be leaving yourself open to unscrupulous password thieves every time you step away from the computer.Software developer Elliott Kember, whohas demonstratedthat even non-tech savvy snoopers can access all your saved passwords, says: "the overwhelming majority [of people]… don't know it works like this. They don't expect it to be this easy to see their passwords."Every day, millions of normal, every-day users are saving their passwords in Chrome. This is not okay."Important passwords within secondsIt certainly surprised me. It's not just the unimportant stuff that it gives up, either. Within seconds I had access to a Google account, which controls my email, YouTube, Google Drive, photos, contacts - and perhaps most importantly, Google Play, which is linked to a debit card.My personal correspondence from Facebook and Twitter tumbled shortly after, followed by Dropbox, Tesco, Amazon, eBay and various websites I help run. Within a minute I'd had the lot. Becoming a master password thief is, it turns out, easy. You can literally do it one handed with a couple of minutes' practice.Note too that once you've got these passwords, you can take them away and spy on their owner - who will have no clue that you've been there (certainly not a strange new bookmarklet in their browser bar). You could set up a new user account on your computer, install Chrome, go to the sites and log in as your target - and if they ever change their password (perhaps because they read this) Chrome will helpfully synchronise the new one to your spy installation.Your passwords are all visible in Chrome's settingsThankfully, there are some websites that don't save your passwords, including Natwest and Paypal. But if someone can access your Amazon or eBay account with impunity (and by installing Chrome on a spare user account and then entering your passwords, would see those updated when you updated yours because of Chrome's cross-machine synchronisation), then it doesn't much matter that they can't drain your bank account.No master password, says Chrome bossGoogle's head of Chrome security Justin Schuh argues that if someone has access to your desktop, things have already gotten so bad that you should abandon all hope.And some argue that other browsers are as bad, or worse. In Firefox, I discovered that 'show passwords' will display every password and username in a neat list - you don't even have to click them individually as with Chrome. But you can (and right now should) set a master password, which you'll be asked for if you subsequently try to view those passwords. Chrome doesn't offer a master password.Google seems to present password accessibility as a feature rather than a flaw, a useful tool for those poor souls that can't remember their passwords.Apple's Safari requires a system password before it will show the passwords; Mozilla's Firefox has a master password, but it's off by default; Internet Explorer doesn't store the passwords at all.For all three, you can get at the individual passwords if you know some Javascript hacking - but it requires finding a required site with a Javascript hacking bookmarklet, installing that in the browser, going to the site whose password you want, typing in the username, selecting the password field once it's filled in, and clicking the bookmarklet. That takes over 40 seconds from a blank screen -here's a video- and an attacker has to navigate to every site and type in each username to get each password.You'd probably be back from the bathroom before your would-be hacker has got to your second password.On Chrome, though, it's all been made very easy. From opening the browser to seeing the first password takes six clicks of the mouse in Chrome (and the same in Firefox). Once you know where to look, it takes only three clicks and a few seconds. Or enter "chrome://settings/passwords" in the URL bar - which route you prefer might depend on how fast you can type.Do your own experimentBut so what? People have been leaving their PCs logged in and unattended since such a thing became possible. Just how much harm could possibly come from not logging out when you step away for a moment, right?The simplest way to find out is to try it yourself. If you have Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox installed, set yourself a challenge - how many passwords can you steal from your own computer in, say, one minute?So how can you protect your passwords? You can delete them from Chrome. You can set a password on Firefox. More robustly, set up a screen lock on your computer and activate it before you walk away, no matter where you are. Don't let people use your user account - even people you regard as friends - if you're not watching them. You could also use a system such as LastPass or 1Password, which store your passwords and have their own master password. Some can also sync with mobile devices.Google is not going to help. Schuh has already dismissed the idea of a master password for Chrome. In a post on Hacker News, he said: "We've debated it over and over again, but the conclusion we always come to is that we don't want to provide users with a false sense of security, and encourage risky behaviour. We want to be very clear that when you grant someone access to your OS user account, that they can get at everything."Schuh probably has a point. No matter what steps you take, your saved passwords will never be totally secure. The ultimate solution may therefore be to only ever save passwords to the grey mass between our ears . Could we really handle that? Sometimes I can barely remember my pin.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 10 August 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)72 (4)Fifa 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (31)VITA (6)3DS (4)463 (5)The Smurfs 2 (3+)DS (36)Xbox 360 (27)Wii (23)PS3 (12)24 (–)Tales Of Xillia (16+)PS3 (100)15 (3)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)96 (2)The Last Of Us (18+)PS3 (100)97 (8)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (43)Wii U (1)PC (1)388 (7)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (17)Wii (15)3DS (13)579 (9)Tomb Raider (18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (44)PC (3)2310 (10)Assassin's Creed Iii (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (37)4111 (6)Far Cry 3 (18+)PS3 (42)Xbox 360 (53)PC (5)3712 (16)Need For Speed Most Wanted (7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (42)VITA (12)PC (1)3713 (14)Grand Theft Auto Iv (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (35)5914 (12)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (12+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (25)Wii (19)3DS (9)2715 (13)Max Payne 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)PC (0)2016 (19)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary (18+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (34)PC (21)1017 (11)Mario And Luigi: Dream Team Bros. (3+)3DS (100)518 (18)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City (18+)Xbox 360 (73)PS3 (27)PC (0)2219 (17)Battlefield 3 (16+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (23)PC (9)4820 (–)Saints Row: The Third - The Full Package (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (44)1UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
WordPress has removed an interview with the "homophobic" campaign Straight Pride UK after the group used US copyright law to issue a takedown notice.In an interview posted on his WordPress blog, student Oliver Hotham published an interview with the group described as having a "homophobic agenda" by gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell, in which they stated that they "admire President Vladimir Putin of Russia for his stance and support of his country's traditional values".Hotham said the information was volunteered by the Straight Pride UK press officer during an email exchange.Straight Pride UK – whose website states "there is nothing right with being homosexual, there is nothing right with being bisexual" - was asked by Hotham for its reaction to anti-gay attacks in Russia and Africa.Hotham says that Nick Steiner, a press officer for the group, said in a document headed 'press release': "Straight Pride support what Russia and Africa is doing, these country have morals and are listening to their majorities.""These countries are not 'anti-gay' – that is a term always used by the homosexual agenda to play the victim and suppress opinions and views of those against it."These countries have passed laws, these laws are to be respected and no other country should interfere with another country's laws or legislation."When asked who the symbol of straight pride would be, the spokesman expressed more support for Vladimir Putin, whose crackdown on gay rights has been the trigger to a widespread anti-gay campaign in Russia.Hotham published the interview on his WordPress blog, but says he was then contacted by the Straight Pride UK press officer asking him to remove the piece within seven days or be threatened with a DMCA, Digital Millennium Copyright Act, takedown notice.Hotham did not take down the post, and WordPress then proceeded with a DMCA takedown notice on 3 August.The DMCA contains a provision mandating any company to instantly remove material if they are informed it breaches copyright.Hotham and Straight Pride UK are based in Britain, but the law does cover WordPress, Hotham's American blogging platform."They have about 50 likes on Facebook – I'm not all that frightened of them," he told the Guardian. "I thought they were weird and interesting. No one had taken the time to ask them what they actually thought."Hotham argues that the blogging providers should be more aware of the possibility of abusive takedown notices being filed.WordPress is legally required to respond to DMCA notices, but also instructed Hotham how to counterclaim, though one of the requirements was to "consent to local federal court jurisdiction, or if overseas, to an appropriate judicial body"."It's a big problem," Hotham said. "I'm a student … I don't want to risk going to court."It shows that they haven't adapted to the fact that WordPress is this big thing for people to do journalism on … They've got to work out a new system for this."Censorship using the DMCA, says WordPressIn a statement, WordPress said it recognised that this was an abuse of the DMCA law."We think this was a case of abuse of the DMCA and we don't think that taking it down was the right result," said Paul Sieminski, general counsel for WordPress parent company Automattic. "It's censorship using the DMCA."He explained that WordPress reviews and acts on all notices, unless claims are overly broad or not compliant with the DMCA law."We can't verify that the complainant actually owns the copyrighted information – we rely on the fact they sign their complaint and verify, under penalty of perjury, that they own the copyright,"Sieminski said that WordPress gives clear instructions on how to counter a takedown notice, which can result in something being reposted. He added that WordPress is working on countering abuse of the DMCA."We're experimenting with a couple of tools that will help us identify and blacklist people who submit bad DMCA notices on a regular basis," he said. "There is also a provision in the DMCA that allows Automattic or a site owner to sue the person who submitted a false notice, which we consider doing in cases of abuse.Adam Rendle an associate and copyright specialist at the law firm Taylor Wessing, said the DMCA is a law used intensively by the media and entertainment industries to pursue copyright breaches, but that this is an example of DMCA being used to suppress legitimate criticism."The DMCA system is structured so that the intermediary (WordPress in this case) is very likely to have the complained-about material taken down initially even though (a) the copyright owner appears to have consented to its copyright material being used and (b) one of the defences (fair dealing for the purposes of criticism or review) to copyright infringement may apply," said Rendle."It is for the user of the material (Oliver Hotham) to make his case to the intermediary and have the material reinstated, which can take some time and may never happen."It is, of course, another example of a heavy-handed reaction to legitimate criticism causing more harm than the original criticism."In a statement its sister organisation Straight Forward in Moscow, head of operations Peter Sidorove said that Hotham had claimed to be a journalist and that since publication of the piece, it has been forced to report online harassment including hacking of its site to the police."Oliver didn't tell Straight Pride UK at any point that he would be putting what Straight Pride UK told him online for all to see. It was a private release for him," he said. "Straight Pride UK thought as he was a student that we would add fun to it, dress it up and make him feel like a reporter by adding 'Press Release' to the document, this document also had a notice saying that it was not to be reproduced without consent."Sidorove claimed that content from the Straight Pride site had been copied to a fake website impersonating the organisation, and that it had been forced to change its Twitter and Facebook accounts because of abuse."We have made further DMCA requests to all bloggers and will seek removal of this copyrighted content that is now being used to commit harassment.""This has proved that society needs Straight Pride and heterosexual events, to enable heterosexuals to have the right to speak out against the alternative lifestyle and defend ourselves against the now prove aggressive homosexual agenda."
