The company that created a currency for the internet,Beenz.com, yesterday admitted that it had sacked 180 staff and could be sold.Beenz, which raised $89m (&#163;61m) from investors including Oracle chief Larry Ellison, said that it would cut a further 20 jobs at its British operations after a strategic review.It would leave a company that had employed 260 people in 13 offices worldwide at the   height of the dot.com boom with just 60 staff spread across five international offices.The company rewards net users with "beenz", redeemable for goods at participating websites. Like many other online loyalty schemes it has failed to generate the revenues it hoped for, however.A link-up with or takeover by a bricks and mortar player looks like the most likely route ahead."The company is in discussions with several potential   strategic partners, the goal of which is to enable the long-term future and value of the beenz business," a statement said.Beenz declined to say how much cash it had left or what revenues it is generating. There are 5.4m beenz accounts.Charles Cohen, Beenz's founder and chief executive, warned in December that volatile stock markets had sent many of his customers out of business and he would have to   scale back Beenz's international network, which stretched from London and New York to China and Japan.At the time he denied that Beenz was going bust. "We still have tens of millions of dollars in the bank, but we don't want to be one of these dot.coms that rockets along like a train, crashes into a wall and everybody dies," he said.Other backers include Apax, Softbank, Vivendi, Jellyworks and Monaco-based businessman Andrew Regan.
It's nearly 11pm on one of the soggiest Fridays in March. In London's West End, all is quiet, save for an odd-looking queue that has assembled outside a computer store on Tottenham Court Road.Across the road from the shop, slightly inebriated punters are trying to fathom out what's going on. One swears he's seen Geri Halliwell buying a new PC, while another reckons a new techno club has opened upstairs. They are both wrong. They are, in fact, witnesses to Mac-mania.As soon as the clock strikes midnight, Micro Anvika, along with a host of other stores up and down the country, will begin selling the latest operating system for Apple Macintosh - the OS X (pronounced "ten"). And the gathered throng of around 300 Mac-anoraks simply  have  to be among the first to check out the new system.Surely they must have better ways of spending Friday night? Could they not wait until the morning to buy it?"You're probably right," admits Matt, who has been   queuing for an hour in the rain. "But I've been waiting 10 years for this product, so I had to come down and make sure I got it tonight."This is the most incredible operating system ever," he gushes. "It is the first operating system for a computer that has been written from the ground up. It's going to be far superior to previous operating systems." Matt says he's going to dash home to install it tonight.Andrew and Eric, two Americans studying in Oxford, have made the trip to London especially to buy OS X. For Andrew it's a particularly poignant moment. Grinning proudly, he tells me that he was one of the system's beta testers. "I am convinced it's a revolution," he says.I ask if that is because the system boasts a feature called protected memory, which works so that when one of the applications crashes the others are still running.Andrew looks aghast. "It never crashes! You've got to believe me, this is the first operating system that never crashes.""It looks beautiful too," adds Eric. "Tonight we are celebrating the software equivalent of the iMac. The system that will make all Macs friendlier and more stable." Apple chief executive Steve Jobs couldn't have put it better himself.Upstairs in the shop, around 100 Mac-heads have crammed into a room to watch Apple's Stuart Harris run through the system's various sections. It's getting a little hot and a member of Micro Anvika's staff suggests opening a few windows. "That's the last word I want to hear tonight," quips one wag.Meanwhile Harris is doing a great job of whipping the crowd into a frenzy. He only has to mention the words "applications" and "carbonised" in the same sentence to send them into waves of delirium.There are currently very few applications that have been optimised (carbonised) for the new system, although it is claimed as many as 20,000 OS X applications are in the pipeline.His pay-off line is that the user will be able to go home and download an OS X version of iVideo II tonight. And Matt and his die-hard Mac-mates know that it will be even longer before their head reaches the pillow.Then suddenly it is midnight and they could finally grab what they had been waiting for. Stuart Harris asked who wanted to be first to take a version of OS X. However, realising that a minor scramble was about to ensue, he gave the copy to the star guest, musician Tom Robinson and a Mac user himself, and told everyone else to start queuing.Just as I was about to leave I caught my first glimpse of Fabio, an Italian graphic designer now based in London. I couldn't really miss him on account of the fact that his left sleeve was rolled up so he could parade a large Apple   tattoo. I asked him if he was mad. "Sure I'm mad. But I just love Macs. I think, sleep and work with Macs, they are my life. Tonight is history. I'm going to tell all my grand children about it," he explains without irony.There was no way either that Fabio was going to wait until he got home to install OS X - he'd brought his laptop with him. I asked him if he had plans for any more tattoos? It turns out that Fabio is going to have a big X emblazoned on his back. When I tell him that people will think he's championing arch-enemy Bill Gates' Xbox he looks gutted.Outside I meet Debbie and her cute dog. She's a Mac-widow whose husband Peter is deep in the new Aqua user interface. I ask if he preached the Mac gospel to her. "It goes in one ear and out the other," she grins. "I know it will make his work-life easier, but_""It's only an operating system," I interject. She nods in agreement. With those words I drift into the night, and unlike some of my new friends, I'm anticipating a very good night's sleep.OS X odysseyby Cameron Paterson1979:Apple engineer Jef Raskin starts work on a new consumer computer with a graphical user interface (GUI).1984:The first Macintosh is launched. Folders, icons, and pull-down menus are new and exciting. Bill Gates is so impressed with the beta version he announces Microsoft will produce its own GUI operating system.1988:With the existing Mac OS showing its age, Apple begins work on a new one. The project is a fiasco - but is only axed in 1995.1991:System 7 is released, but despite big changes is really only a dressed-up version of the existing OS.1994 -1996:Apple realises it has real competition from Microsoft and Windows 95. The Rhapsody OS, despite costing $250m a year at one point, only reaches beta, and is abandoned in May 1996. Elements of it live on in Mac OS 8.1996:Apple cannot afford yet another OS project, so it goes shopping for a new OS. NeXTStep, produced by Steve Jobs' NeXT, is picked.1997:Developers are reluctant to rewrite applications, so Apple develops "carbonising". This means only minor changes are needed to get old code to exploit the new OS.1998:Apple names its new operating system OS X (ten). A business OS X Server is released.2000:The Aqua interface is unveiled and OS X is released as a public beta.March 24 2001:Mac OS X hits the stores, 14 years after Apple first began planning it.
Star Wars StarfighterSony PlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Lucasarts	***You can recognise PlayStation 2 owners at the video shop. They're the ones hastily renting DVDs, desperate to find some use for their &#163;300 console.After all, if flashy snowboarding (SSX) or simplistic third person shooting (Timesplitters) don't appeal, then watching DVDs is the best way to prevent dust settling on the stylish black machine.Thankfully this gaming drought has been sated, with the release of some interesting titles. The Metal Gear Solid 2 demo is now out, showing PS2 owners a potentially bright future, while Star Wars Starfighter is the sci-fi franchise's inaugural appearance on the console.Ostensibly a level-based space shooter, Starfighter offers more than the sum of its parts by mixing fluid controls with a real sense of narrative. Controlling one of three characters - rookie fighter pilot Rhys, female mercenary Vana and Nym the pirate - your aim is to battle the Trade Empire. This potentially unexciting premise is split into 14 missions and soon becomes engrossing; the initial lack of   stormtroopers and Darth Vader gradually loses importance. Each of the three craft flies differently, with levels set on planets and in space, but the controls, which use both dualshock joysticks, are pleasingly intuitive. Graphically and sonically, Starfighter is outstanding, with crisp textures matched by the stirring Star Wars soundtrack.Unfortunately the game is   short-lived, despite rewards for speedy finishes. Also, the linear nature means there is only one way to complete the levels, which you often fail to complete without knowing why.Nevertheless, Starfighter is a return to form for Lucasarts. Non-PS2 DVD owners should find the rental shop a bit quieter, too.  (GH)DarkstoneSony PlayStation 	&#163;9.99 Delphine Software/ Electonic Arts	***When Darkstone was released for PC in mid-1999, it provoked extensive comparisons with Diablo, previously the most popular role-playing game (RPG). It fared pretty well: while the fundamentals of gameplay were similar - dungeon-  crawling, gaining experience, returning to town to heal and shop - Darkstone introduced a neat new twist with the ability to play two characters at once. The tag-team format offered an entirely new tactical challenge, and this, combined with pretty graphics, witty dialogue and a well-crafted learning curve, turned Delphine's RPG into a minor hit.Goodness only knows how it took two years to re-code the game for PlayStation, but now, finally, it's back - and it's the same as ever. To be fair, one of the perils of porting RPGs to consoles is in converting the controls, and the   programmers have done a pretty good job. They've even managed to incorporate the fully rotatable 3D view on the analogue stick, allowing the more co-ordinated to watch fights on the fly. Also impressive is the way the play area is still generated anew each play, although the very changeability of the map makes much of the game world a bit samey.Everything else about the game, though, is so two years ago. The plot concerns efforts to defeat an evil dragon (Draak) by locating and assembling the seven pieces of a powerful ancient artifact (the Time Orb). Yada, yada.   You have four choices of class - warrior, wizard, thief or priest - who can cast spells and hit things with varying degrees of success.Yada. And the visuals haven't aged well. Once you've played RPGs like Baldur's Gate 2, with its complex plots, dozens of classes, hundreds of spells and player-controlled teams of up to six characters, the likes of Darkstone don't seem good enough for your bratty little brother.Still, if you're looking to wear out the PlayStation so you have an excuse to buy a PlayStation 2, this is a cheap and painless way of doing it.  (AB)Hostile WatersPC	&#163;34.99 Rage	****This is a rare treat, a game that expertly combines two genres, albeit not quite resulting in a distinctive third. Whether your taste be real time strategy (Red Alert) or first person shooter (Quake) there's plenty here for you to get your teeth into.In play, Hostile Waters is very like the excellent Battlezone 2, allowing you to build up units slowly, gather resources and scout out the enemy, before jumping into the cockpit of any tank or chopper to deal out death personally. All of this is helped by an excellent   interface, which encourages complex commands but with a couple of mouseclicks that never feel less than instinctive.Left to their own devices, units will aim and shoot far more accurately than a real player, making this one of those rare titles where you can rely on your wingmen not to charge into walls or wander blindly into ambushes.Admittedly, Hostile Waters is not a true RTS in that your "base" is an aircraft carrier, unable to move and woefully lacking in common sense. The addition of a few defensive turrets would have made protecting it a lot more satisfying; instead you only need a steady supply of scrap metal to keep producing more units. Not being able to build land structures also makes each level's tactics very similar, but the depth of the gameplay and design more than compensates.The graphics are stunning, bold and colourful with realistic weather conditions. Enemy units start off predictably Russian, before mutating into hybrid devices - part insect, part metal. All of this makes for a convincing story, with genuine surprises - such as the first time you come across a Boss level and have to demolish some massive spaceship piece by piece.In fact, the only thing preventing this getting the 5-star treatment is the fairly basic enemy artificial intelligence. Hostiles respond to alerts but only by moving to your last recorded position. Armed with a cloaking device and a long-range laser, a single chopper can decimate even the hardest bases. Nevertheless, if you play it less cautiously (the way you were meant to) there are weeks of quality gaming. Hostile? No, come on in, the water's lovely!  (MAA)
SSX winsThe games industry equivalent of the Oscars have been announced and SSX Snowboarding - one of my games of the year - was the biggest winner. It carried off five statuettes, including Console Game of the Year.Diablo II did well too, winning three awards including Game of the Year and PC Game of the Year. Square's Final Fantasy IX also won three awards, while Zelda: Majora's Mask, Medal of Honor: Underground, Deus Ex and MechWarrior 4 took two awards a piece.Many other titles were rewarded, with Sega's Shenmue winning for Innovation in Console Gaming.Titles that failed to find favour included Jet Grind Radio, No One Lives Forever and, most surprisingly, The Sims.Id Software's founder,    John Carmack, was inducted into the Academy Hall of Fame. The awards were presented by the Academy of Interactive Arts &amp; Sciences    (AIAS) at the end of last week's Game Developers Conference in San Jose, California. Seewww.interative.org.PS2 salesSony has announced that sales of PlayStation 2 games consoles have reached 10m, and it is planning to manufacture 1.5m in April.Production problems left the company a million units short of its target last year, but it hopes to ship 20m in the next 12 months. So far, Sony has sold 4.65m units in Japan, starting on March 4 last year, 2.76m in North America (from October 26), and 2.63m in Europe (from November 24).Sony Computer Entertainment said there were now 169 games available in Japan, with another 370 expected in the next 12 months.Tokyo showKonami will show more than 70 titles at the spring Tokyo Games Show, which opens tomorrow. These will include playable versions of Deadly Skies for Microsoft's forthcoming X-Box games console. However, the biggest attractions should be previews of Konami's two "killer titles", Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty and Silent Hill 2, both for the PlayStation 2.In the UK, Konami is planning to launch two Game Boy Advance titles - Castlevania and Konami Krazy Racers - in June, with another three to follow before Christmas.
If proof were ever needed that a year is a very long time in mobile electronics, it was delivered by the CeBIT exhibition last week in Hanover.Last spring the show was awash with high-tech looking phone prototypes as manufacturers and networks excitedly hyped the possibilities of the 3G mobile phone networks of the future.This year, following on from the awkward genesis of Wap (wireless application protocol) phones and the sky-high fees commanded by the 3G network auction, there was a slightly more sombre - some would say realistic - atmosphere at the show.Future of GPRSManufacturers are in the short-term pinning their hopes on the format billed by some makers as 2.5G - GPRS (general packet radio service). The new format offers faster download speeds than today's mobiles while boasting the additional benefit of being permanently connected to the net - there's no dial-up. However consumer GPRS services are not expected to start in the UK until summer at the earliest. More realistic estimates are   that GPRS phones won't be available in numbers until the very end of the year. Although larger phones will use the system to offer full internet pages, basic and small screen models will harness GPRS to provide what the makers hope will be a significantly more efficient version of Wap.There remains the strong possibility that a public once bitten by Wap will be doubly shy when presented with GPRS phones.However, cynical market views have not put off Motorola. The US manufacturer, which was first to market with a GPRS phone (the Timeport 260), proudly paraded more GPRS products than anyone else.The workhorse of its new range, the Timeport 280, keeps the Timeport series' upright design and tri-band roaming facilities, but adds a larger screen and a new user interface (previous Motorola interfaces have been notoriously tricky to operate).Visually more interesting is the Accompli 008, a futuristic looking handset that sports a large touch screen optimised for internet, and personal organiser facilities. Motorola intends to use the phone to launch some of its gaming facilities including an interactive   version of TV's Who Wants to be a Millionaire? Players connect with a website that instantly responds to their answers. It's not clear yet whether Motorola will allow users to phone a friend.Motorola is also set to launch a GPRS-equipped version of its tiny V series models in the very sleek V-66.Bluetooth mobiles arriveEricsson is pinning its hopes not only on GPRS, but also on Bluetooth wireless technology. Its showpiece GPRS phone, the T68, packs a   surprising number of features into its tiny frame. Among the highlights are a colour screen, Bluetooth compatibility to enable easy connection to a PC, and MMS (multimedia messaging service) facilities that allow the user to send images and text files to another phone. An even smaller model, the T39, also couples GPRS with Bluetooth technology.As ever, Ericsson paraded an intriguing collection of gadgets. Top billing went to the world's first cordless internet radio - the H100. Developed in collaboration with TV network MTV, the radio uses Bluetooth technology to access signals from a main PC server that has to be sited less than 100 metres away. Expect to see it in the UK in 2002. Also new was the CommuniCam, a digital camera module that connects to mobile phones and enables users to send images to other mobiles or PCs via GSM networks. It is due to launch in early summer.Nokia also weighed in with a pair of GPRS models. Scheduled to be launched in autumn, the   8310 targets the fashion market with interchangeable covers, voice control, facilities and an integrated FM radio. Later in the year it will be joined by the 6310, Nokia's first phone to sport Bluetooth facilities.Siemens unveiled its mobile phone/PDA combi - the SX45 which uses Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system and features cut-down version of Word, Excel and Outlook. The phone has a 32MB memory, a slot for a CompactFlash or Multi Media card, full internet and Wap access, and a colour screen.Even more fun was provided by a slew of Siemens prototypes, including a GSM wristwatch phone that works using voice recognition technology, and its GlobalPlayer games console that combines 3D goggles with a cordless games pad.Gadgets to goAway from the phones, Hewlett-Packard hailed the wireless revolution with both a Bluetooth-enabled printer and a Bluetooth module that fits some existing HP printers. It also showed a selection of printers that feature modems, web browsers and screens to offer full internet access. Also on show were new laptops, and two Jornada personal digital assistants.Iomega confirmed the early summer European launch of its Peerless portable hard disk system first spotted at CES in January. The unit, which is around the size of a PDA, will run disks as large as 20 gigabytes.A run of pre-CeBIT announcements meant that digital camera makers were a little quieter that usual. But Olympus announced a new model for a late spring launch in the UK. The &#163;600 Camedia C-700 pairs a small frame with a powerful 10x optical zoom. Image resolution is rated at 2.1 mega pixels.Other new gadgets included a Linux-based web tablet from LG and the first cordless mouse from Logitech.
The legal fight between online song-swapping service Napster and the music industry is to return to court next month with both sides making increasingly acrimonious accusations.In the latest round of the fight, the Recording Industry Association of America, which represents the leading record labels, has accused Napster of deliberately failing to comply with a court order to block access to copyrighted music.Hilary Rosen, president of the association, said Napster was using outdated and ineffective technology to stop users downloading outlawed recordings. Tests by association members found that Napster was only stopping access to music if both the title and artist were searched for. So, for example, users could download Sting's Fields of Gold by searching for just the artist or the title of the song."Calling this type of filter effective is like calling an umbrella full of holes a hurricane shelter," said Ms Rosen. "It's not working, it never will work and Napster should be ordered to implement an effective filter or to change its filtering method."The association, which filed its complaint three weeks after Napster was ordered to block access to copyrighted music, said there was a marked difference between the effectiveness of the company's technology for legal and illegal access."While Napster's filter works by blocking the precise artist and title, Napster's search engine intentionally finds and returns inexact matches."After the latest court filing, Napster hit back by accusing the industry of acting in bad faith and failing to cooperate. Hank Barry, the company's chief executive, said Napster was "aggressively" complying with the injunction and had already blocked access to more than 275,000 songs and 1.6m unique file names."While we have gone forward to block this multitude of files, it is important to note that not a single record company has provided us with one variant of any song name," he said. "The RIAA's call for a fundamental change in Napster's technology is unsurprising. It is an attempt to change subject rather than cooperate with Napster as the injunction specifies."He added that Napster had included more than 10,000 variations in artists' names and more than 40,000 variations in song titles in an attempt to block access. The number of files available through the Napster index has fallen by 57% from 370mto 160m. The average number of files being shared at the service has also dropped by almost two-thirds after the injunction on March 6.The recording industry denied Napster's accusations and said that it had handed over details of 675,000 copyrighted works to be blocked. It called on the company either to use new fingerprint methodology to identify tracks or to use a "filter-in" service.The latter would significantly change Napster's service as it would allow the company to offer only music it had certified as legal.
Dis contentsI can't get onto the web with Windows 98 because there seems to be a bug in Internet Explorer's Content Advisor. Every time I reboot I get an error message saying that information is missing, but when I change the settings, they default to zero, barring me from almost every website. This happens even when I disable the settings.Douglas Romedouglas@rome47.freeserve.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Computer error messages are sometimes worse than useless. In this case, Microsoft almost admits as much. The Knowledge Base articlehttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q242/0/37.aspfor Internet Explorer 5 says: "If you follow the   instructions in the error message, you may not be able to disable Content Advisor, or the changes may appear to work but do not work when you restart the computer".Microsoft's solution is to delete a file called Ratings.pol in the Windows directory (seehttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q154/9/99.asp.I think it is better to disable Content Advisor altogether. Microsoft does not explain how - well, you might be a child researching satanic gynaecology. However, the information is widely available. Unfortunately it means editing the Registry, so it is a good idea to back it up first.To disable Content Advisor in IE5, go to Start|Run, type regedit and press OK. Find the entry for H_KEY_ LOCAL_MACHINE and press the little plus sign to its left. Keep going down the tree until you get to HKEY_ LOCAL_MACHINE|Software|Microsoft|Windows| Current Version|Policies and click on Ratings. In the right hand pane, look for an icon called Key. Highlight that then press the delete key to delete the Content Advisor password.Go to Registry (on the menu bar) and select Exit.Restart your PC, and delete the Ratings.pol file.Run Internet Explorer, select Tools|Internet Options (or View|Options, in earlier versions), and click the tab marked Content. The button for Content Advisor should say Enable, which is what you want. If it says Disable, click on it. If asked for a password, do not enter one: just press OK.Word hunterI want to research words in English so I thought a spell-checking dictionary would provide me with a plain list of words. However, looking into a dictionary file, it is obviously all coded. Any suggestions? I would also like a list of all English/ British place names.Brian Russbjruss@beeb.netJS:Have a look at Kevin's Word Lists Pagehttp://wordlist.sourceforge.netand Bryson's Wordlistshttp://www.bryson.demon.co.uk/wordlist.html. The latter includes the UK Advanced Cryptics Dictionary, aimed at crossword puzzle solvers, the Enhanced North American Benchmark Lexicon (Enable), for Scrabble players, and word lists for Shakespeare and the King James Bible.You could also try the Online Plain Text English Dictionary, known asOpted. It has one line definitions with minimal mark-up added.The Association of British Counties has aGazetteer of British Placenames, but it would be hard to extract a list. Try searching from the Open Directory athttp://dmoz.org/Science/Social_ Sciences/Geography/Place_ Names/or the place name guide atwww.asu.edu/lib/hayden/govdocs/maps/geogname.htm.Time trackerIs there some software that   will keep a log of how long you have been online, preferably with a calculation of the costs of that call?Roy PenningtonRoypen@btinternet.comJS:There are dozens for Windows:Dave Centralhas seven pages of them.JoJo Software's NetTimer 2000looks useful and has nice graphs, whileRat Software's Internet Timer v4.5is well regarded. Both are available in trial versions. However,TimeUP v4.5will probably do what you want, and it is free.Mac users could tryPPPremier Timer 2.0.4.Filling inIs there any way of programming keys in Windows 98 and/or Internet Explorer 5 so that one or two keystrokes insert a short line of text? For instance, could you program a key to put the first line of your address into an address box on an online form?Steve Morrissteven@morriss54.fsnet.co.ukJS:Internet Explorer is supposed to do this for you. Go to Tools|Internet Options and click the tab for Content, then press the AutoComplete button. Put a tick in the box to select AutoComplete for Forms. It is not perfect but it is fairly painless.Naming partsCan you tell me why Windows Explorer displays file and folder names in a variety of formats, eg upper case, lower case, sentence case? Is it possible to make the names look the same?Bob Hawkespostmaster@hawkesfamily.demon.co.ukJS:Not as far as I know. The problems arise from the fact that, in 1981, the Microsoft Disk Operating System (MS-DOS) had eight character file names (actually 8.3) that were assumed to be all in capital letters. Long file names were added with difficulty in 1995. For maximum control over the appearance of folder names, either make them longer than eight characters or include a space. It is still a good idea to make the first six non-space characters of file names unique. For backwards compatibility, the operating system uses these to generate short (8.3) names from the long ones.Clean deskingWhen I load software, the set-up icons remain on my desktop. I have tried deleting them but the message "if this is deleted you may no longer be able to run the program" appears. Any suggestions, as they clutter my desktop up?David Milesdavid.miles@djmiles.freeserve.co.ukJS:If the software runs from the Start|Programs menu then you can throw any   unwanted non-Microsoft icons into the Recycle Bin. That includes program icons. However, it is best not to save files on the desktop in the first place. The File Save dialogue box lets you choose where to put them. Create a new directory called Downloads and use that instead.Hotmail spamI was interested to read the piece about email using the web. However, I've found that with all the Hotmail accounts I've had, the addresses very quickly find themselves on spam address lists and they fill up with all sorts of rubbish. Why is this? Is the system's security that poor?Elliot Hermanelliot@n15.orgJS:When you sign up to Hotmail, the form you fill in has a section for Services which includes Hotmail Member Directory and Internet White Pages. Both are ticked by default. If you don't notice and untick them, you may well get lots of spam (junk email). This applies to some other services, too.Since you are too cagey to fall for that one, I am at a loss for an explanation. However, I have opened a fresh, unlisted and unused Hotmail account and am waiting for the spam to turn up.
In the last issue of Small Business Solutions we looked at software packages for smaller traders - the sort of all-in-one office system that claims to do everything and in a surprising number of cases actually does almost everything.The trouble is, you have to have something on which to run the software. And most of the computers you can buy inexpensively off the page at the moment are stuffed with added extras - games a business won't want, a scanner when one might not be required and so on. Manufacturers accordingly are putting together systems they believe are appropriate for the smaller business, and the conclusions to which they are coming are interesting.Broadly, there are three areas in which the manufacturers think small and medium-sized enterprises will be interested: size, the ability to link to other systems and cost of ownership.Size, contrary to the advice of Dr Alex Comfort, is indeed important in a small or possibly home-based office. This is why companies such as Sony (see Guardian Online March 15) are releasing small but powerful systems for the general customer, and competitors such as HP are building systems like the ePC (pictured). This is a useful system on which the space-saving monitor actually costs more than the computer itself (£700-odd compared with £500-odd for the computer) and takes up much less desk space than whatever you had before; it also pivots, so if you're designing something like a web page and would like "real" A4 without having to scroll down, you can have it. There's also a load of business advice-type software and ready-made networking and web connections on board.It won't suit everyone; HP is pitching it squarely at the small office rather than the home worker, so if your office is in your house and you were hoping for a single computer not only for business but for games and playing DVDs, this isn't it, and for the money that shouldn't be a surprise.The idea of the compact computer isn't new. It's a matter of economy rather than technology that has prevented manufacturers putting laptop-style technology into desktop boxes before now to keep the size down. Expect to see more of this, with expensive monitors.Something else that can cause a lot of office clutter is multiple computers at an individual desk, say when someone has to monitor a server as well as their own PC. Black Box's ServSwitch Simplicity is a little junction box that lets you share the keyboard, mouse and monitor between two computers for just over £100; Avocent's SwitchView OSD does the same for up to eight servers and costs £430 plus VAT. These are fine if you have a standard keyboard. Should you want easier access to email and the web for beginners - and therefore go for something like the Microsoft Internet Pro keyboard - they'll work less effectively because some of the keyboard's twiddly bits (such as the facility to attach extra devices to the keyboard rather than the computer) need a USB connection as well as a standard keyboard socket.If you're still short of space, the multifunction device can be a valuable investment - most combined fax/scanner/ answering machine/telephones are built like brick WCs, but you only need one on the desk.The other area most small businesses will be looking at is networking. Network specialists 3Com and Netgear supply everything the smaller business should want, from network cards and routers that will let more than one computer share the same internet connection, to a full-blown internet server from 3Com.DICA technologies goes a step further with an internet server for the non-technical. Called the NetPilot, it handles internet connections and email but also puts in firewalls and other security measures. All of these are aimed at the small business apparently, except that similar technologies are used by the larger organisations as well.And here's where you can't help but wonder whether "small business systems" are a real thing or just a marketing ploy. During the research for this article a number of companies got in touch and told us about their products. More than one printer manufacturer told us that its devices were well suited to the small business market because they cost less to run in the long term. That's fair, but we don't know many large companies that want to pay more than is necessary either. The networking products designed to support small networks will only support a limited number of people, granted, but there's really no reason a small business computer, if well made, shouldn't be used as a PC in a large corporate environment as well.Nevertheless, the amount of small business support that comes with some of the products - such as HP's software and internet links - means that among the marketing and rebranding of "classic" (or old) technology as small business specials, there's enough substance for most small companies to come away with something worth having.
When Peter Fenn started Fenn Tool Ltd in 1982, he planned a modest operation. It had three employees based in an old church hall and imported quality machine tools from Switzerland and Austria, selling them to UK customers at a competitive price. His business grew modestly and steadily, moving into larger premises with more staff, opening new markets and an office in Ireland. But it took an unforeseen technological problem and its solution to catapult the enterprise into serious success.In January this year, Fenn Tool was chosen as the Parcel Force Worldwide Small Business of the Year, winning £30,000 in prizes. It also received the prestigious Manufacturing Industry Achievement Award and Product of the Show Award at the Enquip 2000 exhibition in Dublin. Sales and profits are up, the firm has moved into larger premises on the Springwood Industrial Estate in Essex and is taking on new staff, and has a client list that includes Rolls-Royce, Marconi and BAE Systems.Fenn has now retired but keeps a benevolent eye on the management team of sales director Gary Ridgeway, operations director Martin Fenn, financial director Sarah Potter and office supervisor Peter Clements. "We all work well together," says Potter, "pooling ideas, looking for new ways to do things, discussing problems."As most of the managers and sales force are skilled engineers who have retrained for their present posts, they became aware a few years ago that there was a big and unfulfilled demand for specialist cutting and grinding tools, particularly in the rapidly developing aerospace and telecommunications industries, where a constant stream of new designs required manufacturing implements that didn't yet exist.At first, the team tried to design a required tool and get it made by their traditional suppliers on the continent, but this was an inefficient and frustrating procedure.'The waiting time would be six to 10 weeks,' says Ridgeway, "and our customers just couldn't afford to wait. It meant expensive machinery standing idle and lost orders. So we looked at what other small companies were doing, and after a lot of discussion we decided to buy a computer design and manufacturing package that would enable us to do the whole job ourselves."Fenn Tool spent £250,000 on the computer-aided design package, a top-of-the-range Anca 3D CIMulator, which handles design, programming and verification from a desktop computer, feeding information directly into the computer-aided manufacturing system, an Anca TGX, with further precision verification by an Innova Tool measuring system.Although buying the machinery was a big risk, using up much of the company's available capital, it has proved to be a wise decision that has revolutionised the business. The lead time has been cut from between six and 10 weeks to an astounding 48 hours from order to finished product.The new machinery has had many other benefits.A one-off tool created for a specific manufacturer can be made in further small batches to stockpile and sell to other markets. Fenn Tool has complete flexibility of design, and tools can be made in a variety of metals and finishes that will do the job more efficiently than a standard drill or cutter. The quality of tools made by a manufacturing robot is extremely high, but the cost per unit is sharply reduced. The new system also offers the company an inexpensive way of researching and developing new products.The investment produced so many benefits that Fenn Tool decided to take out a bank loan to purchase a second, smaller Anca TGX for specials and short production runs.The company's website (www.fenntool.co.uk) is designed and maintained by Clements. A year ago he convinced his colleagures that setting a website would be a shrewd move. He used a simple package and hired technical backup, then went on a company-sponsored course to learn Front Page web design software. He is now able to handle editing and repairing the site himself.The website has proved to be another good investment. In the past, when the management wanted to open up a new territory, they hired a salesman with an engineering background, or trained someone with the right qualifications who went out, making contacts and demonstrating the product. An international salesforce is a possibility but an expensive one.And it may be an unnecessary one. The website is bringing in orders as well as enquiries. Large orders have come from Japan, Spain and the US, and Clements plans to set up a database-led catalogue of products on the site."We're prepared for growth," he says, "and will eventually get into e-commerce in a big way."Potter worried about committing such large sums to new technology but voted for it and is certain that it has been the right thing to do. Although it is too early for the results to show up in yearly accounts, it is clear that costs have fallen and sales are on a sharp upswing. She says: "I would advise other small businesses to take the risk and invest in new technology. Things can go wrong, but it's better to fail trying than to fail for lack of trying."
I love the concept of living without wires - it has always fascinated me, how things can work and interact with no visible connection between them. My keyboard and mouse are cordless, I use my Palm for information storage and retrieval, and I wouldn't be without my mobile phone.It was inevitable, then, that wireless networking technology would at some point enter my life. A wireless Lan (WLan) is a flexible data communication system implemented as an extension or an alternative to a wired network. Mobility and flexibility of working are two of its main benefits, allowing roaming workers the freedom to move around a building while staying connected to the network, maintaining access to the internet, receiving and sending email and printing documents.Using infrared or radio frequency transmissions instead of a physical network connection, WLans transmit and receive data over the air, minimising the need for cabling. Until recently, only vertical markets such as health care, manufacturing and transportation have made extensive use of this type of technology. Now, with breakthroughs in price, speed, performance and roaming capabilities, wireless networks are being recognised as a general purpose alternative for mainstream business use and are ideal for small businesses and home offices.I finally got my excuse to install a wireless network, when I move my home office to a different room. Out came the structured cabling, built-in desks and shelves and in came the decorators. The slight flaw in my grand scheme was the comms corner. Hidden underneath a corner desk were the switchboard, the network hubs, the voice and data patch-panel and the entry point for all our data and telephony services.The options for getting this lot moved were not appealing: either a major job getting BT to reroute and relocate the entry point for the voice and data services, or an unsightly barrage of cables that would have to be either pushed up the wall and through the ceiling to the floor above or recabled along some unsightly route.Fortunately lateral thinking prevailed. If I tidied up and weeded out the comms corner, I could leave it where it was and use wireless technology to extend my network. Wireless Lans work by having access points distributed around the building and special wireless network interface cards installed in computers, either desktop or notebook. Each access point connects into the main network through a hub or switch.With the 3Com AirConnect solution that I finally chose, each access point can support up to 63 simultaneous users up to 100m away. In my environment, I needed one access point, two network cards for my desktop PCs and two PCMCIA cards for my notebook computers. The most troublesome aspect of configuration was finding a computer with an accessible serial port to initially connect to the access point to configure it.In most organisations small and large, a wireless network will complement the traditional, fixed-cable network infrastructure rather than replace it - for instance, to support mobile users in areas such as warehouses.I'm now having an indulgent writing day, sitting on my living room sofa rather than upstairs at my desk, with my notebook computer on my lap and conversing electronically with my colleagues. And yes, the network does reach the end of the garden. All I need now is some sunshine.
Well, it's finally arrived, after much delay, long debates, media hype and recriminations about BT's policy and ability to unbundle the local loop: ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line). But what does it really mean for the small business?My colleague and I are a small business. As working freelance journalists, we write for our living. We also employ a very efficient PA and researcher and we run a service business delivering words and media training. We have all the pressures of a small business: clients, invoices, bills and we have to pay the taxman on time. In addition, we are our own sales and marketing team and we have to manage the cash flow too. When we can find the time, we get to do our real job: communicating.Two years ago, we recognised that the internet had become important to our business, to our personal productivity and was making us more competitive, so we junked our modems and invested in ISDN technology. I must confess I do sometimes miss that magical hiss of the modem handshake connection, but certainly not the delay in getting online.Two ISDN2 lines gave us enough capacity for all our voice and data needs. One pair was dedicated to data and the other to voice services. The instant connection offered meant that we used it whenever we wanted, acting as if we had a permanent connection. Email arrived within minutes of being sent, new work was accepted and delivered electronically, and the internet became a constant source of information and ideas as well as an inexhaustible research tool.Productivity time increased in other ways too - no more searching for the Royal Mail flyer to find out how much postage was required, and journey planning became second nature. However, an episode involving a faulty router that decided to dial up our ISP every 10 seconds or so resulted in the delivery of an enormous telephone bill - so large in fact, it was packed into two huge boxes that had to be delivered by van - and led us to rethink our data strategy.Last year we gave up waiting for the much promised ADSL and swallowed the cost investing in a leased line - 64K of permanent internet connectivity. These were heady days and this time we threw out the tape backup unit and put the responsibility for our backup facilities in the hands ofNetStore.Well, something had to make good use of all that lovely bandwidth in the small hours of the morning.For a small business a good connection to the internet opens up a whole vista of potential applications that you simply couldn't consider on a dial-up, low-bandwidth line. In particular, multimedia applications become realistic with higher bandwidth. I now watch video feeds of conferences or events that I am unable to attend in person - either live or recorded. Distance learning with interactive video is now feasible, with enormous benefits for participants and reduced costs for companies.Audio services over the internet are improving and soon almost no-cost internet telephone calls to anywhere in the world will start to replace our standard telephone services. I must confess that my main use of audio on the internet is to listen to all those lovely worldwide radio stations - it's great for improving my foreign language skills and keeping in touch with what's going on around the world.Online chat has also become a standard business tool for me; it is no longer reserved for keeping in touch with friends and family and late night meaningful conversations. I talk to colleagues during the day, I converse with editors around the world and I even use it for interactive training on how to effectively use the accounting package that I never cease to wrestle with. Article ideas, new synopsis development and client proposals all get thrashed out using chat, along with the usual office banter about the weather, children and the foibles of the latest editor we've come into contact with. It doesn't matter that I may be in California on some press trip, my colleague at his home in London and our PA in the office in Hertfordshire - we all communicate electronically and continue working as a team.This year ADSL finally arrived in our neck of the woods. In one fell swoop we slashed our connectivity costs by more than two-thirds and improved our bandwidth. Despite the plethora of offers from other suppliers we went straight to BTopenworld and signed the office up for the entry-level business service, Business 500 plus. This is designed to support an office network with multiple users.The only hiccup in the process was that we didn't have a standard telephone line, only digital ISDN lines. ADSL needs an analogue line, so one had to be ordered. It was installed within 10 days. BT then insists that the line be checked before it will accept the order for ADSL. If it fails, you don't get a rebate. Fortunately, the line passed and the ADSL man turned up, at the appointed time about three weeks after we had made the initial enquiry.He supplies the router, plugs it in to the telephone line, then tests the service using a test account from his notebook computer and that's it. He will not plug your network into the router and will not configure and test the service from your systems or with your BT account. With hindsight, perhaps if I had asked him nicely he might have set up my BT account, but you have to use the supplied BTopenworld CD to configure your account. It's all done on a wizard with clear and simple instructions. Then suddenly we were all back online after minimal system changes.All in all it was a good experience, and the service is amazingly fast. We're impressed and we like the lower bills too.What is ADSL?ADSL is a fast internet connection technology that is always on, like the mains electricity. In the UK, BT provides the physical connection, because ADSL runs over existing copper cables - in fact it needs an ordinary analogue telephone line. Although BT provides the hardware, you also need to subscribe to a service provided by an ISP. Many ISPs are already offering a complete service including reselling the BT part of the connection.AvailabilityBecause ADSL runs over your ordinary telephone line, the owner of the local exchange must install the equipment and for most people that is BT. Once exchanges have been equipped, ADSL will be available throughout the UK. To check if your area can offer ADSL visitwww.btopenworld.com.PerformanceADSL offers much higher speeds than modems, ISDN or even entry-level leased line connections. A business package can deliver up to 500kbit/sec and 2Mbits/sec from the exchange to the user, and a maximum speed of 256 kbits/sec in the other direction. With a leased line, you're guaranteed your own reserved bandwidth to your ISP, but some ADSL services operate with a contention ratio - several subscribers share the same bandwidth.If they all use the internet at once, the service slows down.Where do you go?Although BT supplies the ADSL infrastructure, there are a number of ISPs which resell the service as part of their overall package. While costs can be lower, the main justification for using one of these alternative suppliers is for additional services, for example allowing people who need to work together to continue to share information from a number of different places - such as customer sites, home or remote locations.
Every business has one basic need in common: money. The usual way to get hold of it, particularly in the case of companies selling products or services to other businesses, is by invoicing. That most basic need pretty much establishes that every business needs a printer. The question is, what sort and how much to spend?The first thing to establish is budget - which isn't the same as price. If a small business or even a sole trader is about to investigate that first printer purchase, the first thing to do is to walk straight past the printers in a showroom and inspect the printer cartridges instead. Look at how much they cost. Go past these and look at the better quality paper. Check the price once more.Now consider the full cost of your printer - a cheapy that uses expensive cartridges and requires the best sort of paper in order not to smudge will cost more over the next couple of years than pricier models. The other thing to look for is memory. A printer with memory will process some tasks itself; those without will leave it all to the computer or network and may slow things down.It's also useful to know a little about the technology behind the printers themselves. They fall into three basic categories: dot matrix, inkjet/bubblejet and laser. Each has its strengths and weaknesses.Dot matrix is the last of the impact printers. It works by hitting pins in the pattern of a letter against a ribbon, which makes an impression on the paper. It has an image as a noisy and old-fashioned technology but it shouldn't necessarily be written off just yet. It's easier to get a dot matrix printer to handle tear-off stationery such as warehouse dockets, and if you need carbon copies of something, it's the only thing that will work. It's true that it's not suited to the quieter office environment, although it's not as loud as it used to be.Bubblejet, also known as inkjet, works by blowing small ink bubbles on to a page. These bubbles go on wet and although they are dry by the time the document emerges, you'll notice a certain smudging effect with porous paper. The cheaper bubblejets can be deceptive in terms of price since the customer isn't always aware that the toner cartridges can run to £20 or more a shot. Look for inexpensive cartridges and particularly refillable ones, and always check that the coloured inks can be refilled separately to cut down on waste.As long as you've checked, though, you'll find bubblejets extremely good value for money and, depending on the model, very flexible indeed. Colour printing is hardly more expensive than mono, so if you want to scan letterheads in for use in future you can save a little on stationery. You can also print good quality photography on photo paper as long as you have a scanner or digital camera; some models will allow printing on other materials such as transparencies. The extras push the price up, so be ruthless about what you need.Laser printers are better quality but they are expensive. If you really want the corporate look on whichever paper you use they are the only choice but will be twice the price of a good inkjet, or 10 times the price if you want colour. The toner goes on to the paper dry so there will be no smudging, and the print quality overall is far more solid than that offered by the cheaper systems. That said, it's now becoming difficult, without a magnifying glass, to distinguish between a good bubblejet and a cheap laser. Most businesses will be OK with a bubblejet; the extremely image-conscious might prefer laser.Aside from these options there are the specialist versions: rugged printers for use in extreme conditions, plotters for medical scanning and technical drawing, and more expensive versions to take A3 as well as A4 paper. The basics, though, are straightforward - just try to buy a printer that's one step more advanced than you actually need, because you'll always find there's a printing task you hadn't anticipated that suddenly looks essential.
More than 80% of UK businesses are aware of e-business, with 88% using email daily, according to the Department of Trade and Industry's international benchmarking study for 2000.The research claims that increasing e-business among British companies is putting the UK ahead of its international partners in trading online, with 27% of companies performing the whole trading process online, from ordering to payment.These impressive if rather surprising statistics can be found on the rebranded website aimed at helping small and medium-sized enterprises to do e-business (www.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk, which has a link to the International Benchmark Study 2000).Despite the figures, there is no room for complacency, is the view of e centre UK, an independent trade association with more than 20 years' history in developing the electronic supply chain. Less surprisingly, the DTI's study also showed that for many companies, significant concerns about online fraud and confidentiality are preventing them from fully embracing e-business processes. Those same concerns are mirrored in e centre UK's dealings with 16,000 member companies drawn from a broad industry cross-section.So what will allay the business community's fears? Adopting good e-business practices to underpin transactions can fill the gap in trust and confidence.All business activity on the internet is based on transactions - be they tendering and contracting, purchasing, planning or paying for goods or services. The single biggest factor in a successful e-commerce strategy is to gain the trust and confidence of your customers and partners in trading online. The use of cryptography and electronic signatures is key to growing that all-important trust and confidence.When you transact with another organisation you want to be sure they are exactly who you think they are and for them to sure of your identity - a process known as authentication.Second, you want to be sure they actually received your communication and cannot pretend that they did not - non-repudiation.You also want to be sure that your communication arrives unaltered in any way - integrity.On some occasions you may also want to be sure that the communication is secret to both parties only - confidentiality.The first three requirements are met by employing electronic signatures, the last by using encryption.Although highly technical, there are many famous historical examples of the use of encryption - Caesar Cipher, Enigma among others. The basic process remains unchanged: the message, or data, and a key are passed through a process which results in the conversion of the initial plain text to ciphertext - a scrambled version of the original. For more on the history, I recommend The Code Book by Simon Singh, published last year.Electronic encryption makes use of mathematical functions to provide the security, with two main types of calculation (or algorithm) - symmetric and asymmetric - currently in use. The fundamental difference between the two is that symmetric encryption uses a shared secret key (both receiver and sender have to know the same secret key), while asymmetric encryption uses two keys (one known by the sender and one known by the receiver), which are mathematically related in a unique way such that one can only decrypt information encrypted by its matching pair.Symmetric encryption is faster to calculate, making it good for encrypting large volumes of information, but requires great care to be taken - in James Bond style! - to issue the same key to both parties.Asymmetric encryption is central to the future of e-business. Here, each person has a public and a private key that are mathematically related. The public keys are listed for all to read in a directory, rather like electronic yellow pages. To communicate securely, the sender can scramble a communication using the receiver's public key. The receiver then uses their private key to decrypt (unscramble) and open the communication. The private key can be issued to the user, or it can be generated directly by the user, so that no one else need ever know it.The process for applying electronic signatures is similar. The sender applies their private key to the electronic document to calculate a unique number (the signature), which is attached to the end of the document transmitted in plain text. The receiver then uses the sender's public key to decrypt the signature. If the document is unchanged, the decryption works. In this way the receiver knows that the document really is from the sender and has not been altered in transit.The framework for these processes is known as the public key infrastructure (PKI). A PKI provides technology for the issue of electronic keys (private and public), combined with a set of rigorous policies and practices and a supporting legal framework to look after these electronic keys. Most businesses will go to a service provider - known as trusted third parties (TTPs) - to provide the security services they need.The joy of electronic signatures and encryption is that you do not need to understand the maths behind them. Most browsers include these facilities and there are good companies offering TTP services. It is straightforward, therefore, to make your business transactions safe using simple, readily available tools. The real challenge is to understand how to weave these securely and effectively into to your day-to-day business operation. Acquiring that understanding will be a key success factor for SMEs over the next year or two.More details about e-signatures and how to use them are available at roadshows run bye centre UK. Good explanations can be found on the websites of the following TTP service providers:www.trustis.com,www.indiciisalus.comorwww.trustwise.co.uk.&#149; Dr Roger Till is director of external affairs for e centre UK.
You've launched your website, and your front- and back-end integration works a treat. But how do you ensure that, among the billion or so web pages that now make up the worldwide web, yours comes up among most preferred by surfers when they use search engines?For any small business determined to use the internet to improve prospects, there can be few greater concerns than how to ensure maximum exposure against a backdrop of the millions of other websites.To date, retrieving a relevant list of results from a search engine has often felt like a lottery, both for the website being sought and the surfer. However, with the help of a fast-growing phenomenon called web positioning, websites can now directly influence the odds of being on the A-list of retrievals.Web positioning, or search optimisation as it is often called, is the process of fine-tuning your website to be more attractive to search engines and feature among the most popular or relevant sites retrieved.The process can range from a concerted webpage submission campaign - automated or manual - to a complete audit of the site, which would examine factors such as browser search engine compatibility, which keywords or strings are used and download speeds, and would then make recommendations accordingly. And there are an increasing number of agencies springing up across the web to provide this service.But why bother? There are several common sense reasons for considering web positioning, rather than leaving the discovery of your website to chance. But the increasing complexity - arising from constant changes in the size and shape of the internet, making it ever more difficult to track down relevant websites - has to be the most compelling one."In the beginning, when you had 500 websites in the UK, you sent your address to Yahoo! and got online almost immediately," acknowledges Gilles Bourdin, vice president of international business development at NetBooster, a French web positioning agency that recently expanded into the burgeoning UK market. "Now things have changed, it's a battle to get visible."If recent research from IDC is any indication, the battle for visibility is set to get even bloodier. The research claims that more than 80% of surfers use some form of search engine to find specific types of website. Of those, only 20% are inclined to look beyond the first three pages of retrieved listings.Put that way, it soon becomes imperative that your site features in the top 30 items on the list or runs the risk of cyber-obscurity.But often, a website can be its own worst enemy. A tendency to overdesign the more recently developed sites can lower the chances of being picked out by a search engine even further.Overuse of frames, tables and dynamically generated content, to stand out from the dotcom crowd can, ironically, ensure that search engines ignore a site altogether, as they can only read text - their business is to find, index and rank key words used on the web pages.As far as the search engines are concerned, there is nothing flash about Flash (the web animation software by Macromedia) or JavaScript, because they push keywords and page titles further down the webpage, decreasing their chances of being detected in the process.In addition, it turns out that different search engines use different, ever-changing criteria for their retrieval process as well as for accepting webpage submissions. Various methodologies are employed by each search engine's "spiders" - the software that trawls across the web to index and rank each site for the retrieval list."For example, AltaVista's spiders look for key words when searching for websites, while Excite's spiders look for page titles and the text within web pages," explains Richard McBriar, managing director of UK-based web positioning outfit Target Traffic.It is precisely this confusion that has given rise to companies such asTarget TrafficandNetBooster. Both are dedicated to web positioning, once offered as a subsidiary service by web design and online media agencies."Some sites are more difficult to position than others, but none are beyond positioning," says Bourdin at NetBooster, which audits the client website, registers it with chosen search tools and directories and maintains its position on the search list thereafter. It guarantees a presence on the first two pages of listings after a year, for around £7,000 and counts Intershop, LibertySurf and lastminute.com's French subsidiary Degriftour among clients.Part of NetBooster's three-tier, bespoke service includes the development and submission of "alias" webpages to a number of search engines in place of unsuitable originals. The aliases contain several keywords and page titles that will coincide with the engine's defined categories, while being made to account for the specific indexing methodology applicable to each search engine.Target Traffic's services, on the other hand, are considerably cheaper and more focused on the small business end of the spectrum. A site audit costs £150 and webpage submissions cost £35 per month.There are also off-the-shelf webpage submission software packages available, such asTop-pileandAddweb, which fire off a site's webpages to a number of search engines at regular intervals, to be included on their indexes. However, no analysis of the site is carried out, and so there is little guarantee of successful submissions, and there is a high risk of spamming as a result of the constant bombardment, to which the engines do not take kindly.On the basis of the more pages from your website that you submit to the search engines, the better you will do in them, Top-pile will submit your homepage and four other pages to the top 40 search engines every two weeks for an annual fee of £120. It also supplies an emailed acknowledgement after a submission has been made, a rank tracking report and a monthly tips and advice newsletter. It counts online recruitment sitewww.netjobs.co.ukamong its satisfied customers.According to Charles Talbot, netJobs' marketing manager, the website now receives 1.5m hits a month and has never advertised offline.However, IDC also suggests 95% of all searches are covered by just 12 top search engines. On that basis, the above method may seem a bit scattergun. But at that price, and as an alternative to ineffectual banner advertising, it has to be a more sensible - and, in the long run, cheaper - alternative to doing nothing at all.
Plenty of websites offer small companies the opportunity to cut costs dramatically by accessing new suppliers in real time. The take-up of these innovative services is being held back, though, by lack of information and widespread fears about trading on the internet."There is still quite a steep learning curve for small and medium-sized enterprises and there is still a certain amount of trepidation about using the internet," admits Helga St Blaize, co-founder ofAce Quote, the business-to-business (B2B) technology marketplace. Nevertheless, she is encouraged by the amount of repeat business the marketplace is attracting."The method of posting up a request online is so much easier than having to make hundreds of phone calls or trawl through the Yellow Pages," she says.Ace Quote's service is free to buyers and there are offline consultants to assist small companies that want to publish tenders or take up supplier offers. Some small companies say they are reluctant to approach suppliers that are untested. But Ace Quote insists all their suppliers are strictly vetted. This process normally takes a day and with any online quote, a supplier has to attach a micro-site explaining their services with references and examples of relevant work. St Blaize adds that once a quote is successfully accepted, there tends to be a series of face-to-face negotiations particularly if it is a complicated tender.Given that suppliers have to go to the trouble of subscribing to Ace Quote, the company believes they have every incentive to satisfy the customers. "Suppliers want this to work because we are giving them genuine leads," St Blaize explains.Independent B2B trading organisations such asNetmarkets Europehave been set up to raise awareness of e-procurement services. "Small businesses need to be more efficient than large companies if they are going to survive," argues Simon Torrance, Netmarkets' chief executive. "But it does take a lot of time to find out what is going to be useful to you."He believes the current crop of e-procurement sites offer small businesses the potential to enjoy the resources of a larger company. He points toGroup Trade, which promises companies savings of 10%-25% on services such as car leasing, office equipment and computer products through a group buying service works by which combines the purchasing power of small companies online.Lloyds TSBrecently launched an e-procurement service for small companies  and hopes its brand values will reassure sceptical business directors. "People still want to deal with a brand they can trust," says Louise Scull, the bank's e-markets director. "Lloyds TSB is one of the most respected brands in the UK in terms of having a reputation for providing a secure and confidential environment." She argues that e-procurement services which can be accessed by small companies through a standard internet browser mean there is no longer any need to invest in expensive purchasing systems.Some directors of independent B2B sites believe small companies have been deterred from adopting these online services because they are hard to use. "B2B marketplaces have to be as easy to use as accessing a single supplier," says Rouzbeh Pirouz, chief executive of Mondus, which offers online purchasing services. "B2B marketplaces have not given people ease of use and no one is going to bend over backwards to use something new."But what if a small company is already satisfied with its existing suppliers and sees no reason to change? Pirouz argues that you should not automatically believe your supplier is always offering you the most cost-effective price. "You don't just need to take your suppliers' word for it - you can compare prices online and go for the best one."Mondus offers no guarantee you will get the service you asked for through its marketplace, but it has set up a self-policing system on its site where buyers can give feedback on the performance of suppliers. "There is a built-in incentive for suppliers to provide a high quality of service," Pirouz explains.Despite the promises of cost- and time-savings as well as business process efficiencies, small companies are not rushing to use these purchasing services. Against the backdrop of high-profile dotcom failures, concerns still linger in directors' minds over whether or not these services will even be around in the long term. Some leading suppliers are also often reluctant to join e-procurement sites. They feel they are only being judged on price and complain they have no opportunities to properly differentiate themselves online.Small companies that do not take advantage of these new e-procurement sites are possibly putting their business at risk in the long run. If competitors start to use them, they could get cheaper prices and gain a significant competitive advantage. Furthermore, if you join an e-procurement site early, there is always a good chance you can have some say over how it develops in the future.
F and MAs the foot and mouth crisis deepens, the need for reliable information is increasing. Of course, the web is stuffed full of sites offering all types of    advice. So the best place to start iswww.maff.gov.uk/animalh/diseases/fmd, which houses the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food's fact-sheet. The Food Standards Agency has also provided special information, this time targeted at consumers, atwww.foodstandards.gov.uk. While the National Farmers Union has been publishing regular bulletins atwww.nfu.org.uk, Guardian Unlimited has an interactive guide atwww.guardian.co.uk/footandmouth.For a simple mathematical answer to how epidemics are spread, try the epidemic simulator athttp://starmap.causeway.co.uk/epidemic.asp.Goodbye MirThe 15-year-old space station might just be debris in the Pacific Ocean, but it leaves a legacy of fascinating websites. One of the best iswww3.mirreentry.com, which claims to be giving away souvenirs from the craft. The site atwww.parallelgraphics.com/miruses VRML "virtual reality" software to show the space station in all its old glory, and graphically details Mir's final descent. There's also an excellent microsite on all the background to Mir atwww.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/mir.The failed attempt to use Mir as a commercial space station is also  well documented atwww.mirstation.com.New artTate Britain's current exhibition, Art Now: Art and Money Online, is dedicated to artists whose work refers to and makes use of the net. Although gallery based, most of the work has some online presence. By far the most beautiful piece on show is Lise Autogena and Joshua Portway'sBlack Shoals Stock Market Planetarium, which renders stockmarket data into a beautiful series of star constellations.Also worth a look is Jon Thomson and Alison Craighead'sCNN Interactive just got more interactive, which hacks into the CNN site (with the corporation's permission, you understand). There is also a notable piece by the Redundant Technology Initiative atwww.lowtech.org. Seewww.tate.org.uk/britain/exhibitions/artnwnet.htmfor more details.Online cultureThe Department for Culture, Media and Sport has launched a new website calledCulture Online. It is a stylish, educational site that houses three web films with supplementary materials.Souped upAn online soup kitchen is the theme for the US site atwww.techsoup.com.  Dedicated to helping non-profit making organisations, it ladles out technology information and advice. The site does useful things like listing IT companies that give dis counts to non-profit organisations. It's also well organised and a delight to use. CompuMentor, a San Francisco-based non-profit organisation, sponsors the website. Should appeal not only to non-profits but to budget-minded firms as well.Join our clubE-circle, the website specialising in online communities, has been relaunched aswww.domeus.co.uk. The site provides free access to a wider range of interesting forums and newsletters, and allows you to set your own up for free. Meanwhile, Freeserve is now offering a similar service for sports fans atwww.freeserve.com/sport.Make a moveWant to make sure that your new workmates have similar interests to you? Then go towww.newmonday.com, which has just launched a professional selection service that matches your cultural preferences with that of potential employers.It's a rapAccording to Real Networks, last year's Online Hip-Hop Awards broadcast was the second highest webcast in internet history. This year's OHHA - to be held on Wednesday - is an annual celebration of hip-hop culture designed to pay homage to website developers, artists, and others who have made significant contributions both on and offline.The awards feature a virtual "people's choice", and OHHA's winners are nominated and chosen directly by their online fans. Seewww.onlinehiphopawards.com.Game onOpengamer.com is a new community site for the games development community. They already have three games in development and are looking for contributors. Seewww.opengamer.com.New and noted&#149;  Microsoft has quietly released a test version of its new-look Internet Explorer 6. Download it fromwww.microsoft.com/windows/ie/preview.&#149; Test your bedroom skillswww.newwoman.co.uk.&#149; Countdown George Bush's time left in office atwww.cadenhead.org/bushclock.&#149; A wicked spin on Matt Drudge's site is atwww.drudgeretort.com.&#149;www.espotting.comis a new type of search engine that rewards users for every link they click on.&#149; Flashiest site of the week? Turn your sound up and go towww.peachfuzz.net/lexaunculpt/main.html.Six of the bestVeggie sitesOne stop shopwww.naturalland.comWeight losswww.lowfatveggiefood.comKids educationwww.veggietales.comDoorstep deliverieswww.myveggiepatch.comThe whole hogwww.vegan.orgVeggie linkshttp://uk.search.yahoo.com/search/ukie?p=veggie&amp;y=y
We call it the web, but is that the right description? What does the internet look like? A British company working on the problem it calls "linkrot" (the estimated 10% of all hyperlinks that lead nowhere) decided the only way to tackle the issue was to map the entire web.Using 40 separate one- terabyte servers,LinkGuardis close to completing the map, which it compares in complexity to the human genome. It claims the map will allow people to examine for the first time how clusters of websites link and interrelate.But this is not the first attempt to map the internet. Many others have worked on the problem, right from the first sketch of a single Arpanet node in 1969 (Seewww.cybergeography.org/atlas/arpanet1.gif). The issue is not as simple as it might sound: after all, what is the internet? Is it the cables? The servers? Or something less tangible?Atwww.cybergeography.org/atlas , Martin Dodge, author of Mapping Cyberspace, curates a museum and gallery with a huge range of approaches, from conceptual atlases    through geographical charts to maps of individual websites and surfing patterns. The most immediately fascinating are the range of artistic interpretations atwww.cybergeography.org/atlas/artistic.html.Scrolling down, it is clear how much these works of art have shaped the way we picture information-space. From the familiar, pioneering light-cycles and Master Control Program of Tron, the classic science fiction film, and later glittering green information-corridors in The Matrix, it also reveals startling discoveries such as hybrid actual-virtual constructions of 'transarchitect' Marcos Novak. Breathtaking towers of information are grafted on to actual glass, steel and light atwww.centrifuge.org/marcos.The site also reminds us that the concept emerged from a much older imagination-technology: the book. When William Gibson first described console cowboys jacking into cyberspace, it sounded much more thrilling than the reality of what we now know of as browsing HTML pages. Researchers are exploring ways of returning to the drama of Gibson's vision by modelling the internet as a world unto itself. At http://map.net you can explore   an internet web directory mapped on to a 3D visual landscape - a kind of Luke Skywalker buzzes Yahoo!sville. How long it will be before games companies extend their interfaces to let you browse the web and shoot your friends at the same time?Games are, of course, already blossoming into virtual worlds: so much so that online geographers have started to map them. Athttp://awmap.vevo.comis a fascinating series of satellite images of the development ofAlphaworld, a truly virtual 3D world constructed entirely by its members. What's most interesting about the pictures, given that the members are able to build the landscape in any way they choose, is how much these top-down images resemble the street-plans of real cities.Gibson's far-reaching vision was surprisingly simple: a city made from light. But there are plenty of people who see no reason why cyberspace should look like our experience of the real world. Artists such as Mark Napier of art collective Potatoland have developed interfaces that stray as far as possible from the everyday    conception of the internet.Shredderis a net-art feature that takes a web page of your choice and mashes it up into something else entirely.It's also possible to combine approaches: to trace the connectivity of the internet over a geographical map of the world as we have pictured it since Magellan. Atwww.geog.ucl.ac.uk/casa/martin/internetspace/gallery.htmlimages from Martin Dodge's own work are shown on the geographical locations of IP address density, in the UK and elsewhere: a visual illustration of the epicentres of the new economy. His gallery also points to http://socrates. berkeley.edu/%7Ezook/domain_names/ to view images from Matthew Zook's work on domain name ownership by geographical location.The visual awkwardness of some of these maps echoes the difficulties solved by Harry Beck in the 1930s, when he revolutionised the map of the London Underground by fudging the actual locations of the stations. Certainly the prettiest maps of the internet are those that have nothing to do with where the websites are based:Bell Laboratoriesand theCooperative Association for Internet Data Analysishave some of the most colourful examples.The real beauty of all these maps is that they tell us that despite the garish colours, over-use of Flash animations and misspelled text, the web is still full of the future.
It is a bracingly cool wind that rushes through the streets of Helsinki in mid-March. And not only does it chill you to the bone, it blows through your mind too.Imagine a society where the computer hacker isn't a figure of fear or derision, but something of a national hero (Linus Torvalds). Imagine a country where the leading thinkers and policy-makers are comfortable with the idea of "open source" - not just as software, but as a model for education, social services, even democracy itself.As a technoculture, Finland is much more than the might of Nokia and its latest stockmarket valuations. The higher values of the net - participation, sharing of resources, love of knowledge - seem deeply hard-wired into this culture. The latest evidence is a new book by philosopher Pekka Himanen, endorsed by Torvalds, called The Hacker Ethic and the Spirit of the Information Age.As I observed the fuss generated by its launch in Helsinki last week - TV shows, newspaper editorials, high-level seminars - I was stunned by the general willingness to embrace the ideas. One Microsoft executive recently described the rise of open source as an "un-American" activity. Listening to Himanen lead vibrant public discussions on the extension of hacker values into the rest of society, what he calls "social hackerism", the man from Seattle probably got it right.Himanen, who teaches at the University of California at Berkeley most of the year, professes his admiration for US pioneers such as Richard Stallman and Eric Raymond, and sees the ethical challenge of the hackers as part of a global critique of technology. What is the true purpose of innovation? How much should creativity be at the service of profit?But there is no doubt that the Hacker Ethic is the Finnish ethic too. The cascade of free-software applications that have come out of Finland over past two decades - not just Linux, but anonymous remailing, Internet Relay Chat, and others - emerge from a specific social context. To explain it, you need to look how the Finns deploy their power and money in public services.For example, Finland has an almost utopian education system - not just free of charge at all levels, but free of deadlines as well. The average length it takes for a Finn to finish their MA is about six to seven years (10 years is not unknown). And in that time, they are playing around with knowledge and technology, feeling their way into their life's vocation. That is what Torvalds did, tinkering with   his operating system kernel at home and in the university's computer labs, in the long spaces between exams. The mighty Linux - soon to become part of IBM's latest multi-million dollar software campaign - began as the compulsive hobby of a dawdling student.Ever the classicist (Finns are entrancingly proud of their "humanistic" tradition), Himanen reminded me of the Greek roots of the word scholar - shkole, meaning "the ability to organise your own time, and not learn like a slave". Himanen's thinking helps us to connect the furious keytapping of pallid geeks to a much wider multitude of social "players" who refuse to accept that   their passions, talents and creativity should be corralled within the compound of "work". This could be radical parents reforming the work place, the irrepressible hedonists of pop culture, or the steady increase in green and spiritual lifestyles.How depressing it was to step off the FinnAir plane, still enthused by the experience of a prosperous society of mass scholars, inventing   the future at their leisure, and walk into the pre-election brutalities of New Labour. Everyone to work, says the chancellor Gordon Brown, no matter what the job entails, no matter how pointless it is. For in the land of New Labour, the soul's play-day is still the Devil's work-day; and idleness delivers the poor unto his scaly hands.Yet it's the soulful, playful, scholarly "idleness" of hackers which have partly helped to swell Brown's pre-election coffers. All those world-changing, freely-gifted innovations produced - HTTP, TCP/IP, Perl, Apache, Sendmail, and Linux - have provided the very backbone for the network economy.Rather than coercing the   poor into their brain-destroying McJobs, perhaps the chancellor should be thinking about how to make them all ethical hackers. True, you might be time-rich and cash-poor if you're not in the labour market. But if you're knowledge-rich and facilities-rich as well then experimentation and creative play become your vocation. Look at pop music, fuelled by passion, technology and a lot of unspecific fiddling around. Hackers and rockers are spun from the same ethical DNA.So it's possible that some unemployable, disaffected kid, glommed on to a PC for days, nights and months on end, supported by free education and decent social support, could come up with the next geek miracle for Britain. But as long as the Protestant work ethic dominates government thinking, targeting resources to shape a nation of dutiful workers instead of a nation of unruly players and creators, that's an unlikely scenario.None of the Finns I talked to could tell me what the next world-transforming code to come out of the country would be. But they seemed quietly confident that, in the geek trenches of Finland's information society, something would emerge. "We don't pick winners," a government futurist told me. "We give people the competence to exercise their freedom." A hacker ethic for a hacker nation. Would that the bracing winds from Helsinki's streets occasionally blew in this direction, too.&#149;  Pat Kane's The Play Ethic: Living Creatively in the 21st Century will be published by Macmillan at the end of the year. Find out more atwww.theplayethic.com.
Britain's place in the internet revolution is being undermined by BT's failure to provide sufficient and affordable high-speed web access, says a report.Research from analysts Point Topic claims that Britons pay the world's highest prices for DSL - digital subscriber line - technology, the cornerstone of development. And of 5.6m DSL users worldwide at the end of 2000, 38,000, or 0.7%, were British.DSL is up to 40 times faster than dial-up services. It has the advantage of using the existing phone network, is always online and allows users to make calls at the same time.The report claims BT has failed to meet its targets for DSL introduction, and charges much more than any other major country. Taiwan is the cheapest, as little as &#163;11.50 a month, followed by Canada at &#163;18.50 a month. DSL from BT's internet service provider, Openworld, is more than &#163;50, says the report. Other providers offer DSL but buy   lines wholesale from BT, and the price remains high, Point Topic claimed. Germany and Italy are &#163;32 a month, comparable with mid-range US companies; France is &#163;6 a month cheaper than the UK.Europe has 544,000 users compared with 2.2m in the US and Canada, and 2.3m in Asia. Even by Europe's standards, Britain's 8,000 users was poor. Germany had 180,000, Italy 72,000, and France 64,000. Even Sweden and Denmark, with 50,000 and 40,000 respectively, outstrip the UK.John Bosnell, one of the   report's editors, said: "We knew BT had had problems, but we were surprised by how poorly Britain fares compared with the rest of the world."Rebecca Webster, of BT Ignite, the subsidiary responsible for the technology, questioned Point Topic's figures and denied BT undermined e-commerce. "We got off the starting blocks later than other countries, but we are catching up. It took Germany a year to get where we are in six months. We believe we offer our customers good value for money."
Although the first mobile handsets supporting the Bluetooth wireless personal area network (PAN), and plug-in adapters for existing handsets, are only now starting to appear in UK shops, they have been available in Scandinavia for several months.And, while the technology has been almost as overhyped as Wap was by BT Cellnet almost a year ago, the potential benefits of Bluetooth will be even more profound - provided the "killer applications" arrive in time.Killer applications are what makes the difference between a technology being life-changing or mundane. A classic example is text messaging, which has made mobile phone users realise that there's more to their handsets than plain old voice calls - and Bluetooth has the potential to do a lot more.The idea behind Bluetooth is simple - make a mobile device capable of communicating wirelessly at speeds of up to 700 kilobits per second (Kbps) at ranges of between 10 and 30 metres, using lower power radio frequencies.For the tech-heads out there, Bluetooth operates in the 2.4 MHz waveband using spread spectrum techniques. This means that the chipsets can be cheap, mass-produced and guzzle only a little power from the host device they are installed in.Ericsson would like us all to use Bluetooth. Late last year, the Swedish company partnered withICA Ahold, a Swedish retail chain, to trial the world's first retail Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone service.According to Jurgen Wennberg, ICA Ahold's vice president, the service to shoppers in the chain's test store in Tdby, near Stockholm, is amazing.Using their Wap mobile phones, he says, users can move around the store, check their account balance, pay for goods at the till   using their mobile, and be notified of the latest in-store offers.Unlike location-based wireless services, whose accuracy is limited to a few hundred metres at best, Bluetooth is very short range, meaning that, as shoppers trundle around the store, they can access department- specific information services. Customers in the deli section, for example, can be told the offers of the day via their mobile's screen.And ICA Ahold can also use the Bluetooth technology to spot its store card customers, and even segment them according to standard or gold card categories."We can send gold card holders quite specific messages, such as special offers for them. The possibilities are endless," said Wennberg.At the till the customer can tell the operator they wish to pay with their store card account, using their mobile.The till operator hits a button and the transaction is carried out using the shopper's mobile phone. Details of the purchases are then relayed to the mobile and, if the shopper agrees, they input their PIN code to the mobile phone.Ericsson is also promoting Bluetooth as the route to shopper nirvana outside stores, as users go about their daily travels.The company has developed a version of Bluetooth called Bluetooth Local Infotainment Point - Blip.The idea behind it is that interested parties install a Bluetooth-compliant server, usually on a standalone basis, and then plug it into the internet.Users with Bluetooth devices can then access the   mobile internet via their nearest Blip station, rather than rely on cellular networks.This is much faster than regular WAP, which only works at 9.6Kbps for most people, and at around 30-40Kbps for a minority of users with the latest high-speed (GPRS) handsets.Wap via Bluetooth, on the other hand, zips along at up to 700Kbps, making for very rapid mobile internet sessions.The basic Blip platform is a Linux-driven PC in small system box, which Ericsson says can be bolted to an advertising hoarding. This allows users to receive more information on the advert - as well as surfing the mobile internet at the advertisers' cost.The advertisers' costs for a Blip station are relatively low, and fixed, since the Blip terminal can connect to the regular internet using a cable modem or ADSL connection. The Bluetooth radio channel usage is free.Ericsson expects that Blips will take off quickly, once Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones and other devices become popular.Peter Lundin, Ericsson's Blip MD, says that the technology introduces a whole new dimension into mobile networks.He also expects that, within a few years, "blipping" on the move is likely to become as common as web surfing from the desk is today.But Ericsson isn't waiting for potential users to beat a path to its door. It has struck a series of partnerships to ensure that the Blip technology reaches out into the marketplace.In the advertisement scenario, the firm says that passers-by could quickly blip download a discount coupon, and further information, for the product or service being promoted, and use their phone to authenticate the discount at a retail outlet.Don't rush out and look for Blip stations just yet, as Ericsson says it doesn't expect the first stations to be rolled out much before the summer. By which time a sizeable number of new mobile phones will be Bluetooth-enabled.
What made you think that internet cafes would be a sustainable business model?My experience from EasyJet was if you take a product or service and make it significantly cheaper than the competitors a lot more people will use it. In the case of internet cafes, there were a series of owner-managed, small and nerdy cafes that were charging a high price but not offering a good service. I thought if I could scale up the business, instead of keeping it a cottage industry, then we could charge less and offer a better service. Most business people make the mistake of assuming that everyone in the world has a computer and internet access, whereas I found out that there are plenty of people who don't.What's the general demographic of EasyEverything users?In London, half the users are travellers, although not necessarily tourists. The other half are locals who either don't have internet access or, interestingly, already have access but come into the shops for social reasons.What was your first encounter with computers?At the London School of Economics in the mid-80s I took my first lesson in computing. I then bought my first Amstrad, which was non-IBM compatible. I realised fairly quickly what a powerful tool it was. I moved on to an8086machine with floppy disk only - if you pulled the plug out then you lost all your work! All my companies now are highly reliant on computers. I've moved all the email systems of my companies on to the web. I don't need any hardware or paper and I can log in and access my email from anywhere. I actually use our shops for that too. The one thing I've moved away from is using a laptop.What technology do visitors to your net cafes have?We use flat-panel screens and each shop has about 8MB of fibre-optic line which gives you an experience that is unaffordable from home. We're fitting shops in London with webcams, phones and Microsoft Office 2001.Can the dot.com world still make money?There's no substitute for a good business plan, strong management and good execution. The internet is only a tool and if the business is not good enough then the net won't help you. For a while, anyone who claimed to use the net seemed able to raise money, but now the emphasis is back where it should be on the business itself. For a year the normal rules of business were suspended and everybody thought you could keep on losing money indefinitely. The internet is an amazingly powerful tool, though. My airline is using it for 85% of its sales and my car rental company uses it 100%.Any favourite websites?I book my air-travel and buy CDs online. Other than my own companies' sites I tend to end up onYahoo Financefor stocks etc. I also visit theBBCandFinancial Timessites often.Visit:www.easyeverything.com/
US backward?Online reported last week: "Sweden scores highly in the Information Society Index (ISI) because of the number of telephone lines and mobile phones in use".Why is mobile phone use taken as such a yardstick given that the US, especially, is a spectacular exception to such "rules"?Mobile phone use in the US is less than that in other advanced countries because the regulatory authority decided that a call from a fixed line to a mobile should be paid for by the mobile user. In Europe, it is the person initiating the call who pays. In other words, initially at least, in Europe fixed line users subsidised the mobile phone industry but Americans made a conscious decision for that not to happen. You can argue the pros and cons of that but to condemn the Americans as less advanced for doing what they did is simply ridiculous.The implication is that people "must" have mobiles to be considered advanced. The use of such criteria at least calls into question the entire basis of the ISI and at worst invalidates it entirely.Declaration of interest: I have never had a mobile phone and hope it will be a long time indeed before I do.Frank Desmondfrank.d@ireland.comGo slowLiving in an ADSL trial area since 1998, I expected that it would be easy for me to move to Openworld. BT was happy to accept my order, but for four months "administrative procedures" have prevented its execution. The trial failed a couple of months ago and as far as BT is concerned that's that. Far from making my business go 40 times faster, (see the ad on page 6 of last week's Online), this is more likely to bring it to a halt.Stephen Coleascott.allotments@ btinternet.comMissing creditThe supplement in this week's Online was interesting for more than just its content - though its devotion to NTL was obvious. "Get the web you want" - but with NTL. However, there were no credits other than for the photographs, so who wrote it? I think we should be told...Christine Findlayrobanddinah@btinternet.comOnline replies: The NTL supplement was paid for by NTL and produced without any input from the Online team. This, with hindsight, should have been made clearer. Apologies for any confusion.Still swappingWith reference to Napster alternatives (Online, March 22), my experience has been the complete opposite to the author's.Napster is still usable, but I now use Bearshare and File Navigator instead as I have found them to be better.To get the best out of Bearshare, you really do need to read the instructions. With Bearshare, it is necessary to wait until you have connected to a few stable hosts before searches can be effective.It is possible to select more than one file for download at the same time. Files can be selected in the same way as with Windows Explorer, by pressing the CTRL key and then selecting as many files for download as you want.The alternative is to use the shift key and select a whole block, then click the right mouse button and select "download".  All of your selections will be sent to the download page at the same time. Just wait until one of these files starts to download and delete the rest.  You will find that this tip vastly improves effectiveness.Jeff Heslopjeff.heslop@lineone.netRobo taxedSo, if I plug a keyboard into RoboDog, I can do my tax returns on it (Online, March 22)?  Excellent! Now, into which orifice is the keyboard plug inserted?Antony Hawkinsa.d.hawkins@shef.ac.uk
Today, many people start using electronic mail through their web browser (Start here, March 14). However, email is much older than the web. Tens of millions of people still use proprietary mail services that do not follow internet standards, such as America Online's AOL Mail. Many more millions use dedicated email software such as Eudora, though by far the most common system now is Microsoft's Outlook Express.The disadvantage with web-based mail services such as Microsoft's Hotmail is that users tend to stay online while they read and reply to letters. This can take hours. It can also result in high telephone charges for time online. Of course, you can write mail offline, in a word processor, then copy   and paste it into a message window, but not many people do.Dedicated email software works in a different way: it collects letters in batches from a mailbox.The mailbox is an electronic pigeonhole on a central computer called a server. When someone sends you email, that is where it is stored. Your email software connects to the mail server, downloads messages to your personal computer, and puts them into an inbox.You can either trigger a mail collection manually, or set your mail software to dial up at regular intervals. When mail arrives, you can read and reply to it offline (while not connected to the internet). Because your mail is on your computer, you can keep as much as you like, and take back-up copies for security.Email software provides other features that allow you to take control of your mail. For example, you should be able to set up "filters" or "rules" that treat certain types of mail in different ways. You could have mail from your boss downloaded into a separate folder, for example. You could also   have any email that includes an attachment above a certain size (500K is reasonable) deleted automatically.Mail servers use two standard internet protocols: POP3 and SMTP. POP3 (Post Office Protocol) is used for storing email and enabling you to collect it. The server uses SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) to send email to other servers. You need to know the addresses for both. Your ISP (internet service provider) usually tells you what they are, but they are often easy to guess.Examples of POP3 addresses include pop3. btclick.com , pop.freeserve. net , and pop.mail.yahoo.com .To set up a service in Outlook Express 5, go to the Tools menu, select Accounts, and click on the tab marked Mail. Next click the button at the top right, marked Add, and select Mail from the pop-up menu. After that, the wizard will take you through the process.Step one: type in the name you want shown, and click Next. Step two: type or paste in your email address on the service you want to use (joe.bloggs@btclick. com) and click Next. Step three: type or paste in the    POP3 and SMTP addresses for incoming ( pop3.btclick.com ) and outgoing ( smtp.btclick. com ) mail and click Next. Step four: type in your account name and password, and click Next.If you have done everything right, you have now set up a POP3 account, so click Finish and close the tabbed dialogue box. You can now send and receive messages.To write a letter, click on the New Mail icon, or press Ctrl-N.If you already have other email services installed, such as Hotmail, you can select the new one from the drop-down menu at the right hand end of the From: line.When you have finished,   press Alt-S to save the message in your Outbox, ready for sending.To send and receive mail, simply click the Send and Receive icon. Your letter will be sent, and the copy moved to the Sent folder. If you have more than one mail service, select Tools | Send and Receive then choose the one you want from the drop-down list, or click the small arrow next to the Send and Receive icon. By default, Outlook Express puts all mail from different POP3 services (not Hotmail) into the same Inbox.The layout in Outlook Express 5 is controlled from the View | Layout menu. This   is important. If you get a lot of "spam" (unwanted commercial email) you may want to delete it quickly, without the message being displayed in the "preview pane". You can do this by unticking the box next to "Show preview pane". This will also enable you to delete some mail messages that may otherwise try to dial out.The Layout box also lets you decide whether or not to show contacts from the address book, which toolbars to display, and so on.Most other settings are stored under Tools | Options, including Mail sending format. This lets you select either HTML or Plain Text as the default. HTML or "rich text" means you can use web-style formatting with different sizes, types and colours for text; you can also include images.Unfortunately, it also means your messages will be larger and more complicated, and may arrive as an attachment the recipient cannot read."Netiquette" demands that you should never reply to a plain text message in HTML, or send attachments without asking first.
WebmasterPC/MacIntosh 	&#163;19.99 Ijsfontein/TivolaThe American journalist JC Herz cheekily claimed in her book Joystick Nation that video games were the perfect education for a generation likely to spend much of its adult life interacting in virtual spaces on the net.At first sight, Webmaster seems a rather literal response, in that its gameplay supposedly revolves around the basics of net surfing.Players take on the role of heroic webmaster, saving the "dream wide web" from an evil hacker. And salvation comes through clicking from site to site looking for crucial bits of information. Players can bookmark useful sites and visit discussion groups to pick up hints on how to battle the hacker and his viruses.So should parents be queuing up to buy Webmaster in   the hope that it will help them get the net and have fun at the same time? In a word, no.Webmaster doesn't really deliver on either count. All the stuff about the web bears little relation to the real internet, and is being used (bizarrely) to make a standard point and click adventure seem glamorous.Perhaps it will work for the game's target audience, though you wonder whether 10-12 year olds will have the patience to master the klunky interface, getting a cursor-style glove to hop back and forth.However, they might like the mix of gameplay styles. The "sites" players visit are Myst-like locations where they pick up the cards and clues to help them through the hacker's firewalls. And to get to the sites they cruise down the "information superhighway" (honestly), where the action is more arcade-like.Webmaster looks nice, in a Dali-does-high-tech way, and it is not without clever touches. But, overall, it feels slow and worthy. And any 10 year-old with online experience will find the web imagery cheesy.  (JM)Two Fat LadiesWindows 95/98/Me	&#163;17.99 Sierra HomeComputers and cookery have never joined forces with completely happy results. People cook, and they read about cooking, and they watch it on TV.But attempts to marry all three activities in multimedia form have never cut the mustard, whether Dijon or Colmans.Two Fat Ladies is the latest failure. In essence this offers   200 recipes (some illustrated) along with tips and a glossary, 23 QuickTime videoclips from the TV series, and the MasterCook recipe-writing system.Sadly, the parts do not match together what they did separately, in their original formats. The recipes are easier to use in book form, and the visual information in the   photographs comes across more strongly in print than in the images on this CD-Rom. The video content is more edifying and informative if you watch it on TV. And MasterCook, though a powerful tool, takes a lot of dedication.Worse still, getting from one part of the package to another can be difficult.What made the Paterson-Dixon Wright team so engaging was its irreverent approach to cooking and its eccentricity in general. The CD gives little more than a tantalising taste of those qualities. And I can't help thinking that both of them would sneer at the MasterCook nutritional analyses, which let you sniff out every microgram of sodium and saturated fat in the dish you're thinking of cooking.The ladies may be fat - and long may they reign in televised repeats - but the attractions here are as slender as a supermodel's ankle. Buy the books, and the videos, and maybe even MasterCook if you're ready to work hard. But this CD is something you can safely leave on the shelf.  (RE)
With the amount of hype surrounding the humble text message, it could be easy to forget that the explosion in the service's popularity has only really taken place in the past year.In July 1999, when Online first reported on the growth of text messaging, one billion text messages were being sent each month.By January last year that figure had grown to four billion, before a wave of publicity highlighted this once obscure service's usefulness.Now, 15 billion messages are sent globally every month. As the figure continues to soar, newspapers tell of dramatic rescues by text message and mini-dictionaries detail a new language springing up in the text's confined spaces.But what if you've missed the boat? Staring at your mobile, what if you don't have a clue how to join in? Feel left out no more - here is Online's guide to texting for the three most popular brands of mobile.We have opted for popular, well-established models rather than the latest whizz-bang versions, but still cannot detail every nuance in each model. But we hope our step-by-step guide points you in the right direction.Keying textThe procedure for entering characters into your mobile is much the same, whatever model you are using. When you arrive at the text writing screen (following the steps published on these pages), the   characters printed on the keys of your phone become available. Thus, if you press the 2 key once, you get an A. Press the 5 key twice you get a K, and so on.The 1 key usually throws up special characters like full stops and commas, while the   * or # key normally allows you to switch between upper and lower case letters.Some phones now also offer predictive text input - where you only need to press each key once, and the phone guesses the word you want to type.NokiaSending a text message1 Press the Menu button and use the down key to scroll move to the messages screen. Press select.2 Use the down key to move to Write messages and press select.3 A blank screen appears. Enter your message. For lower case letters, press the # key in the bottom right hand corner of the keypad. For capital letters, press the # again.4 The number of characters you have left in your message (the maximum is 160) is shown in the top right hand corner of the screen.5 When you are finished, press the Options key. Select OK when Send is highlighted.6 Enter the recipient's phone number. If you want to search for the number in the phone's memory, press Search and scroll through the numbers using the arrow keys until you find the right number. Press OK.7 Press OK, and the message will be sent
You may or may not have a novel inside you but everyone, surely, has one text poem waiting to come out: a mere 160 characters in search of an author.To find out, the Guardian is today launching the first text message poetry competition with Guardian Unlimited and in association with Consult Hyperion, which built the infrastructure.It is open to everyone, particularly those who have never thought of writing a poem before. A prize of &#163;1,000 will be given for the best entry, &#163;500 for the second best and &#163;100 for each of three runners-up. It is the first competition of its kind with a special interactive feature. The final short list of seven poems will be "texted" to all entrants - one poem a day for seven days - so participants themselves will be the ultimate judges.Otherwise, there are no rules. It is up to participants whether they use ordinary language or interlace it with text messaging shorthand - and whether full stops are used or a symbol to indicate the end of a line. You can, as Andrew Wilson suggests  stick to one theme, or try to pack in as many as you can. This is a new literary form and it must be left to define its own parameters. In this competition the medium really is the message.Text messaging has already become one of the most successful activities of all time. A few years ago it had hardly been heard of. Yet last year more than six billion individual messages were sent   between mobile phones in the UK alone. In January this year over 900m were sent. Mostly they involve the exchange of service information, facts, sport updates, share prices, trivia and gossip. In the process, text messaging has created a whole new layer of remote person-to-person social exchanges.And we are only at the start of what is clearly going to be a massive communications revolution, in which virtually everyone in the industrialised world will have a mobile device - eventually capable of two-way video links - with them all the time.Text messaging can also be used creatively, and the Guardian competition will test the possibilities. The procedure is simple. For two weeks from today, mobile phone users can submit poems of no more than 160 characters (the maximum possible with a text message) by sending them to07753 828610. You can send more than one but remember you will have to pay the usual cost charged by your service provider. A selection of poems from the entries will be featured every day on Guardian Unlimited along with the full terms and conditions of the competition.If you can't send a text message then now is the time to learn. It is probably the simplest of all the information age techniques to master.All entrants will receive an acknowledgement of their summissions on April 22 just before the final seven are judged. Only one notification per phone will be sent.Before that Matt Locke, artistic director of The Media Centre in Huddersfield (www.test.org.uk) and Andrew Wilson, editor of Centrifugalforces (www.centrifugalforces.co.uk ), who suggested the interactive element, will draw up a "long" shortlist of 100.This will then be reduced to seven by an expert panel: UA Fanthorpe, described in the Financial Times as "the poet who can suddenly hit you below the heart"; Peter Sansom, former poet in residence with Marks and Spencer; and Justine Jordan, Guardian Unlimited books editor.On April 22, all entrants will be texted a message to remind them that, starting the following day, they will be sent one of the final seven poems every day for a week at around lunchtime for judging. They should reply, immediately if possible, with a mark from 1 to 10 (numerals, please, not letters). Only those responding to the first request will be sent the remaining six entries.Winners will be notified by phone on May 2 and the results, together with examples of other entries, will be published in Guardian Online on May 3.No employees of the Guardian, Consult Hyperion or anyone connected to the competition or its promotion may enter. We reserve the right to adjust the rules if there is an unexpectedly large number of entries.Step by step1. Mar 29 to April 13: Text us a poem to 07753 8286102. April 14: Sifting begins to produce a shortlist of 1003. April 19: Judges meet to decide the final seven poems4. April 22: Entrants to be reminded of the judging process5. April 23: Entrants to be texted a poem a day for seven days. Give each a mark out of 10 (in numerals) and send it back6. May 3: Results will be published in OnlineSamples of poems received will be in next week's Online
If you are at a bus stop, on a train or in a bar for more than five minutes, you are sure to see someone tapping away on their mobile phone, writing or reading a text message. Millions are sent every day, partly because they are cheap, but mostly because it is enjoyable.It is exciting to see the little message symbol on the screen in the same way that it is exciting to get a letter. It is not going to put us on the spot, in the way answering a phone call could. There's time to consider what has been sent, try to read betweeen the lines, puzzle over double meanings: do they really fancy us, or are they just being friendly? Text messaging allows almost instantaneous correspondence that we wouldn't want to be overheard on the train: what our boss is really like; what we did, or wished we hadn't done, the night before.Most importantly, text messages let us think about our reply, choose our words carefully. They let us try to say   something clever or cool, use written words to strike a pose or have a calculated effect. Then the message gets sent, the words bounce around in the ether, and at the other end someone tries to work out what it means: do we really fancy them, or are we just being friendly? That gap between what we think our words mean, what we try to make them say, and what they say for themselves, is poetry.More people are using words creatively and inventively than at any time in the   history of the English language. We are all poets and we don't even know it. Yet, writing text message poems is as easy as writing text messages. I started my first one, Summer Dresses, while waiting for a bus, on one of the few hot days in Leeds last summer. Since then I've written quite a few, and begun to notice what the better ones have in common.Text messages are short, so the subject has to be tackled in a way that will fit into 160 characters. There isn't space to tell much of a story. A text message poem has to find one truthful moment and describe it, whether it's seeing the red moon during the lunar eclipse - or not seeing it becaue it was cloudy; the way everyone stands up at once during a football match; a child asleep in the back of the car on the way home from a holiday. Ezra Pound called it the luminous detail. Find it, show it and let it speak for itself.Mobile phones have   become workaday tools. Text messages are written in everyday words about our everyday lives. Handled with care, that's good enough to be poetry. A poem doesn't have to be written in a different language - poetry speak - just because we want it to mean something. A poem will find a meaning anyway, whether we like it or not.Different makes of phone have different sized screens, so there is no way to control how a poem is laid out to the reader. The only way to control the rhythm and pace of what is being read is by choice of words and punctuation.Text messages have developed their own shorthand vocabulary in order to save space. There is nothing wrong with using these abbreviations in a playful, inventive way, but be aware of the effect that they will have on the reader. The eye will skim across an abbreviation without properly reading the words, and so speed up the pace of what comes next and   give it a breathless, must-dash feel. This will be perfect if the poem is about being late for a date, but might not be appropriate if it's about burying your little brother's hamster at the bottom of the garden.It is useful to give the poem a title. It will forewarn the reader that what is coming next is not the usual "See you in the pub at half eight" message. Putting the title in capitals and the rest of the poem in lower case is the simplest way to make it stand out.Text message poems have to be written on phone screens. Seeing the counter of remaining characters ticking down gives a sense of how to structure a poem so it fits. Poems written on paper then keyed in always seem to be 25 characters too long, then it's heartbreaking deciding which really good bit to leave out.Anyone can write a text message poem. They are just everyday language used carefully. This is poetry, however you write it.
Once upon a time in Hollywood, tradition decreed that if you wanted success, you had to get out there and fight for it. But now the web may be making the battle to get noticed just that little bit easier.Two of this year's Oscar nominated short films, The Periwig Maker and Una Historia de Futebol, were picked up, not through the traditional route of producers and agents, but straight off film websites. For aspiring directors entranced by the rags to riches mythology of the film world, the internet is providing both hope, and a new way to ensure their latest effort lands on the right desk.Neither film won an Oscar, but both gained valuable publicity. If the films sparked interest among any member of the global Oscars audience they can click online and instantly view either of the films in their entirety. AtAtomfilms.comaudiences can see the nomination for Best Animated Short Film, directors Steffen and Arnette Schaffler's darkly poignant tale of pestilence and paternalism The Periwig Maker (based on Daniel Defoe's A Journal of the Plague Year).Over onwww.ifilm.comviewers can watch Paulo Machline's Una Historia de Futebol, one of the nominations for Best Short Live Action. A slice of popular subtitled nostalgia, the film is based around the mellow recollections of a group of ageing friends as they remember their childhood games of football in small town Brazil.Traditionally the only option available to aspiring directors was to hassle agents and production companies who would routinely ignore almost everything that dropped on their desk.But in a land where dot.com opportunities are never ignored for long, it was only a matter of time before someone would try and use the internet to close the gap between the thousands of hopefuls and the influential few. Webfilm portals soon sprang up, offering a tantalising glimpse of success for those willing to cough up the dollars necessary to get online.But it is not just films being picked up from the web. Paramount recently announced it had snapped up Mark Smith's western script, The Devil's Kiss for Mel Gibson's Icon Productions from ScriptShark, an IFilm site that provides script analysis for amateur screenwriters. But the odds   are still slim. Only 5% of the scripts submitted to ScriptShark are actually published on the web, and even then it is rare for anyone in the industry to pick anything up. The site only lists four success stories alongside the dozens of scripts on offer. But for those wannabes willing to do anything to catch a producer's eye, these must look like sweet odds indeed compared to their pre-internet options.But for every reputable site like Atomfilms.com, IFilm.com, Inzide.com or ScriptShark, there are many others capitalising on the desperation of those trying to make it, and offering very little in the way of a return for their dollars.However, there is always the option of building your own website. "We were so sick of the commissioning process," says writer Jane Sussman (Smack the Pony and The Fast Show), who   co-wrote the comedy The Junkies, and received developmental money from Channel 4 after they saw it online. "We got fed up of waiting for something to happen and decided the only way to get on was to get it out there and make it ourselves."The British independent filmmakers' mailing listwww.shootingpeople.comis full of questions on how to get films online, and debate inspired by the web's potential for keeping filmmakers in control of   their own publicity.For those who haven't yet made it, the web can also offer a community, some critical redirection and a sense of purpose. The Francis Ford Coppola-ownedwww.Zoetrope.comoffers a "virtual studio" and writer's workshop, where scripts can be posted and commented on by other writers. While this has the potential to be fairly crushing, it does introduce writers to the harsh realities of the industry, and helps give them focus. Alliance Atlantis recently bought two scripts from Zoetrope.com's screenplay workshop, and this should be enough to keep the hopeful hoping, and persuade newcomers that the site has an influential audience.Perhaps online film's    time is coming. The dot.com crash is beginning to fade from memory, investors are once again showing a cautious interest in internet film, and members of the Hollywood elite are following the indie hopefuls online. Despite being burned by the high-profile failure of his film sitewww.pop.com, Steven Speilberg is back screening short films starring Steve Martin and Gwyneth Paltrow at the blossoming film fan sitewww.countingdown.com.But despite all the help the web can offer, success in Hollywood still depends on having killer ambition. If you can contemplate failure, you're never going to make it. As a cynical Paul Newman once commented, "Show me a good loser, and I'll show you a loser".
More than 30 people, including a 13-year-old boy and a man working for a national youth organisation, were arrested yesterday in dawn raids on the homes of suspected paedophiles who collect and distribute obscene computer images of children.Twenty-five forces in England, Scotland and Wales took part in the operation, codenamed Appal and coordinated by Greater Manchester police. The move followed a four-month investigation by the force into paedophile activity on the internet during which officers observed, but did not take part in, sessions on dedicated chat channels.More than 40 homes, from the north of Scotland to Dorset, were raided and computer equipment seized as Manchester officers warned those trading in the images - many of which showed children being abused - that they would be tracked down and charged."People have referred to this as the dark side of the internet," said Med Hughes, Manchester's assistant chief constable. "We are going to shine a beam of light into that, start opening up that world and prosecuting those responsible."The Manchester force, which has a long-established obscene publications unit, with a staff of six, has linked up with SurfControl, a private company specialising in responsible internet use.After a chance viewing of a TV programme about the unit, SurfControl made available to officers new software that dramatically increased the speed with which alleged offenders could be tracked down. Previously 60 staff hours spent on internet checks would produce 16 suspects; now 16 hours can produce 60 suspects."We are out there watching them," said Mr Hughes. "We have the tools to identify them and will root out paedophiles and those who like collections of indecent images of children. We'll come looking for them, and deal with them."Partnerships &#91;with commercial companies&#93; are a major issue in dealing with the menace of child pornography on the internet." He added that the computer industry had a responsibility for "unlawful activity".The 13-year-old was arrested in Manchester and an 18-year-old man was held in Swansea. "A 13-year-old involved in this is potentially a victim as well as an offender," Mr Hughes said.Manchester officers made two arrests in the Rochdale and Moston areas.A man from Stretford, south of the city centre, was arrested before Operation Appal began because it was believed he posed a significant threat to children to whom he had access.Terry Jones, an inspector of the force's obscene publications unit, said those who traded in computer images would find it increasingly difficult to hide from the police. "Our work identifies those people abusing one of the most vulnerable groups in our society," he said. "We will continue to track down those individuals who believe the internet gives them the anonymity to continue their trade in obscene pictures."He added that areas of the net were "fairly clearly marked" to show that discussions would centre on paedophile activity. "People are now sharing this awful material and that gives us the opportunity to highlight those who may be a danger to society," he said.In 1999, the force's unit made the first successful identification of an offender and a victim from abuse images seen on the net. A man was later jailed for 12 years for offences which included the rape of a child aged four. The unit also coordinated two operations in which 44 suspects involved in the distribution of indecent images of children were identified across the country.In 1998, officers raided the Stockport home of Gary Salt and found 42,000 child sex images on a computer. The arrest of Salt, who was later jailed for 12 years, helped to unmask the members of the Wonderland Club, a worldwide internet paedophile ring. Seven British members of the ring were jailed last month.
On the same day the cabinet minister, Mo Mowlam, said that Britain is not ready for an internet election, the Estonian government yesterday announced plans to move to electronic voting in time for the country's 2003 general elections.The Estonian ambassador to London, Raul M&auml;lk, said his government hoped the move to online voting will attract greater participation in elections and political debate, especially among young people.He said that after independence, the government thought everyone would take part in elections, and in early polls three quarters of the electorate voted. But in the last general election in 1999, only little more than half of the possible voters took part.Exactly how the voting will take place - over the internet or on offline, networked computers at polling stations - will be detailed by the country's justice minister next week. The computerised system will replace a complex paper-based polling system.The British government has no current plans to move to online or electronic voting, and the issue is not included in the prime minister's goal to offer all government services online by 2005.Discussing her view that Britain is not ready to vote online, Mo Mowlam said yesterday: "The internet at the moment provides for the minority new ways of participating democratically, while the majority that are disconnected remain excluded."The digital divide is also causing concern in the US. When the Democratic party ran its presidential primary election in Arizona online last year, the justice department expressed concerns about minority voters being locked out of the democratic process for economic reasons.But Mr M&auml;lk said the government of Estonia is not concerned about the digital divide affecting voting. "I don't agree that people will be disenfranchised. They can always go to the polling station and vote in the normal way," he said.Britain is not alone in shunning online voting for the moment. In the US, two studies have advised the government to go slow on internet voting due to security concerns.Kim Brace, the president of US firm Election Data Services said: "The advice has been not to allow online voting from an individual's home or office computer because of security issues. The county should control the computer, perhaps at a polling station."Mr M&auml;lk acknowledged that security is a major concern but believed a combination of digital signatures and smart card identification will eliminate fraud.He said: "One of the worries is the opportunity for intrusion into a site. The Estonian prime minister was taking part in an online debate when a hacker captured the line and answered a question as though he was the prime minister."The incident convinced the government of the prime importance of security. "When you have elections, you must be absolutely sure," he added.Useful linksEstonia-wide webEstonian government onlineUK onlineElection Data Services
Britain's e-commerce sector will receive a much-needed boost this morning with the creation of 200 jobs from the opening of a new e-fulfilment centre in the West Midlands.iForce, which handles deliveries for companies including lastminute.com, Sony and Nokia, said the jobs would be filled once the 65,000 sq ft distribution at Pologia Park, Bromford Gate, was fully operational."Behind the current turmoil of e-commerce in the UK, there is steady and sustained growth in demand for e-fulfilment services," said chief executive Matthew Pocock. "Both businesses and consumers are making more and more online transactions, and our investment in the West Midlands will enable us to meet the growing demand."The West Midlands plant will allow iForce to offer customers in the Birmingham area a service called NowNowNow! which guarantees   goods are dispatched within three hours of the internet user purchasing them.One of the main complaints levelled at e-commerce firms has been the poor quality of service, including unreliability of deliveries. By outsourcing their fulfilment requirements firms can concentrate on their core competencies, iForce says.The company was founded in 1998 and has more than 250,000 sq ft of warehouse space in three locations serving Britain and mainland Europe.
Microsoft today introduces a new server designed to help the British government fulfil its pledge of putting all government services online within four years.Andrew Pinder, Britain's e-envoy, spent yesterday meeting Microsoft executives in Seattle to discuss plans to give everybody access to the internet by 2005.Mr Pinder, who was appointed to the post this year, is under pressure to explain how the government will deliver on its pledge.The government named Microsoft at the end of last year as the leading private sector company involved in its UK Online initiative.In just 15 weeks the group has developed a portal linking all government services. It is expected to take substantially longer for the service, based on the company's Biztalk server, to be implemented.The contract, understood to be Microsoft's largest for a foreign government, has potential to be extremely lucrative.In his keynote address at the meeting today, Bill Gates, the chairman and founder of Microsoft, will credit Britain with pushing for the "largest e-government initiative in the world".The company invites officials from about 80 states to its government leadership conference each year.Mr Pinder is also to speak at the conference on The Innovative Government. It is his first overseas trip since being confirmed as e-envoy.The post, which was created in 1999 to champion internet issues in and outside government, was criticised by the Labour-led trade and industry committee last week as overly bureaucratic and without real power.After spending three days in Seattle, Mr Pinder, a former information technology director of the inland revenue, will fly to San Francisco for a two-day visit to Silicon Valley.
Thousands of long-term unemployed people are to be offered jobs in the hi-tech sector under a &#163;50m scheme unveiled by the government yesterday.Around 5,000 vacancies will be reserved for people out of work for longer than 18 months as well as single parents and young people on the New Deal.Companies including IBM, Siemens, Cisco Systems, BT and Microsoft have signed up to participate in the scheme, offering jobs that will pay between &#163;15,000 and &#163;20,000 a year.In return the government has agreed to pay for around 7,500 people to train in information technology skills under the scheme called, Ambition:IT.The chancellor, Gordon Brown, said that the scheme   would give hope to the long-term unemployed as well as meeting demand by employers for people with IT skills. He said the government needed to find new ways of combating skills shortages."In five years' time, 90% of jobs will need IT skills, compared with 70% today and just 25% in 1992," Mr Brown said. "So Ambition:IT matches unemployed men and women to the businesses that need skilled IT technicians, a   demand itself that is set to rise by 25% in the next three years."Microsoft said the new jobs would help make Britain a leader in the world's digital economy. "By targeting unemployed and other disadvantaged people it will have the added advantage of building a digitally inclusive society and releasing untapped potential which help address the UK IT skills gap," said Neil Holloway, managing director of Microsoft UK.Other companies involved in the scheme include FI Group, Consignia, Cap Gemini, Ernst &amp; Young, Dixons, ICL, EDS and Oracle.The scheme will place special emphasis on high unemployment regions where there also happen to be a large number of IT vacancies. Ten areas have been short-listed for the programme including London, Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds, Glasgow and Cardiff, from which five will   chosen to take part. The others on the list are South Yorkshire, Liverpool, Tyneside and Edinburgh.Including other New Deal schemes, 15,000 jobless will undergo IT training over the next year.Mr Brown said that he believed the kinds of jobs being created by the initiative would be long-term and survive the ups and downs of the economy.The unemployed will have to   undergo a new compulsory skills check, while for the 140,000 long-term unemployed there will be wider access to training and help in setting up businesses. Repeatedly refusing to take up opportunities will result in the withdrawal of benefits for up to 26 weeks.Similar employer-led schemes will be announced in the coming weeks, focusing on the construction, hotels and hospitality and financial services industries. Hilary Cropper, chairwoman of Ambition:IT said: "We expect to break new ground by involving major firms in designing training so it prepares unemployed people for good jobs and new careers."She said that as a result, people would be fully prepared for the jobs on offer after they had been trained. The duration of each training courses is expected to be from four to eight months.
GlobalNet Financial, owner of UK-iNvest.com, yesterday added to the gloom surrounding financial news websites by announcing that it was shedding 35% of its media staff and preparing to move out of its offices in London's West End.About 50 jobs, mostly those of journalists, are to go from GlobalNet's international offices in Europe and the US, resulting in an immediate saving of around $3m, chief operating officer Ron Goldie said.A further $2m in savings will be found by moving from offices near Piccadilly Circus. "They're very expensive and we're looking for somewhere cheaper," Mr Goldie admitted.The savings are added to $12m of costs taken out of the business by a strategic review in January. The review divided GlobalNet's assets into three divisions: brokerage operations; media; and business-to-business transactional services.It is thought to be looking to drive consolidation of financial news websites, many of which appear frail following the slowdown in advertising spend and a reduction in share trading volumes.GlobalNet's merger talks with Interactive Investor International appear to have been put on hold. It is now thought to be in talks with another privately owned website.
Another week, perhaps another battering in the value of technology shares. Last year's downward trend in tech stocks shows no sign of slowing -more like the opposite - and it has been tempting for us to link what we are seeing in the markets with our own experience a couple of weeks ago in the US.It was a real eye-opener. We obviously knew that many UK internet businesses were fighting for survival following the drying-up of investment funds and the low valuations of the new media economy. We were also aware that this was partly a consequence of negative events in the wider global economy, particularly in the US, where the deadly financial virus which struck the dot.coms originated. However, we did not expect to see so much evidence of widespread start-up slaughter and such hopeless cases.Here's a couple of examples. We met with some US businesses operating in the same sector as ourselves. The first was already struggling to raise funding for survival beyond the summer. The second company became insolvent during the short time we were in the US.We also attended a web conference in New York. Some of the delegates there had been made redundant in the short period between booking for the conference and attending it.But it was the opinion of the heavyweight speakers that proved the best draw. Sergey Brin, the founder of Google, the leading internet search engine, made it clear that his company was not dependent on advertising-based revenues - presumably to fend off comparisons with competitor Yahoo!Instead he saw Google as a technology company offering internet service providers high speed search engines.Then there was Merrill Lynch's star internet analyst, Henry Blodget, who admitted he was significantly late in spotting the sustained nature of the market downturn.Not everything discussed in the conference was doom and gloom - there were fascinating debates on the future of wireless and mobile technology, as well as the music industry.However, the contrast with our previous visit to the US, almost exactly a year earlier, was marked. Many of the companies that appeared then to be hogging every available piece of billboard space and TV slot no longer exist.The US remains ahead of the UK in the commercial development of the internet in many respects. The fact that the US internet sector remains unhealthy suggests that the same sector here still has some way to go before turning the corner.Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are co-founders of rools.com, an online payments service for teenagers
The profound question of two years ago has - at bewildering speed - turned into a totally different but equally profound one. We used to ask: will the web kill newspapers? Now we ask: how long will newspapers keep the web going?Both questions, of course, can be put too melodramatically. The truth is usually somewhere in between.Even so, consider the climate of the times in, say, 1999, just before Trinity bought the Mirror Group. Then it was conventional media companies without (in the analysts' opinion) a convincing internet strategy whose share prices were suffering. Lord Hollick proclaimed the vital Express synergies of print and net. Rupert Murdoch cancelled his last sceptical announcement.Unless you meant web business, you were liable to be out of business in a trice. The great consultancies prophesied the end of newspapers as we know them within half a decade.And now? Two months ago, there was a trickle of doubt; today there is a flood. Trinity cuts its planned internet spending in half and looks to sell its most problematical ventures.The Pearson Group, owner of the  Financial Times, chops back as well. News International has cancelled its last cancelled announcement. The  Express (under new owners) has forgotten all previous synergies and remembered mass redundancies.And where it's relevant, these moves don't depress share prices; they put them up. The miracle cure of two years back has suddenly turned to poison.Nor, I guess, will it end here. When Associated Newspapers starts to seek savings, it won't spare its semi-detached web ventures. ITN and CNN and, yes, the BBC, in a related part of the forest, have also grown less euphoric.The biggest remaining net smile in town belongs to Paul Potts of the Press Association. He's doing splendidly, but that's because the PA service is the hidden provider of so many websites now.What's going on? Three related things. One (see the current distress at erstwhile giants such as Yahoo) is a precipitate decline in net advertising, which tracks the equally precipitate fall in the Nasdaq.Since so many net ads have come from other net companies hunting business, the two tumble together, a self-fulfiling prophesy.Meanwhile, it is swiftly dawning that you can have too much truth in advertising. The theoretical wonder   of the net is that advertisers can finally get what television, posters and newspapers can't provide: a totally scientific count of the hits on their sites. Don't debate whether anybody has noticed the ads any longer, just count the clicks. But what happens if the truth hurts, if the hits are paltry? The cash goes elsewhere.And beyond this awful truth lurks a still deeper problem. Simply: how do you ever make money out of general news media sites on the web? If you're the  FT or the  Wall Street Journal, you can charge a user subscription for specialist services.But more general coverage - PA excepted - commands no such premium. If advertising doesn't bail you out, nothing else will.Who was right two years back? Who is right today? The stakes are as high as ever (perhaps more so while net usage surges on and on).The pioneers in the field (such as the  Guardian and  Telegraph) believe, with varying degrees of intensity, that the net is a future - maybe the future - for mass communication.Being there now, competing hard, is more than defending your print classified ad take: it is beginning the transition away from paper and ink. To get there, you have to be there already. The  Guardian, zeal undiminished and hits rising, launches a brand new political website later this month.A more mournful chorus rises, though. It has no great conviction, perhaps because it was always more a creature of fashion or me-tooism. But   it is voting with its investors' feet.Can the net, in any foreseeable future, spell the end of newspapers? Never, while there is no money to be made from it. Never, while display advertisers steer clear and surfers jib at paying for something they are used to getting free.Of course, the mourners add, the hundreds of millions of pounds ploughed into newspaper websites represent some value. They are marketing add-ons, currant buns in the  Sun mix; they are the definers of brand image.But to supplant newspapers or magazines, or even television, the web must first solve the crisis that has brought down the Nasdaq (and Wall Street and the FTSE). How does it begin to spell big-time profitability? Where's the revenue to support the huge cost of news-gathering?Defined products in defined markets - from Asian share prices to  Asian Babes - can deliver the goods. But will the melange of sponsorship, site ads and partial charges, which is the best most news media websites can look forward to, ever match such targeted appeal?Thus, almost by the day, the cutbacks and closures come, defining what is core and what essential.Thus some of the giants turn away, like astronauts leaving a flag on the moon and departing. They were wrong in 1999 and over-reacted. They are probably wrong in 2001. But this is a crucial debate in progress.Come back in 2003 and check it out.
The big gold letters above the door at Time Warner's New York headquarters in Rockefeller Plaza now read AOL Time Warner. The additional letters are enough to strike fear into media competitors such as Disney and Viacom, but AOL Time Warner has yet to show that sheer size really matters.Since the merger was approved in January, the combined company has begun integrating. First came a purge of 2,400 jobs, nearly 3 per cent of the combined workforce. Staff were shocked, especially at CNN, where the 400 casualties included a number of prominent correspondents. The manner of the dismissals - people were called into an office one by one and told to be gone within an hour - immediately signalled that AOL's business practices were not those of a caring, new economy company.A lack of transparency and good communication is apparent at AOL Time Warner, but Wall Street approved signs of a serious, profit-orientated merged entity. It 'provides the template for the global diversified media company of tomorrow', enthused Paul Noglows, managing director of JP Morgan H&amp;Q.Mary Meeker, the discredited Queen of the Net, declared: 'AOL Time Warner is our best money-making idea.' She felt a merger that started as a defensive alliance could now become greater than the sum of its parts.Others are less sure. Most analysts believe it will find a way to deliver the $11 billion in gross earnings it has promised Wall Street in 2001, but the synergies promised sound distant.AOLTW's growth strategy depends on the health of the US economy. But it has the luxury of diversified revenues from Time Warner's vast media assets, such as  People and  Time magazines, CNN and the Warner Music Group.'AOL is the best house in a very bad neighbourhood because it relies the least on advertising,' said analyst Jordan Rohan of the media business website WitSoundView. But advertising revenue was slowing, and it would not be immune. Rohan warned: 'Even the strongest have the wind in their faces.'AOL, with 28 million internet subscribers and carrying a quarter of all US online traffic, must find a way of integrating and improving Time-Warner's content and cable TV systems. This depends on the wide adoption of broadband internet access, which is still rare.The company's aim of maximising cross-medium advertising depends on the health of the economy, and internet advertising generally has all but died out in the last few weeks.'They've talked about combining old media branding capabilities with the internet's ability to provide tools,' says UBS Warburg analyst Christopher Dixon. 'This is not about advertising on the internet,' he cautions, 'but rather, "How do you enter into a major marketing relationship with these companies and bring something else to the table?" 'While awaiting Federal Communications Commission approval, AOL's top brass, Steve Case, Gerald Levin and Bob Pittman talked of using the net for promotion, advertising and winning new magazine subscriptions. But observers doubt whether it can squeeze more money from the market while media buyers shun the internet.As Napster fights legal challenges from the music industry, there are signs that AOL and Yahoo are beginning to take their potential as digital music distributors seriously. The expert Kevin Conroy was a surprising choice to head AOL Music since he is an outspoken critic of online distributors such as Napster. He arrived to find a divided operation. Some staff assumed that colleagues were there merely because they were friends of AOL's joint chief executive, Bob Pittman.AOL's approach has been lacking from the start. It has yet to make sense of the online potential of the acquisition of Time-Warner's vast music labels except to slash hundreds of jobs.It has also yet to make sense of its $400 million acquisition of Nullsoft, maker of the Winamp MP3 player, and online radio outlet Spinner.com, beyond offering one-off digital downloads and streaming internet radio channels, chat and message boards and links featured on other internet music sites. Two weeks   ago the company said it would place a new Netscape-branded toolbar on its Time, People, Money and Warner Bros websites. This will allow surfers to access Netscape features such as messaging, email and online searches.AOLTW's uncertain intentions about digital music were made clear when it released and promptly shut down Gnutella, a peer-to-peer file-swapping system like Napster. The company has been busy working on plans for a music subscription service but is still grappling with such issues as format, copyright protection and how to license music from rival music companies who fear they will not be given the same prominence as AOL Warner artists.Earlier this month, AOLTW reorganised its TV holdings, putting the WB broadcast network and Ted Turner's old empire of cable channels such as CNN in a division headed by Jamie Kellner, founder and chief executive of the WB, a station popular with teenagers with such shows as  Seventh Heaven and Dawson's Creek .Besides cutting Turner loose from the empire he created and then sold to Time-Warner, the rationale is to create a rival to the cable-to-grave reach of competitor Viacom, which lures young TV viewers with Nickelodeon, teenagers with MTV, their parents with VH1 and holds older viewers to CBS.'Clearly, putting the WB into this company fills up this hole and makes it second to none in terms of teens and young-adult reach, which we couldn't say about Turner,' says Pittman. Signalling the new focus on teenagers, the WB successfully ventured into the music realm earlier this year with its latest US version of  Popstars, about the making of an all-girl band.There is word that the company hopes to launch a direct rival to MTV, the Viacom cash cow, which has largely ceased broadcasting music videos in favour of teenage-orientated shows. Under Time Warner, synergies between its broadcast network and cable stations were few, as each disliked working with the other.Symbolically at least, the removal of Ted Turner from any active role shows how far and fast AOL is trying to move. 'It's like the only things at Turner Broadcasting that are left are the logos,' said an executive at a rival company.But other problems are still surfacing. Last week, the Federal Communications Commission extended AT&amp;T's deadline for selling off its 25 percent stake in Time Warner Entertainment. The ruling puts the telecom giant in a stronger position to force the already debt-laden AOLTW to pay more than the asking valuation of between $9bn and $10bn.The company also faces stiff anti-trust regulations. It has already agreed that once it offers its internet service over Time Warner's high-speed cable connections, it must open up the system to at least three other rivals. If it does not, it could face criminal penalties or regulatory fines, much like the fees levied against local telephone companies.But whether or not AOLTW can iron out its other problems it can expect at least one sure-fire revenue boost: the late summer release of  Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.
Children who become addicted to computer games may actually be more intelligent than the average and go on to university and higher-ranking jobs, according to a Home Office research review published yesterday.One British study surveyed found that such computer "geeks" who had been hooked on games for at least five years were highly intelligent, motivated and achieving people, but often misunderstood.A follow-up study five years later found that they generally had done well educationally, gone on to to college and then into better than average jobs.The review by Home Office researcher, Jessica Harris, of nearly 20 research studies into the effects of computer games on children show that many believe that playing or watching violent video games leads to a short-term increase in agressive behaviour.But Ms Harris concludes that the lack of any evidence on the long-term effects on young children of playing computer games means that it is impossible, on present evidence, to say that the "gameboy generation" has suffered any lasting damage as a result of the use of video games.The Home Office report says that originally little research was undertaken into the effects of video games, because they were seen as a harmless and enjoyable pastime. But as the popularity of the games grew in the 1990s, parents started to worry about their effects.Nearly 20 research studies over the past two decades had come to different conclusions about whether the games were harmful.Some of the research suggested that they caused aggression and low self-esteem, were addictive, and could lead to crime."Since the late 1970s, when computer game playing joined television as a preferred childhood leisure activity, one of the main concerns that has constantly been raised is that most games feature some kind of aggression," said Ms Harris."This has led some to believe that children become more aggressive after playing such games."But she said that one study showed that 40 out the 47 most popular games had violence as their major theme.Their popularity was based on their realistic effects and clever marketing strategies.Her review says that this is not only true for human or fantasy violence games but also many sports, such as racing, karate and wrestling, which all focus on the player's level of aggression.Some academic studies suggest that video games are more harmful than television because of the obvious point that children are actively involved in playing the games.The research review says that while the majority of studies showed that children did become more aggressive after playing or watching a violent computer game, other studies found no evidence to this effect.In fact, one survey had found that heavy game use had a calming effect on the grounds that it provided "an outlet for aggression and the open expression of competition."Playing the game&#149; Children play computer games for an average of 45 minutes a day, according to the Department of Trade and Industry.&#149; The global games market is estimated to be worth more than $17bn. In Britain, almost 40m games were sold last year for over &#163;934m.&#149; The Video Standards Council says that less than 1% of games are classified as suitable for over-18s, while 90% are suitable for children under 15.&#149; The best-selling computer game ever is Myst, in which players solve puzzles as they explore an imaginary world. It sold 5.5m copies worldwide.&#149; More than two-thirds of children prefer playing games with friends to playing alone.&#149; Doctors warned that children were suffering "nintendonitis" - repetitive strain injuries brought about by excessive gaming.&#149; The average age of gamers is 28, but over 40% of all console players are under 18.Tania Branigan
Disappointed investors in the get rich quick scheme eforyou.com are demanding their money back - just weeks after they handed over nearly &#163;3,000 apiece for licences in the hope of big earnings from the internet.They allege the company has failed to give them the training, back-up and sales   leads promised when they signed up for the "business opportunity". Many say they have failed to sign up a single client. The idea was that they would sell internet sites and facilities to small businesses.In November and December,   audiences at presentations were told by sales director Peter Carbert: "Get ready for the most awesome money-making opportunity you will ever see."He informed hopefuls at a London meeting that "efor   you.com is one of the biggest companies in the net that people have never heard of"; that "it has an expansion programme"; and that "the internet is the fastest growing business proposition around".Eforyou was touted as "the   perfect opportunity with a fast return, unlimited growth, no start-up costs and no work".According to a recent eforyou letter which the Guardian has seen, "eforyou has reached its' (sic) recruitment targets". These were set at 1,000 - suggesting the plan had netted some &#163;2.5m for its promoters.Now the main movers behind the plan - serial cash creating scheme entrepreneur Chris Douglas and Peter Carbert have bailed out.The original eforyou managing director, Chris Douglas, boasts a large house, a helicopter and a Porsche with personalised number plates.He has money making plans and publications such as The Secrets of Wealth from Pandora's Box, the Government Auction Handbook, the Wealth Handbook and recruiting for the now defunct Century Mortgages on his curriculum vitae. And his ventures have attracted adverse rulings from the Advertising Standards Authority.Peter Carbert was a director of Century Mortgages, when it was wound up by the Department of Trade and Industry in June 2000. Among grounds cited by the DTI for the Century closure were:Making false and misleading representations in its recruitment of licensees, particularly in relation to the overstatement of earnings;Failing to keep proper records, in particular to its dealings with associated businesses.Douglas and Carbert are currently pushing Herbalife, a US-based nutrition supplement sold through a multi-level, pyramid-style sales network via the Xotic Group, a firm they set up in January.But selling the Herbalife powders and pills, which are supposed to help the overweight to slim and the underweight to gain, is not the real object. Instead, Douglas and Carbert sign up "opportunity seekers" for &#163;2,600 packages.Earlier this week, Carbert told a London area audience that Herbalife was "the most exciting thing Chris Douglas has ever seen in his life".Eforyou.com has been forgotten. Douglas is no longer managing director. He has handed over that job to "project manager" David Henley. Henley also finds time to be a "top Herbalife producer"."It's not pyramid selling," Carbert tells Herbalife hopefuls. He tells them that they could soon be earning an annual income of more than &#163;340,000 - all they must do is to recruit five, who each recruit five who, in turn, each find five people, and so on.Although the rules governing these schemes say no one   should be asked to pay more than &#163;75 in the first week - a form of cooling-off period - Carbert busies himself at meetings stressing the advantages of paying &#163;2,600 to join at "supervisor" level: the first link up the chain.Carbert, Douglas and others in Xotic gain &#163;650 from each supervisor sale. Those who join at that level receive pills and potions with a &#163;4,000 retail value - if they manage to find buyers.Meanwhile, eforyou licensees are not letting their money go without a fight. "The DTI needs to investigate this one, like it looked at Century. But it must move quickly before the cash is spent," says one disgruntled eforyou agent who wants to remain anonymous."I've lost &#163;2,500 so far. But I did better than most. I even managed to sell an internet site. But they weren't interested in this. The headquarters in Darlington just ignored me. They also gave me no help when the site   buyer wanted to pull out. I've got personal integrity, I don't want a rip-off," he adds.Other eforyou licensees have been bombarding the firm with emails asking for their money back - or at least the "money making opportunity" that they were promised.Douglas did offer to come to an "amicable settlement" with some eforyou people. But so far, they have seen no sign of a refund. Attempts to stop personal credit card payments to the firm have failed.Two former eforyou agents, Andy Bignell and Nick Teahan, who made money sup porting Carbert at presentations, defected and started a lookalike set-up. So far, few others have opted for this.Earlier this week, Henley wrote to licensees to calm them. He said: "It would appear a number of you are concerned at not being able to get through on the telephone lines... but not only is nothing wrong at head office, things have never been better."Now emails between eforyou agents suggest some are considering taking the law into their own hands if the DTI and trading standards continue to ignore their plight.'I admit that greed got the better of us'Chris Smith signed up for eforyou.com in December. He was promised big earnings from selling the wonders of the world wide web to small businesses.Along with partner Nikki Shaw, who works in closed circuit tv sales, car racing instructor Smith paid the &#163;1,000 deposit demanded.Chris says: "I have to admit greed got the better of us. The earnings figures were huge compared to both our salaries. We both wanted to get out of   the rat race. What we were offered seemed really good."Nikki's Christmas bonus part funded the eventual &#163;2,500 total. "We've had to scrimp and go without luxuries for the rest which went on the credit card," Chris says.Now the Cheshire couple have nothing to show for their money. "We were promised loads of leads. But we only ever had three - and all were useless. The whole organisation shut down for three weeks at Christmas. It was   soon clear this was going nowhere," says Chris.Chris and Nikki wanted their money back. Their letters and phone calls were unanswered, so they went to eforyou's Darlington office four weeks ago."David Henley, the office manager &#91;and now managing director&#93; refused to talk to us. Karen Douglas, Chris Douglas's wife, promised a refund but just to get rid of us."Chris and Nikki complained to the DTI but have had no   reply. Using credit card consumer protection rules failed."My plastic company refused our claim. It says the eforyou contract is vague, so there is nothing they can do. It will not risk not being able to get the money back. They said they could only pay if eforyou went bankrupt within 120 days of our first payment."We've lost money to an organisation which is useless at everything except promising big things and delivering nothing," Chris says.
Microsoft has issued a warning to computer users that someone may be using stolen verification certificates to deliver computer viruses over the internet.The Seattle software giant said that a fraudster posing as a Microsoft employee managed to obtain two authentic digital certificates from VeriSign, a California computer security company. These certificates would allow the person to pass off rogue programs and possibly computer viruses as legitimate Microsoft software.VeriSign notified Microsoft that it issued the two digital certificates - a key security feature of Microsoft's internet software - on January 29 and 30.The problem is serious and the effects could last for years, said Russ Cooper of TruSecure Corp."This is an extremely huge mistake by VeriSign," he said. "There's no way that this certificate should have been given to a non-Microsoft employee."Microsoft and VeriSign were working to correct the problem, both companies said. Users were warned to inspect for certificates that were issued on January 29 and 30, since no legitimate certificates were given on those dates, and to notify Microsoft or VeriSign if they discover them.The FBI has also been notified, said Mahi deSilva, VeriSign's vice president, adding that the person who obtained the certificates had a sophisticated knowledge of ways to try to fool the company's security procedures. So far, VeriSign believes no one has used the certificates.Microsoft also advised customers to set security levels to prevent viruses from being transmitted by e-mail in case the fraudulent program was opened.  The company hoped to have a program available in the next two weeks that will automatically check for the fake certificates.The program will be available to download for free off the internet for products including Windows and Internet Explorer.Useful linksMicrosoftVeriSign
A report out today from think tank Demos argues that information held and shared electronically is increasingly used to exclude the poor and the old from wider society.Demos says that the real digital divide is not about getting the country online by providing access to hardware such as personal computers or internet-enabled mobile phones. It is, the researchers suggest, about the information held on individuals which marks them as unworthy of credit, insurance, electronic cash or employment.Just last week, the department for education and employment announced a £10m plan to tackle the digital divide by providing internet and digital access to 12,000 homes in six deprived communities across England.But the Demos report found that access to the internet is not the issue and that government efforts have been misplaced.Perri 6 - one of the authors of the report, Divided by Information - said: "Government ministers have spent a lot of time and a not inconsiderable amount of money on solving a problem - access to kit - that will solve itself. The real worry is that information itself will be the engine of exclusion."He explained that the organisations - such as credit ratings agencies - that hold personal information about people do not offer second chances or rehabilitation, and that negative profiles create a class of permanently "digitally redlined" people. And the Data Protection Act offers little defence against exclusions which are based on correct information, he says."Banks used to give second chances on an inefficient basis. Now they deny second chances on an efficient basis, and the price we pay is social exclusion," Perri 6 said.The real discussion about the digital divide, he says, should centre on how society plans to overcome social exclusion that is based on accurate but financially damning information. If the British economy moves to electronic cash as Canada, Finland and Norway have done, information passed around the internet could prevent people from making even basic purchases.The report concludes that the government should spend more time thinking about how to subsidise those who will be routinely turned down by banks and employers on the basis of widely available digital profiles, and less time subsidising internet cafes.Related articles16.03.2001: Internet revolution for deprived areas13.02.2001: £30m to kick-start broadbandUseful linksDemosSocial exclusion unit
It's been a big week for internet safety. On Tuesday, the Home Office's internet crime forum published Chat Wise, Street Wise, a report highlighting the dangers posed to young people using chat rooms. And industry insiders report that the government is set to announce a spring internet safety summit.But from today, chat rooms will be safer. At least, they will be if you follow an eight-point guideline issued by the Department for Education and Employment.The new guidelines, written for the DfEE by the internet safety agency, Childnet International, are aimed at parents and teachers, but also send a message to the industry.They recommend that children only use chat rooms that are moderated by a known moderator. They highlight the use of rooms that have topics advertised in advance, as the BBC does. And they warn against the use of rooms with advertising or other links that can draw children away from a group environment.Safety is at the top of the list with checks for safety issues and password verification so that adults cannot pose as children.One in five children who use computer chat rooms have been approached by paedophiles, according to the head of the internet crime forum. Detective chief superintendent Keith Akerman said: "There is clearly a problem out there of which parents are not yet fully aware. The aim of this report is to highlight the dangers and suggest ways the risk can be reduced."But not all chat rooms are dangerous places, are they? Many are simply full of kids talking about their favourite bands and TV soap stars?"If a parent went into a chat room, they might think it's harmless fun," says Stephen Carrick-Davies, of Childnet International, who wrote today's guide. "It's a good way to relax and have fun. We don't say that chat rooms should be shut down. They are here to stay and they have good educational opportunities."But the key thing that parents need to be aware of is that children have to lie to get online. It only works by giving an alias."This means that people can pose as anyone else. I could call myself Bugs Bunny in a chat room. The potential for disaster is becoming clearer.According to an NOP poll last November, almost 5m   seven-to-16-year-olds in the UK use the internet and a quarter of those use chat rooms. But 10% have heard things in these rooms that embarrassed or upset them.The main danger is that an adult may try to develop an inappropriate relationship offline with a child.Last October, Patrick Green, 33, a divorced exports clerk from Iver Heath in Buckinghamshire, was sentenced to a five-year jail term for abusing a 13-year-old girl. He had met her in a chat room called Younger Girls for Older Men and exchanged messages with her for two months before meeting her.He was arrested in Cumbria on his way to meet another 14-year-old girl he had met online and arranged to spend a weekend with. Judge Christopher Tyrer described him as a "predator" and ordered him to remain on the sex offenders' register for life.Childnet is now lobbying the government to make enticement on the internet a recognised crime.Last month, seven members of a global child pornography ring were jailed for distributing more than 750,000 images of child sex abuse. The club, which police believe had been operating for at least five years, required new members to provide 10,000 new images of child pornography as an entry fee.The Wonderland Club involved the rape of boys and girls live on camera and the torture of children as young as two months. The images were so appalling that the National Crime Squad officers who had to look through them had compulsory counselling. To date, only two of the 1,236 Wonderland victims have been traced. It is feared that one of the two has been murdered.Police and probation officers now fear that a wave of   internet porn is sweeping the country, encouraged by light sentencing, some as lenient as 80 hours' community service. A financial adviser earning &#163;100,000 a year recently received a three month prison sentence when police discovered that he often spent 18 hours a day downloading obscene images from the net.But, says Carrick-Davies, the guidelines are not a knee-jerk reaction. "There are wonderful things that children can pick up in chat rooms. It introduces them to other cultures. However, we need to put the dangers in context."We are not saying the internet is evil and we must shut it down. We want to portray the brighter things but we want to say there is a dark side and these are the types of steps you can take to ensure that your children are really safe."The guidelines1. Is the chat room moderated?2. Who are the moderators?3. Has the chat room got a clear terms and conditions policy?4. Does the chat room have a clear topic/subject timetable?5. Does the chat room have advertising or external links?6. Does the chat room give young people genuine opportunities for students to interact and shape the chat?7. Does the chat room have appropriate access control and password verification? Can anyone join?8. Does the chat room remind users about safety issues?
Most young people have never written a formal letter, highlighting the phenomenal growth in emails, a report revealed yesterday.A study of 2,000 people found that emails had replaced traditional methods of correspondence in business.Almost half of those polled by free email provider MSN Hotmail said they now sent thank you notes through the internet rather than by post.The people questioned said they would welcome guidance on how to write emails after many admitted they did not check spelling or punctuation. One in 20 said they write "love and kisses" at the end of an email message to their employer.Tracy Blacher, marketing manager at MSN Hotmail, said: "If you don't get it right you can give the wrong impression and could end up in hot water, in both your business and personal life."It is not unusual to send and receive hundreds of emails each day, but our research shows that people want some kind of guidance about what is expected."Etiquette experts Debrett's said the basics of good letter writing were just as relevant when sending emails.Rolf Kurth, author of Debrett's Guide to Correspondence, said: "There is a generation who may never have written a formal or business letter and whose correspondence has only ever been electronic."  Press Association
Having hired a Swede to manage the England football team, we could do worse than hire some more to run the country. Sweden is, after all, the world's number one information economy, says a report produced by the International Data Corporation (IDC) andWorld Times. Last year, Sweden took over the top spot from the US, and this year it continued to skate ahead while the Americans tumbled to fourth behind Norway and Finland.This is good going for a country of only 9m people: Sweden's population is roughly the same as Greater London, but spread out over an area slightly larger than California.Like its Scandinavian neighbours, Sweden scores highly in the Information Society Index (ISI) because of the number of telephone lines and mobile phones in use. Indeed, it is the mobile phone boom that has just rocketed the UK into sixth place, up from 12th last year. But Sweden has the best internet infrastructure as well, beating Singapore and Australia. It also gets good scores in the other two categories: computing infrastructure, where the US comes top, and "social infrastructure" (civil liberties, press freedom, school enrolments etc), which is headed by Norway.The Swedes are somewhat surprised by their new pre-eminence. A walk around Stockholm does not suggest that the population has been gripped by internet fever the way that Seoul, in South Korea, and San Francisco have been over the past few years. Not many shops have their website addresses painted on their windows. There don't seem to be any basement games parlours packed with kids playing Quake III and other games on networks of PCs, as there are in Asia. Nor did I spot a single cybercafe. There are several, but Starbucks-style coffee shops are far more common. So are McDonald's.Henrik Eklund, chief executive of Pan Interactive, a multimedia publishing company based in Stockholm, says Swedes have been quick to adopt information technology because it is a middle-class country with high educational standards. Also, he grins, "we're the most Americanised country in the world, after England".Children learn English as a second language, and they are helped by the fact that English-language movies are not dubbed but subtitled when they are shown on Swedish television. They are not prevented from using PCs or surfing the web by an inability to handle the language, or lack of familiarity with American culture."Then there's the climate: never forget that!" Pan's office in Stockholm has polished wooden floors and comfortable armchairs, but Eklund does not need to remind me that it is freezing outside. A neon thermometer on the side of a building shows as many degrees below zero as it does above, and the current reading is 0C. It isn't too cold to go out, but you'd be more likely to stay home and chat to friends on the net than get together in some pavement cafe.And if you stay home in Sweden, you probably have access to at least one PC. Magnus Jandel, chief technology officer of Terraplay Systems, explains. "In 1998, there was a government initiative that enabled you to buy a PC from your employer with pre-tax money - and with the level of tax in Sweden, that gives you the PC at about half price," he says.The scheme's impact was enormous, because at the time, most people wanted a PC. People who would not have been interested five or 10 or 20 years earlier suddenly wanted PCs to get on to the internet."There is something to be said for that kind of support," adds Jandel. "When I was growing up, the government had a scheme that made it very easy to buy musical instruments, and 15 to 20 years after that, Sweden's music exports are just booming."The government is also promoting research and development. Sweden, like everywhere else, has its own Silicon Valley, theKista Science Park. Mats Andersson, from Ericsson, the biggest manufacturer of equipment for telecoms operators, says Kista is the second most important IT centre in the world "after Silicon Valley, of course". The IT University, which Andersson describes as Sweden's MIT, opened there in 1999. "It will be the biggest IT university in Europe by 2004," he claims.Even Microsoft is getting in on the act. Annemarie Duffy, the marketing manager for Microsoft's wireless and mobility division in the UK, says Microsoft now has more than 300 people in Sweden. In 1999, Microsoft bought a Swedish mobile communications company called Sendit, and this forms the basis of its research and development organisation in Kista. It is a concrete acknowledgment of the fact that the area is "a centre of excellence" in mobile communications.Microsoft has also formed a joint venture with the 125-year-old Ericsson to sell its server software to the telecoms operators who are Ericsson's main customers: British Telecom, France Telecom, Telefonica, Telia and so on. The company's name is surprisingly dull - Ericsson Microsoft Mobile Venture AB - but the young president, Ulf Avrin, is enthusiastic. "It is a dream team," he says, "not just two ordinary companies teaming up, but two global leaders."The problem with Kista, and Stockholm's communications scene in general, is that you can hardly cross the street without bumping into someone who works for Ericsson, or used to work for Ericsson, or works for one of Ericsson's suppliers. It is a big fish in a small pond, with more than 10,000 employees in Kista alone. Worldwide it employs more than 100,000 people in 140 countries, and its sales have grown from 99bn Swedish Kronor (&#163;6.8bn) in 1995 to SEK274bn (&#163;18.8bn) in 2000. It is not the only big company in Sweden - others include Electrolux, Volvo, Skandia and Ikea - but it is one of the most powerful.One of the alternatives to working for Ericsson is to work for one of its offshoots. Both Avrin and Jandel come into that category. In fact, I got into the habit of asking people if they knew Joran Hoff. "Oh yes," said Jandel, "he used to be my boss."Hoff has "the best job in Ericsson": he is president and chief executive of EBI (Ericsson Business Innovation), which started three years ago as a business unit. It operates as a venture capitalist and incubator for new companies and new ideas."We want to create the future of Ericsson," says Hoff. "We want to find the next core businesses, so we have to be free thinking and free acting. We have to work on things even if they look different from corporate strategy. We take on impossible tasks, that's what we do." Currently that means 20-25 ventures in things such as mobile telecoms, security and connecting up homes. Hoff seems particularly keen on promoting Ericsson's OSGI as an open systems gateway interface for home automation, where it is working with Electrolux.Hoff would not pass as a rebel in a big American company - he manages not to wear a tie, but he still has the white shirt and nice suit, so maybe he stuffed it in his pocket. However, in Ericsson's gentlemanly halls, it is enough to signal that he is not obliged to toe the corporate line.Of course, as Paradox Entertainment's Gustaf Magnusson says: "Not everyone wants to work for Ericsson." Well, you can start up on your own, but it is not easy. Paradox's president, Nils Gulliksson, explains: "We don't really have a home market to fund big movies or big projects." You have think about the export market before you even start.One solution is to specialise, like Swe Dish, which was co-founded by Per Wahlberg and Markus Selin in 1994. They sell Fly Away and Drive Away systems for satellite communications, and Wahlberg says they are the smallest you can get. Swe Dish has a global market in its niche, so if you see television journalists reporting live from a Balkan war zone or a Himalayan mountain, they may well be using a 90cm Swe Dish to upload the pictures to a satellite. Customers include BT, CNN and the BBC.Paradox did, in fact, start with a local market: it had a big hit with its Svea Rike series of simulation games based on Sweden's history, "but it was totally impossible to export it," says Gulliksson. The company has since expanded its range with a war game, Europa Universalis, which is available in the Scandinavian languages plus English, German and Chinese. But Paradox is pinning its long-term hopes on multiplayer games such as Mutant Chronicles: Warzone Online, which will be played over the internet."We don't think we're a Swedish company, we're an internet company," says Magnusson, thinking ahead. "If you're on the internet, you're already a global company."At Pan Interactive, Eklund is also developing locally but thinking globally. Pan has developed a "horse and pony" series for girls aged 12-17. The idea is to launch new stories as books, as video games and on the web (atwww.rosemondvalley.com) at the same time. At the moment the episodes are aimed at the Swedish market, but the fictional settings are not Swedish: Eklund describes them as New Englandish, which is where they will one day need to sell."You can test your product in the Nordics," he says. "It's not enough to support the investment, but you can test it here."But not everything is rosy, even in Rosemond Valley. The sudden downturn in America's fortunes is having repercussions everywhere, and Ericsson's major customers have problems of their own. British Telecom's debt burden is just one example.Last week, Ericsson announced a profits warning because of "delayed investments by operators in the US and western Europe and &#91;the&#93; continued poor business trend for mobile telephones". Although Ericsson sold 43.3m phones last year - about 20% of its business - the consumer products division lost SEK16bn (&#163;1.1bn) including restructuring charges, as an oversupply of mobiles led to lower prices. As a result, it is now getting outside suppliers to manufacture its handsets.David King, vice president of Ericsson's multi-service networks division, remains optimistic. He says the telecoms business "is a safe bet, in a way: people are never going to want to communicate less". King sells a system called Engine, a name derived from NGN or Next Generation Networks. The clever idea is to replace what may be three separate networks for landline, mobile and internet communications with a single multi-service network. But even if all the telcos want to buy it, will they be able to afford it?The boom in mobile phone and mobile internet use, and the need to build new networks to handle next generation telephone services, should provide Ericsson with a secure and profitable future. But if the telcos stumble, it won't just be the Swedish winters that are chilly.Information society indexThese are the top 15 SKATERS (countries with an ISI score above 3,500), all of which are in a strong position in the information revolution because of advanced information, computer, internet and social infrastructureRank	Country			 Score1		Sweden	 6,496 2Norway			 6,1123		Finland			 5,9534		US			 5,8505		Denmark		 5,8376		UK			 5,6627		Switzerland		 5,5288		Australia			 5,3829		Singapore		 5,26910		Netherlands		 5,23811		Japan	 5,18212		Canada		 5,12613		Germany		4,93714		Austria			 4,86815		Hong Kong			 4,745
Job helperYesterday, the Department for Education and Employment launchedWorktrain, a new site for jobseekers. It provides   links to vacancies held in job centres throughout the UK, careers information and details of training courses. However, if you find a job, you only get the Jobcentre reference number, not contact details for the employer. This is version 1.0 of the site and legibility is poor in parts, but with a couple of redesigns, it might almost be usable.HeavenlyYou may never make it into space, but Nasa is offering a more comfortable alternative on itsVisible Earth site, which now includes advanced search facilities. Many of these satellite images are strikingly beautiful, and remind us that Planet Earth has been given the wrong name.In centsWhat would a million pennies look like? (In this case, a million US cents.) Try sketching a million, formed in cubes, or 200 billion, or a quadrillion, before visiting the Megapenny site atwww.kokogiak.com/megapenny. This starts with one coin and works its way up. Once you   have a good idea of what a billion pennies look like, you may be ready to try the same thing with cows.No barsCameras discourage crime, at least where they are watching, and perhaps the four web cameras that Sheriff Joe Arpaio has trained on his jail in Phoenix, Arizona, will do the same.The live jail-cams are featured byCrime.com, which makes you click a banner ad to view them. Crime.com also sells merchandise made by prisoners, including T-shirts. "Made on the inside, Worn on the outside."Still safeSome agencies are apparently blocking access toSafeweb, which lets users surf while preserving their privacy, and is used by America's CIA. However, blocked users can now tryTriangle Boy: "a free, open source, peer-to-peer application that will bypass firewalls and other mechanisms that attempt to block access".Briefly, Triangle Boy routes requests to Safeweb, which sends data directly to the user. People who support freedom of information can help by running copies of the Triangle Boy server, which is now in beta test. It requires a PC running GNU/Linux and a broadband internet connection.Incidentally, the CIA now lets you search for documents released under America's Freedom of Information Act. Go towww.foia.ucia.gov/search2.htm.Useful spamSome people find it comforting to know that Jack Straw can read their email, but there may be a way to avoid detection: disguise it as unsolicited commercial email or "spam". That is what theSpam Mimicsite does. However, a simple message such as All Your Base Are Belong To Us comes out as 555 words, so you could probably devise a more useful coding system yourself.Class helperNot all educational websites are particularly good, but at least the ones in the ATW (Association of Teachers' Websites) have been created for teachers by teachers.At the moment,ATWonly   links to two sites for primaries but the secondary section has a bigger selection. The site's developers are looking for more examples.Quality matterHewlett-Packard, Cisco and other companies have formed the Quality of Experience Workgroup to help businesses offer a "superior online customer experience" on the web.As you would expect, the QOE site atwww.webqoe.orgprovides a very unpleasant customer experience: just try selecting View|Text Size|Largest in Internet Explorer, or making the browser window a half page vertical, and you will find that QOE could not care less whether or not you are able to read the page. Also, when I tried it, the drop down menu glosses appeared in the wrong place, and links to the Knowledge Centre ( www. webqoe.org/ knowledge.html ) were broken.All this is, of course, extremely common in this year's websites. However, most new sites are designed by idiots and don't aspire to be anything but rubbish.New &amp; noted&#149; All Your Base Are Belong To Us: at last you can now look up a chronology of the phenomenon athttp://hubert.retrogames.com/history.htm.&#149;  The US census figures are now being released. Follow the interactive maps athttp://census.usatoday.com.&#149;  Microsoft has some tips for managing your email atwww.microsoft.com/office/ONS/managemail.htm.&#149;  Censorware has redesigned its site athttp://censorware.net&#149;  Graceland is now providing free elvisian email addresses atwww.elvis.com.&#149;  Snoopy and friends:www.charlesmschulzmuseum.org.&#149;  Parliament as live as it gets:www.parliamentlive.tv.
British internet users could face new restrictions on what they can say on internet discussion boards after a UK internet service provider (ISP) won a court case against two popular websites.Finance sites Motley Fool and Interactive Investor will now be forced to reveal the identity of an anonymous user of their services who has, the ISP claims, defamed the company and its employees.The weekly webzineNTKsummed up the result: "the court decided that Motley and II could not protect their sources as newspapers can, because they imposed no editorial control over their forums. So British law now says UK websites can be sued for libel (because they are publishers) and be compelled to hand over personal details (because they aren't). Nice."The ISP, Leeds-based Totalise, took its legal action with the aim of starting a libel action against Zeddust, the anonymous user.The judge in the case, Mr Justice Robert Owen, decided web portals cannot protect their sources in the way that newspapers and other print publications can, mainly because of the lack of editorial controls over their forums.Ironically, Totalise could have opened itself up to a bundle of trouble since it, along with most other ISPs in the UK, is now open to legal action from potential litigants out to discover the identity of users who defame other people, or organisations, on their service.Litigation for libel is big business in the US, and increasingly so in the UK, and lawsuits can result in sizeable payouts.Newspapers are an easy   target, whereas anonymous posters to a financial services web portal are not. That could now change if ISPs can be forced to reveal the identity of anonymous posters - who may, or may not, then be worth suing.Alistair Kelman, a barrister specialising in IT matters, said he was not surprised by the decision in the Totalise case. "They used Section 10 of the Contempt of Court Act, 1981, to force the disclosure of the identity of Zeddust, the character that posted the allegedly defamatory messages on the two sites," he said, adding that this is what he would have expected any good law firm to do."They also used the decision on the Norwich Pharmacal Co v Customs and   Excise Commissioners of 1974 as a precedent to say that innocent parties could be forced to disclose the identity of wrongdoers, which is something, again, I would have expected Totalise's solicitors to pursue," he said. Kelman added that the law despises a vacuum, and the Totalise case solves a number of questions that have been asked of the UK's internet industry."Basically this case involved, on the one hand, the US Freedom of Information Act," he said, referring to Motley Fool's US origins, "and on the other hand, the law relating to defamation."Kelman said that the Freedom of Information Act is often misunderstood, even in the US. "It says that people have the freedom to pretty   much say what they like, but it doesn't protect them from the consequences. They must reap the consequences if it proves defamatory. The act does not protect against defamation," he said.Thanks to the court's decision, Motley Fool and Internet Investor must now release the identity of the mysterious Zeddust - assuming he, or she, provided accurate information when signing up - to Totalise's solicitors.This will allow the law firm to prepare a libel case against the not-so-anonymous poster, who may live to regret his, or her, actions.The expected libel case could also change the ballgame for web portals which,   until now, have allowed relatively unmoderated posting of messages to their forums. The portals may now be forced to follow the model adopted by many internet mailing lists, where a moderator checks all the postings before releasing them to the general public.This may prove to be a death knell for many forums, as the extra expense of monitoring postings from members could be the final straw in what has now become a low profits industry.This is the latest in a series of cases which have gradually impinged on the internet, once regarded by many of its users as a space free of laws. It has its parallels with a similar case in Germany involving Compuserve, another ISP, in the mid-1990s, although it   took until 1998 for the case to reach the courts.In that case, Felix Somm, the former head of CompuServe's German operation, stood trial accused of distributing pornography across the internet.He did not do this personally, of course, but was prosecuted because he was, at the time, in charge of CompuServe Germany, which allowed access to the Usenet and its myriad discussion forums. Some of those forums gave access to illegal pornographic and Nazi material.The case was crucial for the ISP industry as German law found that Somm, rather than CompuServe Germany, was responsible for the company's actions. Although found guilty then, the 13 guilty verdicts against him were later overturned.The state successfully said that Somm should be held responsible for the ISP's actions in allowing open access to the Usenet.The Bavarian government had accused CompuServe of breaking the law by allowing German online users access to illegal material on the internet back in 1995. The move resulted in CompuServe having to "regionalise" its access facilities to ensure its ability to meet local legal requirements.Not unexpectedly, the German case drew a lot of criticism. In 1997, a coalition of civil liberties organisations from a dozen countries wrote to the then German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, to express their concern about Somm's prosecution.The letter stated the prosecution of Somm was "ill-advised for both technical and regulatory reasons" and will "have a harmful impact on internet users around the world."
Who am I? Maybe it's an age thing, but as the internet grows into its teens, adolescent narcissism is increasingly skulking around its edges. From "am I gay?" to "what's my relationship worth?", it's impossible to move online for personality quizzes offering to indulge and classify every insecure aspect of your psyche.To paraphrase Salvador Dali, if you feel ready to wake up and experience the supreme pleasure of being you, what better place to start than your sexual politics, and where better than thegender roles quiz. Underneath suitably aspirational photos of shiny, happy role models, you're asked to ascribe values of 1-7 to adjectives such as "athletic", "loyal", "theatrical" and "aggressive", according to how well they describe you. Although I'm "aligned in the masculine direction" the results were hardly conclusive (feminine 4.45, masculine 5.55).If, like me, you feel the need for a second opinion on your sexuality, you might go looking for yourworkout personality. After   answering a list of questions about work and whether your colleagues consider you "quiet and intelligent" or "fun to be around", you receive a breakdown of your personality and a list of what suits you best. I found out I was 50% analytical, 40% spontaneous and 10% inspirational. Sounds good? It isn't. Although I don't mind complexity, it seems I'm a poor leader and my life's always changing.By now you're probably settling into the online couch, and it's time to start tackling some of the bigger questions. "Are you gay?" For firm answers you can count on the gaudy Sunny Delight world of Channel 4'sMetrosexuality Gay-O-Meter. Avoiding subtlety, it asks, "do you sleep with men?", before asking you to confirm or deny a series of stereotypes such as, "are you pierced below the neck?" or "do you consider it obscene to spend more than &#163;100 on a shirt?" The results were for once conclusive and as long as homosexuality equates to mardi-gras style flamboyance, I'm only 12% gay.You might also want to know what kind of heterosexual you are. To find out my status, I decided to undertake a little investigative journalism, pose as a woman and    infiltrate that amoral maelstrom of all things bedroom, theSex in the City quiz. The questions are tough. Does your ideal first date include Shakespeare in the park, or sex in the toilet? Is your preferred reading matter Pride and Prejudice or the Economist? Just exactly how do you handle those longing glances with strangers in wine bars?If on the other hand you're in a more monogamous relationship, you could try assessing it with theLove Test. The quiz tries to ascertain your attitude to your partner by asking, "is she thin?", "is she shorter than you?" and "does she like sport?" (which seems to be confusing you with David Beckham). But it descends towards the tone of an over-inquisitive mother with "have you met her parents?" and "have you kissed her?"But quizzes aren't all about sex and relationships, and if you feel it's time to find out about something more earthy, what better than which garden type suits you best then go towww.ivillage.com/home/garden/personality/quiz. The quiz is keen to draw parallels with your other "lifestyle choices", and you'll be asked   questions about what sort of bed you have (elegantly styled or canopied), what is your "signature outfit" (suit or hiking shorts) and what are your musical tastes (jazz or folk). In the end the "real me" was diagnosed as a "woodland natural", who loves ferns, terracotta pots and "the feel of the forest floor".If you're looking for something a little less new age, you might like to find out what you think of the rest of the world with theEnvironics social attitudes survey. You're asked to agree or disagree with a series of statements that try to ascertain your attitude to money, ambition and politics.If all this time on the internet is getting to you, it's time to check your geekiness with theGeek Quiz. Depending on how much you know about grammar and Star Trek, or how often you phone your mum, the quiz will assess your "Geek Quota" and if necessary offer advice on how to get out more.Personality quizzes have always been the staple of glossy women's magazines, but the web takes them to new levels with slick interactivity and personalisation. The simple DIY technology of webcams, weblogs and personality quizzes has popularised narcissism.Am I entranced with my reflection online? Shall I follow Narcissus into the pool? I think I'll leave it to the psychologists to explain why not. AsFreud said of psychoanalysis: "If you give it your little finger, it'll take your whole hand."
In the beginning, it seemed that the decision to grant the public open access to the internet would herald a new era of teledemocracy, political activism and a reinstatement of the collective will in public affairs.The emergence of a networked culture, accompanied by an ethic of media literacy, open discussion and direct action, held the promise of a more responsive political system wherever it spread.But the most publicised effort at teledemocracy so far, former Clinton pollster Dick Morris's web site,www.vote.com, is a homage to the public opinion poll. Billing itself as the next phase in a truly populist and articulated body   politic, the site amounts to little more than an opportunity for politicians to glean the gist of a few more uninformed, knee-jerk reactions to the issue of the day. Vote.com, as the name suggests, reduces representative democracy to just another marketing survey. Even if it's just the framework for a much more substantial future version, it's based on a fundamentally flawed vision of push-button politics. And it's the vision shared by most teledemocracy champions today.So what went wrong? Why doesn't networked politics lead to a genuinely networked engagement in public affairs? First, by casting itself in the role of cultural and institutional watchdog, the govern ment, particularly in the United States, became internet society's enemy. Though built with mostly government dollars, the internet's growth into a public medium seemed to be impeded by the government's own systemic aversion to the kinds of information, images and ideas that the network spread.The government's fear of hackers was compounded by a fear of pornography and the   fear of terrorism. The result was a tirade of ill-conceived legislation that made internet enthusiasts' blood boil. New "decency" laws aimed at curbing pornography (which were ultimately struck down) elicited cries of curtailment on free speech. Unsubstantiated and bungled raids on young hackers and their families turned law enforcement into the Keystone Cops of cyberspace - and the US justice department into a sworn enemy of the shareware community's most valuable members. Misguided (and unsuccessful) efforts at preventing the dissemination of cryptography protocols across national boundaries turned corporate developers into government-haters, as well.So, the government became known as the antagonist of cyberculture. Every effort was made to diminish state control over the global telecommunications infrastructure, and the internet itself - a government project - soon fell into private hands. For just as a bacteria tends to grow unabated without the presence of fungus, so too does corporate power grow without the restrictive influence of government.This, in itself, may not have been so terrible. E-commerce certainly has its strengths, and the economic development associated with a profit-driven internet creates new reasons for new countries to get their populations online. But an interactive market place is not fertile soil for networked democracy or public participation. The objective of marketers is to reduce interactivity, shorten consideration and induce impulsive purchases.That's why the software and interfaces developed for the commercial webspace tended to take user's hands off the keyboard and onto the mouse. The most successful programs, in this regard, lead people to "buy" button, and let them use the keyboard only to enter their credit card numbers and nothing else.The internet that grew from these development priorities, dominated by the world wide web instead of discussion groups, treats individuals more as con sumers than as citizens. True, consumers can vote with their dollars - and in a way that feels something like direct communication with the entity in charge, the corporation. But this is not a good model for government.Sadly, though, it's the model being used to implement these first efforts at teledemocracy. And it's why these efforts suffer from the worst symptoms of consumer   culture: they focus on short-term ideals, they encourage impulsive, image-driven decision-making, and they aim to convince people that their mouse-clicking is some kind of direct action. And anyone arguing against such schemes must be an enemy of the public will - an elitist.Teledemocracy is a populist revival, after all, isn't it? Perhaps. But the system of representation on which most democracies were built was intended to buffer the effects of such populist revivals. Although they may not always (or even frequently) live up to it, our representatives' role is to think beyond the short-term interests of the majority. They are elected to protect the rights of minority interests -   the sorts of people and groups who are now increasingly cast as "special interest groups".The true promise of a network-enhanced democracy lies not in some form of web-driven political marketing survey, but in restoring and encouraging broader participation in some of the internet's more interactive forums.Activists of all stripes should have the freedom and facility to network and organise across vast geographical, national, racial, and even ideological differences.For a politician who means to lead more effectively, the interactive solution may well be a new emphasis on education, where an elected leader uses the internet to engage with constituents and justify   the decisions he or she has made on their behalf, rather than simply soliciting their moment-to-moment opinions.And, most importantly, before declaring that the internet can access the will of the majority, get a majority of people access to the internet.
Remember a time before cash machines? The patient, 5pm queues in front of ponderous bank clerks; staying in on a Saturday night because you didn't get out of bed in time for weekend opening hours: a culture of cheque-books and IOUs?If Mark Hardie, the founder and chief executive of the Boston-based ETC Music gets his way, we'll be saying the same thing about music in the near future: when ETC's MusicTeller machine hits the high streets, Hardie envisages that we'll be downloading music on the move as glibly as drawing money from a cash point.With its curvy retro contours and flashing user interface, the MusicTeller looks like a cross between a 1950s juke-box and a cash dispenser."Instead of spitting out cash, it downloads music," says Hardie. The machine gives consumers access to digital music while away from their computers, delivering songs by artists such as Aimee Mann and a local Boston band Entrain, directly to a portable MP3 player at the touch of a screen.The technology supports Nike and Rio digital players. Songs can be stored in a "virtual locker", so consumers can access their collection from any MusicTeller machine or from the MusicTeller website at home.Hardie, who worked as an entertainment industry analyst at Forrester Research and as a technology specialist in the financial sector before founding ETC in 1999, sees a link between the automation of the banking industry and the future of digital music."I understood that if digital music was to be successful in a retail environment, it would have to be aimed at the mass-  market: as quick and as easy to use as a fast-food outlet or cash dispenser," says Hardie.The machine is being tested in three music retailers in the Boston area, where customers can download six songs free.Although the MusicTeller has been on trial on-piste at this year's Winter X Games and at a health club, the first batch of commercial machines will roll out later this year in a more predictable environment."The MusicTeller was designed to operate 24/7, but we're going to start with   music stores because that's where people expect to find music," says Hardie. MusicTellers will soon be available on the US west coast in a new partnership between ETC and the Djangos music retail chain.At least one major obstacle stands between the MusicTeller and its bid for ubiquity. Although it looks as though the days of free digital music may be numbered, with Napster being forced to curb its online song-swapping service, ETC and its competitors in the "copyright-compliant" digital   music sector are having trouble forging partnerships with major record labels. They see digital audio as a threat to copyright laws. ETC's limited repertoire of some 100 songs is heavy on local Boston bands but light on well-known artists."The major record labels have not yet enabled our service with top-line content," says Paul Melnychuck, the vice president of sales and business development of Liquid Audio, a Silicon Valley-based digital audio company whose Liquid Kiosk network enables customers to download individual songs or entire albums on to CDs from special booths in music stores.Melnychuck says Liquid Kiosks are doing the best business in niche markets such as the Hawaiian tourist industry, with tourists customising CDs of Hawaiian music from Liquid Kiosks installed at the duty free shop in Waikiki, Honolulu, at around $16 for a 10-song compilation.Nevertheless, Liquid Audio's fortunes may change with the recent announcement of a deal with the music giant BMG, music label to stars like Whitney Houston and Britney Spears.Soon, many titles from the BMG playlist will be available to customers at Liquid Kiosks around the globe from Singapore and Austria to the flagship Top Shop store at Piccadilly Circus, which houses eight of the machines.Meanwhile, smaller labels, including Artemis Records in New York, see a bright future for MusicTeller, allowing ETC to use eight of its songs."With any new media, you've got to take it step by step," says Michael Krumper, the executive vice president of Artemis.ETC also has a powerful ally in SonicBlue, the maker of the popular Rio portable MP3 player, with a 25% stake in the company.It might be awhile before the MusicTeller makes it on to the high street, but customers at Record Town music shop in downtown Boston are intrigued by the music-dispensing contraption on trial. "People play with it a lot," says the store manager Ted Putnam. "They all seem to know how to use the machine."
It's been a big week for internet safety. On Tuesday, the Home Office's internet crime forum published Chat Wise, Street Wise, a report highlighting the dangers posed to young people using chat rooms. And industry insiders report that the government is set to announce a spring internet safety summit.But from today, chat rooms will be safer. At least, they will be if you follow an eight-point guideline issued by the Department for Education and Employment.The new guidelines, written for the DfEE by the internet safety agency, Childnet International, are aimed at parents and teachers, but also send a message to the industry.They recommend that children only use chat rooms that are moderated by a known moderator. They highlight the use of rooms that have topics advertised in advance, as the BBC does. And they warn against the use of rooms with advertising or other links that can draw children away from a group environment.Safety is at the top of the list with checks for safety issues and password verification so that adults cannot pose as children.One in five children who use computer chat rooms have been approached by paedophiles, according to the head of the internet crime forum. Detective chief superintendent Keith Akerman said: "There is clearly a problem out there of which parents are not yet fully aware. The aim of this report is to highlight the dangers and suggest ways the risk can be reduced."But not all chat rooms are dangerous places, are they? Many are simply full of kids talking about their favourite bands and TV soap stars?"If a parent went into a chat room, they might think it's harmless fun," says Stephen Carrick-Davies, of Childnet International, who wrote today's guide. "It's a good way to relax and have fun. We don't say that chat rooms should be shut down. They are here to stay and they have good educational opportunities."But the key thing that parents need to be aware of is that children have to lie to get online. It only works by giving an alias."This means that people can pose as anyone else. I could call myself Bugs Bunny in a chat room. The potential for disaster is becoming clearer.According to an NOP poll last November, almost 5m   seven-to-16-year-olds in the UK use the internet and a quarter of those use chat rooms. But 10% have heard things in these rooms that embarrassed or upset them.The main danger is that an adult may try to develop an inappropriate relationship offline with a child.Last October, Patrick Green, 33, a divorced exports clerk from Iver Heath in Buckinghamshire, was sentenced to a five-year jail term for abusing a 13-year-old girl. He had met her in a chat room called Younger Girls for Older Men and exchanged messages with her for two months before meeting her.He was arrested in Cumbria on his way to meet another 14-year-old girl he had met online and arranged to spend a weekend with. Judge Christopher Tyrer described him as a "predator" and ordered him to remain on the sex offenders' register for life.Childnet is now lobbying the government to make enticement on the internet a recognised crime.Last month, seven members of a global child pornography ring were jailed for distributing more than 750,000 images of child sex abuse. The club, which police believe had been operating for at least five years, required new members to provide 10,000 new images of child pornography as an entry fee.The Wonderland Club involved the rape of boys and girls live on camera and the torture of children as young as two months. The images were so appalling that the National Crime Squad officers who had to look through them had compulsory counselling. To date, only two of the 1,236 Wonderland victims have been traced. It is feared that one of the two has been murdered.Police and probation officers now fear that a wave of   internet porn is sweeping the country, encouraged by light sentencing, some as lenient as 80 hours' community service. A financial adviser earning &#163;100,000 a year recently received a three month prison sentence when police discovered that he often spent 18 hours a day downloading obscene images from the net.But, says Carrick-Davies, the guidelines are not a knee-jerk reaction. "There are wonderful things that children can pick up in chat rooms. It introduces them to other cultures. However, we need to put the dangers in context."We are not saying the internet is evil and we must shut it down. We want to portray the brighter things but we want to say there is a dark side and these are the types of steps you can take to ensure that your children are really safe."The guidelines1. Is the chat room moderated?2. Who are the moderators?3. Has the chat room got a clear terms and conditions policy?4. Does the chat room have a clear topic/subject timetable?5. Does the chat room have advertising or external links?6. Does the chat room give young people genuine opportunities for students to interact and shape the chat?7. Does the chat room have appropriate access control and password verification? Can anyone join?8. Does the chat room remind users about safety issues?
