A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI was one of the 520 people laid off by Zynga yesterday. What do you wanna know about Zynga? AMA &gt;&gt; RedditThe anonymous writer:I was just laid off yesterday, along with 520 other employees. I'm willing to talk about the company that all gamers love to hate if anyone wants to know more about it. I need to keep my identity on the down-low because I'm job hunting now and not trying to burn bridges. So I can't give specifics on the the projects I worked on, but can talk to a lot of the games, processes, culture, infamous game copying, etc.Fill your boots.Evernote's three new security features &gt;&gt; Evernote blogThe security and privacy of your data are our top priority at Evernote. Today, we're happy to announce the availability of three new security features:Two-Step VerificationAccess HistoryAuthorized ApplicationsWhich big services now don't have two-step authentication?Making Google's CalDAV and CardDAV APIs available for everyone &gt;&gt; Google Developers BlogPiotr Stanczyk, Tech Lead:In March we announced thatCalDAV, an open standard for accessing calendar data across the web, would become a partner-only API because it appeared that almost all the API usage was driven by a few large developers. Since that announcement, we received many requests for access to CalDAV, giving us a better understanding of developers' use cases and causing us to revisit that decision. In response to those requests, we arekeeping the CalDAV API public. And in the spirit of openness, today we're also makingCardDAV- an open standard for accessing contact information across the web -available to everyonefor the first time.Can we have a Google Reader reprieve too?Prenda seeded its own porn files via BitTorrent, new affidavit argues &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRemember theCalifornia judge who blasted a group of plaintiffsfor claiming defendants had been downloading porn on the flimsy evidence of an IP address? They seem to be active again. We start with a defender..Graham Syfert is a local Florida lawyer who has been defending people caught up in Prenda purported copyright suits. Last we heard from the defense attorney, he appeared to have settled some cases with the porn trolling outfit. Nearly two weeks ago, Syfert told Ars that he was still involved in two more Florida Prenda-related cases: Sunlust Pictures v. Nguyen, and First Time Videos v. Oppold.The latter case was initially filed back in July 2012 against a Florida man named Paul Oppold. Oppold was accused of downloading an unauthorized copy of a First Time Videos (FTV) pornographic film which was being represented by Prenda.Prenda Law is apparently the subject of a US Attorney's investigation.Students' attitudes to Google products &gt;&gt; The Beans GroupThe tech press may be intrigued with Glass, Google's new wearable device, but does it excite a youth generation for whom technology plays a fundamental daily role? Over half of UK students (55%) would like to try Glass and see what it can do. However 61% would be self-conscious doing so and 48% would worry that other people might think they are being recorded [Glass enables users to record real time conversations discreetly]. Those not wearing the device were concerned that Glass users would be recording them (66%) or not fully attentive (51%). Around one in ten would feel envious of Glass owners.Plenty more insights into attitudes over voice control, Google Wallet, Google Music and the brand itself.Proteus Digital Health: ingestible sensors and moreOur digital health feedback system is powered by you. It includes wearable and ingestible sensors that work together to detect ingestions and physiologic data. By capturing objective information and providing actionable insights, you can take control, communicate with caregivers and clinicians, and stay well.Includes a sensor you swallow that will transmit a unique ID. And which "is designed to move through the body in the normal process of digestion." Um. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Dell XPS 11 combines the best of Lenovo's Yoga and Microsoft's Surface &gt;&gt; The VergeThe hinge on the XPS 11 allows the screen to flip nearly a full 360 degrees, turning the workaday laptop into a fun-filled tablet — very much in the same vein as Lenovo's Yoga machine. You can't detach the display, but the sub-15mm thickness with the keyboard included makes this a reasonable device to use in tablet mode even with the keypad still attached. Intelligently, Dell has designed the keyboard so that once the hinge passes 180 degrees, it becomes insensitive to input.A non-detachable keyboard and a touch-sensitive screen where it functions as a tablet or a notebook? This is just like the tablets of 2001. Keyboard detachability is emerging as a key function - and this hasn't got it. (Thanks @technotrousers for the link.)Japan's radiation disaster toll: none dead, none sick &gt;&gt; The AgeHeard much about Fukushima lately? You know, the disaster that spread deadly contamination across Japan and spelt the end for the nuclear industry.You should have, because recent authoritative reports have reached a remarkable conclusion about a supposedly "deadly" disaster. No one died, nor is likely to die, according to the most comprehensive assessments since the Fukushima nuclear plant was hit by a massive earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.That's from two independent international reports: radioactive material released from Fukushima's four damaged reactors, three of which melted down, has had negligible health impacts.Nothing happens if a bus hits Facebook &gt;&gt; SFGate.comCaleb Garling:You may have heard of the morbid concept of a company's "bus number": the number of employees that, if they were suddenly to get taken out by a bus, would bring business to a halt due to the loss of their skills or knowledge.In Silicon Valley tech companies, typically top engineers — who have an understanding of the product only recorded in their vast brains — and one or two executives make the list. I spent two years at a tech startup that had about 80 people, and the bus number was two, maybe three.With the way tech is starting to enmesh itself in our lives, I've wondered if a sort of bus number existed. How many tech companies are there that, were they to magically evaporate, bring the average person's life to a significant halt? Which ones would really throw a monkey wrench in the daily fabric of technology? Not behind-the-scene all-stars like NVIDIA, IBM and Intel, but the ones that people associate with their day. Naturally any loss would be filled in by competitors eventually, but there are a few companies whose disappearance would change the game for a significant period of time. (And redefine "first world problems.")Take note too of his "note for commenters". Golden.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
The culture secretary, Maria Miller, has summoned the big internet companies to discuss the proliferation of, and easy access to, pornographic and politically extremist content on the web.Miller has invited companies, including Google and Facebook, to a meeting on 17 June to hear what they are doing to police harmful content and to push for a co-ordinated approach.The culture secretary's aides said she was acting in response to concern over the Woolwich killing and the discovery of child abuse images on the computer of Mark Bridger, the killer of April Jones.But the sources stressed the issue was a longstanding concern, symbolised by the government review into the sexualisation of children and the efforts of the prime minister's adviser, Claire Perry, to ensure every parent will be prompted to protect their children online.In a letter to the internet companies, Miller cites concern over "access to illegal pornographic content, the proliferation of extremist material which might incite racial or religious hatred, or the ongoing battle against online copyright theft".She reprimands them, saying: "It is clear that dangerous, highly offensive, unlawful and illegal material is available through basic search functions and I believe that many popular search engines, websites and ISPs could do more to prevent the dissemination of such material. Greater efforts need to be made to prevent the uploading, downloading and sharing of harmful material. Effective technological solutions have to be developed – and deployed – to minimise the harm done to businesses and consumers."She upbraids the companies: "Your organisation plays a key role in terms of how individuals access online content – and has serious public responsibilities as a result of this position. A relatively small number of organisations wield a great deal of online power – and I believe that with that power comes a great responsibility".Google (and YouTube, which it owns), Microsoft, Twitter, Facebook, BT, Virgin, Talk Talk, Vodafone, Sky, O2, EE and Three have been invited to the meeting.A communications white paper is due to be published shortly and it is clear that Miller is willing to use legal backstops to force the internet companies to do more.She wants a co-ordinated approach covering not just the internet, but telecommunications companies, including mobile phone firms. It has been suggested that some internet companies are reluctant to change their search settings, fearing they would be put at a competitive disadvantage if users were driven to sites unwilling to change their policy.Communications minister Ed Vaizey told the Oxford Media Convention in January that no other government had taken such radical steps before to protect children online: "Britain will have the most robust internet child protection measures of any country in the world, bar none".Since then there has been greater concern over the general access to porn on the web and its impact on teenage boys.The children's commissioner for England, Maggie Atkinson, warned last month: "Easy access to online pornography encourages teenage boys to see girls as sex objects and to engage in risky sexual behaviour." A report by her office concluded that those who accessed adult images and videos were more likely to lose their virginity at a younger age.The chief executive of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre has warned it does not have the resources to track down all those who access images of child sexual abuse on the internet.Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrat business secretary, is the first Cabinet member to call for Google to be "more proactive in policing what is there" and the shadow culture minister, Helen Goodman, said Labour would force Google to put up warning messages before people entered websites containing unlawful images and ensure that no children could access adult sites by putting in place the sort of strict age verification checks in place on gambling sites.As well as protecting children, this will force people to hand over identifiable details about themselves – such as credit card details – so they can be tracked down by police.Labour has called for safe searches to be made the default, instead of expecting people to download the filters themselves.
A Massachusetts man is facing his second month in jail without bail on terrorism charges because of a Facebook in a case that free speech advocates argue is prosecutorial overreach.High school student Cameron D'Ambrosio called the White House a "federal house of horrors" and made a reference to the Boston Marathon bombings in the post that has landed him in jail. He has since plead not guilty to a charge of "communicating a terroristic threat," which holds a prison sentence of up to 20 years.The 18-year-old was arrested on May 1, two weeks after a bombing at the Boston Marathon killed three people and injured more than 260 people."There are no more threats that are high school pranks," said police chief  Joseph Solomon during a press conference following the arrest. "If they're thinking that way, they need to get their heads into 2013."D'Ambrosio has been held since his arrest as authorities attempt to determine whether there is probable cause to indict him. Prosecutors said at a hearing on Monday that they had probable cause but needed more time to show it. The judge granted their request to continue holding D'Ambrosio without bail until his next court appearance on June 27.D'Ambrosio's Facebook post said:All you haters keep my fuckin' name outcha mouths, got it? what the fuck do I gotta do to get some props and shit huh? Ya'll wanme to fucking kill somebody? What the fuck do these fucking demons want from me? Fucking bastards I ain't no longer a person, I'm not in reality. So when u see me fucking go insane and make the news, the paper, and the fuckin federal house of horror known as the white house, Don't fucking cry or be worried because all YOU people fucking caused this shit. fuck a boston bombinb [sic] wait till u see the shit I do, I'ma be famous for rapping, and beat every murder charge that comes across me!Free speech advocates have said the charges are a case of prosecutorial overreach. Evan Greer, campaign manager at Fight for the Future, has been working on the case and communicates regularly with D'Ambrosio's family."We all know, unfortunately, after tragedies like what happened here in Boston civil liberties can suffer and it's really important that we push back on that and make sure that these tragedies are never used to justify attacks on civil liberties and free speech," Greer told the Guardian."From our perspective that's really outrageous, and approaching unconstitutional, to keep this kid in jail now for another month while he waits for the government to even be prepared to present probable cause for his initial arrest."Greer said the prosecution's delay in the case is "absurd" and that it shouldn't take so long to determine whether one paragraph of text is or isn't a terrorist a threat "They should be able to get an argument together on that after a month of a kid sitting in jail," Greer said.Fight for the Future created an online petitionrequesting D'Ambrosio's release. The petition has acquired has received more than 90,000 signatures andan online campaignwas created to raise money to cover costs associated with the trial and incarceration.The prosecution cited two previous incidents to argue that D'Ambrosio is a danger to the community including that he threatened to kill two students when he was 11 years old.D'Ambrosio was also arrested in June 2012 for allegedly threatening to stab and kill his sister because of a disagreement over $20. His charges for the threat were dismissed, and his sister has since described the incident as a normal fight between siblings.The judge granted the prosecution's request because she felt that D'Ambrosio's "escalating" behaviors are "troubling".
Amazon is reported to be gearing up to take on another sector – the $1tn (£650bn) a year US food market. If successful, the venture could be replicated in the UK.The move will disturb critics already concerned about Amazon's growing dominance in everything from books to electronics.The firm has for six years had a grocery service called Amazon Fresh that operates in its home town of Seattle, delivering groceries with its own fleet of trucks. According to Reuters, the company is now preparing to roll out the service in California, starting with Los Angeles and San Francisco, and could launch in 20 other urban areas – inside and outside the US – in 2014.Amazon has declined to comment on the reports. But retail experts see a move into groceries as likely and do not expect Amazon to stop in California."I've been studying this company for a long time. Their experiments start here, the next place they go is a developed market like the UK or Japan," said Bill Bishop of online retail consultantBrick Meets Click.Any Amazon grocery push is likely to prove controversial. Retailers large and small in the US and Europe have complained that Amazon is pricing them out of the market.France's culture minister, Aurelie Filippetti, recently called Amazon a destroyer of bookshops. "Everyone has had enough of Amazon which, by dumping, slashes prices to get a foothold in markets only to raise them once they have established a virtual monopoly," she said earlier this week.Bishop said Amazon was uniquely qualified to make inroads into online grocery thanks to its already massive distribution network, customer loyalty and ability to sell other products alongside food. "More people buy groceries than anything else," he said, adding that Amazon had a "voracious appetite" for growth.Amazon Fresh started in 2007 as a limited test on Mercer Island, Seattle. The division has not been a success financially but Amazon founder Jeff Bezos said last month that it had "made progress on the economics over the past year".The company already sells wine and household items like shampoo and cleaning products.Expansion in the US would be aided by one of the most sophisticated distribution chains in the world. Amazon has opened nearly 20 new distribution centres since 2010 across the US, almost doubling its total, and has pledged to build up its next-day delivery service. Refrigeration has recently been added to the company's California warehouses.Bezos is likely to tread carefully as he assesses whether Amazon can take on the grocery market. The last attempt to launch a national online grocer in the US ended in spectacular failure with thecollapse of Webvan in 2001.Bishop said Fresh would be expanding in a different market and already had many of its distribution issues resolved.The company would face competition from established online grocery businesses in the US such as Peapod in Illinois, owned by Ahold, and Fresh Direct in New York, part owned by the UK's Morrisons.Walmart, probably Amazon's closest rival, is also testing a same-day and next-day delivery service for online groceries and general goods in the San Francisco area.Bishop said Amazon's mix of products would provide it with an edge over food-only rivals. "If you are a large supermarket like Walmart or Tesco, you can be very aggressive on grocery prices because you are offering other products with higher margins like shirts," he said.Online grocery sales remain small – 5% of total grocery sales in the UK and US – but the sector is growing rapidly. Forrester Research estimates that online sales of food and beverages will be worth $15.4bn in the US this year. About 12% of web users report buying groceries online, according to comScore. Bishop said online grocery shoppers tended to be richer and therefore likely to make other, higher priced, purchases.
Google Glass is the Marmite of the gadget world. Some people love it hail it as the future of augmented humankind, and – if they bought one of the first run – prowl the stages at technology conferences showing it off like manly cyborg lions.Others poke fun and call the strutters unkind names – "Glassholes" is the current insult of choice – mutter about Google's many and varied plans to do evil with it, and suggest Glass may be just a midlife-crisis toy for rich white men.Other peopletry to make porn for it. That was inevitable.It's fair to say the speakers at LeWeb London's "Boys and their Toys – The Google Glass Phenomenon" panel debate – Robert Scoble, Loic Le Meur and Ben Metcalfe – fall into the first group, as prominent early adopters of Glass. So what did they have to say?"The codename for this project was Wingman, because Google wants to be an assistant to your life," said Scoble, a prominent blogger and author. "It tries to assist my life and get ahead of me, and think about things I need to see."Scoble went on to answer some of the key questions he's been asked in the weeks since getting his Glass. Such as passport control staff asking him if he's recording them when he walks through – and the wider question of whether people will use Glass for covert recording."There's a way you can tell if it's recording: the light is on, I'm touching it, I'm talking to it," he said. "You see it in the eye, when I come up to you, you see it... This is not a great way to spy on you in the bathroom and whatnot." Indeed, he suggested it's easier to take surreptitious shots with a smartphone than with Glass.Does Glass improve his image? "Well, it certainly gets me lots of conversations in the street," said Scoble. "But there is a social cost to this thing."Metcalfe chimed in, saying some people in meetings have been a little uncomfortable with him wearing Glass – either in case he's recording them or he's paying attention to something else.Does Glass make them more or less human, though? "It makes me more social," said Scoble. "If I hear my phone buzz, I have to pull it out and look at it, and then I'm totally distracted... It's 'look at it, turn it off' [with Glass]." But he admitted it's "the most controversial new product of my lifetime".The conversation turned to possible disruption provided by Glass for Google's big-tech rivals, Apple in particular."This is a real threat to Apple I think," said Scoble. "This locks you into Google's ecosystem, and this is switching Google's business model. Google is an advertising business model today: they show you ads to click on... But what it is going to do is shift the business model from an advertising model to a commerce model."How? Scoble gave the example of going out for the evening, and asking Glass (using voice commands) where to eat, then booking a table. "If Google can make that happen, that's many times more revenue than their advertising business model."Isn't it a problem that so much of the early feedback on Glass is going to come from a narrow demographic group: Western, tech-savvy, able to pay $1.5k for a new gadget, and often male?Scoble shook his head, suggesting that by showing his Glass to "more than 600 people: bus drivers, school teachers..." he (and thus Google) is getting feedback from a wider demographic group.A few seconds trying on someone else's Glass isn't going to provide truly valuable feedback, surely? You'd think Google is planning to get Glass onto the faces of a wider range of people before selling it commercially – or risk the product's features being defined based on the fervour of those early adopters.Metcalfe predicted that Google will sidestep that danger. "Google has said it's 18 months at least until this is going to be in the hands of consumers," he said. "We're definitely going to see more and more people from a wider background trying this out and providing feedback before it becomes available commercially."
Samsung has won a surprise victory in a patent battle with Apple that could see the iPhone 4 and 3G-capable iPad 2 banned from sale in the US.The decision – over a patent deemed essential to conform with the 3G standards, which Samsung has pledged to license freely – will be appealed against by Apple, which said that it will have "no impact" on the availability of its products in the US.The final judgment by the International Trade Commission, which only adjudicates on requests for import bans to the US, will intensify debate over the US patent system, which is seen as hobbling competition in some fields. It came just hours after Barack Obama pledged to shake up his country's patent litigation system, with reform of the ITC among its objectives.The ITC decided that the provision of 3G mobile data links in the iPhone 4, released in 2010, and 3G-capable iPad 2, infringedUS patent 7,706,348. It rejected Apple's contention that Samsung had failed to license the patent on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" (FRAND) terms, as is required for standards-essential patents (SEPs). The iPhone 5 and 4S, and iPads released in 2012, are unaffected by the decision.Apple and Samsung have been fighting a war of attrition through the various patent courts in the US and around the world in which they have sought to ban and otherwise limit sales of each other's products in Europe, the US, Australia and Asia. The ITC decision is the most significant win for Samsung in the US after a series of losses and indeterminate rulings there.The decision to allow Samsung's request for a ban is controversial, becausethe FTC in January demanded a consent order from Googlein which it would pledge that its Motorola subsidiary would not seek sales bans against "willing licensees" of SEPs.It will also focus attention on the ITC, which has been used by a number of companies including Apple, Samsung, HTC, Nokia and others to seek import bans over alleged patent infringement against rivals in the hugely valuable smartphone business. On Tuesday, Obamaannounced plansto overhaul many of the US's patent litigation systems, including "change the ITC standard for obtaining an injunction to better align it" with the tests applied in US federal courts. Those effectively preclude sales bans over SEPs on willing licensees.In Europe, the antitrust arm of the European Commission has indicated it will take legal action, perhaps including fines, against Samsung for seeking sales bans over SEPs against Apple – the same scenario in which the ITC has backed Samsung. One of the ITC's commissioners dissented from Tuesday's ruling, citing "public interest grounds".Normally, the owner of a patented technology can decide whether or not to license it, and what rate to charge for it. But with SEPs, the owner pledges to a standards body to offer it on FRAND terms to any licensee. The payment for such patents is usually small – perhaps amounting to a fraction of a penny per use – in return for widespread use. That allows other companies to build their products to an agreed standard. Systems such as the 3G and Wi-Fi wireless networking and the H.264 video encoding/decoding standards incorporate hundreds of patents, all of which are licensed under FRAND terms.In its judgment, the ITC said that Samsung's FRAND declarations "do not preclude" a sales ban. However, that is at odds with the FTC and European Commission position over SEPs."We believe the ITC's final determination has confirmed Apple's history of free-riding on Samsung's technological innovations," Samsungsaid in a statement to the AllThingsD website. "Our decades of research and development in mobile technologies will continue, and we will continue to offer innovative products to consumers in the US."Apple said it was "disappointed" with the decision and that it would appeal to a federal court. Its only other alternative to avoid the import ban would be to appeal directly to Obama."Samsung is using a strategy which has been rejected by courts and regulators around the world," an Apple spokesperson said in a statement to AllThingsD. "They've admitted that it's against the interests of consumers in Europe and elsewhere, yet here in the US Samsung continues to try to block the sale of Apple products by using patents they agreed to license to anyone for a reasonable fee."Apple has been seeking a US sales ban without success on a number of Samsung smartphones and tablets after it won a jury verdict and $1.05bn in damages against the South Korean company in a Californian court in August 2012. That case revolved around patents which Apple has not made part of a standard, and which it said Samsung knowingly infringed. The jury rejected counterclaims by Samsung that Apple had infringed a number of SEPs.Lucy Koh, the judge in the case, has so far declined to allow that ban, and has ordered a retrial affecting about $400m of the damages award.
One company sent letters to hundreds of small businesses, claiming that their use of document scanners on computer networks infringed its patents, and demanding between $900 and $1,200 per employee. Another sent 8,000 "notice letters" to hotels, retailers and coffee chains claiming they owed it money for using Wi-Fi equipment made by Cisco – which the company alleged infringed its patent.Both are examples of "patent trolls" – companies which own patents solely to use them in litigation. Now Barack Obama has taken aim at them as part of a shakeup of the US's patent system, following concerns that "non-practising entities" (NPEs) – the more polite name – have begun to choke business, as companies fear being sued by those who have nothing to lose, and everything to gain, from asserting patents.The White House said in a study that "conservative estimates" put the number of legal threats in the US alone during 2011 between 60,000 and more than 100,000. But that may be due to an act signed by Obama that year – the America Invents Act – which made a first attempt to stamp out patent trolls, by obliging them to file individual suits against companies rather than multiple defendants.The "uncertainty and expense" of litigation meant that many patents could be viewed as like lottery tickets – leading to settlements based not on merit, but cost.While the move would not stop the ongoing blizzard of patent lawsuits between smartphone companies such as Apple, Samsung, Nokia and HTC, it might prevent or delay lawsuits by companies such as Lodsys, which hassued a number of developers writing appsfor both Apple's iOS and Google's Android software, claiming that it owns patents relating to in-app purchases.Obama has proposed a number of changes to the US patent system and associated organisations:• require full disclosure of the real owners who stand to benefit from patent assertions when demand letters and suits are filed;• allow lower courts to award costs of litigation to the winner in a case, to dissuade nuisance filings;• expand the US Patents &amp; Trademarks Office coverage of "computer-enabled patents" and allow more challenges to already-issued patents;• protect end users from litigation if they use a product accused of infringing a patent;• raise the standard used by the International Trade Commission (ITC) in deciding whether to allow sales bans, and enable it to hire "qualified" judges in the relevant law; and• put "demand letters" in which patent owners seek money into a publicly searchable database.The move was broadly welcomed in the technology sector, with the Electronic Frontier Foundationsayingthat "with this statement from the White House, the message is clear: the time for patent reform is now."Yet noticeably Obama's measures do not include any suggestion that the USPTO will receive better funding with the aim of improving its examination of patent requests. A persistent complaint from those who are sued is that examination of claimed new "inventions" has been lax, allowing useless or essentially duplicate patents to be awarded. That in turn means that their validity is not truly tested until a case goes to court.Nor does it suggest that the US will tighten its rules on "software patents", which have been criticised because they effectively allow the patenting of computer programs – which in turn can theoretically be reduced to mathematical formulae, which are not in themselves patentable.The focus on the ITC came just hours beforeSamsung won a patent infringement case against Apple, which could see sales of the iPhone 4 and 3G-capable iPads released before 2011 banned from import to the US from their manufacturing base in China. The decision is controversial because the US-based ITC used a different standard of proof to support a sales ban than would have been required in a district court.The White House portrayed NPEs as a drain on US business and a drag on the technology sector. "Stopping this drain on the American economy will require swift legislative action, and we are encouraged by the attention the issue is receiving in recent weeks," White House spokesman Jay Carney said in a statement.But the NPEs – of which one of the biggest, and best-known, is the venture-funded Intellectual Ventures – argue that they provide a valuable service to individuals or small companies which cannot afford to take larger companies to court to claim against patents that they own and are being infringed.Companies specialising in patent litigation filed 2,921 infringement lawsuits in 2011, the latest figures available, 62% of all such cases filed, Colleen Chien, who teaches patent law at Santa Clara University Law School, said in a blog post for PatentlyO.Allowing judges to decide that certain lawsuits are abusive and requiring losers to pay the winners' legal fees would be key steps toward killing frivolous lawsuits, said Ed Reines, a member of an advisory panel for the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which hears most patent appeals.Another important step would be to reform the ITC so companies cannot get a sales injunction not available in district courts, according to Reines, a lawyer with the firm Weil Gotshal &amp; Manges. A number of companies including Apple, Google, and Nokia currently have cases at the ITC in which they are seeking sales bans on rivals.Two companies often accused of being trolls are Eolas Technologies and Innovatio IP Ventures LLC. Both argued to the Reuters news agency on Tuesday that allowing companies that specialise in legal strategy to handle infringement lawsuits makes sense."The idea that because you're not actually making things, you shouldn't be able to get a return on your investment, I think that's wrong," said Mark Swords, chief executive of Eolas, which has sued companies ranging from Facebook to Walt Disney over patents for interactive technology.Matthew McAndrews, who represents Innovatio, urged lawmakers to consider requiring companies that fight infringement lawsuits and lose to pay the plaintiff's legal fees."Why shouldn't there be a balanced provision that says in the case of a large entity willfully infringing a non-practicing entity that all of the fees should be shifted in that case?" McAndrews said. "Who gets to define an abusive patent litigation claim? It [Obama's proposal] places way too much emphasis on non-practicing entity."Randall Rader, who has been on the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit since 1990 and became chief judge in 2010, has circulated a four-point plan to stem abusive patent litigation. The plan overlaps with some of the new White House proposals and some of the planned legislation."The litigation abuse comes when a company is asserting a patent with a minimal value ... but they're asserting it for billions of dollars," Rader told Reuters in an interview. "That disproportionality is an abuse of the system."Rader's plan calls for courts to restrict pre-trial discovery – gathering evidence in a case – to key terms and key people and would limit the number of patents in each case.It also calls for courts to evaluate the value of any infringement early on and dispatch smaller cases quickly, and to consider making plaintiffs pay the legal fees of defendants if the judge concludes that the original lawsuit was unfounded.The court within weeks will formally begin an effort to cut the number of patents in each case, Rader said.
London-based startupYPlanlaunched its "going out app" for iPhone in November 2012, as a way for people to find and book tickets for events at the last minute.Since then, it's been downloaded 200k times from the UK App Store, with the company claiming it's now installed on more than 10% of iPhones in London.YPlan has also just raised £7.9m ($12m) in Series A funding, led by US venture capital firm General Catalyst Partners, with actor and investor Ashton Kutcher's A-Grade also chipping in alongside other backers.It's the latest example of a London technology startup catching the eye of Silicon Valley investors. Co-founders Rytis Vitkauskas and Viktoras Jucikas appeared at the LeWeb London conference to talk about their plans, which include launching in New York later in 2013.The free app takes a curatorial approach, recommending up to 15 events to its users every night, from gigs, film screenings and musicals through to experiences. The Series A funding follows a £1.1m round in July 2012."The entire proposition is very much built around simplicity," said Vitkauskas. "The focus is really on having a short list of events. The paradox of change is very real. Our job is to curate great experiences for our customers so they don't have to spend time sifting through reams of data."Each user sees a different list of events, based on their tastes. The company has worked hard on making payment simple, as well as browsing – buying tickets is a two-click process. YPlan also integrates with Apple's PassBook mobile ticketing system for iOS."The problem that we are solving is pretty straightforward: no true lastminute marketplace exists for the consumers to discover the events that are happening right now," said Vitkauskas."We find 91% of people who book events on YPlan had no intention of going to that event before they discovered it and booked it."The theory being that YPlan is drumming up new custom for its event partners, rather than cannibalising sales elsewhere. Jucikas explained that YPlan tries to learn about users through the events that they book, and also what their friends on social networks are doing within the app.Why does the company need all that money? Well, it's got 30 people working for it, drawn from companies including Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Sky, Virgin, Time Out and Skype, so costs are mounting. Then there"We believe we've unlocked a very interesting opportunity through our secret sauce, which is multi-fold," said Vitkauskas. "We believe the time is right first of all, but our execution model has also proved extremely successful in landing on 10% of London's iPhones in just six months."The company plans to expand city-by-city with its app. "We're pushing hard on making New York as successful, or even more successful than London in many ways," he said. "Following that there will be a rollout across North America as well as multiple opportunities here in Europe, and at a later point, Asia."YPlan is also working on Android and iPad versions of its app, which will be released by the end of the summer.
Zombie game pop quiz: You've finally found the exit to the abandoned warehouse you'd been scavenging supplies from, but between you and freedom are four shambling infected monstrosities, all eager for tasty man-shaped snacks. How are you going to make it past without ending up as human tartare?If this was pretty much any other recent survival horror title, the answer would be simple – reach for the trusty military grade shotgun, grenade launcher or plasma cutter as appropriate, paint the walls with rotted brains and waltz across the room, scooping up an assortment of high-powered ammunition along the way. This isn't one of those games though, this is The Last of Us, and your arsenal right now consists of a brick and a length of drainpipe with some scissors taped to the end. Good luck, you're going to need it.Keeping your resources limited is just one of the many things Naughty Dog's latest action adventure gets right – forcing you to think through your approach to every encounter while keeping the tension ratcheted up to 11 generates a level of unease that the genre feels like it's been missing since the early Silent Hill games. It seems an obvious point that a zombie-themed game should be scary, but it's a rare enough occurrence that here it feels fresh.Then again, it's an injustice to call The Last of Us a zombie game anyway. As in 28 Days Later, these creatures are infected rather than undead, and although they remain consistent antagonists throughout, this game is clearly more interested in telling a story of post-apocalyptic survival than smashing rotten heads, and it's all the better for it.Infectious enjoymentThat's not to say the story spares us the usual tropes – a virulent infection has decimated the population, degenerating it's victims into mindless ravening lunatics and bringing civilisation to its knees, pretty much exactly as it has a thousand times before across every possible media.Significantly though, the game keeps the details of the outbreak and the disease itself deliberately vague, recognising that any attempt to explain something that's basically pretty ridiculous is doomed to failure (Resident Evil and it's ever expanding psuedo-scientific virus nonsense says hi). Instead, The Last of Us makes a conscious effort to focus the story on the surviving human characters and how they go about coping with the aftermath.It's a good call, and coupled with the high-quality production, both visually and from the voice cast, makes for a compelling tale.Starting with a brief prologue which introduces protagonist Joel during the first panicked moments of the outbreak, the game then flashes forward 20 years to a devastated America where the remnants of the population eke out a living in oppressive militarised quarantine zones. For reasons I don't want to spoil here, the now bitter and grizzled Joel grudgingly takes on a mission to escort the 14-year-old Ellie across the bandit and monster riddled country, and the rest of the game chronicles their journey.I know it doesn't sound like much, but it wouldn't be right to go into too much detail, as the story is definitely something you'll to want to experience for yourself. The growing relationship between the two main characters as they travel from one dangerous situation to the next is a pleasure to follow, and the interplay of Joel's tired cynicism against Ellie's naive enthusiasm and determination makes for a solid narrative device. Add in a well fleshed out supporting cast, from fellow struggling survivors to some deeply unpleasant and unsettling villains, and you'll soon start to care when bad things happen to these people.Where the bad things areAnd bad things will happen. The Last of Us doesn't pull any punches letting you know just how bleak its world really is, in both story and gameplay. Quite aside from the bloodthirsty infected tearing people to pieces, Joel and Ellie are prepared to go to extreme lengths to stay alive, and even though the game manages to make caving in a bandits face with a brick feel desperate and necessary rather than voyeuristic, some of the later set-pieces are likely to garner at least a raised eyebrow from even the most jaded gorehounds. It's definitely not one for the kids, unless you've a particular desire to see them spend the rest of their lives in therapy.Underneath the darkness and grime though, the roots of Naughty Dog's previous Uncharted series are clearly present, not that that should be considered a bad thing. The Last of Us carries over the super-high production values established in Nathan Drake's adventures – the environments are varied and lushly rendered, with large portions of the game taking place in open countryside and forests – a nice change from the usual sewers and abandoned labs (though they're in here too), while character models are equally highly detailed and excellently animated.The one downside is that, due mainly to the slower pace, the basic linear cycle of explore-fight-cutscene that underpins these games feels a little more forced here.Go with the flowThe Last of Us still flows well, with cutscenes seamlessly integrated and virtually no load times between areas, but Uncharted was able to distract attention from its illusion of an open world by racing along at a hundred miles an hour, and that doesn't always happen here. There are plenty of times when you'll wonder why you had to open this door and not the other identical one you just passed, or when an area opens out into a large room full of conveniently cover height crates that instantly telegraphs the upcoming fight. It's not a massive issue, but given the lengths the game goes to to maintain suspension of disbelief, it can be slightly immersion breaking.The combat system is also more-or-less imported wholesale from Uncharted, but thanks to the grittier theme actually feels like a much better fit here. Drake's brand of rough and tumble fisticuffs were always cinematic, if a little clunky, and it's a style that fits well with the desperate and brutal hand-to-hand situations Joel often finds himself in. There's plenty of gunplay too, but the combination of limited ammo and tricky aiming makes it always feel risky.The aggressive AI contributes to this too. Disturb a group of infected and they will all rush to overwhelm you, while bandits and soldiers are quick to try and outflank you or flush you out with molotovs and smoke bombs. This means that stealth is most often the way to go, which serves to balance every fight on a tense knife-edge and means the game is ultimately successful at keeping you on the edge of your seat all the way through.Given the plethora of zombie-based games released in recent years, it would have been easy to see this as Naughty Dog just jumping on the bandwagon and making Uncharted: The Walking Dead. Instead, the designers have taken influence from the best writing the genre has to offer (The Road, The Walking Dead, 28 Days Later) and elements of some of the best games of recent times (Arkham Asylum, Fallout, Uncharted itself) and melded them into a whole that, despite feeling familiar, ends up as more than the sum of its parts.The Last of Us is visually arresting, mechanically solid, maturely written and by turns heart-rending, tense, unnerving and brutal. Check your ammo. Grab your shiv. Just try your best to stay alive.
As I write this, the European Parliament is involved in a world-beatingly gnarly wrangle over the new General Data Protection Regulation. At stake are the future rules for online privacy, data mining, big data, targeted advertising, data-driven social science, governmental spying (by proxy), and a thousand other activities that are at the heart of many of the internet's largest companies, and our politicians' darkest and most uncontrolled ambitions.The lobbyists are out in force. The activists I know who go to Brussels say they've never seen the like: it's a veritable feeding frenzy of lobbying. Hundreds of amendments and proposals are on the table – some good, some bad, and just making sense of them is a full-time job.As complicated as the proposals are, there's one rule of thumb that should be borne in mind whenever any data-protection proposals are on the table: any time someone speaks of relaxing the rules on sharing data that has been "anonymised" (had identifying information removed) or "pseudonymised" (had identifiers replaced with pseudonyms), you should assume until proven otherwise that he or she is talking rubbish.This is a kind of "iron law of privacy," that can be used to quickly weed out nonsensical ideas. What remains might be good ideas or bad ones, but at least they won't be grounded in near-impossibility.Anonymising data is a very, very difficult business. When it comes to anonymising, there are three high-profile failures that get widely cited: AOL's 2006 release of anonymous search data; the State of Massachusetts's Group Insurance Commission release of anonymised health records; and Netflix's 2006 release of 100m video-rental records.In each case, researchers showed how relatively simple techniques could be used to re-identify the data in these sets, usually picking out the elements of each record that made them unique. There are lots of smokers in the health records, but once you narrow it down to an anonymous male black smoker born in 1965 who presented at the emergency room with aching joints, it's actually pretty simple to merge the "anonymous" record with a different "anonymised" database and out pops the near-certain identity of the patient.De-anonymisingSince the mid-noughties, de-anonymising has become a kind of full-contact sport for computer scientists, who keep blowing anonymisation schemes out of the water with clever re-identifying tricks. Arecent paper in Nature Scientific Reportsshowed how the "anonymised" data from a European phone company (likely one in Belgium) could be re-identified with 95% accuracy, given only four points of data about each person (with only two data-points, more than half the users in the set could be re-identified).Some will say this doesn't matter. They'll say that privacy is dead, or irrelevant, or unimportant. If you agree, remember this: the reason anonymisation and pseudonymisation are being contemplated in the General Data Protection Regulation is because its authors say that privacy is important, and worth preserving. They are talking about anonymising data-sets because they believe that anonymisation will protect privacy – and that means that they're saying, implicitly, privacy is worth preserving. If that's policy's goal, then the policy should pursue it in ways that conform to reality as we understand it.Indeed, the whole premise of "Big Data" is at odds with the idea that data can be anonymised. After all, Big Data promises that with very large data-sets, subtle relationships can be teased out. In the world of re-identifying, they talk about "sparse data" approaches to de-anonymisation. Though most of your personal traits are shared with many others, there are some things about you that are less commonly represented in the set – maybe the confluence of your reading habits and your address; maybe your city of birth in combination with your choice of cars.These rarities practically leap out of the data and point straight at you, just as the other Big Data conclusions are meant to. If Big Data can find the combination of subtle environmental factors shared by all the victims of a rare disease, it can also find the combination of subtle identifiers shared by all the different data-sets in which you are present, merge them together, and make your identity public.Lobbying frenzyThe EU is being lobbied like never before on this one. EU Commissioner Viviane Redingsays:"I have not seen such a heavy lobbying operation." It's working, too.Great chunks of lobbyist-authored text isfinding its way into MEP's amendments. The lobbyists have become de facto legislators, only they get paid more and don't have to go to all those boring meetings.Clause four of the General Data Protection Regulation contains the definitions used in the document, and it is one of the key battlegrounds. It establishes the idea that there is such a thing as "anonymous" data and exempts it from regulation, and creates a second category of "pseudonymous" information that can be handled with fewer restrictions than are placed on "personally identifying information."I asked two of my favourite computer scientists what they thought of the plausibility of anonymising or pseudonymising data sets. Seth David Schoen (a staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation) told me: "Researchers have shown that anonymisation is much harder than it looks. Just because something seems anonymous at first glance, doesn't mean it really is – both because of the mathematics of individual distinctiveness and because of the huge number of databases that are becoming available. That means we have to be extremely careful about whether things are truly anonymous, and not rely on our intuition alone."Princeton's Ed Felten – formerly of the US Federal Trade Commission –said: "A decade of computer science research shows that many data sets can be re-identified. Removing obvious identifiers is not enough to prevent re-identification. Removing all data about individuals may not be enough. Even data sets consisting entirely of aggregate information can be used to infer information about specific individuals in some realistic cases."But to say that de-identification is utterly hopeless would go too far. There is an emerging science of privacy-preserving data analysis which can be applied in some settings. As a general rule, data derived from the characteristics of individuals, including behavioral data, will likely convey information about individuals, absent some rigorous technical basis for believing otherwise."The trend is toward treating this like cryptography, where 'I scrambled up the data a bunch' is not a valid argument and 'I can't think of an attack' is not a valid argument – you have to have a technically rigorous argument that no attack is possible."As you can see, both were careful not to rule out the possibility that someone might some day come up with an anonymisation scheme, but neither were bullish on the creation of a regulatory category of "anonymous" data that can be treated as though it held no risks for the people from whom it was collected.I asked both for further reading. Felten suggested Arvind Narayanan and Vitaly Shmatikov'sPrivacy and Security Myths and Fallacies of 'Personally Identifiable Information, an excellent primer on the technical issues from the June 2010 Communications of the Association for Computing Machinery. Schoen recommended Paul Ohm'sBroken Promises of Privacy: Responding to the Surprising Failure of Anonymization, a comprehensive legal history of the idea of anonymisation in regulation published in a 2010 edition of the UCLA Law Review.For my part, I recommendOn the Feasibility of User De-Anonymization from Shared Mobile Sensor Data, a fantastic (if somewhat technical) look at the re-identifying inferences that can be drawn from the seemingly innocuous sensor-data coming off our mobile phones, from the 2012 Proceedings of the Third International Workshop on Sensing Applications on Mobile Phones.Differential privacyMicrosoft has pushed for an approach they call "differential privacy," and it sounds like it may hold promise. As Schoen describes it, "researchers pose research questions to the original data controller, which returns intentionally fuzzy/corrupted answers, and you can allegedly mathematically quantify how much privacy harm was done in the process and then debate whether it was worthwhile in light of the benefits of the research."But this is all conjecture: though the amount of "fuzzing" done in the data is a quantitative matter, the degree to which your privacy is protected by the fuzziness is ultimately a personal question, turning on how you feel about disclosure and its consequences. As is so often the case, this technical solution embodies a bunch of assumptions about questions that are ultimately social, and are hotly contested. You can't settle the argument about whether your privacy is or isn't violated with maths alone.It's all fascinating to think about, but the larger point is this: when a regulation breezily asserts that some data is "anonymous" or even "pseudonymous," that regulation is violently disconnected from the best theories we have in computer science. Where you find this in a regulation, you know that its author was either not serious about protecting privacy, or not qualified to draft a regulation. Either way, it's cause for alarm.
In December 2012, Etsy launched apop-up "Holiday Shop"in New York: its first physical store after nearly eight years as an online retailer. More than 20k shoppers stopped by during the 10 days that it existed for.Does this mean the company – which focuses on helping people sell handmade and vintage items to one another – has grander ambitions for real-world stores? Not exactly.Speaking at the LeWeb London conference, chief executive Chad Dickerson said Etsy's strategy has shifted in 2013 with the beta launch in April of its Etsy Wholesale initiative. Its aim: to connect Etsy creators with professional buyers, to get their products into existing retailers' stores."We really believe that helping our sellers become successful in offline retail is a lot more important than running our own shops," said Dickerson."If we help our sellers sell into offline retail, we can do that in thousands of places, as opposed to doing our own shop, which we can only do in a handful of places."Etsy Wholesaleis the latest plank in Etsy's ambitious growth strategy. The company's gross merchandise sales rose from $525.6m in 2011 to $895.1m in 2012."We're continuing to grow at very similar rates. This year, Etsy will significantly pass $1bn in gross merchandise sales," said Dickerson, who later outlined the company's ultimate strategy. "People see us as an online handmade marketplace, but we really see ourselves as reinventing the whole retail supply chain."How so? Dickerson presented Etsy's mission in near-evangelical tones, in terms of its plans to change the way people shop, and who they shop with."You can imagine a world where everywhere you go, whether you're buying the materials to make things, selling them online or selling them at retail through Etsy Wholesale, that the goods you're buying or selling are from a local person," he said."We're creating a people-powered economy where people are buying and selling from and to other people in their communities."There's a slight contradiction here: almost immediately, Dickerson said that "one of the things we hear a lot from our sellers is how excited they are to sell things to people in other countries" – so global rather than purely local.Elsewhere in his on-stage interview, Dickerson said Etsy isn't planning to raise its famously-low listing prices for sellers "anytime soon", suggesting that charging 20 cents per listing and taking a 3.5% cut of every sale is the key to Etsy's success."The community has a lot of goodwill," he said. "With the pricing, for example, people feel they're getting a good deal, so our growth so far has been largely organic: people telling other people to sell on Etsy."Dickerson said this may offer an example for other startups in the emerging sharing economy – the focus of this year's LeWeb London conference – with some pointed advice for his peers."You don't build communities to exploit them, you build communities to be a part of them," he said. "You have to think about yourself as being a member of the community, not just creating and tending to the community… If the whole basis of your company is the success of others, that's what a true community is: helping other people be successful."Dickerson was also asked about the growth of 3D printing technologies, and how they might fit into Etsy's traditional handmade/vintage emphasis."We're taking a closer look at that," he said, segueing into an anecdote about a mob of tailors destroying a factory full of the first commercial sewing machines, outraged at the conceptual and commercial threat these machines posed to their craft."These [3D printers] are the sewing machines of today. What they produce may not look handmade – or handmade in the Etsy definition – but the technology is marching so quickly," said Dickerson."We really have to look at those and determine whether those types of things should be sold on Etsy. People are using parts from 3D printers on Etsy right now, though. We're figuring that out."
Yelp is one of the big players in local search, through its website and increasingly its apps and mobile partnerships.The company's database of 39m reviews of venues and local businesses attracted an average of 102m monthly unique visitors in the first quarter of 2013. 30% of those visitors came to Yelp's mobile website, while its apps have 10m monthly unique users.Mobile and international expansion are the two key pillars for Yelp's growth in 2013, as well as signing up more local businesses to manage their profiles and (hopefully) advertise on Yelp too."Yelp is in a very nice spot: local data, and especially review data, is one of the killer apps on mobile phones," chief executive Jeremy Stoppelman tells The Guardian, before his appearance at the LeWeb London conference."On mobile, what are the core apps? It's basically messaging, mapping and review data. We're continuing to iterate on mobile, we've forged a great relationship with Apple which has baked us into its Maps app, and we're getting more and more content from our mobile apps."The international expansion is partly about organic growth: hiring sales staff and community managers in new countries and regions. Yelp is now available in 21 countries, although only 6% of its Q1 2013 revenues came from outside the US.Key to global growth is the integration of Qype, the rival Yelp bought for $50m in October 2012. "We've done two integrations so far in Ireland and Italy, where we've brought over all the Qype content and started redirecting the traffic," says Stoppelman."I don't think there has ever been a move of content from one site to another at this scale: Qype has somewhere north of 15m unique users, and a few million reviews. It's gone relatively smoothly, but it's a very complex project."Stoppelman says that the UK is a growing market for Yelp, as small businesses catch on to the idea of encouraging customers to review them on Yelp and its rivals, with a number taking the next step of buying advertising on these services.Review arms-raceIn some sectors – think hotels and TripAdvisor – consumer-review sites have caused a certain amount of brow-furrowing over their implications, and particularly about the authenticity of negative reviews."Any kind of wave creates a lot of concern, especially something that shifts the power dynamic," says Stoppelman."Consumers are empowered by Yelp and tools like it: before, when they had a bad experience, they didn't have much recourse. They could fume, but often nothing else other than tell their friends. Now the consumer has a lot more power."That power brings responsibility for the companies making these tools and services, though: a task that Stoppelman says Yelp hasn't shied away from."There's the problem of how you protect the businesses, making sure the content is as useful and trustworthy as possible. Although also how you make sure businesses don't inflate their own ratings," he says.That means heavy investment in Yelp's review filter, which combs through the site's data to spot suspicious patterns and pull out reviews that may be fake – more than 20% for some businesses according to Stoppelman – and remove them from the main listings, although they are still accessible through a link.As millions more people use a service like Yelp, does it become harder to game the system? Actually, Stoppelman says that bigger scale means bigger efforts to undermine it."The more prominent we are, the more efforts expand to beat the system," he says. "We're investing more and more: we have this arm's race going on. But we think we're far enough ahead with our efforts so far."Building a thriving community of local businesses is about more than just filters. Stoppelman suggests that one of the underestimated aspects of Yelp is its emphasis on hiring one or more community managers in as many countries and cities as possible."That person is there to foster a real-life community of people sharing their local favourites and connecting with one another, including at offline events. We're trying to grow these tight-knit communities of really passionate users," he says."It's not just a technology. Where folks like Google have fallen down is in just putting a little review box up, then closing their eyes and letting the algorithm take care of itself," he says. "Yelp is a technology company, but also a company that understands how people want to connect with one another."Mobile advertisingThe main way Yelp is making money is from advertising: businesses paying to appear when users search on its site and in its apps.The company generated $46.1m of revenues in the first quarter of 2013: $39m from local ads, $4.8m from brands and $2.4m from other sources including data partnerships. 36% of its local ads were shown on mobile devices in that quarter.The company's pitch to businesses comes armed with numbers: Stoppelman cites a study by the Boston Consulting Group from March 2013 that claimed Yelp advertisersgenerate average annual revenues of $23k from the service, compared to $8k for businesses that have a free profile on Yelp but don't buy ads."If consumers are looking for a local business in our iPhone or Android apps, or on the web, they're about to make a purchase decision. What better time to get in front of them with your business?" says Stoppelman.This, of course, isn't exclusive to Yelp: Google, Foursquare and other companies are all hoping to benefit from similar purchase-decision moments on mobile devices.What they're all benefitting from is that showing ads related to local searches runs less risk of being seen as intrusive than, to pick the obvious example, ads inserted into social networking feeds on mobile phones."We should be an elegant way to monetise relative to Twitter or Facebook, where they're having to redirect your attention," says Stoppelman."It's like 'You were looking at your friends' photos, but now here, download this app!' It might work, but it's a little annoying. On Yelp, you might be looking for doner kebabs, and here's an ad for a doner kebab outlet. It's an ad, but it's relevant and helpful."The evolution of Yelp and mobile rival Foursquare has been interesting to watch in recent years, particularly in the kinds of content they focus on.Foursquare started with simple "checkins" – people tapping a button to tell the world where they were – but over time added richer updates, like tips, and became a service focused more on recommendations.Yelp, meanwhile, started with the latter in the form of its reviews, but added tips and checkins as it developed. Which should give Stoppelman a good perspective on whether checkins still have value in 2013."I saw the whole 'checkin is the future of everything' thing as it took off. My conclusion back then, which has played out, is it's a contribution – a type of local content – but it isn't necessarily the richest type," he says."It's a data point of 'I'm here', and maybe a geocode, but it doesn't tell me that much about whether you liked or disliked that place. Something is better than nothing, which is why we added it. If people want to check in, write a mobile tip or write a full review, we want to make sure they have all the tools they need to do that."Recommendation evolutionThe way local recommendations are evolving is interesting too, from a starting point based on search: type in a business type, browse listings, and read reviews before deciding where to go or who to call.In 2013, Foursquare is as much about pro-active recommendations – algorithms suggesting places to go based on your existing habits.Google Now is running with the idea, to a world where your smartphone doesn't just know the three best kebaberies near you right now (to continue Stoppelman's example), but pops up that info when it detects you weaving down a high-street at 1am."Discovery is an area everyone's looking at. If you open your phone at lunchtime, I can make a decent guess that you want a place to go for lunch, and I can make a suggestion, which may be right or wrong," says Stoppelman."We can do that fairly easily, and we've got some releases soon that address that specific use case. But it's not right all the time. Google Now can't divine everything: fundamentally, it can't read your mind. The core thing about local is still 'tell me what you want', even if we're excited about the opportunity to guess at what you want."What about the future? It's tempting to ask Stoppelman about the new gee-whiz technologies: Google Glass and wearable gadgets, connected cars with augmented dashboards and so on. Local search (and by extension reviews) may be an important service in these areas.But he's more excited about trends that – while they're more prosaic (and less hooted about by Silicon Valley futurephiles) – are a lot more meaningful for the way people connect with local businesses. Better analytics, for example."Something that's becoming more possible is closing the loop for local businesses, especially advertisers," says Stoppelman, who cites the oft-quoted stat about half the budget for an average above-the-line campaign being wasted."There are increasing opportunities to measure that within the local space, as consumers do more things online and on their phones. Businesses are able to track the customer from the time they search, all the way to when they come through the door."Perhaps the most intriguing area of potential for Yelp and other local services, though, is their ability to make more of those doors that people are coming through belong to small, independent businesses rather than big chains.Yelp has traditionally focused on the former category, and Stoppelman cites a US study that tracked what happened as Yelp became more popular in Seattle, where "there was a shift in revenue from the big chains to these individual businesses".High-street homogeneity is a live issue in the UK, so if that's a genuine trend – and if it travels across the Atlantic – it may be the most convincing argument for small businesses spending more money with the likes of Yelp, or simply encouraging customers to review their services."Individual locations get judged on their quality," says Stoppelman. "If you're doing a great job, it doesn't matter whether you have a million-pound ad budget or not. Your reputation stands alone."
Airbnb has been a hit with a growing number of travellers, connecting people looking to stay beyond traditional hotels and lodgings, and "hosts" with available rooms or properties to rent out to them.By the end of 2012, more than 4m guests had used the service since its launch in 2008 – 3m of those in 2012 alone – with more than 300k properties listed on the Airbnb site at the end of the year.The company is one of the shining stars of the "sharing economy" that's being celebrated at this year's LeWeb London conference, although like many of its peers in that movement, Airbnb's funding ($120m so far) is more celebrated than its revenues and profit (unknown).Co-founder Joe Gebbia spoke at LeWeb London to outline Airbnb's current strategy, its future plans and its tangles with politicians and regulators who believe the service is illegal (or, at least, should be regulated more)."The story of Airbnb is really the underdog story, in many ways," said Gebbia, outlining the company's roots, when he and his housemates rented out their own living room (with airbeds – hence the name) to people coming to San Francisco for conferences."Since the very beginning we wanted to create an experience for our guests: more than just a place to sleep. We wanted to cook breakfast in the morning, we wanted to provide a subway map for our guests. Pick them up from the airport..."Gebbia and co-founder Brian Chesky made $1k in the first weekend putting up guests in their apartment, showing them around San Francisco once the conference sessions were done. "Something even more powerful than the money was the social experience we had with these three guests," said Gebbia.Cue a third co-founder – Nathan Blecharczyk – and a proper website for Airbnb to help other people with space to rent to guests, which went through several iterations as Airbedandbreakfast, before a rebranding and relaunch as Airbnb in March 2009.There were some painful times trying to raise money from investors along the way. "10 returned our email, five met us for coffee, zero invested. They thought the idea was crazy, and it was a liabiity to have two designers and one technologist [on the founding team]," said Gebbia.Fast forward, and the company has found investors happy to look beyond those initial prejudices. In 2013, Airbnb is also a global business, with properties available in 192 countries, and staff dotted around the world."Last year, the business actually tipped, where we were doing more trips and reservations outside the United States than domestically," he said. "We started to plant flags in our key markets. One thing that's been very important for us from the beginning is being close to the community."How so? By hiring staff in the different countries to build the community of Airbnb hosts, including holding meetups – one in London the day before the LeWeb conference, for example."For an international business such as ours, you can't localise without a local," said Gebbia. "That was a hard lesson for us. We had to be closer, physically present, which is when we put teams on the ground."What about the legal issues, in cities and countries where people aren't allowed to rent out their rooms or properties without being licensed to do so? New York, Amsterdam and Quebec are just three high-profile examples of places where Airbnb has faced regulatory scrutiny.Gebbia was bullish in his response. "When the car was introduced in 1908, people could experience a brand new way to travel that was more efficient than a horse and buggy," he said."Can you believe that cities tried to outlaw cars in the United States? Can you imagine driving a car for a year then having to go back to a horse and buggy? The policy-makers adjusted to meet the demands of the people. We believe it's time for our invention, and it appears the world agrees, given we're in 40k cities in 192 countries."Gebbia batted back questions about finances and plans for an IPO. When is Airbnb going public? "It would be a misuse of our time to put any thought into that now. We have a community to create and care for," he said.Revenues? "Oh, we don't talk about that."Gebbia also parried a question about whether Airbnb's growth is bad news for the traditional hotels industry. "If you have a pie-chart o all the available combinations in a city, it's not like we're taking a slice out of the pie. We're taking the pie and making it bigger."Asked about future plans, Gebbia said Airbnb thinks about the internet as a play of three acts.In the 1990s, act one was how to get people on the internet and using it. Act two, once a critical mass of people was online, was helping them connect to one another on social networks and upload content. And Act three?"We now have a critical mass of people all connected online, and act three is about getting them back offline," said Gebbia. "The big challenge now is how to design the online to offline transition. That's what we're thinking about: how to seamlessly merge online and offline."He also had some advice for fellow entrepreneurs (and wannabe entrepreneurs) itching for a slice of the sharing economy."Entrepreneurship is about connecting two dots in a new and different way," he said. "My advice for aspiring entrepreneurs out there is to marry the problem. Find a problem that you're so close to that you can empathise with it in a way that others can't... You can see it so closely, that it gives you that ability to connect the two dots together."
When audiences emerge from tonight's opening performance of Let The Right One In at theDundee Rep Theatre, they won't have to leave the horror behind. The stage translation of the cult Swedish vampire film is being accompanied by its own iPhone game, Other, released last week to publicise this intriguing production.Free to download, the game is effectively an interactive tour of the city, featuring puzzles, stories and sound effects to create a sort of chilling, augmented tourist guide – the makers don't want to say too much about how it works: a lot of the effect is based on shock. The project is the work of local studioQuartic Llamawhich engaged nearby schools and writing groups to uncover local ghost stories, which then became part of the narrative. Using a satellite tracking system, the game opens new stories and experiences when the player reaches key locations."Other was part of a community project, which included game and film jams, writing workshops and lots more," says Quartic Llama co-founder Mal Abbas. "Much like a theatre performance we wanted the audience to be connected and to enjoy a continuous, narrative-rich experience throughout, which is one if the reasons we made it a sound-based game. The input from the National Theatre of Scotland team was great and really helped us to create a game that appeals to both gamers who have not gone to the theatre, and theatre fans who have not played games."The city itself also proved a useful source of inspiration, with its varied architecture and rich industrial history. "From a game design perspective, using the streets of Dundee as the game environment and setting really refreshed our thinking," says Abbas. "Countless hours were spent testing the route along the streets and this was essential in analysing the game mechanics and key design decisions."Philippa Tomlin, National Theatre of Scotland's creative director for Other thinks we'll see a lot more of this sort of collaboration in the future. "In theatre there has always been a great sense of game playing. We use games to create character, explore plot and themes. As players on the stage we invite the audience to our game of pretending we are people that we are not. So for me gaming and theatre are very closely linked."My favourite parallel is that of creative storytelling and how we experience story; the player or audience member invited to travel through a world we have created for them in some way, either in reality or virtually. As a theatre maker I am really excited about the future of interactive audience experiences and especially using game design. The theatre that I would be very excited about making and seeing in the future is digital theatre."Interactive theatre performances are becoming ever more inventive, with practitioners likePunchdrunkandStamp Collectiveblurring the boundaries between spectating and participation; there is also a growing interest in games as sophisticated publicity tools for film and theatre productions. Other hovers somewhere between the two, reflecting the eerie atmosphere of the play, but extending the experience beyond the initial subject matter, into the city around the theatre.Abbas sees a future in which live theatre is integrated into digital applications and vice versa. In the past, the play was the thing, now the game is the thing as well.• Let the Right One In runs at the Dundee Rep Theatre from 5th-29th June. Other is availablefree from iTunes.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Halo Spartan Assault: pocket rocket | VG247Halo: Spartan Assault is a Windows-8-exclusive, single-player twin-stick shooter. It features touch-optimised controls and will provide a mobile Halo experience that's supported by optional micro-transactions.Halo joins the ever-widening array of major franchises with 'free-to-play' offshoots.Zynga Closes Multiple Studios, Lays Off 18 Percent Of Work Force | www.GameInformer.comZynga has been having a tough time lately, and today brings more bad news. The mobile and social developer has closed its Los Angeles, New York, Austin, and Dalls studios. Nearly 520 employees have been laid off.Zynga's transition from Facebook game giant to web and mobile competitor has been extremely painful. It's difficult to see where the silver lining is for this controversial company.News: Harmonix announces Fantasia game for Xbox One | ComputerAndVideoGames.comRock Band and Dance Central developer Harmonix has announced Xbox One and Xbox 360 Kinect music game, Fantasia: Music Evolved.Planned for release in 2014, the motion-controlled game is said to be "inspired" by the classic Disney film, featuring tracks from over 25 leading artists including Bruno Mars and AVICII.Using Kinect, Harmonix promises to "give players creative power to change the mix of their favourite songs in real-time," choosing between the original recording and new remixed versions, or adding new layers of music via manipulators that allow them to change music.Here's the trailer:It's a bit weird, isn't it?Steve Ballmer Treks To Hollywood To Tout Xbox One To TV Moguls And Agents | Deadline.comSteve Ballmer has hit Tinseltown to evangelise Xbone:Deadline has learned the meetings were an intimate preview of the new Xbox One capabilities before next week's E3 confab where secretive Microsoft will unveil details of the device's technology. Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer was escorted by his entertainment studios president Nancy Tellem for the visit late last week to lobby her closest Hollywood pals: her former boss CBS chief Les Moonves, Sony TV boss Steve Mosko, and WME co-CEOS Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell. It's all part of Ballmer's effort to drum up exclusive content after Microsoft intends to launch 40+ new voice-controlled customized TV and entertainment apps on Xbox One.I hope he burst into the meeting room likethis.Lionhead Teases Fable HD Remake | IGNMicrosoft has confirmed that the new game from Lionhead Studios, teased earlier today, will be Fable Anniversary, a HD remake of the original Fable for Xbox 360 including The Lost Chapters, added Achievements, SmartGlass integration, leaderboards, new UI, and a full 1080p HD visual update.It's coming this Christmas on Xbox 360 only.IndieCade to feature four Oculus Rift games at E3 2013 | PolygonIndieCade regularly promotes independent game makers by showcasing unique and interesting titles at industry events. E3 attendees will have the chance to play atmospheric psychological puzzle game The Recital, which allows players to embody a pianist, and Sound Self, a game that requires Oculus Rift users to navigate tunnels of light and shapes.Other titles include Irrational Exuberance, an exploration of a "mystery playground at the end of the world," and If a Tree Screams in the Forest, which sends players walking through strange wilderness.The Oculus Rift makers have always said that it'll be indies that really run with this technology and that's looking to be the case.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamITC bans importation of older iPhones and iPads into the US over 3G-essential Samsung patent &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsFlorian Müller:basically, Apple would have to make the iPhone 4S its entry-level iPhone model and discontinue U.S. sales of older iPhones (and the "new iPad 4G", the third-generation iPad, its entry-level model for iPads with cellular connectivity; WiFi iPads are not affected at all). Formally the decision also relates only to the AT&amp;T versions of those older products, but Samsung reserved the right to allege infringement by Apple products running on other networks (unless they come with Qualcomm baseband chips).Apple can appeal; President Obama could veto the decision within 60 days - and, having started a number of moves over patent litigation's effect on US technology (including the ITC's lower bar for sales bans) might be tempted.But sales bans over standards-essential patents are a contradiction in terms; SEPs are meant to be licensed freely, and not "infringing" an SEP would mean not conforming with the standard.Taking on patent trolls to protect American innovation &gt;&gt; The White HouseGene Sperling, director of the US National Economic Council:Last February during his Fireside Hangout, the President explained that patent trolls (known more formally as Patent Assertion Entities, or PAEs) "don't actually produce anything themselves. They're just trying to essentially leverage and hijack somebody else's idea and see if they can extort some money out of them." This type of abusive patent litigation is a major problem.It's also important to know what we're not talking about here. We aren't trying to make it harder to pursue legitimate intellectual property rights, or vigorously defend valid patents.Laudable premise. Going to be hard to make it stick, because PAEs (aka non-practising entities, NPEs, aka patent trolls) are sure to look for loopholes. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)What I learned using only Google products &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMike Elgan:As a former Windows and current Apple user, I wanted to understand the full Google platform experience firsthand. So I went all-in.Sure, I've used Android devices and even a Chromebook casually before. But I never tried to rely on them full time.Boy, did I learn a lot about Google (and Apple). And my opinions on many things have changed. I'm going to tell you the 10 shocking things I learned and how my mobile computing buying and usage have been transformed.His summaries are interesting, but it would have been useful to know what his work (and play) days actually consist of. Writing? Editing? Writing/editing while travelling? Spreadsheets? Conferencing? Using specialist LOB (line of business) apps?It's hard to know whether his blithe remark that"The Pixel is a great main computer for a wide range of people, from C-level executives to everyday businesspeople who want simplicity above all"is based on direct experience, or just guesswork. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Sony and Lego collaborating on toy research &gt;&gt; Network WorldSony and Lego are working together on creating a new generation of products that bridge the gap between toys and video games.A team of researchers at Sony Computer Science Laboratories in Tokyo is embedding tiny motors, cameras, and actuators into Lego blocks. One demonstration uses two small motorized Lego platforms, one of which is computer-controlled and will relentlessly pursue the other, which can be maneuvered using a wireless PlayStation controller or by hand.Any combination of blocks can be built up on the platforms, and more platforms can be added. The system could be used to create Lego battles, or simply play tag. The research team has also added actuators that can cause Lego structures to crumble on demand, and camera blocks that can beam first-hand video of the action to tablets and smartphones.Great for geeks and domestic spying. For children? Unconvinced. (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Hard Choices: Intel's 'orrible new Haswell chips &gt;&gt; Rock, Paper, ShotgunJeremy Laird:Intel reckons Haswell is the biggest step forward in processor efficiency in the history of its x86 CPUs. Yup, even bigger than the transition from Pentium 4 to Core.Thus, if Haswell is anything like as good as Intel claims, it's going to shake things up. Think tablets that combine iPad proportions with proper PC levels of processing prowess. Microsoft's Surface Pro, as nice as it is in some ways, doesn't quite deliver on that. Haswell, according to the hype, will. I've long wanted a tablet convertible that's no bigger than an iPad but has the power of a proper PC. So I'm genuinely excited by the prospect. But it's got naff-all to do with gaming PCs.Given that laptops are outselling desktops by 4:3, and that gaming PCs make up a tiny fraction of desktop sales, this might not be a surprise. But does this point towards the end of gaming rigs? (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Cracked Glass: Why wearables are the next security maelstrom &gt;&gt; SlashGearChris Davies talks to Marc Rogers of Lookout Security, who sees many new frontiers for hacking:"Some of the things that we're connecting, and allowing to build huge amounts of data… I keep on coming back to the Nest thermostat because it's an awesome example," Rogers says. "Because the Nest knows how many people are in your house, it knows when they come home, it knows what temperature they like it, it knows when you're on holiday, it knows if you've got any pets, it knows if you've got any wireless networks, it knows what's on the wireless networks, and it knows how to connect to the wireless networks. So suddenly, hacking a thermostat – not cool. Hacking a Nest? I now own your house."Glass is only the half of it.The mental model of verbs in app design &gt;&gt; The Gong ShowVenture capitalist Andrew Parker:When I talk to people that use web apps infrequently, they are often surprised by the way the "like" verb works inside Facebook.  People don't say they are surprised explicitly… but its clear there is confusion when you tease it out via conversation.As he points out, Facebook's "like" actually has three different meanings. Praise goes to Last.fm for inventing "scrobble" - a new word which brings no semantic baggage.Malware that drains your bank account thriving on Facebook &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comZeus is a particularly nasty Trojan horse that has infected millions of computers, most of them in the United States. Once Zeus has compromised a computer, it stays dormant until a victim logs into a bank site, and then it steals the victim's passwords and drains the victim's accounts. In some cases, it can even replace a bank's Web site with its own page, in order to get even more information– such as a Social Security number– that can be sold on the black market.The Trojan, which was first detected in 2007, is only getting more active.According to researchers at the security firm Trend Micro, incidents of Zeus have risen steadily this year and peaked in May.And malicious links to it are now appearing on Facebook. Beware: it seems the "Russian Business Network" is back in, well, business.The Yahoo e-mail privacy flap that wasn't &gt;&gt; CNET NewsDeclan McCullagh:It seemed like yet another corporate privacy flap: Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer decrees that Yahoo Mail users will have their email "scanned and analyzed" so relevant ads can be displayed.That apparent revelation prompted dozens of news articles in the last few days describing the practice as "creepy" or "freaking people out." Onewonderedif it was an "aggressive invasion of privacy."The only problem is that Yahoo hasn't, well, actually changed its policy. At all. Aversionof Yahoo Mail's terms of service adopted in 2011 gives the company the right to "scan and analyze all incoming and outgoing communications content sent and received from your account" and use the profile to "match and serve targeted advertising" to you…This week's controversy underscores how short memories have become in the modern Internet era: the same privacy flap occurred in June 2011, when Yahoo actually adopted the policy in effect today that permits email to be scanned.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
For California's geek tycoons, life used to be simple: make billions of dollars, seal off a beach, live happily – and privately – ever after. Their Silicon Valley fortunes bought coastal properties and endless ways to impede public access to what were, in theory, public beaches.That was before technology turned against them and empowered the plebs. Or, as some see it, before poetic justice bit the moguls on the ass.Activists and local authorities have discovered that they can use smartphone apps to map hidden trails and beaches, so ordinary people can find and enjoy them. The California Coastal Commission has ordered Sean Parker, who made a fortune with Napster and Facebook, to develop such an app as part of a $2.5m penalty for not having proper permitsfor his wedding at Big Sur last weekend. Parker built a virtual film set with fake ruins, staircases and waterfalls for a $10m ceremony at the plush Ventana Inn &amp; Spa resort, overlooking the Pacific.The commission's order, which was published on Monday, comes on the eve of the release of a different app for Malibu, 300 miles south, where tycoons such as the Oracle chief executive, Larry Ellison, try to deter the public from visiting beaches lining their properties. Jenny Price, an activist who has spent a decade exploring and publicising access routes, has created the app, Our Malibu Beaches, to expose fake driveways and gates as well as bogus, intimidating signs saying "no parking", "no trespassing" or "private beach".No California beach can be completely private. The point between wet sand and the water is public space."Angelenos, Californians, nature lovers and everyone – let's open up the legendary 27 miles of Malibu beaches once and for all!"said Price's Kickstarter pitch, which surpassed its $30,000 goal last month. The app will show each public access point and "[help] you park. It even walks you down each beach – house-by-house – to find the best spot for your towel on the dry sand." The app, which has been co-developed with Escape App's Ben Adair, should be available for free on Androids and iPhones later this month.Hollywood moguls like Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen are known to pad along Carbon Beach, aka Billionairess Beach. The cartoonist Gary Trudeau lampooned the latter as "Lord Geffen" in his Doonesbury strip, after he resisted an access path alongside his home.Local media hailed the app initiative. It will "drive rich Malibuites crazy", crowed one blog.The Los Angeles Times welcomed the prospectof the "hoi polloi" having better access and played down concerns about litter and unleashed dogs.Malibu's app appears to have inspired the Californian Coastal Commission in its punishment of Parker for temporarily transforming an ecologically sensitive area of Big Sur, in the Monterey peninsula. An arch, an artificial pond and a stone bridge were built for the Napster founder's marriage to the singer-songwriter Alexandra Lenas. Around 300 guests attended, including Sting and Emma Watson. No serious damage was done but Parker lacked proper permits. Private security guards shooed people away from the area while the site was built. The Ventana Spa &amp; Inn, a boutique resort, was accused of illegally closing a campsite and failing to provide promised parking space.The CCC allowed the wedding to go aheadafter Parker agreed to pay a $2.5m penalty to fund conservation and public access projects, including an app mapping publicly accessible parts of nearby coastline.In a statement, Parker said he and his bride were delighted to contribute: "We always dreamed of getting married in Big Sur, one of the most magical places on Earth. In continuing my foundation's mission, we are excited to support these important conservation-related projects for and with the local community."
After several years in the shadow of EA's Fifa franchise, Konami has announced major changes to its once dominant Pro Evolution Soccer series. PES 2014 will feature a completely new engine based on the Fox technology developed by Metal Gear creator Kojima Studios, as well as re-engineered ball physics and more expressive animations.Central to the handling of the new game is the 'TrueBall Tech' which promises to give players true control over the ball. The ability to trap and pass will be moved to the analogue stick, while "detailed barycentric physics" will dictate how players receive passes, based on their body position and the height and speed of the ball. According to the press release, "TrueBall Tech means that it can be chested or nodded past an opponent, flicked into space or to a team mate, while closer dribbling control is a much more personal attribute in the new game."In effect, the emphasis of the engine is on a truly free-moving ball, rather than on the players themselves, in theory allowing a much larger array of personalised interactions. It's the sort of freedom 3D footie games have been promising for years, but which has been notably absent as ball physics has ceded to detailed player animations and automated sequences. It's also something that Fifa 14 is attempting to correct, with its own revised ball physics engine.Meanwhile, a new Motion Animation Stability System (M.A.S.S.) will allow procedural physical interactions between players, taking into consideration the speed and weight of battling opponents. It's a similar system to the one Fifa 13 introduced, and together with the TruBall implementation should lead to more unpredictable encounters as the ball loops or bobbles away after 50/50 tackles.PES 2014 is also bringing in an emotional element to enhance player stats. Certain team members will lose heart if they feel they are playing poorly or if the side concedes a goal: however, team mates can apparently rally round to support their troubled comrade. Furthermore, moments of footballing genius can work to galvanise a team, boosting their stats in the process.Finally, here's what the press release says about set-pieces:Free kicks and penalties have also been radically changed. Control over free kicks has been expanded with decoy runs added and short passes now unrestricted. To counter, players can now move the position of their keeper for the kick, while the wall will react to the kick instinctively to block or deflect the ball.Penalties now use a target guide that is changed according to the kicker's ability and where they intend to place the ball. The goal keeper can now opt to move ahead of the kick, sensing when the penalty taker is not particularly strong.It all sounds promising – especially the emphasis on the ball and its movements as opposed to player behaviours. In the olden days, Sensible Soccer allowed a much more experimental approach to play, based on the principle that the ball was a genuinely independent and realistic physical object, beholden to the laws of momentum. If PES 2014 catches that feel again in a 3D environment, it could be genuinely revolutionary.The game is, however, up against a very promising Fifa 14, making this the most interesting battle between the two sporting behemoths since the PlayStation 2 era. It's a battle, though, that will only take place on current gen machines: PES 2014 will be on PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 only when it releases later this year.
Mobile internet users in Turkey are routing around suspected censorship by its government by downloading software that encrypts and hides their connections to the outside world, as the unrest in the country grows.People there are also downloading communications apps such as Twitter and Ustream, which can broadcast live video, and Zello, which works like a walkie-talkie, so they can record events and avoid surveillance, as protests and disorder entered their sixth day.Over the weekend, more than 120,000 people inside Turkey have downloaded Hotspot Shield, a free mobile app that provides a "virtual private network" (VPN) connection that cannot be tapped and can link to the outside world, avoiding censorship. Anchorfree, which makes the software, said its product – already popular inside the country as a means of evading government internet censorship – had leapt more than three thousandfold over the weekend.The country, which has about 73 million inhabitants, of whom about half have internet connections, usually sees about 10,000 new users of VPN software each day, said Anchorfree, but that figure jumped tenfold on Saturday alone."The really interesting thing here," said David Gorodyansky, founder and chief executive of AnchorFree,, "is that tens of thousands of people are downloading Hotspot Shield and other communications apps in anticipation of further censorship. It just goes to show how evolving internet and mobile app technology is helping to thwart attempts to limit democratic rights and freedoms."The Turkish government has been repeatedly criticised by pressure groups inside the country who say it has been blocking or censoring Twitter and Facebook content for months leading up to the latest protests, in which one man has died.Over the weekend, access to social media sites was throttled, according to areport on Techcrunchquoting sources inside the country. But Turkcell, the largest of the three mobile phone companies there, which covers almost the whole country and has about 60% of users, denied reports that it was blocking connections.Prime Minister Tayyip Erdoganrecently called Twitter "a menace", adding "the best examples of lies can be found there. To me, social media is the worst menace to society."Kurdish groups inside and outside Turkey have previously complained to the Guardian that tweets using their hashtag#twitterkurdshave been censored so that protests inside the country alleging mistreatment do not appear in Twitter's timeline or searches. Twitter has not been able to confirm this.The Turkish government has implemented a centralised system where all internet traffic travels over Turk Telecom's systems, which means content can be blocked or websites effectively removed from sight. Thousands of sites are reported to be invisible inside the country, while being available outside. There is also a government body which can ban internet content without a warrant or judicial oversight.However Renesys, an internet conectivity monitoring company, said there wasno evidencethat Turkey's connectivity to the outside world is being blocked, as has happened in Syria and Egypt more recently."We examined the reachability of social networking sites from our measurement infrastructure within Turkey, and found nothing unusual. We examined the 72-hour history of measurements from inside Turkey to these sites, and found no change in normal behaviour," noted chief technology officer Jim Cowie. But he added that it was impossible to know whether there might be local throttling of connections.
Five months after launching on iPhone, Twitter's Vine video-sharing app is nowavailable for Android smartphonestoo.The free app, which enables people to record and share clips of up to six seconds with other Vine users as well as on Twitter and Facebook, has been available on iPhone since late January.In ablog post announcing the Android port, Twitter revealed that Vine has so far attracted 13m users on iPhone, although it did not make it clear whether these are monthly active users or all registered users."Vine for Android has many of the features that more than 13 million people have grown to love: easy video creation with automatic playback and sound; Explore, where you can discover popular posts and see what's trending; and Find Friends, where you can find and invite people you know to join," explained Android engineer Sara Haider.The new version has one feature that's not (yet) in Vine for iPhone: zoom. However, some features are missing on Android, including support for smartphones' front-facing cameras, hashtags, search and sharing to Facebook.Complaints about these omissions are the reason Vine has a modest average review rating of 3.2 stars out of five on Android's Google Play app store at the time of writing, although Twitter says the features will be added soon."Though we've been very focused on releasing Vine for Android, we've continued to release updates and add new features to the iOS app. As a result, the two apps are not perfectly in sync, but that won't be the case for long," writes Haider.The coming weeks will see "frequent updates" to the Vine Android app to add these features. "Of course, this is only the beginning – we have exciting plans for features that could exist only on Android," adds Haider.Vine's roots are in a startup of the same name, which wasacquired by Twitter in October 2012before ever launching its app. Four months later, Twitter released it for iPhone as an official sub-brand.At the time,Twitter pitched Vine as "a new way to share video", although the looping six-second video-clip format had a clear antedecent in the shape of animated GIFs.13m users on iPhone is still a relatively small percentage of Twitter's overall user base. In April 2013 the company said60% of the 200m active Twitter users are accessing the service from mobile devices.Android should give Vine a big boost, if the example of Instagram is anything to go by. The then-independent photo-sharing app made asimilar leap from iPhone to Android in April 2012, wasdownloaded 1m times in its first 24 hours, and a year lateraccounted for nearly half of Instagram's 100m monthly active users.Vine's Android launch is also good news for the growing number of brands who are using the service. While Twitter isn't (yet) selling advertising on Vine, there are plenty of branded videos being shared through the app. Bacardi, Urban Outfitters, Gap, Dunkin Donuts, Doritos, Next and Samsung are among the brands that have been active on Vine in 2013.In May, video technology company Unruly estimated thatjust 4% of the 100 most popular Vine videos came from brands, but that "branded Vines are four times more likely to be shared than branded online videos".Based on its analysis of 10m tweets over a one-month period, Unruly also claimed that on average, five tweets per second contain a Vine link – note, this includes multiple tweets of the same clips, so it's not five new Vine videos every second.Vine has also made a few waves within the creative community. Some of the most-shared clips have come from music artists like Tyler, the Creator, Wiz Khalifa and Harry Styles from One Direction. Meanwhile, the Tribeca film festivalheld a #6SECFILMS Vine contest in April 2013, attracting more than 400 entries from animators and filmmakers.Vine has also given Twitter a few headaches since its launch in January. First there was theinevitable discovery of adult content on the service, and an ensuing debate over whether Twitter would allow it.Copyright issues have also made headlines, afterPrince's record label sent takedown requests to Twitter and Vinefor clips shot by fans at his SXSW gig in March.This, as well as previous copyright rows involving Prince and user-generated content on YouTube, led the Electronic Frontier Foundation togive him a "Lifetime Aggrievement Award" in May, but the question ofwhether six-second looping clips can infringe copyright or should count as fair-userumbles on.On a lighter note, Vine also underwent a Web 2.0 rite of passage just as its Android app was being released: the service was Rickrolled. Developer Will Smidleinmanaged to upload a full-length version of Rick Astley's Never Gonna Give You Up onto Vine, exploiting a loophole in its system.In a blog post titled"I Think I Broke Something: The Story of Rickrolling Vine", Smidlein apologised to Twitter's engineering team for the jape. "Vine is a really well built concept, app, and service. They've scaled wonderfully, and I hope that people like me don't discourage them to continue doing great things."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Banjo Kazooie 4, Mirror's Edge 2 top Xbox One E3 list – rumour | VG247A list of games allegedly slated to appear on stage during Microsoft's Xbox One conference at E3 2013 includes such gems as Dead Rising 3, Beyond Good &amp; Evil 2, Killer Instinct and a new Brothers in Arms game.The list surfaced on NeoGAF where the poster acknowledged that in this silly season their sources may not be trustworthy – but was accompanied by an image which has raised a few eyebrows.Most of this is pretty well-known and widely expected, but Banjo-Kazooie 4?!Pachter: PlayStation 4 to sell for $349, Xbox One $399 | GamesIndustry InternationalInvestment firm Wedbush Morgan has suggested the PlayStation 4 will retail in the US for $349, significantly lower than the PS3's starting price of $599.In an E3 preview note to investors Michael Pachter, analyst at the company, estimates that the PlayStation 4 has a bill of materials at around $275, while Microsoft's Xbox One costs around $325. As such, Wedbush is expecting the new Microsoft console to cost $399."If the Wii U's popularity does not improve by the end of the year, many third-party publishers may pass on producing games for the console"But while Microsoft's new hardware may be priced higher initially, it's also more likely to be available at a subsidised price to the consumer through a subscription contract from a broadcast, cable or ISP provider.Famed industry pundit Michael Pachter has had plenty of misses in his Nostradamus-like career, but is he pretty near the money on these predictions?The Last of Us: First review hails 'contender for best game this gen' | ComputerAndVideoGamesFilm publication Empire has published a review for The Last of Us days ahead of its embargo, claiming that Naughty Dog's latest game is "an easy contender for the best game of this console generation".The publication has since removed its review from the site (coverage is under embargo until June 5), but not before the review circulated online.The review apparently went on to use the oft parodied phrase, "It may also prove to be gaming's Citizen Kane moment"; meaning the point at which the medium crosses from entertainment to art. Gaming has had many false starts in its illusionary quest for Kane-like authenticity, and many believe the comparison is invalidated by the crucial differences between linear and interactive media.Telltale Teases More The Walking Dead: The Game | IGNTelltale has released a new teaser showing off potential new The Walking Dead: The Game content. In a post on its official Twitter account, Telltale releasedthe following Vinealong with the text "Day 2."I'm still getting over the end of the last series!The Novelist and the Wicked Problem of Player-Driven Stories - GameSpot.comWith his upcoming game The Novelist, Kent Hudson, who previously worked on big-budget projects including Deus Ex: Invisible War and BioShock 2, has set out to explore the real-life difficulty of trying to balance the people we love with the things we need to do. The game is also an attempt to tackle what he called, during a talk he gave on player-driven stories at an IGDA event in 2011, a "wicked problem": the tremendous challenge of designing a game that tells a story in which the player makes meaningful decisions that create a unique narrative that is not prescribed by a designer. In other words, a game that tells a truly player-driven story.This is an interesting attempt to grapple with one of those fundamental 'problems' of game design.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team$42 Billion: what Apple could owe in royalties as a truly "Pureplay" Webcaster, if playing by the Letter of the Law &gt;&gt; RockonomicThe newswires are all a flutter with rumors of Apple's iRadio deals with both Universal and Warner music. Under the Warner deal, the rumored rate (according to Billboard) appears to be $0.0016 per stream plus some portion or variation of ad revenue (even though the $0.0016 would be paid, at least in part, out of ad revenue).Billboard and other sources have positioned these iRadio rates against those per stream rates paid by "Pureplay" webcasters such as Pandora. Unfortunately, these sources have, by and large, underestimated the true obligations that an Apple iRadio would face if it were truly to pay royalties as a Pureplay webcaster.Enter the letter of the Law.Part of why it's been signing (what are sure to be) flat-rate deals. As of course Google will have done - it won't have wanted to open itself to the liability of every Android user streaming from its music service.Mapping Music on Facebook &gt;&gt; VimeoMore than 110 million songs, albums and radio stations have been played 40 billion times through apps integrated with Facebook's Open Graph. So what does it look like when millions of sound waves travel through Facebook?Turn that racket down in New York! (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)I ain't gonna work on YouTube's farm no more &gt;&gt; LAUNCHJason Calacanis (who may be a familiar name to some):YouTube is amazing for marketers, individuals and companies seeking to reach a large audience. But as a business proposition, it is a trap.The five reasons I decided against taking money from YouTube:1. The absurd 45% YouTube tax2. A lack of marketing support3. No direct sales force at YouTube3. $0.20 to $0.30 on the production dollar in support (according to sources)5. TrustYouTube takes 45% of revenues? (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Some thoughts on mobile &gt;&gt; Chris DixonHe's a US-based venture capitalist:Fans of Apple and Google have been arguing lately about which company is winning mobile. Apple has more profits, but Android has more users. But what really matters is when and if developers switch over to developing for Android first, or even Android only. For now, iOS users tend to monetize much better than Android users, more than making up for the smaller user base. The switch to Android first hasn't happened yet, but at least based on conversations I've had with entrepreneurs, it seems likely to happen in the next year or two.- Mobile has had a big effect on b2b software. People want to use their personal iOS/Android devices at work, and many people now have computers with them all the time who didn't before. This has created opportunities for 1) traditional b2b software that is mobile friendly, 2) companies that support mobile devices for businesses (e.g. mobile security, compliance etc), 3) brand new categories of software for users who previously used pencil and paper for various business tasks.As is pointed out in the comments, if you're an app developer in India, you're already going to be Android-only. Part of the problem about (the extremely tedious) "winning" arguments is that they don't take account of regional variation.Samsung Galaxy S4 Zoom confirmed by Samsung ahead of official debut &gt;&gt; BGRAccording to a report from gadget blog TechTastic, Samsung Kazakhstan accidentally mentioned the Galaxy S4 Zoom and Galaxy Note III on a webpage pitching its special VIP service. The S4 Zoom will be among several variants of the flagship Galaxy S4 that Samsung is launching this year, and recent reports suggest it will feature a 16-megapixel camera with 10x optical zoom and image stabilization, a 4.3in qHD display and Android 4.2 Jelly Bean. The Galaxy S4 Zoom is expected to be unveiled during Samsung's press conference on 20 June.These variants are all going to be split out individually in giving the total shipments, right?Oculus VR co-founder, 33, killed by speeding car &gt;&gt; CNET NewsAndrew Scott Reisse, co-founder of the company that made the Oculus Rift virtual-reality headset, was struck and killed while walking in a crosswalk Thursday, ABC has reported.The 33-year-old co-founder and lead engineer at Oculus VR in Irvine, Calif., was hit in Santa Ana, where he was a resident, by a speeding car being pursued by police, KABC TV Los Angeles said."Andrew was a brilliant computer graphics engineer, an avid photographer and hiker who loved nature, a true loyal friend, and a founding member of our close-knit Oculus family," the company said in a statement.According to police, a Dodge Charger being driven by 21-year-old Victor Sanchez and two other suspects in an unnamed alleged criminal activity slammed into two vehicles during the pursuit before hitting Reisse at Flower Street and MacArthur Boulevard.Advance of Android eats into developer loyalty to Apple &gt;&gt; FT.comTim Bradshaw:The imminent milestone that total app downloads for Android devices will exceed those for iPhone or iPad has been a long time coming. Android smartphones began outselling iPhones in the first half of 2011. The lag in app downloads reflects nagging concern for app makers: that Android owners do not use as many apps as owners of the more expensive iPhone – and pay for even fewer."The sheer weight of Android units will generate more downloads, but on a per device basis the iOS devices do seem to consume more apps," said Horace Dediu, mobile industry analyst at Asymco,in a recent note, "and the gap is not narrowing".Mr Dediu estimates that more than 80 apps are downloaded per Apple device sold, compared with fewer than 55 for Android.A minor quibble is that nobody in the story says that the approaching parity is eating into developer loyalty to iOS; the example given of Minecraft (24% of iOS players buy the premium version v 7% of Android) suggests the opposite.AnandTech | The ASUS Transformer Book Trio: Atom + Haswell, Android + Windows 8ASUS just announced the Transformer Book Trio - what it is calling the world's first three-in-one notebook, tablet and desktop PC. In a move that's sure to keep Microsoft grumpy, the TF Book Trio runs both Windows 8 and Android. It looks like the 1080p IPS display portion of the detachable notebook is an Android tablet, while the base runs Windows 8.Since both OSes are running at the same time, just on different pieces of hardware, you can switch between OSes instantaneously.No price or date given. Comment on Twitter: "this is like the episode of the Simpsons where Homer designs the car."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Pretty much everyone (myself included) has been reading Google+ wrongly. Because it bears many superficial resemblances to social networks such as Facebook or Twitter - you can "befriend" people, you can "follow" people without their following you back - we've thought that itisa social network, and judged it on that basis. By which metric, it does pretty poorly - little visible engagement, pretty much no impact on the outside world.If Google+ were a social network, you'd have to say that for one with more than 500 million members - that's about half the size of Facebook, which iscolossal- it's having next to no wider impact. You don't hear about outrage over hate speech on Google+, or violent videos not getting banned, or men posing as 14-year-old girls in order to befriend real 14-year-old girls. Do people send Google+ links all over the place, in the way that people do from LinkedIn, or Twitter, or Facebook? Not really, no.There's a simple reason for this. Google+ isn't a social network. It'sThe Matrix.Yes - you know, the one from the film. The one that knows everything you're thinking, and which guides what you see and experience.Consider: if you create a Gmail account, you'll automatically get a Google+ account. Even if you don't ever do anything with it, the Google+ account will track you wherever you're signed in to your Google account.If you're not signed in when you visit it, Google's front page has a "SIGN IN" button in red and white in the top right: prime colouring and location to grab your attention.Maps? If you want to save locations, Google+ is pushed at you (for sharing too, though you can avoid it). You have to sign into your Google+ account to edit anything with its Mapmaker facility. (You have to have an account to editOpenStreetMaptoo, though there are lots of accounts you can use - an OSM one, or Google, Yahoo, Wordpress, AOL.)YouTube? Youcanuse it without signing in (you'll get a "Sign in" label in the top) but of course you can't participate by, say, commenting.Update:Google nowrequiresyou to have a Google+ account to comment on YouTube. Why? "We've released several new features that integrate YouTube and Google functionality.. In order to take advantage of these new features, your channel needs to update to our Google-wide identity system, which works both on YouTube and also across the rest of Google.This identity system is powered by Google+." (Emphasis added.)Drive? Shopping? Wallet? The soon-to-come paid music service? Google+ demands that you log in, so it can sees it all, and log it.The reason why it doesn't seem like much of a social network is that the "friending" and "following" are just an accidental outgrowth of what it really does - being an invisible overlay between you and the web, which watches what you're doing and logs it and stores that away for future reference.That's where the "Matrix" part come in. Next time you're searching for something, or looking on a map, or searching on YouTube, you'll see what Google has decided are the "most relevant" results (and of course the "most relevant" adverts). If you frequent climate change denial sites, a search on "climate change" will turn those up ahead of the sites run by rational scientists. Whatever your leaning, politically, sexually, philosophically, if you let Google+ see it then that will be fed back to you. It's the classic "filter bubble".(You can, by the way, escape from the Google+ filter bubble by using its Ajax search API, which simply gives the "pure" results like you might have received back in, oh, 2007. But not for much longer. It was"deprecated" in November 2010. Although it's still working as of this writing, in future you'll need to sign in with - you guessed - a Google account.)Of course, in the post-Google+ world, the "most relevant" results are increasingly those which also point to content on Google properties. The idea of the Matrix is that there's less and less outside the Matrix. But some people have noticed. The outcry when this version of search was switched on in the US in January 2012 was remarkable: Twitter, Facebook and MySpace developersunited in writing a plugin called "Don't Be Evil", which stripped out the search biasing that Google seemed to be adding in so as to push its product in peoples' faces, and make it seem more popular than it was. Well, the Matrix doesn't really allow for things outside the Matrix; and Facebook, Twitter and (less so) MySpace all lie beyond its spidering. And in Europe, the antitrust commissioner Joaquin Almunia has said that Google has to make "more concessions" over how it presents search results - where it presently gives its properties a lot of prominence - if it's to avoid a big court battle.Google+'s designs on our movements haven't gone unnoticed. Ben Thompson, author of the Stratechery blog,has made this point recently, as has Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis inhis Google I/O impressions.Thompson first:Think about it: what is more valuable? [Facebook's] Inane chatter, memes, and baby photos, or every single activity you do online (and increasingly offline)? Google+ is about unifying all of Google's services under a single log-in which can be tracked across the Internet on every site that serves Google ads, uses Google sign-in, or utilizes Google analytics.Every feature of Google+ – or of YouTube, or Maps, or GMail, or any other service – is a flytrap meant to ensure you are logged in and being logged by Google at all times.And Evans:Just as Microsoft cross-leveraged Windows and Office, and then Internet Explorer, Google is cross-leveraging search, Gmail, Maps, Android and everything else, tying them together with Plus.The objective is to index not just the web but the users - to drive better understanding of the data by knowing how and where people use it. This is the point of Google Plus - it's not a social network, but a unified Google identity to tie all of your search and indeed internet use together in a Google database just like Pagerank.If you want an alternative way to think about Google+, you could start with Horace Dediu's wonderful metaphorcomparing what Google does to catching fish:Google tries to make a business succeed through having a huge amount of _flow_ in terms of data, traffic, queries and information that is indexed. So think about this idea of them tapping into a vast stream. The more volume that is flowing through the system the more revenue they generate.As so given this very rough analogy I try to sharpen it up by saying: imagine it more as a river. And even more than a river, as a watershed, a river basin. Perhaps a giant basin the size of a continent. The business is, let's say, capturing fish at the mouth of the biggest river, before it exits into the ocean at its delta.And so your job (as Google) is to catch fish mostly at one point. It's the most efficient way to catch fish because you have the most flow of water at that point and building nets is not trivial.If you use that metaphor, then Google+ puts radio tags on all the fish. It's so much easier to know where they're going. (Ignore for a moment that you're the fish. It only gets in the way.)The question really is, now you know that, are you comfortable with it? Personally I always found the choice at the heart of The Matrix a puzzling one. The choices seemed to be: you can know that the world you live in is a blasted, awful place with a dire climate, or you can live in what seems like a fairly comfortable world (as long as you don't mess with the agents, of course).To be honest, I always wondered whether the people whose "lives" (computer-generated or no) were upended by Neo, the hacker hero of the film, really liked having that choice made for them.Anyhow, that's what Google+ is about. Discussing it as if it were a social network which needs activity in the way that Facebook and Twitter do misses the point. It really doesn't matter if you never use it, never fill out your profile, never fill a circle, never get added to anyone's circle. What matters to Google is that you're signed in, in order that it can form its matrix of knowledge about you.So now that you know: red pill or blue pill? Sign in or sign out?
Apple colluded with the world's top publishers to bump up the price of ebooks and cost consumers "hundreds of millions of dollars", a US court heard Monday.At the start of what's expected to be a three-week antitrust trial, Department of Justice lawyer Lawrence Buterman argued Apple was determined to break Amazon's grip on the ebook market at the expense of consumers."Apple told publishers that Apple – and only Apple – could get prices up in their industry," he said during opening arguments.The closely watched trial will review evidence from late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs and other Silicon Valley luminaries. Though the company does not face a fine, it could face damages in a separate trial by the state attorneys general if found guilty.The outcome could shape what deals online retailers can make with content owners. The DoJ is seeking a block on Apple engaging in similar conduct in future. The company denies any wrongdoing and its lawyer dismissed the case as "bizarre".In court Monday Buterman argued Apple rallied top publishers to fight off Amazon's $9.99 per book deal for new releases and bestsellers. They then used that deal with Apple to renegotiate with Amazon, threatening to pull titles if they did not get a better rate. Buterman said customers paid "hundreds of millions of dollars more than they would have," because of the agreement.The five publishers have already settled with the DoJ. The trial judge has urged Apple to follow suit, after looking at evidence including emails from Steve Jobs to James Murdoch, then head of News Group-owned Harper Collins. Jobs, who died in 2011, told his biographer: "We told the publishers, 'We'll go to the agency model, where you set the price, and we get our 30% and yes, the customer pays a little more, but that's what you want anyway.'"Apple is being represented by Orin Snyder, one of the US's top lawyers whose other clients have included Facebook and Bob Dylan. Snyder told the court Apple had done nothing wrong. He said the government was taking emails out of context to make "sinister inferences" and that Apple had fought hard with the publishers in negotiations."What the government wants to do is reverse engineer a conspiracy from a market effect," Snyder said.Last week Apple chief executive Tim Cook insisted that he would not settle. "We're not going to sign something that says we did something we didn't do," he said. "And so we're going to fight."According to the suit, filed in April 2012, Apple and the publishers set up an "agency" model, where they would set the retail price, from which Apple would keep a set percentage. Amazon, in contrast, bought wholesale and determined its own retail price.District judge Denise Cote, who is hearing the case without a jury, urged the company to settle. She said in a hearing on 23 May: "I believe that the government will be able to show at trial direct evidence that Apple knowingly participated in and facilitated a conspiracy to raise prices of ebooks."Snyder expressed concern about that comment in court. "All we want is a fair trial," he said. Cote said she made her comments based on hundreds of documents submitted in advance of trial and only after the Justice Department and Apple asked for her view. "The deck is not stacked against Apple unless the evidence stacks against Apple," Cote said.
Zynga, the social gaming company behind CityVille, Words With Friends and Draw Something, is laying off 580 people and closing offices in New York, Dallas and Los Angeles.The gaming firm shares have fallen 64% since it went public at the end of December 2011 as investors have worried about its ability to make money from mobile game players. The company said the cuts represent 18% of its workforce and will save it $80m a year.Zynga grew rapidly as its games took off on Facebook and now has over 240m active users a month. But like the social network giant the gaming company has found it harder to make money as its players migrated to mobile. The company said it expected to make a net loss in the range of $39m to $28.5m in the second quarter of 2013, restructuring will cost the company $24m-$26m.In an email to staff Mark Pincus, founder and chief executive, wrote: "Today is a hard day for Zynga and an emotional one for every employee of our company.  We are saying painful goodbyes to about 18% of our Zynga brothers and sisters.  The impact of these layoffs will be felt across every group in the company."None of us ever expected to face a day like today, especially when so much of our culture has been about growth. But I think we all know this is necessary to move forward. The scale that served us so well in building and delivering the leading social gaming service on the web is now making it hard to successfully lead across mobile and multiplatform, which is where social games are going to be played."Pincus said the company was "offering generous severance packages that reflect our appreciation for all of their work and we hope this will provide a foundation as they pursue their next professional steps."Zynga has been dropping games in recent months and witnessed the departure of many of its senior executives. In April Dan Porter, chief executive of Draw Something company OMGPOP, became the latest to leave. Zynga bought OMGPOP for $180m in 2012 and wrote off $95m of that acquisition months later.
Apple went on trial in New York on Monday over accusations by the US department of justice of conspiring with publishers to raise the price of ebooks in the US.Though the company does not face a fine, the outcome could shape what deals online retailers can make with content owners. The DoJ is seeking a block on Apple engaging in similar conduct in future – and the company is resisting.The five publishers previously cited in the case have already settled with the DoJ. The trial judge has urged Apple to follow suit, after looking at evidence including emails from Steve Jobs to James Murdoch, then head of News Group-owned Harper Collins. Jobs, who died in 2011, told his biographer: "We told the publishers, 'We'll go to the agency model, where you set the price, and we get our 30% and yes, the customer pays a little more, but that's what you want anyway.'"Yet chief executive Tim Cook insisted last week that he would not settle. "We're not going to sign something that says we did something we didn't do," he said. "And so we're going to fight."The suit, filed in April 2012, accused Apple and the publishers of trying in 2009 to set ebook prices across the industry so that they could break the hold of Amazon, which at the time had around 90% of the market and sometimes sold ebooks at a loss to promote sales of its Kindle. Apple says it acted independently rather than conspiring with publishers.The DoJ says two publishers encouraged Apple to set up an "agency" model, where they would set the retail price, from which Apple would keep a set percentage – unlike at Amazon, which bought wholesale and determined its own retail price.District judge Denise Cote, who is hearing the case without a jury, urged the company to settle. She said in a hearing on 23 May: "I believe that the government will be able to show at trial direct evidence that Apple knowingly participated in and facilitated a conspiracy to raise prices of ebooks."Apple could still face damages from individual US states and consumers if found guilty. The publishers – Penguin Group, Harper Collins, Simon &amp; Schuster, Hachette and Macmillan – have already agreed to pay a total of $164m (£107m) and not to ban wholesale discounting of their ebooks.
Jobs I have fantasised about: private investigator, Spider-Man, high-tech hacker.Gunpointis the stuff dreams are made of, a noirish 2D adventure that wraps all three up in a hat and trenchcoat then calls it Conway.Conway is an agile sort, capable of scaling any surface, travelling across ceilings, leaping huge distances in a Superman pose, and dying miserably after one hit. Gunpoint is not a game about direct combat. Each level is a warren-like building, easily traversable on the outside, but full of guards and security apparatus on the inside – and this is when Conway has to crack out the gadgets.Gunpoint's key tool is the crosslink, a device that switches your view into more of a blueprint while highlighting various environmental features: light switches, lifts, security cameras, doors. This is a real-time puzzle mode that lets you link and unlink anything of consequence – rewiring a camera so it opens a door when it sees you, for example, rather than setting off an alarm.The crosslink is a great idea and executed without an ounce of flab. The clear silhouettes and colour-coding of the various elements make clear what does what, while the controls are as easy as clicking. It's a system that works so well because every choice is simple, but as they begin piling up the overall plan is harder to hold.And it's why Gunpoint has an oft-undersung but critical quality; you can play this withstyle. The basics of crosslinking are learned in five minutes, after which it's all about how silent, violent or mischievous you want to be.Gunpoint's levels are clockwork traps, ones where the triggers are different depending on how you proceed. It's not long before you acquire a bit of an attitude about how to do things right; I enjoy taking the lift to a floor with guards, and as the button tings for my arrival, the lights go off. The luckless fools flick the switches I disconnected earlier, while Conway calmly travels overhead like a ghost. It happened so fast.Gunpoint's story comes through chatting with clients, the arch dialogue unfolding a larger scheme with little tragedies along the way. But this world's real body is in the mournful, playful jazz. It's the perfect accompaniment to crosslink pondering, the slowly looping saxophones reeking of a hundred worn-out gumshoes. Amidst all this cross-wiring, boost-jumping and motion-sensing, it's a classic backdrop.And on that note, a deceptive name is always a nice touch for a detective story. Gunplay becomes an offensive option in Gunpoint, but one that only a buffoon would choose. Blasting through these intricate jokehouses would be far too difficult, not half as much fun, and the setups it offers are just too delicious. It's like that point during Home Alone when you start feeling sorry for the burglars, but can't wait to see what's next.Crosslink mode. Devices are on colour-coded circuits that have to be jacked before they can be used. Photograph: .Short but sweetGunpoint is a short game, though repeat playthroughs offer alternative paths that help in working out all the story's angles. This brevity is somewhat mitigated by the lack of filler, with no genre crutches introduced to pad things out.The bigger issue than length, and a surprising one, is that Gunpoint doesn't ever quite get challenging enough. Conway's steadily increasing belt of gadgets, as well as your own mastery of crosslinking, mean that many levels – elaborate as they are – can be stumbled through with little resistance. Particularly in the game's last stretch, as you're rewiring guns and booting down doors, you wish the opposition was a little more fiendish.But Gunpoint is never less than a pleasure to play, and full of considered touches. The punching animation lets you pound away indefinitely on an unlucky guard. Why? No idea, doesn't have an in-game purpose, great feeling though. Restarts give you a choice of how far back in time to go, a smart fit for its multi-stage puzzles.There's a simple and intuitive level editor, alongside lovely details like thehardboiled mementoproduced at the game's end. Even the way upgrades are introduced, with their own mini-levels and story nuggets, shows deep care and attention.Like all great detective stories, Gunpoint isn't quick to give up its secrets. And like all great games, its elements build up into a system as alluring as it is surprising. You're left wanting more; which is a small criticism, but much higher praise.
Google will not allow apps that implement facial recognition on its Google Glass product, the company says, citing privacy concerns, after an American company said it would offer a commercial service to recognise celebrities and others.Developers have pointed out though that it is possible to load apps - which Google calls "Glassware" - onto the wearable system without needing Google's permission. Those could then communicate with any of a growing number of services which say they can connect a name with a face once given a photo.Equally, users could simply upload still pictures to other online services which would provide the facial recognition service. "A 'ban' is purely symbolic," commented Martin Macdonald, a marketing director for Expedia EAN who has tried Google Glass.The developers behind Lambda Labs, which offers a paid-for facial recognition service,tweeted: "Don't worry, we think it's a core feature. Google will allow it or be replaced with something that does."Being able to recognise faces has looked to a number of observers like an ideal application for Glass, because the device can "see" what the user is looking at, and display data such as a name in a small screen at the top right of the visual field which is invisible to outside observers. That, in turn, would drive demand for such apps.Google though suggests that it stands as an intermediary between any online services and the display output on Glass, according to itsdeveloper overview, which says in part: "Google handles all of the necessary details of syncing between your Glassware and your users' Glass."The result could be a cat-and-mouse game between Google and facial recognition providers. The search giant is able to kill apps remotely which it decides are "undesirable", and it can force software updates on the devices which could block access to certain services. But companies could change the sites or destinations that services connect to in order to recognise faces - which would then require another blocking update.Google has already come under pressure from US Congressional members, whowrote on 17 May to chief executive Larry Pagedemanding to know how it would prevent "unintentional" collection of data, protect the privacy of non-users, and whether it would implement facial recognition. They demanded responses by 14 June.Apparently in response to the last of those concerns, the Google Glass project teamsays on its Google+ pagethat "Many have expressed both interest and concern around the possibility of facial recognition in Glass. As Google has said for several years, we won't add facial recognition features to our products without having strong privacy protections in place. With that in mind, we won't be approving any facial recognition Glassware at this time."Google has previously backed off introducing facial recognition systems in smartphones in Europe, which would have let people identify someone from a camera picture.Glass, a wearable system that can take still and video pictures and upload them to the internet in real time using a Bluetooth-connected smartphone, as well as using voice recognition and location data to provide information about the surroundings. The company has indicated that it wants to begin selling it for broad consumer use within the next year, and began its"Explorer" scheme with up to 8,000 users in the USin spring.However Glass is not a closed system, and Google itself provided the information needed for developers to "hack" its Glass systems to provide such services during a session at its I/O conference in May called "Voiding Your Warranty: Hacking Glass". Those methods arealready being used to "sideload" apps onto Glassfrom computers rather than via Google's services. It also offers facial recognition in its Google+ Photos app, previously known as Picasa.At least two companies,Lambda LabsandRekognition, have been working on facial recognition services aimed at Glass users. Lambda Labs, which offers facial recognition systems at prices ranging from zero to $256 per month, has said it is already making money from the service it offers for online use.Speaking at the end of May, Lambda Labs's co-founder Stephen Balabantold Techcrunch"There is nothing in the Glass Terms of Service that explicitly prevents us from doing this. However, there is a risk that Google may change the ToS in an attempt to stop us from providing this functionality. This is the first face recognition toolkit for Glass, so we're just not sure how Google, or the privacy caucus, will react." Balaban has been contacting owners of Glass devices recently, apparently to get them to test the API.Google hasupdated the developer agreement for Glass, which now includes a clause saying "Don't use the camera or microphone to cross-reference and immediately present personal information identifying anyone other than the user, including use cases such as facial recognition and voice print. Applications that do this will not be approved at this time."A Google spokesperson said: "Our Explorer Program makes users active participants in evolving Glass ahead of a wider consumer launch. In keeping with this approach, we've updated our developer policies. We look forward to learning more from our users as we update the software and evolve our policies in the weeks and months ahead."
The phrase "mobile-first" continues to be en vogue for a range of media and entertainment services. But in the world of social gaming, "tablet-first" is becoming just as popular a strategy.PublisherCrowdstaris the latest to adopt it, having raised $12m of new funding to tilt its business more towards tablets, and away from web games on Facebook – although the social network will continue to be a key ingredient in the company's mobile games."We've completely switched to mobile and the focus will be on tablets,"chief executive Jeffrey Tseng tells TechCrunch, which reports that Crowdstar will release two new games later this year under the new approach.The company is already active on iOS and Android with a notably female-focused range of games that include Top Girl, Top Stylist, Modern Girl and Mermaid World.Its latest funding comes from existing investors. Crowdstar has now raised nearly $47m since 2011, including investment from Intel Capital, Time Warner Investments and Chinese online gaming firm The9.The company blazing a trail for tablet-first games is Finnish developerSupercell, which started life with a Facebook (web) game called Gunshine in 2011, before pivoting in 2012 with the iOS launch of Hay Day and Clash of Clans.In the first quarter of 2013, those two titles alonegenerated $179m in revenues for Supercell. It's no wonder Crowdstar and other companies that cut their teeth first on Facebook are turning towards tablets.There are a growing number of studies and market predictions encouraging these strategic decisions. In April 2013, a GfK MRI iPanel study claimed thathalf of US adult tablet owners had played a game on their devicein the last 30 days.Meanwhile, Juniper Research claims thattablet owners are downloading more than twice as many games for their devicesthan smartphone owners, predicting that combined game downloads on both device types will reach 64.1bn by 2017, with 93% of those being free downloads (or rather free-to-play, making money from in-app purchases and/or advertising).In March 2012, Juniper also predicted thatthe global tablet games market will be worth $3.1bnin 2014."Tablet games are growing so much because they are such an accessible way for all consumer segments to access games," said Juniper's Siân Rowlands at the time the more-recent research was published."In particular mid-core gamers, who previously spent a lot of money and time playing games but now have jobs, families or other commitments, are driving this trend. These people are really embracing the tablet form factor."Crowdstar's challenge is to come up with games that will capitalise on this trend.  The company has seven games already available on iPad, but only two are currently in Apple's Top 200 Grossing iPad Games chart in the US: Fish With Attitude in 125th place, and Mermaid World in 134th.At a time when the tablet games market is more competitive than ever, $12m of funding helps, but it's no guarantee that Crowdstar's next two games will be popular and lucrative.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 1 June 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Grid 2(7+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)PC (4)12 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (28)VITA (5)Wii (5)363 (4)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (30)PC (1)64 (8)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)PC (4)275 (1)Resident Evil: Revelations(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (43)Wii U (5)PC (1)46 (6)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (42)317 (3)Metro Last Light(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (36)38 (5)Donkey Kong Country Returns(3+)3DS (99)Wii (1)69 (12)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (17)Wii (16)DS (14)4710 (7)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)PC (3)1311 (18)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (32)PC (11)1012 (9)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)1013 (15)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (37)VITA (18)Wii U (6)2914 (–)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (29)PC (12)815 (10)Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins(7+)3DS (100)616 (20)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (40)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (17)3DS (5)3117 (–)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (22)Wii (18)DS (12)1818 (11)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (36)Wii U (3)719 (–)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (30)5020 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (30)PC (16)73UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.We Hear The People Behind Dishonored Are Now Working On Prey 2 | KotakuThe long and strange saga of Prey 2 may have a new twist: we hear that the sci-fi shooter will be rebooted by Arkane Austin, the development studio that made Dishonored.What's more, we hear that at least some of the folks at Arkane don't want to make the game, which publisher Bethesda has been shopping around for quite some time now following a split with previous Prey 2 developer Human Head Studios in late 2011.While it's not quite up there in Duke Nukem Forever territory, Prey 2 has been one of the more troubled development projects over the last few years. Fans will be pleased that itmayhave new home – more pleased, according to Kotaku, than the people actually make it...Complete GTA 5 map assembled by fans - the new Los Santos revealed | The Official Xbox MagazineLo, the internet giveth and the internet... giveth some more. We've already published a fan-made GTA 5 map, cobbled together with reference to early screenshots, but the one below is way better - it's made up of teaser snippets released by Rockstar.I love this fan impulse to structure a game before it has even been released – it says wonderful things about gaming, obsession and determination. Whether or not the thing will be useable is another matter. As the fanatics who tried to map the hotel in Stanley Kurbick's version of The Shining discovered, not everything a director tells you about a fictitious space is actually geographically true – or even possible.Let's Play - Making Travel a Game | NYTimes.comIT WAS A SUNDAY AFTERNOON in SoHo and while most New Yorkers were having brunch, Makeda Peters and her boyfriend were on a street corner craning their necks at a seven-story art installation called "The Wall," about to embark on what's known among travelers who love puzzles and prizes as a "gamified city tour."An interesting piece on how a new range of travel apps are gamifying the tourist experience.Trolls, Communities, and Psychology | GamasutraAdam Saltsman:Like a child, new to the world, players are learning everything over again, and learning fast, and ultimately derive pleasure and meaning and validation from interaction. From experimenting, and seeing the results. And so their griefing of other players is not necessarily done out of meanness, but more out of a sense of exploration, a way of finding their footing in an uncertain new universe.Spector: We're not in a Microsoft, Sony, Nintendo World Anymore | GameSpot.comWarren Spector:I think next gen consoles as entertainment devices rather than game machines is a perilous idea. I mean, I already have more ways than I can deal with to access the programming I want and the Internet and all its pleasures. And if I want to multitask while watching television, I already have to decide which of my devices to do it on. I kind of get a next-gen game machine, but competing for the home entertainment business? We'll see how that goes.Oculus Rift engineer killed by suspects fleeing Santa Ana police | JoystiqAndrew Scott Reisse, a computer graphics engineer and a co-founder of Oculus VR, the company behind the Oculus Rift VR headset, was killed in Santa Ana, California on Thursday, reports local ABC affiliate KABC. Reisse was traversing a crosswalk when he was struck by a car, a Dodge Charger carrying suspects fleeing Santa Ana police.A tragic story and a terrible loss to a burgeoning new frontier for gaming. Our thoughts go out to Andrew's family, friends and colleagues.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe future is killer devices connected to amazing cloud services &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogFrank X Shaw, head of Microsoft PR, was at the ATD11 conference:On one hand, looking around the conference, there were iPads and other tablets as far as the eye could see. On the other hand, (as I noted in a tweet), most of the people around me were using their iPads exactly as they would a laptop - physical keyboard attached, typing away, connected to a network of some kind, creating a document or tweet or blog or article. In that context, it's hard to distinguish between a tablet and a notebook or laptop. The form factors are different, but let's be clear, each is a PC.Later after dinner, a group of us (including Walt) were talking, and I was trying to make the point that we're getting hung up on semantics in an unnecessary way and probably are more in agreement than not. I actually think the PC is alive and well and thriving, it just comes in tons of different form factors. Many of those form factors are more mobile, and look different from the traditional desktop PC, but the same core idea drives it - personal in nature, used for work and for play, runs applications, connected to a network... etc.We should include iPads and other tablets in PC numbers? Okey-doke. Also read his points about the smartphone market - and where the Xbox sits in the discussion about Apple TV and Google TV.Thanks a million &gt;&gt; Microsoft Office blogin just over 100 days, you've made Office 365 Home Premium a hit with more than 1 million subscribers, putting it on pace with some of the most popular services around.Slightlycheating to put Office 365 on a par with startups like Instagram (which still got to 1m faster), Hulu and Spotify; Office has a huge base already on an older version, which none of those other startups did. Which makes Instagram (especially), Dropbox et al on the chart look even more impressive.In Denmark, online tracking of citizens is an unwieldy failure &gt;&gt; TechPresidentHalf a decade after Denmark passed a law mandating that telecommunication companies retain and store their customers' personal data for up to one year, local advocacy groups and the telecom industry are pushing for immediate changes to the legislation. The practice of keeping records of private citizens' Internet use is an unjustifiable invasion of privacy, they say. The police, meanwhile, have concluded that requiring telecoms to store Internet subscriber data has not helped them track criminals, which was the the ostensible purpose of the practice. But the Danish government still wants to postpone an evaluation of the law for another two years...Session logging has caused serious practical problems," the ministry's staffers write in the report. "The implementation of session logging proved to be unusable to the police; this became clear the first time they tried to use [the data] as part of a criminal investigation."In the UK this proposal is being called the "Snooper's Charter". Denmark has a population of just over 5m - compared to the UK's 60m or so.HTC learns lesson from Samsung display supply row &gt;&gt; Focus TaiwanJack Tong, president of HTC North Asia, recalled that when the HTC Desire was launched in the first quarter of 2010, the phone was using an active-matrix organic light-emitting diode (AMOLED) display supplied by Samsung.But once the HTC Desire was welcomed by global consumers and telecom operators at the time, Samsung "strategically declined" to supply its AMOLED displays to the smartphone maker, Tong said at a local forum on mobile broadband."We found that key component supply can be used as a competitive weapon," he said.Wonder what proportion of HTC components now come from Samsung. (ViaAndroidbeat.)As anti-government protests erupt in Istanbul, Facebook and Twitter appear suddenly throttled &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMike Butcher:A massive anti-government protest in Istanbul, prompted after days of unrest were sparked by plans to redevelop one of the last remaining central public parks, appears to have led to a throttling of social media both in the city and across Turkey. TechCrunch has independently verified via a number of sources that both Facebook and Twitter have been almost impossible to access from inside Istanbul, and other parts of Turkey. There are also anecdotal reports of authorities switching off access in a localised manner around Taksim Square where thousands of people are demonstrating.Complaints of Twitter throttling (against hashtags) have been made for a long time against the Turkish government.This American Life: Intellectual Ventures got 90% of ongoing profits even after selling patent &gt;&gt; GeekWireIntellectual Ventures struck a deal to receive 90% of the ongoing profits from a patent that it sold to a mysterious company called Oasis Research -- which then used the patent to sue 16 tech companies, reaching large settlements with many of them.That's according to a follow-up piece airing this weekend on This American Life, the public radio program that first dug into Intellectual Ventures' dealings as part of a larger exploration of the patent system in 2011. The size of that "back-end" cut is one of the revelations in the new piece.The patent in question was used to in a lawsuit against 16 companies. Intellectual Ventures is the company run by ex-Microsoftie Nathan Myhrvold. There have long been suspicions that it's behind, and benefits from, lawsuits by small "non-practising entities" - aka patent trolls. This is the first time this has been confirmed. And when one targeted company finally took the case all the way to a jury trial, the patent was found invalid. But that didn't help companies which had already signed up to pay in earlier settlements.TweetDeck founder Iain Dodsworth leaves Twitter to start something new, The Guardian's Bulusu now PM &gt;&gt; The Next WebDodsworth's timing comes more than a month after Twitter announced that TweetDeck's AIR, Android, and iPhone apps would be killed off -- meaning that it would be removed from their respective app stores and cease to exist. Users with TweetDeck for Mac and PC will still be able to use the app though.To manage its TweetDeck product, Twitter's Engineering Manager Tom Woolway announced that the company has hired The Guardian's Sharath Bulusu. Previously, Bulusu was the Group Product Manager at the publication leading its Content Platforms team.Not so anonymous: Bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox tightens identity requirement &gt;&gt; ForbesSince the crypto-currency Bitcoin hit the limelight, many libertarians and privacy advocates have heralded it as anonymous, digital cash. But the world's biggest Bitcoin exchange-and the US regulators breathing down its neck-see things differently.On Thursday Mt. Gox announced that it would begin requiring "verification" for all accounts seeking to deposit or withdraw currencies other than Bitcoin, a measure that means users would need to submit government identification and a utility bill or information about the company they work for to trade Bitcoins for traditional money, in effect ending anonymous use of the service.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday - how was your weekend?And more importantly, have you got tickets forEToo Londonyet?
Google is growing up. This may seem a strange thing to say about a company that has long been one of the most profitable digital enterprises. But until now Google's software success has been achieved on machines made by other people.The company founded in 1998 by Sergey Brin and Larry Page has not run a retail empire or factories. It has not had to manage a physical distribution network, or provide a public customer services helpline.While its products reach around the world, they do so virtually – often slipping through the nets that states have designed to contain more tangible businesses on issues such as tax or&nbsp;copyright.All that is changing. This August, Google will beginrecruiting a workforce of 2,000to assemble mobile phones at a plant just outside Fort Worth in Texas. From here, it will make what it claims are the only American-assembled smartphones.Google is ready to take on Apple in every way: not only with its already-bestselling Android phone software, but by designing and assembling a machine to run it. And, as Apple begins to look like it is running out of ideas, Google is eager to prove it can become the new digital game-changer.In 2011,when Google bought the ailing American handset maker Motorola, everyone assumed it was for the patents: the manufacturing business would be auctioned off once Google had extracted the intellectual property needed to protect Android from lawsuits.But Google's plan was much more ambitious. Apple's success has been built on being able to control both the hardware and the software. Now Google will go one better: it will control the manufacturing too, by bringing it closer to home.Has Google grown up enough to become the new Apple? Page and Brin have proved they can disrupt. By sucking in the world's information and making it retrievable, Google's search engine has shaken the media industry to its foundations. And despite being launched after Apple's iOS phone software, Android has become the international standard. Three-quarters of the smartphones sold in the first three months of this year run it.This autumn, the two companies will go head to head. Apple is overhauling iOS, and the current rumour is that it will release updated versions of everything from iPads and iPhones to its music store iTunes at abig-bang eventin September.Motorola's relaunch, two years in the making, will happen before October with the arrival of the futuristic Moto X – a phone so clever it can guess what its owner wants to do next. Position and motion sensors will detect whether the handset is being held up to take a photo, or sitting on the dashboard of a car, and change its behaviour accordingly.Pull the phone out of your pocket and Android automatically launches the camera app. Start your engine and Android enables voice control. Put the kettle on and Android switches to silent mode, fetches the tea bags and runs to the shops to get a pint of milk …But technology's new battleground is not the small screen in your pocket. It is wearable processing power: the computerised glasses Brin is sporting at catwalk shows and Oscar parties in the hope of making them fashionable, the smart "watch" Apple is reportedly&nbsp;developing.But although printing "made in Texas" on the back will help Google sells phones in America, it will take more than that to convince grown-ups to adopt its camera-toting eyewear.Google's founders have proved that they can, just like Apple, create disruptive technology that works. But to these abilities Steve Jobs added a flair for design and presentation that made his products desirable. Apple's stores are built to feel like palatial art galleries. Google doesn't have any retail outlets, but if it did one could imagine them looking more like a cheap and cheerful Tesco than the Tate Modern.Investment can help Britain see light at end of tunnelAt the bottom of a cavernous hole below Canary Wharf, the transport secretary, Patrick McLoughlin, paid tribute to Britain's world-class engineering, heralding the jobs and skills flowing from the £14.8bn investment in Crossrail.After decades of dithering, here were the facts under the ground: the shell of a massive station and a machine bursting through the clay having dug a tunnel across town – the most visible evidence that London's infrastructure will soon get an enormous boost.It took Boris Johnson, the mayor, to pop up and remind the party that "a senior member of the government" had wanted to can the scheme in 2010. He didn't say who: but the chancellor himself has recently said it would have been "easy" to stop Crossrail when the coalition came to power in the post-crash downturn.George Osborne was in fact trying to talk up his commitment to capital investment. But while he is set to outline, in the June spending review, where an annual £3bn infrastructure injection will go, he is also asking the Department for Transport to find some hefty savings.McLoughlin claims this needn't affect investment – and the £33bn for HS2, for better or worse, appears to exist outside the daily concerns. Others are not so sure: London fears that its slice of the transport pie will be trimmed indelicately enough to jeopardise tube upgrades and other plans to keep the growing population moving. To cut them would be, Johnson declared, "insanity".The mayor's own dubious investment record – a preposterous cable-car, a rather flash bus and dreams of an island airport folly – arguably make him less entitled to judge. And while Crossrail has much to do before it is declared a success, many are already lamenting that Crossrail 2 can't happen quickly enough.Money is tight, but the allure of grand new schemes is now aligning politicians to the Johnson mantra: in this great big economic hole, the thing to do is keep digging.Plan B isn't working eitherPlan A for the economy hit the buffers during 2012 when it became clear that cutting back on the public sector was not going to lead to the spontaneous recovery in the private sector George Osborne had been banking on.With expansionary fiscal contraction quietly buried as an idea, the chancellor came up with his Plan B. This involves forgetting about rebalancing the economy for the time being and instead pumping up the property market.So how is Plan B going? Not that well, if the latest Bank of England figures for mortgage lending are to be believed. Despite more home loans being available at cheaper rates than  a year ago, the number of approvals was only marginally higher in April 2013 than in the same month of 2012. The value of loans has remained unchanged since the start of the year, a period that has seen effective mortgage rates paid by borrowers flatten out at just over 3%.The Bankannounced a more generous Funding for Lending Schemethis spring, and theHelp to Buy schemeannounced in the budget may increase demand for mortgages, so there is hope for Osborne that he can avoid being dubbed the sort of chancellor who can't even generate a good old-fashioned housing boom.
Last time we sawDonkey Kong Country Returnsit was in the form of a Wii game rooted firmly in only two dimensions. Its new incarnation comes bolstered by 3D visuals, and a subtle rebalancing of the platformer's mechanics in favour of less experienced players. Let's be clear, though: despite the new aesthetic third dimension, the game itself remains a title effectively played on a 2D plane. It is nonetheless a brilliantly designed example of its genre, with a rhythm and flow rather distinct from that seen in the main canon ofMariogames.This release includes the original game and the rebalanced version, both of which are relatively challenging but well worth the investment of time needed to unveil each level's many secrets.
After four years in the making, Codemasters has producedits purest racing simulation yet. Every ounce of processing power from the current ageing consoles has been harnessed for exceptionally smooth photorealism, with a scale of background so vast it can only be fully appreciated from a distance.But the looks are a sideshow to the really compelling engine here: edge-of-control driving without the auto-assist safety net, where the spectrum of damage physics means you'll often bring your car limping home with sizable chunks missing. The driving experience is both exhilarating and terrifying, on street, road and track, and in building up rivalries with other drivers and competing across disciplines in World Series events. There are unexpected omissions, such as the original's excellent destruction derby mode, butGrid 2remains the complete racing experience. Unmissable.
'The best is the enemy of the good," said Voltaire. It's a maxim that has a particular resonance for tech designers, because it highlights the intrinsic tension between ambition and pragmatism that haunts them. Many perfectly viable products have never made it beyond the prototype stage because their designers felt they fell too far short of the ideals they had set for themselves. One of the reasons why Steve Jobs was so remarkable as a company boss is that he was the exception that proved Voltaire's rule. He was a perfectionist for whom the good was the enemy of the best. Which is why working for him was such an exhausting business and also why Apple's products became so distinctive.As it happens, Voltaire's maxim may also be useful in explaining what will happen in the field of autonomous vehicles, aka self-driving cars. The idea of such cars has been a hot topic in some circlessince the 1980sbut was given a huge boost in October 2010 whenGoogle announcedthat it had built an autonomous vehicle. It was a typical Google project: impressively ambitious and involving the application of oodles of money and formidable engineering talent to the task of creating a vehicle that could safely navigate crowded urban roads.The Google cardid indeed workas advertised. Google cars have now clocked up 700,000km ofsafe driving on US roads. They do it by having massive amounts of information technology on board. Each car hoovers up – and processes – nearlyone gigabyte of dataevery second. The Google folks wax lyrical aboutthe bright futurefor autonomous vehicles: safer roads, more efficient traffic flows, fewer accidents and casualties, mobility for people who are currently too infirm to drive etc.There are two flies in this ointment. The first is that Google's cheery technological determinism may be obstructed by human cussedness, as manifested in a refusal to trust the technology. The second is that the technology needed to make a Google car driverless is fantastically expensive, in the region of$150,000 per vehicle, of which $70,000 goes just on the laser&nbsp;rangefinder.Those costs will come down in due course, but the consensus in the automobile industry is that they won't come down far enough to make the Google system a mass-market proposition. So all over the place there are outfits working on less exotic but much cheaper approaches. At Oxford University, for example, researchers have developed a self-driving car that can cope with weather conditions undreamt of in California.It works by recognising where it is, based on a laser scanner on the front of the car, and comparing its surroundings with its stored data, which is very different from Google's system, which uses a combination of GPS, laser rangefinding and mapping to determine its location and route.It's claimedthat the Oxford system could be retrofitted to existing cars and could "one day cost just £100".In Israel, a technology company is combining cheap video cameras with computer-vision algorithms to enable cars to become driverless in certain conditions, for example, on motorways. Last week, a slightly terrified John Markoff of theNew York Timeswas persuaded to sit in the driver's seat of an Audi A7 while software connected to a video camera on the windscreendrove the carat speeds up to 65mph.There's lots more where that came from. For example, Volvo, Mercedes and Lexus have "driver-alert" systems that candetect when a driver is getting sleepy. And you can haveautomatic parking systemsfitted as optional extras to even humdrum cars.So, at one end of the spectrum, we have the "best" – Google's autonomous vehicle – and at the other end the merely "good" – the humdrum technologies that are akin to autopilots in aircraft: things that make driving easier and perhaps safer, but which are always optional. Which will win out? My guess is that in this case Voltaire was wrong.
Capcom's once-legendary horror series has languished in recent years, with newer instalments failing to recapture the macabre delights of earlier efforts.Revelations, originally a side project for&nbsp;the portable 3DS, certainly lives up to its name, proving a surprise reminder of how great bio-terror games can be.Set largely on the abandoned cruise liner Queen Zenobia,Resistalwart and hero Jill Valentine enjoys the spotlight, while others such as Chris Redfield also appear as the plot advances. A new terrorist organisation, Il Veltro, fulfils villainous duties, threatening to unleash a devastating new strain of the zombifying T-Virus. The claustrophobic corridors and shadowy depths of the abandoned ship are fantastically evocative of the tension of classic entries, while the return of more considered puzzles and scarce ammo makes the game more than just an endless shooting arcade.Thankfully, it's not just a "best of" of previous highlights. A scanning tool allows players to search surroundings for clues or data on enemy creatures, while new weapons, side characters and locations expand the game from the small-scale original. However, despite the high-def upgrade, Revelations remains clearly designed for a lower-spec machine, with unimpressive visuals and minimal variety of enemies. Nonetheless, a fine return to fearful form.
Aaron Swartz had always been ambiguous about marriage. But last December, having dated his girlfriend Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman for 18 months, he seemed to be changing his mind."He said, sort of out of the blue, in the context of some conversation: 'Maybe we should get married?'" says Stinebrickner-Kauffman, sitting at a table by an open window in Heller's bakery in Washington DC, the humid breeze catching strands of her hair. "I was just so shocked. I asked: 'Where did that come from?' because he had never expressed anything positive about the idea of marriage before."The 26-year-old Swartz was frequently described as a technological genius. At the age of 14, having dropped out of high school, Swartz helped to author the RSS web syndication specification that provided a standardised format to publish frequently updated works, such as blog entries, news headlines, audio and video content. At 19, he co-programmed the social news and entertainment websiteReddit, which was sold to Condé Nast in 2006 for an undisclosed sum thought to be between $10m and $20m. In 2008, he co-wrote theGuerilla Open Access Manifesto, which called for activists to "liberate" information locked up by corporations or publishers. In 2010, at the age of 23, he co-foundedDemand Progress, an online advocacy group that successfully campaigned against internet censorship bills and attracted more than a million members. By 24, Swartz was a Harvard research fellow conducting studies on political corruption.A fierce proponent of the open access movement – which promotes free and easy access to the world's knowledge online – he was also a social activist, guided by an abiding fascination with what he saw as the corrupting influence of big money on institutions and the fundamental imbalance of power structures in the modern age."I've never met anyone so single-minded about changing the world," says Stinebrickner-Kauffman.He read voraciously. One of his friends emailed me a list of books Swartz had read over a recent three-month period: there were 24 in total, including Susan Sontag's journals,The Principle of Hopeby Ernst Bloch and a book on how to decode advertisements. He took in information and analysed it at a rapid rate, thirsty for knowledge about how the world worked and how it could be made better. He was obsessed by fonts: Helvetica was one of his favourites and he would choose restaurants according to what font they used on the menu. People called him a genius. His girlfriend remembers being woken up by Swartz one morning because he was desperate to hear her views onBayesian statistics."Some of our biggest fights were about the nature of consciousness," she says, laughing, "often in the elevator in our building. We were yelling at each other about consciousness while the other people in the elevator were about to walk their dogs."When Swartz mentioned marriage, she didn't take it too seriously. They joked about what kind of wedding they would have. Swartz said he wanted "a Liz Lemon wedding", a reference to Tina Fey's character in the sitcom30 Rockwho organised a last-minute marriage ceremony intended to be low-key and unsentimental. Stinebrickner-Kauffman wanted a big party, but Swartz was worried she would invite guests he didn't like. "And I said: 'We should talk about this after the trial is over,'" she recalls. "That kind of cut off the conversation.""The trial" was a prospect that loomed large over their relationship. In July 2011 – a month after they started dating – Swartz was indicted on multiple felony counts for downloading several million academic articles from a subscription database called JSTOR. It was unclear what Swartz intended to do with the articles. He might have wanted to make them openly available to online users, believing as he did in the fundamental principle of freedom of information. He might have intended to analyse the data. Or he might have simply wanted to show it could be done. Whatever the reason, Swartz did not expect his actions to attract the full retributive force of the judicial authorities.And yet that is precisely what happened. The apparent zeal with which US attorney Carmen Ortiz and Massachusetts assistant US attorney Stephen Heymann pursued the case took many by surprise but this was a post-WikiLeaks world, where large, powerful organisations were struggling to cope with the threat posed by internet hackers who could infiltrate government records and shut down entire online systems at the click of a computer mouse.Despite Swartz's alleged crime having no discernible victims or personal financial gain, and despite the fact that JSTOR declined to pursue charges after he returned the articles, Ortiz issued a press release at the time of his indictment stating: "Stealing is stealing, whether you use a computer command or a crowbar."It seemed like it had been decided that an example should be made. Aaron Swartz was it. The prosecutors were unwilling to compromise on jail time. In January 2013, less than three months before the criminal trial was set to begin, Ortiz's office formally rejected a deal that would have kept Swartz out of&nbsp;prison.Two days later, on 11 January, Swartz hanged himself with his belt in the Brooklyn apartment he shared with his girlfriend. There was no suicide note. Stinebrickner-Kauffman was the one who found him when she got back from work. He was wearing the same clothes she had seen him in when she left for the office that morning: a V-neck black T-shirt and brown corduroy trousers. He had his coat on. When she called the emergency services, she was screaming so hard that at first they couldn't hear the address.In the five months that have elapsed since that day, Stinebrickner-Kauffman has thought a lot about why her boyfriend killed himself. In the immediate aftermath of his death, she found the strength to speak at his memorial service, decrying the "unfair prosecution [and]... deeply dysfunctional criminal justice system" that had brought such intolerable pressure to bear on the man she loved. She spoke to a handful of reporters, did what she could to ensure that message spread. Then, exhausted, she took compassionate leave from her job as executive director ofSumOfUs, a global protest movement that seeks to hold corporations to account, and retreated to Australia for two months. For a while, she simply didn't want to talk any more. This is one of the first interviews she has done since returning to work.She says now that it would be too easy to explain away Swartz's suicide by saying he was depressed."I've read a lot about depression and it just doesn't sound like Aaron." When she speaks, she chooses her words cautiously. Her face is pale and tense, her eyes tired. Her every gesture seems to carry within it a sadness that is all the more unbearable for being contained."He didn't have an absence of joy. He didn't have an absence of human emotion… I think he was in a lot of pain. A lot of it was to do with the case. I don't think he would have killed himself if it weren't for the case, put it that way."The thing that I regret is that I didn't know I should be looking for anything… In retrospect, there are clues I could have picked up on and I just didn't know to."I think he made a really dumb decision. But I also think I understand how it happened. The biggest problem with the decision is that it's permanent. Other dumb decisions, you can usually recover from. People make mistakes." She breaks off and starts to cry, lowering her head as her shoulders shake. "It hurt me," she says finally, her voice quiet, "but I don't think it was his intention to do so."Swartz's death prompted an outpouring of grief. For many in the online community, he had been both hero and pioneer: a man who used his technological ability not to become a multimillionaire Silicon Valley entrepreneur but, instead, to try and make things better for others. He was the poster boy for internet freedom. His ex-girlfriend, Quinn Norton, a tech journalist, was quoted in theNew Yorkerin March explaining the impact of Swartz's death. "If you look at 2011 to the present, there's an incredible emotional rollercoaster about internet freedom and the Arab revolutions," she said. "The internet was going to change everything and at the end of 2011 you had Occupy. And then everything just got destroyed. 2012 was the year, globally, for the heightening of censorship and the heightening of surveillance, and then Aaron killed himself. Aaron was so much the internet's boy, and that so much exemplified this machine crushing our hopes."A remembrance website set up in the days after his death was inundated with tributes from all over the world – many from those who had never met him."I am so sorry about the tragic loss of Aaron," wrote a person called Ying Yan on 18 January. "Although I never met him… I admire and appreciate the great work he had accomplished. Like many, I will remember his tireless, selfless and astonishing effort to advance democracy. Like many, I will work to cherish that memory."His friend Ben Wikler says that Swartz touched so many because he possessed "a staggering capacity for empathy, sometimes a crippling capacity".His professional choices were guided by his conscience. In 2009, he chose to spend time as an intern in the congressional offices of Democrat Alan Grayson because he wanted to learn about how government operated before he set about the business of trying to improve it. Swartz had already compiled a report about the relation between candidates' wealth and their electoral success. During the period he spent in Grayson's office, he worked to help pass Obama's landmark healthcare reform. In 2010, he volunteered for the Democratic national convention in the runup to the midterm elections.Unlike many social activists, who dismiss the political process as corrupt without seeking to understand what makes it so, Swartz was always seeking a deeper explanation from within the institutions he wanted to change.Policy adviser and journalist Matt Stoller, who got him the placement with Grayson, was particularly struck by that fact."What kind of millionaire founder of a tech website chooses to spend time sitting in a congressional office to really understand the work flow?" Stoller asks, sitting in an office overlooking Capitol Hill. "No one. That doesn't happen… He was a basic technocratic liberal who thought that if you worked really hard, and approached a problem with openness and curiosity, then it was possible you could make life better for people."Sometimes, this meant Swartz's standards were impossibly high. "He genuinely held other people as equally important as himself," says Wikler. "When he heard about injustice happening to someone else, it would be hugely taxing for him. He would feel a deep sense of obligation."This obligation extended to a horror of imposing himself. Sometimes, this meant he acted strangely, as if he were lacking a necessary layer of protective skin. He felt uneasy dealing with taxi drivers or waiters, for instance, because he disliked the iniquitous distribution of power. He hated to feel a burden, even to his closest friends. When Wikler and his wife first invited Swartz to dinner, he didn't mention he suffered from ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease,&nbsp;because he didn't want to bother anyone. "The bread was the only thing he could eat," Wikler recalls.But it also meant that he felt obliged to try and change the world. As an example of this moral imperative, Wikler cites a conversation he had with Swartz four years ago about the extent of an individual's ethical duty. They began discussing Thomas Keneally's bookSchindler's Ark, which tells the story of a German industrialist who saves the lives of more than 1,000 Polish Jews during the Holocaust. In the book and the subsequent film adaptation (asSchindler's List), Schindler is tormented by the fact that he didn't do enough and could have sold his car to save more people.In August 2009, Swartz sent an email to Wikler. "So let's take the case we're both in, where we spend our days on social justice work and have a nagging voice at the back of our heads when we go to the movies," he wrote. "I find the guilt and the passion pretty much indistinguishable. Both want me to spend more time on my work, since that's what I find fulfilling and important. And while I don't usually live by these principles (obviously, I still go see movies and watch TV), I'm much happier when I do… So I guess I don't see the trade-off. Schindler should have sold the car: he would have saved lives and been happier too."His close friend Alec Resnick saw something similar at work. "Disengagement was never his response," he says. "Aaron saw things as systems that needed to be tweaked." Was he ever contented? "Never."Aaron Swartz was born in 1986, two years after the US government passed the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which was later used to indict him. At the age of three, he taught himself to read. His father, Robert, a computer consultant, remembers Swartz reading aloud a note stuck to the refrigerator in the family home in Highland Park, a wealthy suburb some 20 miles north of Chicago, much to the astonishment of his mother."He certainly seemed very bright," says Robert Swartz, speaking over the phone. "We realised when he was a few years old he was progressing on an intellectual level faster than his friends."The eldest of three brothers, Swartz was perpetually curious and fascinated by computers and puzzles from an early age. As a teenager, he dropped out of high school because he was bored by it. At the time, he wrote a blog post about his disenchantment with organised education: "Seriously, who really cares how long the Nile river is, or who was the first to discover cheese?" he typed. "How is memorising that ever going to help anyone?"Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman, Aaron Swartz's partner, speaks during his memorial service. Photograph: Mary Altaffer/APHis parents were supportive but insisted he carried on taking classes at a local community school. Meanwhile, Swartz's social life began to thrive online. He became a talented software engineer and attended conferences with like-minded computer programmers, many of whom were shocked to discover that the sophisticated coder they'd met online was actually a 14-year-old geek wearing a T-shirt three sizes too big for him.Later, he went to Stanford University. Again, he found the rules pointless and stifling and he dropped out after a year to build a website that would help people build data-driven, content-rich websites. The website failed but his original investor suggested he merge it with a start-up called Reddit, which he did in 2005, contributing his considerable programming skills to streamlining the site.A year later, Reddit was attracting millions of users each month and was acquired by Condé Nast. For a brief time, Swartz worked atWiredmagazine in San Francisco as part of the buyout deal but he disliked the restrictions of office life and soon left for Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he felt most at home, partly because of the thriving hacking community based around the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.MIT had a long and noble history of celebrating the anarchic and innovative cult of the hacker. In the early days of internet research when the university's few computers were kept in locked rooms, MIT hackers used to pick locks or crawl through ceiling vents in order to gain access. Their view, as espoused by the internet's founder Tim Berners-Lee, was that the internet was "for everyone".This chimed with Swartz's personal philosophy, outlined in the Guerilla Open Access&nbsp;Manifesto. "Information is power," it read.&nbsp;"But like all power, there are those who want to keep it for themselves... Those with access to these resources... have a duty to share it with the world."Swartz had already experimented with making large stashes of public documents available online without charge and on 24 September 2010, he bought an Acer laptop and started to download academic journals from the JSTOR database. When the network detected something was amiss, Swartz's IP address was blocked. He then wired a hard drive directly into the MIT network and was filmed by a surveillance camera apparently attempting to retrieve his laptop from a university building. On 6 January 2011, Swartz was arrested.Was he committing a crime? While authorised users are theoretically allowed to download as much as possible from JSTOR, this is only after paying an annual subscription fee – major institutions pay up to $50,000 for the privilege. Its terms of service also prohibit the use of programs to aid bulk downloading.There was little doubt that what Swartz was doing was wrong, but his actions didn't seem to be malevolent or worthy of a 35-year jail term. His defence lawyer, Elliot Peters, later described the material Swartz downloaded as "a bunch of, like, the 1942 edition of theJournal of Botany!"Swartz's father remains quietly furious about the way the subsequent prosecution was handled. "I think they saw this as a case where they could show that they were tough on cybercrime… They were vindictive, cruel and they destroyed Aaron."Swartz remained intensely private about the investigation, partly because he didn't want to incriminate those close to him in case they were subpoenaed. As a result, he never explained what his motivation had been for downloading the documents. But shortly after his arrest, Swartz agreed to return the documents to JSTOR, which considered the case closed. MIT, however, continued to co-operate with the prosecution – an action that many consider a profound betrayal."MIT, I think, has become a bureaucracy fundamentally inimical to technological innovation," says Stinebrickner-Kauffman. "They're undergoing a struggle for the heart and&nbsp;soul of the institution, and Aaron got lost in the middle."Swartz's arrest was the start of a two-year battle, during which he existed in a near-constant state of stress and nervous tension."We had a pretty intense ritual of renting a Zipcar, putting all our electronic devices outside of the car, and sitting in it with the radio turned up because he was concerned about people listening in," says Alec Resnick. "I asked Aaron: 'Do you think this is totally insane?' He gave me a bunch of reasons why it wasn't."Swartz and Stinebrickner-Kauffman started dating in the midst of all this and moved to New York in November 2011. He had a lot on his plate: during the first half of 2012 Swartz's mother was seriously ill after a routine operation left her in a coma. But he wasn't given to sharing how he was feeling and, at first, Stinebrickner-Kauffman didn't think the allegations against him sounded particularly serious. It was only as the case dragged on – it took a year before he gained access to the evidence against him and another year before it came to trial – that she realised the authorities were intent on pursuing him. They started to discuss the possibility of Swartz going to prison."My mother is a criminal justice activist so prison was not weird to me," she says. "I was actually trying to make a serious effort to normalise [the idea] of prison for him… So I would say: 'You can write the book you always wanted to finish.'"Yet Swartz remained troubled by the prospect. He had thought he might go into politics and was worried about the impact a felony charge might have on his future. Physically, too, he was unsure how he would cope – he was small in stature (an inch shorter than his girlfriend) and fragile in other ways too. In certain respects, he was still something of an innocent – he loved spending time with children, says Stinebrickner-Kauffman, "because he said they hadn't yet learned how to lie". For a person who had never thrived in institutions governed by rules he didn't agree with, jail must have seemed a particularly horrifying prospect. "But beyond all that," his girlfriend says, "he just really thought he was innocent."Intensely private to the last, Swartz barely discussed the case with anyone other than his father, who was helping with the legal process."I had a clear sense of how devastating this was to him," says Robert Swartz. "Because of the financial cost, because of the uncertainty of the penalties, because of how it changed his life and the effect it had on his relationships. All of those things were very hard for him."In the weeks leading up to his death, Swartz had been concerned about how to raise funds for the continuing legal process. He came from a comfortable background, but by this stage his finances were running low. The thought of asking his friends for help was agonising: he had a near pathological antipathy towards the idea of being a nuisance. In their Brooklyn apartment, Stinebrickner-Kauffman would try "to shepherd him emotionally" and come up with strategies that would make it more bearable."I would say: 'So what if you could fundraise by lying in bed with the blinds down, making a phone call? I'll be on the phone too… ' We talked a lot about how to make it palatable."For all the pressure he was under, Swartz did not seem particularly depressed. The couple had enjoyed a skiing holiday in Vermont in early 2013. The night before he killed himself, he seemed in high spirits and insisted they go to a local bar called Spitzer's Corner on the Lower East Side, where they shared a burger and a grilled cheese sandwich. Looking back, Stinebrickner-Kauffman is tormented by the thought that there were signs she should have picked up on. "That said, I think he probably intentionally hid things from me."His friends agree that Swartz was someone who held no illusions, who was aware of the world's fundamental injustices and who wanted to tackle them rather than pretend they didn't exist. They say that this outlook occasionally took him to "dark places" and "a negative frame of mind". He wrote a blog post once about the necessity of "leaning into the pain". One of Swartz's favourite novels wasInfinite Jestby the author David Foster Wallace, who committed suicide by hanging in 2008, and he had previously discussed suicide with Resnick."We talked about it in the abstract a couple of years ago as a philosophical question and whether it ever made sense," Resnick says now. "We came to the conclusion that it cuts short the ability to do good work."And yet, on Friday 11 January, Aaron Swartz decided to do just that. Five days after his death, US attorney Carmen Ortiz issued a statement expressing sympathy but defending the conduct of her office. The prosecutors, she said, "took on the difficult task of enforcing a law they had taken an oath to uphold and did so reasonably". Ortiz went on to state that because Swartz's actions had not been motivated by financial gain, her office had viewed "six months in a low-security setting" as "an appropriate sentence".In the time that has elapsed since, Swartz's parents have received no personal communication from Ortiz's office. There are certain words that come up repeatedly when his friends and family discuss the investigation. "Reprehensible" is one. "Heinous" is another. Ben Wikler calls it "unspeakable"."Aaron wasn't built for a world of red lines and strict rules," Wikler says. "He moved in and out of institutions, he didn't fit into boxes and that was OK be cause he was also obsessed with never hurting anyone. He was monk-like. And the prosecution, all the way through, showed no hint of remorse or recognition of what might have been wrong, even in his death. There's just something wrong with a system where people have power to do that to someone like Aaron."There is a particular tragedy, too, in realising that Aaron Swartz was one of the few people equipped with the skills and idealism to want to change that system for the better. In the end, says Stinebrickner-Kauffman, there is no explanation that could possibly make sense of his suicide. "He just… " she breaks off, searching for the right words. "It was just too hard." She crosses her arms loosely on the table. The sentence floats between us. It seems like the only thing there is left to say.• This article was changed on 3 June 2013. The standfirst said that Swartz had hacked into JSTOR - in fact, he had access but wanted to make the documents available to a wider audience. This has been amended to reflect this.
A US judge has ordered Google to comply with FBI secret demands for customer data, despite earlier ruling the warrantless orders unconstitutional.District court judge Susan Illston this week rejected the internet search giant's argument that so-called National Security Letters (NSLs) violated its constitutional rights. As such it ordered Google to hand over private information relating to US citizens to federal agents.It comes despite Illston earlier ruling the letters unconstitutional in a separate case in March. In that case, brought by non-profit advocacy group the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the judge said thatsuch demands violated the right to free speech.She also ruled against gagging clauses attached to the demands that prevent the recipients of NSLs from disclosing the mere existence of an order."The court concludes that the nondisclosure provision violates the First Amendment … the government is therefore enjoined from issuing NSLs … or from enforcing the nondisclosure provision in this or any other case," Illston concluded in March.The ruling followed a legal challenge brought by California telecommunications company Credo, the Guardian understands. A 90-day delay in the order coming into effect was put in place by the judge in anticipation of an appeal by the government.But hopes from civil liberty groups that the ruling would blow a hole in the FBI's use of the secret demands for data have seemingly been dashed by this week's developmentThe ruling in the Google case was first disclosed by the Associated Press on Friday.Illston's order omits any mention of Google. But the judge said "the petitioner" was involved in a similar case filed on April 22 in New York federal court.Public records show that on that day, the federal government filed a "petition to enforce National Security Letter" against Google after the company declined to cooperate with government demands.It was unclear from the judge's ruling what type of information the government sought to obtain with the letters. It was also unclear whom the government was targeting.The judge put the Google ruling on hold until the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals can decide the matter. Until then, she said, the company would have to comply with the letters unless it shows the FBI didn't follow proper procedures in making its demands for customer data in the 19 letters Google is challenging.After receiving sworn statements from two top-ranking FBI officials, the judge said she was satisfied that 17 of the 19 letters were issued properly. She wanted more information on two other letters.Google could appeal the decision. The company declined comment.Kurt Opsah, an attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said: "We are disappointed that the same judge who declared these letters unconstitutional is now requiring compliance with them."The letters, along with the recent seizure of reporters' phone records by the Obama administration, have prompted complaints of government overreach in regards to privacy violations in the name of national security.Last year the FBI sent out more than 16,000 NSLs to companiesrelating to the private data– mainly financial, internet or phone records – of more than 7,000 Americans.
I try to involve my family in&nbsp;my motoring journalism (it's possible that you've noticed). My son, especially – he loves cars so much, it's&nbsp;actually the only thing he's bothered learning the word for.Caaaaaar. Which makes his initial response to this one strange: he's sick on it.Actually, "is sick" doesn't do it justice; nor even does "projectile vomits". This is a vomit cannon, from distance. Not on the front, fortunately – it might have been hard picking bits out of the nice chequered grille – but all over the side, including the GTi badge. Hmm, that's not right, is it? So I call the out-of-hours surgery (it's Saturday). Projectile vomit, the nice lady says. And has he gone a bit floppy? A&nbsp;bit, yes. Take him to A&amp;E, she says, just to be safe.Jesus (again), A&amp;E. And suddenly I'm happy to have 197 horsepower available under my right foot. Of course, it doesn't actually make any&nbsp;difference how powerful your car is in town – it doesn't get you there any quicker – but a few extra horses can add drama to the occasion, as well as what, under less&nbsp;stressful circumstances, might be a pleasing engine note.Later, I drive it out of town to enjoy that note, and the car. It's a lot of fun. Not crazy-wild – these are obedient horses that have been properly broken in, will happily walk, trot and canter. But they'll gallop, too, when you want them to. That's reflected in the car's looks: it's not very different from an ordinary 208, with just a few hints: the grille, the badge (before it got splattered). Inside, it's mainly black, but there are splashes of red about the place that, coupled with the pleasingly arse-cupping seats and a small, fat, grippy steering wheel, whisper, "Go on – enjoy yourself a bit." Peugeot has recaptured the joy of the iconic 205 GTi, which went missing from the 206 and 207.Oh, and the Big Drama – you want to know how that one panned out? So we go to A&amp;E, quite slowly, but making a lot of noise, revving and honking and shouting out of the window. And into the back – hang on&nbsp;in there, little fella. Obviously, by this time, I'm thinking his floppiness is floppier. I've diagnosed meningitis, 99% sure. We park, anywhere, and badly (scuffing two&nbsp;alloys. Sorry, Peugeot, but who cares, frankly?), run in...By which time he's looking a bit cheerier. And when we get seen, he's happily toddling around, being quite charming to people, boring them with his one word. A bit embarrassing, really. Just a tummy bug, the doc says – it's not unusual to&nbsp;go a bit floppy afterwards."Caaaaaar," he says, often and happily, on the way home. Good, he&nbsp;likes it after all. We both do.Peugeot 208 GTIPrice£18,895Top speed143mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.7 secondsPower197bhpCombined fuel economy47.9mpgCO2emissions139g/kmGreen rating7/10Cool rating8/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewFrozen Synapse is a magnificently detailed strategy game that takes place only partially in real time. Your job is to micro-manage each five-second slice of action for your team of armed insurgents. You then watch the action unfold as a helpless observer, your carefully laid plans often going appallingly awry at the hands of unpredictable enemies. At the end of a hard-fought round, watching your plan's outcome is one of the most nail-biting five seconds you'll experience in videogames. With or without human opposition, it's a captivating process and one that translates to touchscreen.
Grid 2 goes back to basics with its approach to racing, which means no plot, no customisation and a soundtrack that only kicks in on the last lap of championship races, leaving tormented tyre rubber the sole accompaniment. Its races demand drifting: screeching semi-controlled power-slides around corners, with crash damage that affects your car's performance adding to the feeling of danger. From the mist that clings to forest roads, to the way exhaust pipes judder in their fittings, it's a beautiful game to look at, and one that delivers an absorbing sense of speed and competitive glory.
Famed for his enthusiasm and an unfortunate habit of getting carried away and promising slightly more than his development team could deliver, industry veteran Peter Molyneux has left Microsoft to set up an experimental games company, whose first title wasCuriosity: What's Inside The Cube?In it, players collectively chipped away at a vast onscreen cube with a promise that there was a prize in the middle that only one of them could win, which would prove "life-changing". After tapping away 25bn little pieces of cube, players finally discovered what the mysterious object of their curiosity had been: the chance to be digital god of all other players in Molyneux's upcoming game,Godus. The winner will also receive a share of profits, which, depending on its success, may or may not actually turn out to be life-changing.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYour character wakes up with amnesia (a surprisingly common complaint in video games) on board a spaceship. Without instructions or advice of any kind, you have to figure out what's going on. The sparsity of its interface forces you to experiment, at first falteringly and eventually using the tools and items you discover in the ship. It's deliberately mysterious, but also feels oddly incomplete, with plenty remaining unexplained even after you finish.
